Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12762-CiA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILNA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
MAY 9, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12762 CN
Type: SAR
Agriculture Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherise be disclosed without World Bank authoization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 15, 1994)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
$1.00 = Y 8.70
Y 1.00 = $G.ll
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter (e3) = 35.31 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha) = 15 nu
I ton (t) = 1,000 kg
= 2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.2 pounds
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BOC      - Bank of China
CAF      - Chinese Academy of Forestry
CFF      - collective forest farm
CRG      - Central Research Group
DNR      - Division of Nature Reserves Management
EPG      - Environmental Protection Group
EMP      - environmental management plan
ERR      - economic rate of return
FGHY    - fast-growing and high-yielding
FRDPP  - Forest Resource Development and Protection Project
FRR      - financial rate of return
GEF      - Global Environment Facility
GET      - Global Environment Trust Fund
ICB      - internatidnal competitive bidding
IDA      - International Development Association
LCB      - local competitive bidding
MAI    - mean annual increment
MFO      - Ministry of Forestry
MIS      - management information system
MOF    - Ministry of Finance
NAP      - National Afforestation Project
OECD    - Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PIR      - project implementation rules
PMC      - Project Management Center in MFO
PMO      - Project Management Office
RESP    - Research and Extension Support Panel
SAR      - Staff Appraisal Report
SFF      - state forest farm
SHF      - share-holding farm
SOE      - Statement of Expenditure
SPCG    - Seedling Production Coordination Group
YRPFP  - Yangtze River Protection Forest Project



CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
CRDIT AND PROJECr SUMMARY
Borrower:            People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:       Provinces and Autonomous Regions of Anhui, Fujian, Guangdong,
Guangxi, Guizhou, Hebei, Heilongjiang, Henan, Hubei, Hunan,
Jiangxi, Liaoning, Shanxi, Shaanxi, Sichuan, Yunnan, and Zhejiang.
Amount:              SDR 141.7 million ($200 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard, with 35 years' maturity
Objectives and
Description:         The project is designed to enhance the productivity of forest
resources, the efficiency of resource use, and the institutional capacity
for sustainable management in the three major forest types in China:
commercial plantations, watershed protection forests, and nature
reserves. The project would: (a) expand the supply of commercial
timber and pulpwood through establishment of 620,000 hectares of
intensively managed plantations; (b) develop improved models for
watershed management through establishment of 280,000 hectares of
protection forests; (c) enhance biodiversity conservation through
improved management of nature reserves and natural forests; (d)
strengthen the operating efficiency of technical support services in the
forestry sector, particularly planting materials, research, and
extension programs; and (e) strengthen the capacity of forest sector
institutions in planning and management.
Benefits and
Risks:               The project would produce about 114 million m3 of timber, 10.8
million tons of fuelwood, and miscellaneous forest products such as
bamboo and resins, with a total value of $6.0 billion at current
financial prices over the 33-year life of the project. It would generate
significant environmental benefits, including increased forest cover,
preservation of biodiversity of global significance, and reduced soil
erosion, river sedimentation, and flooding. The project would create.
over 350,000 person-years of work for 600,000 rural households
during the six-year implementation period. Project employment and
production would lead to a five-fold increase in annual per capita
income for beneficiaries. It would have a particularly strong impact
on poverty reduction, as 20 percent of the beneficiaries presently live
below the absolute poverty line in resource constrained, remote
mountainous areas. The project faces no unusual technical or
organizational risks.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                    Local  Foreign  Total
($ million) --
1. Plantations                167.8   32.1  199.9
2. Protection Forests          33.3    4.1   37.4
3. Nature Reserves MI. igement  12.3    4.6   16.9
4. Planting Mat./Nursery Mgmt.    28.3    6.5   34.8
5. Research and Tech. Transfer  3.5    0.1    3.6
6. Capacity Building             1.2    2.5    3.7
Base Cost                   246.4   49.9  296.3
Physical contingency            28.2    5.4   33.6
Price contingency               23.4    2.7   26.1
Tota Project Co             298.0   58.0  356.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                            147.0   53.0  200.0
Proposed GET Grant              13.4    5.0   18.4
Provincial Government           43.3    0.0   43.3
Prefecture/Municipal Govt.       6.7    0.0    6.7
County Government               33.3    0.0   33.3
GET Local Countrpart Funds       4.3    0.0    4.3
Beneficiaries                   50.0    0.0   50.0
Total                       2290    58.0  356.0
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA FY       1995 1996  1997 1998  1999 2    2001
----($million) ---       ------
Annual       24   32   44   50   28   18    4
Cumulative    24   56  100  150  178  196  200
Poverty Category:    Not applicable
Economic Rate
of Return:         18 percent



- iii -
CONTENTS
1     Background  .......................    1
A. Introduction            .......................    1
B. Forest Sector .......................    1
C. Bank Involvement in Forestry .......................                   7
D. Rationale for IDA Involvement .......................                  9
E. Rationae for GEF Involvement .......................    10
2 The Project .11
A. Objectives .11
B. Description .11
C. Detailed Features .12
D. Environmental Aspects.                                                25
E. Compliance with Bank Forestry Policies .27
F. Status of Preparation .28
3  Project Costs and Financing .29
A. Project Costs .29
B. Financing .30
C. Procurement ....................  ............... 31
D. Disbursement .............. 33
4     Project Oranization and                ......................   35
A. Overall Project Management  ...............   35
B. Management of Technical Activities ......            ........   37
C. Afforestation Entities  ..............   38
D. Financial Management ..............   39
E. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting   ........          ......  41
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission in May/June 1993 comprising R. Scobey,
N. Jones, S. Shen (IDA), W. Gladstone, A. Gordon, B. Haagsma, Y. Lou (consultants); and an appraisal
mission in November/December 1993 comprising R. Scobey, N. Jones, S. Shen, W. Zhou (IDA), P.
Cardellichio, S. McCormick, L. Saunders, and M. Wilcox (consultants). The peer reviewers are 0.
Baykal (SAIAG), R. Chalk (IENIM), A. Kiss (AF2EA), and W. Magrath (AGRAP). The task manager
is Rick Scobey, the Division Chief is Joseph Goldberg, and the Department Director is Nicholas C.
Hope.



- iv -
5      Production, Markets and Prices          .....................  43
A. Production ......................                                            43
B. Markets ..................... 44
C.  Prices  ......       ......  ...........................  45
6      Benefits, Justification and Risks ......................   47
A. Benefits ......................                                              47
B.  Employment and Incomes ........                  .............   47
C. Rent and Cost Recovery ......................  48
D. Financial and Economic Analysis ........................   48
E. Risks ....................... 49
7      Agrements and Recommendation  .......................    50
TABLE iN TEXT
2.1 Plantation Area by Species .13
2.2  Protacdon Forest Area by Species .17.
3.1    Project Costs ....................................... 29
3.2 Project Financing .30
3.3 Procurement Profile .32
ANNEX
A.    Basic Provi icial and Project Area Statistics  ....................  52
B.     Project Details        ......................................  57
1.  Afforestation Areas by Species and Province ..............  57
2.  List of Project Counties   ..........................  58
3.  Sample Afforestation Models  .......................  60
4.  Planting Stock and Nursery Program    ...................  62
5.  Research Progm   ..............................  68
6.  Extension Program    .............................  78
7.  Training and Technical Assistance Program  ...............  81
C.    Project Cost Estimates            ..................................  82
1.  Afforestation Unit Costs by Species  ...................  82
2.  Summary Accounts by Project Component  ...............  83
3.  Project Components by Year  .......................  86
4.  Disbursement and Procurement by Investment Category.   ... ...  87
5.  Disbursement Schedule for Afforestation Establishment Costs   ....  89
6.  Estimaed Disbursement Schedule   .....................  90



- v -
D.      Monitoring and Evauation    ..........  ...................  91
1.  Key Moaitoring Indicatos Ds ble .  ....  ................T  91
2.   Afforestation Uiit Costs Monitoring Table  .....               ..........   94
3.  IDA Supervision Plan  .           ...........................   96
i.      Economic and Financial Analysis   ........................    .  97
1.   Production Yields by  cies   ...............                       .......   97
.   Total Pr3ject Output by Nolume and Value    ....                 ..........   98
3.   Border Prices for Prinzipal Products and Inputs  ............  99
4.  Input and Output  i              .  .    .     ....................... 100
5.   Rent and Cost Recovery Aialysis   ....................  102
6.   Financial and Economic An-lysis  ..................... 103
F.      ScJected Dcuments Available in Project Files   ..................  108
1.   Pvuemet. Schedulc ........................                                              .110
2.      Orgauization Sc. ..Jul................................... 112
MAPS
Project Sites: IBRD 25549



1. BACKGROUND
A. LNTODUCTION
1.1       The Government of China has requested .ntemational Development Associatioi
(IDA) assistmce hi finncing a Forest Resource Development and Protection Project (FRDPP)
covering seventeen provies. The proposed project would enhan.,e the productivity of forest
resources, tbh efficiency of resource mse, and the institutional capacity for sustinable
management in the three main forest types of China: commercial dimber plantations, watershed
protection forests, and natme reserves. Project funds would support affotestation, biodiversity
conservation, planting material developmnt, research and technology transfer, and institutional
strengthening activities. The project was identified in March/April 1992 and prepared in
November/December 1992 by the Ministry of Forestry (MFO); and pre-appraised in May/June
1993 and appraised in November/December 1993 by MDA.
B. FoREST .SECrOR
Foes Resources
1.2       China is poor in forest resources, with a total forested area of 131 million hectares
covering 13.6 percent of the land area (supply and demand data for the sector are given in
Annex A). This is equivalent to 0.11 hectares per capita, which is significantly below the world
average of 0.77 hectares per capita. The total standing volume of wood is about 11 billion m3,
or about 9.5 m3 per capita, compared to a world average of 66 rn3 per capita. Chinese forestry
tatistics classify forests by type (natural forests and plantations) and by end-use (timber,
shelterbelts, fuelwood, economic trees, and other), as reviewed below.
1.3       Primary and secondary growth "lturaW forests account for 73 percent of forest ares
and 95 percent of standing wood volume in China. These forests are primarily utlized for
timber, although a smal amount has been set aside as protected land in nature reserves (see
para. 1.6). The main forests are located in the northeastern provinces of Heitoniang,
Liaoning, Inner Mongolia and Jitin, where there are some 41 miDion hecares of mixed
coniferous and broadleaf stands covering about one-third of the total land area. These three
provinces account for about 30 percent of China's total forested urea and standing volume of
wood. The most common species are larch, pine, fir, and spruce, although the forests also
include deciduous species such as birch, aspen and Mongolian oak. The accessible areas have
been heavily logged and, consequently, most of the commercially viable stands are already
exhausted. The remaining 56 million hectares of natural forests are found primarily in the
southwestern provinces of Yunnan and Sichuan and in small, isolated areas in southeaster
Chia. These forests, which account for 43 percent of forest area and 62 percent of standing
volume of wood, support about 250 economically valuable tree species, ranging from spruce,
fir and larch to tropical hardwoods such as eucalypt and teak.



-2 -
1.4       China has pursued an aggressive investment pregram in plantations for four decades,
primarily for timber and secondly for watershed protection and fuelwood. The total plantation
area is 34 million hectares with a total growing stock of 550 million rr3. Many of the
plantations established in the 1950s-1980s were located in poor sites and were not well managed,
which contributed to low survival and growth rates. However, a new "fast-growing, high-
yielding" (FGHY) afforestation program was introduced in 1985 to improve productivity in the
secter. The FGHY program is characterized by: (a) planting sites with soils classified in the two
highest of China's four forest soil classes; (b) improved planting materials; (c) improved
management of seedlings in approved nurseries; and (d) detailed silvicultural prescriptions based
on scientific research, covering site preparation, planting densities, fertilizer applications,
tending, and harvesting. A wide variety of deciduous and coniferous species are used, with
emphasis on Chinese fir, eucalypt, paulownia, pines and larch (the criteria for species selection
is the ability to achieve certain minimum annual growth rates under given climatic and soil
conditions). Of the 17 million hectares of plantations established in 1985-1994, about 4 million
hectares, or 25 percent, represented FGHY plantations. Previous World Bank Group projects
accounted for the establishment of about one-third of all FGHY plantations.
1.5       China has made the world's largest investment in pvrotection forests designed to
control soil erosion and water runoff, stabilize deserts, and realize other environmental benefits.
These forests comprise both natural forests and plantations. The "three norths" program,
commonly called the "Great Green Wall" of China, involves establishment of a vast network of
sheiterbelts extending from Heilongiiang to Xinjiang. The Yangtze River Protection Forest
Project involves establishment of 20 million hectares of shelterbelts in nine provinces along the
Yangtze River basin. This ten-year program began in 1989 and had planted 3.1 million hectares
by end-1992. A coastal shelterbelt started in 1952 covers 18,000 kilometers of the country's
coastline. The Taihang Mountain afforestation area was begun in 1986 in four northern
provinces to protect farmland from erosion. In addition, under the well-established "four-
around" program, villagers are encouraged to plant trees around roads, rivers, homes and
villages. The more recent "plant bare hills" program has been less successful because unsuitable
sites were often chosen, and technical supervision and financial incentives were not provided.
1.6       In addition, about 44 million hectares of natural forests and tundra, equivalent to 4.5
percent of China's total land area, has been classified as nature -'s-ees to protect biodiversity.
China is listed as one of the mega-diversity countries in the worta. With a full range of major
habitats from ihe permafrost regions in the northeast to the humid tropical climates in the south,
the country contains ten percent of the world's plants, mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians.
The first nature reserve was established in 1956 and there has been a dramatic expansion of
protected areas over the past four years, with nearly 100 new reserves esta3lished each year.
MFO has jurisdiction over two-thirds of the reserves, with the balance managed by the National
Environmental Protection Agency, Ministry of Agriculture, State Oceanographic Administration,
and the Chinese Academy of Sciences.



-3
Wood Supply and Demand
1.7       China is facing a worsening imbalance between supply and demand for wood
products. It is the third largest consumer of timber in the world, with ai average annual
consumption rate of 300 million m3 in recent years. This consumption can be disaggregated as
follows: industrial roundwood production represents about 150 million rn; fuelwood harvests,
logging residues, illegal harvests, and small losses from fire and pests represents about 140
million in3; and imports account for the remaining 10 million i3. About 60 million m3 of the
industrial roundwood output is monitored by government planning agencies and sold in timber
markets for commercial uses (this timber is referred to as "state plan" production in Chinese
forestry nomenclature); the remaining 90 million m3 of industrial roundwood is consumed "on-
farm" by the rural populaton primarily for building materials (this timber is referred to as
"outside plan" production). All roundwood harvesting is strictly regulated by forestry agencies,
which ensure that all harvesting plans conform with the national requirement that the anual cut
does not exceed the mean annual increment of growth for a forest area. However, there is little
control or monitoring of the 140 million m3 of non-roundwood timber harvesting.
1.8       The level of imports is constrained by a protective policy framework in international
trade. The import bill for wood products amoanted to $1.2 billion in 1992, comprising 4.8
million m3 of coniferous and non-coniferous logs, 1.0 million rn3 of hardwood and softwood
lumber, 1.2 million m3 of plywood, and miscellaneous other products. China's exports of
timber are negligible, consistng mainly of eucalypt chips to Japan for pulp, although it is a
major world producer and exporter of processed products such as resin and bamboo.
1.9       The consumption level in China has exceeded the annual growth increment of the
forests and total imports by about 50 million m3 per year. As a result, about 500,000 hectares
of forest area have been lost each year, leading to increased soil erosion, loss of plant and
wildlife habitat, and other environmerial degradation. Most of the deforested areas are mature
and over-mature forests, which is contributing to a severe imbalance in the age-class stucture
of forests in China. It is estimated that more than 80 percent of all forest land in China is now
in immature age classes, with the level increasing to more than 85 percent by 2000.
Consequently, the annual gap between supply and demand is expected to increase to about 60
millicn m3 over the next decade.
1.10      The Government is taing a number of steps to expand supply and manage demand.
On the supply side, the government is implementing a wide variety of afforestation programs
that are expected to increase the forest cover from 13.6 to 15.3 percent of total land area by
2000. In fact, these existing programs have already made remarkable strides in afforestation:
it is estimated that the total volume of standing timber increased from 10.6 biUlion in3 per year
in 1984-88 to 10.9 billion m3 per year in 1988-92; and the mean an-al growth of the forests
increased from 329 million ni3 in 1984-88 to 366 million m3 in 1988-90. On the demand side,
the government has implemented a "Wood Conservation and Substitution Policy," which
mandates the use of substitutes such as iron, steel, and plastic in seven industrial and product
areas, ranging from railroad sleepers to coffins. These policy-induced savings amount to about
15 million m3 of timber per year.



-4-
Organization of Forest Production
1.11      Timber forests in China are controlled by government agencies or enterprises;
collectives; share-holding companies, where individuals or enterprises have pooled their
resources; and individual households. In addition, the railwa', the army, coal mines, and other
entities manage forests for their own uses. 'f he relative importance of these types varies widely
from province to province. The property rights regime for thesc different ownership patterns
are delineated in national legislation and there has been no problem of tenure insecurity in recent
years.
1.12      State forest land amounts to 52 million hectares, equivalent to 39 percent of total
forest land, and is managed by MFO and its representatives at lower levels. About one-quarter
of this volume is virtually unmanaged, consisting of virgin stands in remote, mountainous
northern regions. The rest is managed by 150 state forest industrial bureaus and 4,200 state
forest farms (SFFs), which together cover 25 million hectares of existing forest area and an
additional 10 million hectares classified as suitable for afforestation. SFFs range in size up to
about 10,000 hectares and can include both natural ard planted forests. They are on public land,
and as their plantations ha-e expanded to cover most of the land allocated to them, many have
entered into share or lease agreements with nearby collectives and farmers. Most SFFs am.
under the jurisdiction of county forestry bureaus, but each SFF has its own manager and
employees, which can range from several dozen to several hundred. SFF personnel are
primarily involved in farm management and research and casual labor is hired as needed for
planting, tending and harvesting. Most SFFs receive extension support from the provincial and
county forestry offices and follow improved silviculutual management techniques. While SFFs
used to receive direct budgetary grants to finance their operations, they now receive low-interest
loans or equity financing against a share of final revenues. As part of the general reform
program for state enterprises, SFFs operate as independent financial entities and are liable for
the full range of taxes and fees.
1.13      Collective forest farms (CFFs) account for about 10 million hectares, equivalent to
8 percent of total forest land, and are owned by townships and villages. They are located
primarily on lands allocated to local communes and production brigades during the 1950s. The
number of CFFs is increasing as townships and villages designate marginal lands for forestry
production to create an additional source of income. The farm workers are salaried or casual
laborers employed by the village council. CFFs are much smaller than SFFs, typically under
1,000 hectares in area. There is great variation in their scale of operation and quality of
management. Management probleris reflect limited technical support from government forestry
staff, inadequate financing, and weak technical skills. For these reasons, CFFs often enter into
agreements with SFFs and county forestry bureaus for technical assistance in exchange for a
share of the profits.
1.14      Individual households manage 40 million hectares of timber, equivalent to 30 percent
of forest land, under long-term contracts with SFFs or CFFs. Contract terms vary greatly across
areas but generally specify the silvicultural regime, harvesting timetable, and profit sharing
arrangements. The households generally provide labor and inputs, while the SFFs and CFFs



-5 -
provide the land and technical assistance. The quality of management is generally low, since
the households reccive limited extension services and face fnanial constraints. While lane use
conflicts do periodically occur with leased land, the contract responsibility system has proved
to be an extremely effective policy instrument for strengthning tenal security and ensuring
exclusive property rights. In addition, households directly control another 30 million hectares
of forests on freehold land, equivalent to 23 percent of total forest land. This land was
transferred from the state to individuals primarily in the mid-1980s and is characterized by low
productivity and low adoption of improved silvicultural technologies. Most of the production
Ls consumed on-farm for construction material and fuelwood and is not subject to taxes and fees.
Prices awd MarkeU
1.15      The forestry sector has been subject to extensive policy reform over the past decade
and has emerged as one of the most liberalized sectors in China. The free market now covers
90 percent of all timber production, including all CFFs and individual producers and most SFPs.
Market reforms have led to rapid increases in timber prices, with domestic prices now on par
with imported prices. The liberalized markting system basically compises three channels: (a)
direct negotiation between buyers and producers at the roadside; (b) small log markets at the
county and city level that buy logs from forest farms and reell to retailers and final consumers;
and (c) regicnal log markets in important provincial markets, such as Fujian, Hubei, Jiin,
Sichuan, Henan, and Beijing. A network of timber trading companies is evolving, including 32
large agencies at the provincial level and 2,500 smaller agencies at the prefecture and county
level.
1.16      The state plan, which sets production quotas and mandatory prices, covers only 10
percent of national production, mainly from the large state forests in the notheasten provinces.
These price controls are designed to ensure that industries and construction projects deemed to
be of national importance receive subsidized inputs. The removal of the remaining price and
market contrc!s is expected within one or two years.
Wood Processing
1.17      China has an extensive wood proces-; industry, which has expanded rapidly since
the decontrol of wood prices. There are 2,200 sawmills, with a capacity of 2a.6 miUion nil and
an annual production level of 12.8 million mi, and 1,100 panel factories, with a capacity of 4.8
million mn and an annual production of 2.4 million m3. Capacity utilization is low because of
shortages of raw materials, parts and supplies. Apart from a few integrated complexes, most
sawmills and wood-based panel factories are small in scale and use labor-intensive technology.
The Government is now promodng fiberboard and particleboard manufacturing because they
make more efficient use of smaller logs and residues from sawing and plywood making. China,
the leading exporter of resin in the world, also has numnerous resin, tannin extraction, and shellac
factories.
1.18      China is the third largest producer of paper and paperboard in the world, with an
annual output of 18 milion tons. Despite this large production, annual per capita consption



-6 -
is extremely low at 12 kg, compared with 228 kg in Japan and 102 kg in South Korea. The
industry faces several problems. First, many factories are small and outdated. Second, about
70 percent of output is made from non-wood raw materials such as straw and reeds, which leads
to two problems: (a) the inferior quality of the pulpwood restricts the types of papers that can
be produced, and (b) the high content of naturally occurning silica in the raw material is a
serious impediment to recovery of the spent pulping chemicals, which leads to increased water
pollution. Third, many facilities have inadequate chemical recovery systems and effluent
disposal facilities. Consequendy, modernization and expansion of the pulp and paper industry
is a high priority for the government, which has recently approved the construction of 11 new
factories and the expansion of 19 existing factories.
1.19      The efficiency of resource use in wood processing remains poor, due to outdated
technologies, direct and indirect operating subsidies, weak management, and inadequate
capitalization. The government has embarked on a broad reform program of the entire industrial
sector that is designed to make state-owned enterprises operate as independent economic entities
in the market economy, with full responsibility for losses and profits. The goal is to increase
efficiency through corporatization of enterprises, not through the privatization approach being
pursued in many other socialist economies in transition. However, despite the widespread
introduction of the contract responsibility system, there is still extensive bureaucratic interference
in the management of wood processing enterprises. As reviewed in the recent country economic
memorandum (Report No. 11932-CHA), additional reform is required in four key areas:
increasing enterprise autonomy in personnel and other areas; expanding the shareholding
corporate structure to more enterprises; restructuring inefficient firms through mergers and
enterprise groups; and expanding the role of the private sector in production. The government
places great emphasis on increased joint-venture investment as an important conduit for
technology transfer and management reform in forestry.
Forestry Research
1.20      Forestry research in China has developed rapidly with an increase of staff from 200
in 1949 to 23,000 today worling in 17 national, 45 provincial, and 195 prefectural/county
research institutes. The Chinese Academy of Forestry (CAF) is the main national agency for
forestry research, with responsibility for managing 16 institutes, research centers, and libraries
in Beijing and elsewhere. In addition, most provinces and some prefecures and counties have
forestry research institutes and forestry and agricultural colleges carrying out research programs.
CAP is responsible for a wide variety of research programs that are implemented in cooperation
with provincial and college institutes. However, coordination of the research institutes that are
not under the umbrella of CAF is often difficult to achieve because of different sources of
funding and different research priorities. Also, field research trals typically require land, funds,
and technical support from state forest farms, which are often reluctant to allocate resources to
"non-commercial" activities.



-7 -
Biodiversity Conservation
1.21      Increasing population pressures and development activities have eroded China's vast
biological resources over the past three decades. The combination of a large population
(estimated at 1.15 billion people with an annual growth rate of 1.3 percent) and limited land
resources (only ten percent of the land area is arable) has led to extensive loss of habitats for
agricultural production, logging, fuelwood collection, and livestock grazing. The Chinese
Academy of Sciences reports that about 200 plant species are believed to have become extinct
and an estimated 5,000 species endangered in recent years due to human activity. Hundreds of
species of plant and animals are listed in international references as endangered, although the
real status of many species remains unknown.
1.22      In recognition of these problems, the Chinese Government has significantly
strengthened the policy framework to enhance environmental protection in general and
biodiversity conservation in particular. The Forest Law, which was revised in 1986, specifies
goals of maintaining an average of 30 percent forest cover over the entire country, including 40
percent in mountainous areas, and prohibits logging in protected areas. It also imposes strong
penalties for illegal felling of trees and attempts to establish closer links between harvesting and
reforestation. A new Environmental Protection Law was promulgated in 1989 that replaces a
tial law introduced in 1979. It promotes rational use of natural resources and facilitates the
development of a comprehensive system of nature reserves. A Wildlife Conservation Law was
introduced in 1989 that includes categories of protection for endangered and threatened wildlife.
China has also become increasingly visible in international conservation efforts. In addition to
participation in the UNESCO Man and the Biosphere Program, China ratified the RAMSAR
(Wetland) Convention in 1992 and the Biodiversity Convention in 1993.
1.23      A series of environmental strategies and actions phls have been prepared. A
national nature conservation strategy was produced in 1987 that provided a general overiew of
conservation status and trends. A Biodiversity Conservation Action Plan was completed in 1993,
with assistance from the Global Enviromnent Facility (GEF) and IDA, and awaits approval by
the State Coucil, which establishes national priorities in biodiversity. A National Environment
Protection Acton Plan was recently approved by the State Council.
C. BAnK INVOLVEMENT IN FORESTRY
1.24      Bank Lending. The Bank Group has provided three IDA credits, totalling $412
million, over the past decade to support forestry development. In addition, many agricultural
projects have included significant afforestation components and several agricultural and education
projects have supported forestry training. An Instituional Development Fund grant was
approved in 1993 to support capacity building in the sector. As reviewed at the recent country
implementation review, MFO has managed its portfolio of projects with great commitment and
skill and has emerged as one of the most competent implementing agencies in China.
1.25      The first Bank Group project was the Forestry Development Project (Cr. 1605-
CHA), approved in 1985 and closed in 1991. It financed establishment of 118,000 hectares of



- 8 -
new plantations and tending of 166,000 hectares of existing plantations on state forest farms in
three provinces. It also financed related investment for plantation infrastucture, provincial
forestry research institutes, county extension stations, and several wood processing factories.
The plantation program was effectively implemented ahead of schedule, although the small wood
processing component faced many operational difficulties. As noted in the recent project
completion report (SecM93-684), the project was designed before MFO had introduced its fast-
growing, high-yielding plantation program, and, therefore, generated few advances in
silvicultural technology.
1.26      The second Bank Group project was the Daxinganling Forest Fire Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 1918-CHA), approved in 1988 and scheduled to close in 1994. The project was
designed to salvage burned timber and establish a comprehensive fire protection system
throughout the Daxinganling forest area, following the huge fire that burned one million hectares
of forest on China's northeast border in May 1987. The salvage operation has been hugely
successful, with the recovery of 11.7 million m3 of timber valued at more than $400 million.
In addition, fire losses throughout the northern region have been greatly reduced due to new
control and detection procedures introduced under the project.  The only significant
implementation problems faced by the project involved procurement management by MFO.
1.27      The third Bank Group project was the Natonal Afforestaton Prject (NAP) (Cr.
2145-CHA), approved in 1990 anJ scheduled to close in 1997. The project supports the
establishment of 1.2 million heciares of improved commercial timber plantadons on state,
collective, and individual forest farms in sixteen provinces. The afforestation program has
introduced new silvicultural management technologies, with emphasis on development of
improved planting materials and new _nvironmental management guidelines. In addition, it has
restructured the national research program to improve institutional coordination between central
and provincial research institutes and to focus research work on high priority operational
objectives. As reviewed in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), NAP was envisioned to be the
first phase of a long-term Bank Group investment program in forestry. Implementationhas been
extremely strong and the pace and quality of plantation establishment has exceeded SAR targets.
Despite some minor problems at start-up, the research program and planting material
development program have developed well and made significant contributions to raising
silvicultural technology throughout China.
1.28      Lessons Learned. Previous forestry projects, the 1991 forestry report by the
Operations Evaluation Department (Report No. 9524), and the 1991 Board paper on forestry
(Report No. R-91-96/1) have generated the following lessons for forestry work in China:
* The importance of new technology development in raising the productivity of the
forestry sector in China, particularly new species, improved planting materials,
lower stocking densities, and more efficient silvicultural practices;
* The need to improve the links between silvicultural research and afforesttion
establishment, in order to strengthen the process of technology transfer during
project implementation;



- 9 -
O The importance of integrating the management of protected and unprotected
natral forest areas into regional forest management plans;
O The importance of market analysis in project preparation, particularly the link
between plantation output and the changing requirements of the wood processing
sector;
* The importance of deepening state enterprise reform measures in forestry,
particularly liberalization of the framework for private sector investment and
development of restructuring programs foz inefficient plants;
* The importance of shifting the locus of afforestation investment away from state
forest farms to collective and individual farms, in line with the Bank's and
government's increasing emphasis on non-state forms of production; and
* The need to strengthen the capacity of both public and private sector institutions
in forestry planning, management, and investment.
1.29      In response to these lessons, FRDPP has been designed to give emphasis to
introduction of new afforestation technologies, particularly improved silvicultural practices,
improved planting materials, and a wider lange of species; strengthening of new institutional
arrangements to better link research and afforestation activities; integration of protection forests
and nature reserves into project activities; increased afforestation activity on collective and
individual farms, with correspondingly little investment in state forest farms; and capacity
building of forestry agencies, particularly in silvicultural skills, information systems, natural
forest management, and private sector investment promotion.
D. RATioNALE FOR IDA INvOLvEmENT
1.30      The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy presented to the Board in August 1993
highlighted an intention to support interventions in the agricultural sector aimed at income
enhancement, poverty alleviation, and sustainable environmental development in regions of
concentrated absolute poverty. The proposed project is a direct outgrowth of this strategy, as
it supports a comprehensive environmental investment program in poor, remote areas across
China. The project, which continues IDA's role as the leading donor in forestry in China,
would support several technology, institutional, and policy changes that would likely not occur
without IDA involvement. These include introduction of improved silvicultural techniques,
watershed land use models, environmental management guidelines, research priorities,
information management systems, and human resource development programs. In addition, IDA
involvement would facilitate mobilization of GEF investment funds and technical assistance for
biodiversity conservation. The three earlier operations have demonstrated IDA's comparative
advantage in developing large investment projects that redress technical deficiencies in China's
traditional silvicultural system, restructm   insdtutional arrangements, and disseminate best
practices.



- 10-
E. RATIONALE FOR GEF INVOLVEMENT
1.31      The nature reserves management component of the project will be submitted for
GEF Executive Council endorsement as part of the first tranche of the operational phase of GEF.
This is now expected to take place in December 1994. The component, which supports
conservation of nature reserves that are rich in biodiversity of global significance, satisfies both
the general criteria and the specific biodiversity requirements for GEF projects. As reviewed
in paras. 2.20-2.26, the component would support a variety of new and innovative activities for
China, particularly new approaches to organization, planning, skills development, information
management, and the integration of local communities into conservation efforts. In the absence
of external funding, MFO would continue to maintain a minimum level of reserve protection and
management with few means of increasing community involvement and benefit, which would
lead to further degradation of natural resources and loss of biodiversity. No other sources of
local or external funding are available for the proposed conservation activities.



- 11 -
2. THE PROJECT
A. OBJECrivEs
2.1       The project is designed to enhance the productivity of forestry resources, the
efficiency of resource use, and the institutional capacity for sustainable management in the three
major types of forest land in China: plantations, watershed protection forests, and nature
reserves. The project would: (a) expand the supply of commercial timber and pulpwood through
establishment of intensively managed plantations; (b) develop improved models for watershed
management through establishment of protection forests; (c) enhance biodiversity conservation
through the protection of nature reserves; (d) strengthen the operating efficiency of technical
support services in the forestry sector, particularly planting materials, research, and extension
programs; and (e) strengthen the capacity of forest sector institutions in planning and
management.
B. DESCRIU"IoN
2.2       The project would comprise the following six components:
(a) The Intensively Managed Plantation Component would establish 620,000
hectares of plantations for timber, pulpwood, and pit props in sixteen
provinces as the second phase of the FGHY plantation program initiated under
NAP;
(b)  The Multiple-Use Protection Foiest Component would establish 280,000
hectares of watershed protection forests in the middle and upper reaches of
the Yangtze River basin in Sichuan and Hubei Provinces based on new
silvicultural models and improved land-use planning;
(c) The Nature Reserves Management Component, which will be submitted to
GEF for financing, would enhance biodiversity conservation through support
for new management programs in five pilot nature reserves, improved
management of natural forest habitats for Giant Pandas and other endangered
species, and development of new training, research, and information
management programs;
(d) The Planting Stock Development and Nursery Management Component would
raise the quality of planting materials in China through introduction of
improved genetic materials and nursery management technologies, and



- 12 -
support the production of the 2.1 billion seedlings required under the
afforestation components of the project;
(e)  The Research and Technology Transfer Component would strengthen the
operational focus of research and extension in China through provision of
technical assistance and operating support for eleven priority research
programs, experimental plantations, and a field extension network; and
(f)  The Institutional Capacity Building Component would strengthen the capacity
of public and private sector institutions in forestry through support for
training and technical assistance, development of an information management
system, development of a new private sector investment promotion agency,
improved natural forest management, and policy studies.
C. DETAILED FEATURES
Intensively Managed Plantation Component
2.3       This component would fiance the establishment of 620,000 hectares of intensively
managed plantations in sixteen provinces, as the second phase of the FGHY plantation program
initiated under NAP. As shown in Table 2. 1, conifer species would account for 70 percent of
the total planting area (primarily Chinese fir, masson pine, and larch), broadleaf species would
account for 23 percent (primarily poplar and eucalypt), and bamboo would account for 7
percent. A list of the plantation areas by species and province and a list of the project counties
are given in Annexes BI and B2. The selection of species, planting sites, and provinces were
based on guidelines agreed with IDA during project preparation, as follows. The species were
selected on the basis of their growth potential, climatic and ecological suitability to specific site
conditions, technical experience and acceptance in China, environmental objectives, and product
marketability. The sites were selected on the basis of soil fertility, rainfall, temperature, erosion
hazard, access to end-use markets, and the per capita income of the local population. The
provinces were selected on the basis of land availability, institutional capacity, financing
capacity, and local supply and demand conditions. All project sites have been identified and
detailed technical design plans have already been prepared for 70 percent of the plantations.
IDA reviewed and approved the technical plans that have been prepared during appraisal.
2.4       MFO has prepared detailed afforestation models for each species, which cover
technical silvicultural prescriptions, growth targets, establishment costs, and financial and
economic rates of return. These models draw on the government's existing guidelines for
intensively managed plantations that were issued in 1986, entitled "Standards on Fast-Growing
and High-Yielding Plantations;" the afforestation models that were prepared in 1989 in
preparation for NAP; and the research results and silvicultural experience that have emerged
during the past three years of NAP implementation. The new FRDPP models incorporate
several changes to traditional silvicultural management in China, which are expected to improve
yields and reduce costs. These include reductions in initial planting densities, less intensive site
preparation, smaller planting holes, greater reliance on improved planting materials, reduction



- 13 -
in tending times, and lower fertilizer applications for several species. However, further
reductions in planting densities and fertilization levels may be warranted in order to optimize the
cost-benefit relationship. Therefore, the research component includes an accelerated research
program on these topics to determine what, if any, further adjustments would be required to the
afforestation models during project implementation (see para. 2.35). IDA reviewed and
approved all the afforestation models during appraisal. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that all project plantations would be established in accordance with models
acceptable to IDA; and MFO would complete the review of all technical design plans for
plantation sites in accordance guidelines acceptable to IDA by October 31, 1995. The
afforestation models for individual species are summarized below and samples of the models are
given in Annex B3.
Table 2.1: PLANTATioN AREA BY SPECIES
% of
Species                                       Hectares       Total
Conifer Species
Chinese Fir (Cunninghamia lanceolata)    109,200        17.6%
Masson Pine (Pinus massoniana)           121,200        19.5%
Slash Pine (Pinus elliottil)              30,200        4.9%
Loblolly Pine (Pinus taeda)               33,300        5.4%
L-arch (Larix kaempferi, Larix olgensis)  140,500      22.7%
Total                                434,400       70.1%
Broadleaf Species
Poplar (Populus tomentosa, Populus simonii)  66,800     10.8%
Eucalypt (Eucalyptus spp.)                38,500        6.2%
Black Locust (Robinia pseudoacacia)       13,000        2.1%
Other Hardwoods (Schima superba, Ulmus pumila) 23,600   3.8%
Total                                141,900       22.9%
Bamboo (Phyllostachys pubescens and Arundinaria spp.) 43,700  7.0%
Total                                         620,000        100%
2.5       Chinese fir is a high-value species native to China that will be grown in ten
provinces in the project. Chinese foresters have an excellent knowledge of its site, silvicultural
and growth characteristics, since it has been managed in both natural and planted stands for
centuries. Three different models will be introduced: (a) large diameter timber for the
construction sector will be grown in 30-year rotations on the highest quality planting sites, with
an expected average mean annual increment (MAI) of 17.4 m3/ha; (b) medium diameter timber
will be grown in 20-year rotations on good quality sites, with an expected average MAI of 12.6
m3/ha; and (c) small diameter timber will be grown in 20-year rotations on lower quality sites,
with an expected average MAI of 11.1 m3/ha. The silvicultural prescriptions are based on the
NAP models, which raised productivity through introduction of clonal propagation and more



- 14 -
efficient fertilization. However, the initial planting densities and the number of weeding times
have been further reduced to optimize yields.
2.6       Masson pine, an indigenous species with a good growth potential in dry climates and
lower quality planting sites in the temperate zone, will be grown in nine provinces. Two models
will be introduced: (a) pit props for the mining industry will be grown in 20-year rotations on
good quality sites, with an expected average MAI of 11.7 m3/ha; and (b) pulpwood will be
grown for the pulp and paper industry in 18-year rotations on lower quality sites, with an
expected average MAI of 9.7 m3l/ha. The NAP silvicultural prescriptions will be used, with the
exception of a reduction in the initial planting densities.
2.7       Loblolly and Slash Pines, species introduced from North America with good growth
potential in low elevations and low nutrient red soils, will be grown in seven provinces. The
current yields in China are extremely poor by international standards (about 11 m3/ha) as a result
of the poor quality of the original genetic material. Loblolly is given more emphasis in this
project than in NAP, as its growth performance and site adaptability are stronger than slash pine.
A new silvicultural model was prepared, based on imported seed and improved silvicultural
prescriptions, which will produce pit props in 20-year rotations on good quality sites, with an
expected average MAI of 13.2 m3/ha. Three slash pine models will be introduced, based on the
NAP silvicultural prescriptions: (a) large diameter timber will be grown in 30-year rotations on
the highest quality planting sites, with an expected average MAI of 12.5 m3/ha; (b) pit props will
be grown in 20-year rotations on good quality sites, with an expected average MAI of 12.0
i/ha; and (c) pulpwood will be grown in 18-year rotations on lower quality sites, with an
expected average MAI of 10.8 m3/ha.
2.8       Larch, an indigenous species with a long history of production in the cold,
mountainous areas of northeast China, will be planted in seven provinces. Two models will be
introduced: (a) pit props will be grown in 22-year rotations on good quality sites, with an
expected average MAI of 8.9-9.5 m3/ha, depending on the variety; and (b) pulpwood will be
grown in 18-year rotations on lower quality sites, with an expected MAI of 8.0-8.5 m3/ha,
depending on the variety. The silvicultural prescriptions developed for NAP have been revised
for the project, with the introduction of clonal planting material, reduction in planting density,
and reduction in fertilization.
2.9       Poplar, a fast-growing indigenous species well suited to the harsher climate of the
northeast, will be planted in four provinces. Two models will be introduced: (a) large diameter
timber will be grown in 15-year rotations on the highest quality planting sites, with an expected
average MAI of 11.0 m3/ha; and (b) pulpwood will be grown in 10-year rotations on lower
quality sites, with an expected average MAI of 12.5 m3/ha. Poplar planting densities are quite
low (330-625 stems/ha) in order to maximize crown closure and yields, which will permit
intercropping with peanuts, sweet potatoes, legumes, and wheat in the early years of
establishment. The NAP silvicultural prescriptions will be used, although the number of
tendings will be reduced and a new higher-yielding hybrid variety for pulpwood will be
introduced (Populus simonii carr.XP.nigra).



- 15 -
2.10      Eucalypt, an introduced species that has been grown for over a century in southern
China, will be planted in four provinces. The NAP silvicultural prescriptions will be used,
which incorporated improved management treatments developed by the China Eucalypt Research
Center in Guangdong Province. Pulpwood will be grown in 7-year rotations on lower quality
sites, with an average MAI of 13.5 m3/ha.
2.11      Black Locust, a fast-growing species in the north introduced from North America,
will be grown in one province. The NAP silvicultural model will be used, which will produce
pit props in 15-year rotations on the highest quality sites, with an expected average MAI of 5.6
m3/ha. Other broadleaf trees, primarily Schima superba, will be planted in six provinces for a
variet, of purposes, including fire breaks, nitrogen fixation, tannin production, and construction
timber. The growth and production characteristics of these broadleaf species fit well into the
intensively managed plantation program. However, they have not yet received much attention
in research and genetic improvement, as a result of their minor importance in afforestation
efforts; consequently, the current silvicultural prescriptions may not realize their full production
capacity.
2.12      Bamboo plantations will be established under the project to produce fiber for the
pulp and paper industry. Two improved models were prepared, one for new establishment and
one for rehabilitation of existing degraded stands, based on new research findings from the
Research Institute of Sub-Tropical Forestry in .7hejiang Province. The new management
prescriptions include a higher initial planting density, later harvesting of shoots and culms to
encourage greater interim stand density, a shift in the timing of weeding, and new harvesting
procedures.
2.13      The component would finance the following costs of plantation establishment: (a)
all labor requirements for site preparation and planting in the first year and tending in the first
to third years; (b) materials and equipment, including seedlings (see paras. 2.30-2.3 1), fertilizer,
pesticides, and small guard/storage sheds; and (c) indirect costs related to survey and design,
information management, extension (see paras. 2.37-2.38), and supervision. Disbursement
arrangements for plantation establishment are reviewed in para. 3.8. Plantation establishment
costs in China are among the lowest in the world as a result of the reliance on labor-intensive
technologies and low wage rates. Ihey average around yuan 3,000 per ha, ranging from yuan
2,100 for Schima superba to yuan 3,600 for Chinese fir. Plantation establishment would be
phased over four years, with 20 percent completed in the first year, 30 percent in the second
year, 35 percent in the third year, and 15 percent in the fourth year. An assurance was obtained
at negotiations that the annual work plan and financing plan for the plantation component for
the next calendar year would be furnished to IDA for review by December 31 of each year.
Multiple-Use Protection Forest Component
2.14      This component would finance the establishment of 280,000 hectares of multiple-use
protection forests in Sichuan and Hubei Provinces as part of the government's ongoing Yangtze
River Protection Forest Project (YRPFP). These forests are designed to improve land-use
management in key watersheds in the middle and upper reaches of the Yangtze River basin that



- 16 -
suffer from severe soil erosion, flooding, and river sedimentation problems. Several changes
to the traditional protection forest technology practiced in China would be introduced, as
follows.
O Protection forests are typically established as inviolate islands of conservation in
Chipa. in which economic development activities and local community use of the
resource are severely restricted. Instead, the component will support development
of multiple-use management of protection forests, which integrates non-consumptive
economic activities -- such as production of timber, fruit and nut orchards, and
medicinal plants -- with afforestation for environmental benefits. Under this
approach, the economic welfare of local communities is maximized, which
contributes to improved incentives to manage the forests on a sustainable basis.
* The component moves away from the planning of protection forests as free-
standing, isolated forestry investments. Instead, the project sites form part of a
comprehensive land-use planning exercise for all watersheds in project areas. The
three ministries that participate in the YRPFP (MFO, Ministry of Agriculture, and
Mi ry of Water Resources) have developed an integrated land-use model for all
project areas that specifies agricultural, forestry, and conservation engineering zones
for development. This component would finance the activities designated for
forestry zones; related activities in the other zones would be financed under
govermnent budgetary allocations outside of the project.
* The afforestation models used in protection forests have traditionally been based
on large tracts of monoculture. Instead, the component will introduce a variety of
tree, shrub, and grass species, which will promote greater biodiversity, reduce the
incidence of pests and disease damage, and promote the development of different
canopy levels. Particular emphasis has been given to integration of conifers and
hardwood species for biodiversity conservation; and development of multi-tiered,
vertically stratified canopies to minimize soil erosion and water runoff.
* Protection forests are typically subject to little management after establishment,
which undermines long-term, sustainable development of the resource. Protecdon
forests financed under the project will involve periodic tending and thinning to
ensure efficient nauWal regeneration of the stands throughout the life of the forest.
2.15      Two different systems will be used to establish protecdon forests under the
component. In areas that are completely deforested, afforestation entities will plant a variety
of new conifer and broadleaf species. As shown in Table 2.2, this system accounts for about
60 percent of all protection forest planings. In areas that are denuded but retain a sufficient
number of healthy seed-bearing trees, the afforestation entities would "close the hillside" to
economic activity and allow the forest to regenerate naturally. Some "enrichment" plantng will
be required on one-tird of these sites, where there are patches of heavily deforested areas. The
hill closure system restricts "consumptive" use of forest resources, such as clear-cutting of trees



- 17 -
for fuelwood or building material, but permits some controlled use of forests in line with agreed
environmental management guidelines, such as grass cutting, and limited fuelwood collection.
Table 2.2: PRoTECJ7oN FOREsM  AREA BY SPECEs
% of
Species                                       Hectares       Total
New Planting
Masson Pine (Pinus massoniana)            32,000        11.4%
Chestnut (Castanea mollissima)            29,000        10.4%
Chinese Fir (Cunninghamia lanceolata)     25,000        8.9%
Sawtooth Oak (Quercus acufissima)         22,000        7.9%
Pear (Pyrus spp.)                          4,500         1.6%
Eucommia (Euconuia ulmoides)               8,700        3.1%
Masson Pine/Sawtooth Oak                  16,800        6.0%
Cypress/Alder (C4pressusfunebrisfAlnus spp.)    15,000  5.4%
Sumac/Birch (Rhus chinensis/Betulaplatyphylla)    7,000  2.5%
Total                                 160,000      57.1%
Hill Closure
With Enrichment Replanting                40,000        14.3%
With No Replanting                        80,000       28.6%
Total                                120,000       42.9%
Total                                         280,000        100%
2.16      The selection of planting sites, species, and provinces were based on guidelines
agreed with IDA during project preparation, as follows (a list of the protection forest areas by
species and province, and a list of the project counties are given in Annexes BI and B2). The
watersheds were selected largely on the basis of erosion hazard and rate, importance in Yangtze
River hydrology, and technical parameters such as rainfall and temperature. Al project sites
are located directly along the Yangtze River, or its first and second class tributaries, and face
average soil erosion rates above 4,000 tons per square kdlometer per year. The main sites are
grouped around the steep slopes of Dabieshan Mountain in eastern Hubei, the lower hils of the
Three Gorges area in western Hubei 1, and the Chuandong basin in eastern Sichuan. All sites
have been identified and detailed technical design plans have already been prepared for 60
percent of the plantations. IDA reviewed and approved the technical plans that bave been
prepared during appraisal.
2.17      The species were selected largely on the basis of climatic and ecological suitability
to specific site conditions, environmental management objectives, and the socio-economic
requirements of the afforestation entities for income generation, fuelwood, and other forest
I No project sites would be affected by the construction of the proposed Three Gorges Dam.



- 18-
products. The main species include (a) masson pine (often interplanted with broadleaf species),
Chinese fir, sawtooth oak, and mixed stands of mourning cypress and a.der, all producing
timber; (b) Chinese chestnut and pear, grown for nut and fruit production; (c) eucommia, whose
bark is used as a raw material for medicine; and (d) Chinese sumac, which produces a raw
material used to produce acid for the tanning industry. The timber species will be managed to
optiniize natural regeneration of the forests and soil and water conservation benefits.
Consequently, their silvicultural prescriptions and harvesting programs will not maxniize
biological production and financial returns, as with the intensively managed plantations.
Nonetheless, they will produce a significant volume of building poles during the thinning periods
(years 13 and 19) and industrial roundwood timber during the regeneration cutting periods (year
25 and every 5 years thereafter).
2.18      MFO has prepared detailed afforestation models for each species, which cover
technical silvicultural prescriptions, growth targets, establishment costs, financial and economic
rates of return, and environmental benefits. These models draw on the govermnent's existing
guidelines for protection forests that were developed in 1989 for the YRPFP as well as the past
four years of implementation experience under the YRPFP. The models were further refmed
during project preparation to lower establishment costs, increase financial returns, and improve
environmental benefits. The main changes included different planting materials; reduction in
fertilization; reduction in the size of planting holes and the intensity of site preparation;
introduction of vegetative hedges along contours to increase water percolation and slow surface
runoff; and introduction of structural conservation measures on steep slopes, such as checkdams,
silt traps, and diversion drains. IDA reviewed and approved all the afforestation models during
appraisal. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that all protection forests would be
established in accordance with models acceptable to IDA; and MFO would complete the review
of all technical design plans for protection forest sites in accordance with guidelines acceptable
to IDA by October 31, 1995.
2.19      The component would finance the following costs of protection forest establishment:
(a) all labor requirements for site preparation, planting, and conservation works in the first year
and tending in the first to third years; (b) materials and equipment, including seedlings (see
paras. 2.30-2.31), fertilizer, pesticides, and small guard/storage sheds; and (c) indirect costs
related to survey and design, information management, extension (see paras. 2.37-2.38), and
supervision. Disbursement arrangements for establishment costs are reviewed in para. 3.8.
Establishment costs would be significantly lower for the protection forest component than the
plantation component, as a result of lower quality planting materials and stocking densities, and
less fertilization and site preparation. They average around yuan 2,000 per hectare for timber
species and yuan 5,000 per hectare for fruit and nut species. Protection forest establishment
would be phased over four years, with 20 percent completed in the first year, 30 percent in the
second year, 35 percent in the tiird year, and 15 percent in the fourth year. An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that the annual work plan and financing plan for the protection forest
component for the next calendar year would be furnished to IDA for review by December 31 of
each year.



- 19-
Nature Reserves Management Component
2.20      This component is designed to strengthen biodiversity conservation in nature reserves
through introduction of new conservation technologies, capacity building of sectoral institutions,
and strengthening of information and research services. It would comprise five sub-components,
which are summarized below.
2.21      Nature Reserves Management.  This sub-component would strengthen the
management of five nature reserve areas of international significance as a pilot exercise to
introduce new biodiversity management techniques in China. The areas include: Xishuangbanna,
a cluster of five sub-reserves in southwest Yunnan Province; Poyang Lake, China's most
important wetland site, located in Jiangxi Province; Wuvishan, the highest and most biologically
diversc, peak in southeast China, located along the borders of Fujian and Jiangxi Provinces;
Oinlina Mountains of Shaanxi Province, comprising four nature reserves; and Shennongiia, an
area of very -ich forest biodiversity in Hubei Province. The sub-component would support the
following: (a) preparation of new management plans for the five reserve areas; (b) strengthening
of field-level protection through financing of guard posts, field kits and other miscellaneous
equipment, new communications systems, and a new incentive bonus scheme for guards and
supervisors; and (c) expansion of local participation in reserve management through introduction
of "co-management" contracts between communities and reserves (which identify the respective
roles and responsibilities in resource use in reserves), establishment of new community
investment funds to support non-consumptive and conservation-oriented economic activities, and
development of new information and education programs to strengthen local appreciation for
biodiversity values. The emphasis on community participation in reserve management represents
an importai., innovation to the current management system, which will involve introduction of
new techniques such as participatory rural appraisal, group facilitation, and community resource
management plans.
2.22      Natural Forest Mana ement. This sub-component would restructure the management
of natural forests adjacent to the Qinling reserve group as a pilot exercise to resolve biodiversity
land use conflicts. As with many reserves, state timber harvesting enterprises have over-cut
natural forest areas adjacent to the Qinling reserves, which has degraded a small but important
corridor for the passage of Giant Pandas outside of the reserve boundaries. The component
would support the following policy and institutional reforms to balance the competing objectives
of economic development and panda preservation: (a) the forest area would be restructured into
a "score zone," which would comprise the main panda habitat and be legally designated as a new
nature reserve, and an "experimental zone," where sustainable harvesting of timber would
continue to be permitted; (b) the labor force of the state timber enterprise in Changqing would
be reduced by about 700 workers in line with the revised harvesting program, with the redundant
labor redeployed to less consumptive and more conservation-oriented economic activities; and
(c) new silvicultural management practices would be introduced in the experimental zone to
ensure that harvesting and afforestation remains consistent with the preservation of the core
zone. A commitment was obtained during the pre-appraisal of the proposed GEF project that
all thinning, harvesting, and other consumptive activities would cease in the proposed core zone
as of December 1, 1993. In addition, the designation of the proposed core zone area as a



- 20 -
national-level nature reserve would be sought as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) grant.
2.23      These policy reforms would be supported with the following investment activities.
First, the protection of the core zone would be financed, including preparation of a management
plan, support for biophysical and socioeconomic inventories, and establishment of guard posts
with related equipment. Second, the "Changqing Livelihood Fund" would be established, which
would provide grants or low-interest loans to individuals or enterprises to support development
of new, environmentally sustainable employment activities for redundant workers. Investments
supported by the Fund would meet specified economic, financial, and environmental criteria.
Proposed investments include a medicinal herb processing plant, a fungus production and
processing plant, agricultural crop and livestock production, and township/municipal services
such as restaurants and rest houses. Guidelines for the operation of the Fund and the selection
iteria for sub-projects would be agreed during the appraisal of the GEF project. An assurance
would be sought at the negotiations of the proposed GET grant that the Fund would be
implemented in accordance with these guidelines. Third, the improved management of the
experimental zone would be financed, including preparation of a forest management plan,
afforestation costs directly related to the preservation of the adjacent core zone area, and
technical assistance costs related to the introduction of new sustained yield management
techniques.
2.24      Capacity Building. This sub-component would strengthen the organizational capacity
of the Division of Nature Reserves in MFO for analysis and management of national
conservation policy through: (a) preparation of a national management plan; (b) financing of
computers, office equipment, and related technical assistance in planning, data base management,
organization management, and monitoring and evaluation; and (c) preparation of a series of
policy studies on key issues related to biodiversity conservation. The sub-component would also
strengthen the Nature Resource Protection Division of Yunnan Province, which contains the
largest number of endangered species and the largest amount of protected land in China, through
preparation of management plans and development of a geographic information system. Finally,
the sub-component would support the development of a national training team, which would
provide about 900 person months of training at the reserve, provincial, and national levels in
land use managemeni, guarding and protection, research and data management, socioeconomic
surveying and participatory planning, computer systems, and other areas.
2.25      Information System. This sub-component would support the development of new
nature reserve management information systems (MIS) through: (a) preparation of biophysical
and socioeconomic baseline inventories in the five reserve areas; (b) investment in computers,
software, climatic recording equipment, and other scientific and office equipment; and (c)
technical assistance in database structure, data analysis and information management. The new
MIS would support development of vertically and horizontally integrated databases that would
improve resource monitoring and decision making at the reserve, provincial, and national levels.
A detailed monitoring and evaluation plan with appropriate biodiversity and social indicators
acceptable to IDA would be developed during the first year.



- 21 -
2.26      Research. This sub-component vwould strengthen the existing national research
program through (a) financing of research activities in the five reserve areas; and (b)
establishment of a new small-scale research grants program. The grants program would be open
to researchers from all reserves and based on a competitive award process, with grants not
exceeding $5,000 in size.
Planting Stock Development and Nursery Management Component
2.27      This component is designed to (a) raise the quality of planting materials in China
through introduction of improved genetic materials and improved nursery management
technologies; and (b) support the production of the 2.1 billion seedlings required in the plantation
and protection forest components. It expands the Accelerated Planting Material Development
Program introduced in NAP, with emphasis on wider dissemination of improved genetic
materials that have been tested by research institutes but not yet released for commercial
afforestation. The planting stock development and nursery management program is summarized
below and described in detail in Annex B4.
2.28      Seeds. All project seeds will be supplied from the China General Management Tree
Seed and Planting Stock Administration in MFO and its related agencies, and will be subject to
extremely rigorous provenance criteria. They will be either "source selected" or "source
identified" according to OECD seed criteria. Seeds for Chinese fir, masson pine, larch, poplar,
and some of the broadleaf species will be locally harvested from clonal seed orchards, seed
stands, or areas of selected provenance for the species concerned. For Chinese fir, provenance
and progeny testing since the 1970s has permitted the establishment of several improved seed
orchards, which will supply seed for about 80 percent of the project's plantings; the balance will
come from superior provenance stands already identified. Although there is a shortage of
masson pine seed from seed orchards, MFO is confident of securing sufficient quantities from
natural stands of superior provenances. Poplar is the species for which tree improvement in
China is most advanced and adequate numbers of very productive clones are available for the
project. The research component will support a number of measures to accelerate development
of higher quality genetic seed and cutting material, including provenance trials, tree breeding
and selection programs, improved management of stands of superior seed provenance, expansion
of clonal seed and cutting orchards, controlled pollination research trials, and hybridization
trials.
2.29      Seeds for slash pine, loblolly pine, and several eucalypts will be imported. While
many seed orchards have been established for southern pines, the provenance of most of the
original material is unrecorded, making it difficult to carry out systematic selection and
breeding. Similarly, although there has been much work in China on hybridizing eucalypt, the
genetic base of the original Chinese stands was very narrow and the quality has deteriorated over
successive generations. Consequently, 6,900 kg of high quality seed will be imported under the
project.
2.30      Seedlings. The total project seedling requirement will be grown in about 2,142
existing nurseries operated by state forest farms, collective forest farms, or specialized



- 22 -
households under contract with forest farms or county project management offices. No new
nurseries would be established. Every participating county would have one central nursery and
several smaller nurseries located near planting sites, in order to minimize transport distance and
handling of seedlings prior to planting. No large, mechanized nurseries would be used under
the project, as their cost and quality performance have generally been poor in other afforestation
schemes in China. The nurseries are typically staffed with about 10-20 permanent workers and
hire casual laborers as needed. While most nurseries have adequate infrastructure and working
capital, many require new equipment and vehicles. Consequently, the project would finance
procurement of seedling transport vehicles, irrigation equipment, plastic greenhouses, and
miscellaneous tools. To simplify disbursement and accounting procedures, the project will not
directly finance the incremental operating costs of the nurseries but will instead finance the
"nursery-gate" production cost of the final seedlings. IDA has reviewed and accepted a schedule
of average unit seedling production costs for each species (see Annex CS).
2.31      Three types of seedlings will be produced: bare-root, containerized (including both
seed and clonal materials), and clonal, accounting for 81 percent, 14 percent, and 5 percent,
respectively, of all plantings. Containerized seedlings include plastic poly-bags and root trainers
(plastic pots with vertical ribs that cause roots to grow downward). The planting material
development program gives great emphasis to increased use of clonal production (particularly
for Chinese fir, larch, poplar, some eucalypts, and some broadleaf species) and root trainers
(particularly for containerized clonal stock, eucalypt, and harsh planting sites), since they
promote high quality seedling development and more efficient tree growth. Consequently, the
project includes specific annual production targets for these seedlings, which will be monitored
by IDA during project implementation. Bare-root seedlings, however, will continue to dominate
the planting stock, as they are ideally suited to most of the species and planting sites in the
project provinces. All seedlings will conform to detailed growth standards for each species,
including collar diameter, seedling height, and root system confitguration. IDA reviewed the
seedling standards at appraisal and found them acceptable.
2.32      Nursery Management. Poor nursery management practices, such as inadequate root
pruning, excessive seeding and fertilization, insufficient culling, and poor potting soil mixtures,
have contributed to the problem of low quality planting stock in China. Consequently, the
project would support a restructuring of the current nursery technology based on new bedding,
sowing, fertilizing, pruning, transplanting, lifting, sampling, culling, and grading techniques.
MFO has prepared detailed operating guidelines for improved nursery management, which IDA
reviewed at appraisal and found acceptable. The project would provide technical assistance for
implementation of thece guidelines, including short-term training programs for county nursery
staff and overseas study tours for provincial nursery staff.  A new Seedling Production
Coordination Group will be established to oversee seedling production and monitor the
inplementation of the new guidelines (see para. 4.9). An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that MFO would furnish to IDA for review by December 31 of each year an evaluation report
for the current year and an annual work plan for the next calendar year for the planting stock
development and nursery management program.



- 23 -
Research and Technology Transfer Component
2.33      This component is designed to strengthen the operational focus of national research
efforts and to ensure timely transmission of research findings to the field. It is primarily a
continuation of the research and extension program initiated under NAP, which entailed a
significant restructuring of existing forestry research priorities, institutions, and work plans. The
program is summarized below and reviewed in detail in Annexes B5 and B6.
2.34      Research.  Jnder NAP, MFO and CAF launched ten new research programs
organized around individual species or priority silviculture topics, rather than on the geographic
basis that had been used for several decades in China. This approach was designed to generate
operationally-oriented research findings that would contribute to productivity gains in the
government's ongoing afforestation program; hence, the trials were tied closely to extension to
ensure rapid transmission of research results to the field. The species programs covered Chinesc
fir, masson pine, poplar, larch, exotic pines, eucalypt, and broadleaf species. In addition, three
separate research programs were developed on fertilization, wood properties, and mycorrhiza2.
A new institutional structure was created to implement the improved research program and five-
year research plans were prepared that were approved by IDA at negotiations. The NAP
research program has been implemented well and has begun to generate a number of useful
operational results, particularly in the areas of genetics and plant propagation.
2.35      The component would support the continued operation of the ten existing research
programs and would establish one new program on protection forests. The programs will focus
on planting stock improvements, including species evaluation, seed supply, plant propagation
systems, and genetic improvements; site management, including soil and site classification, land
clearing systems, fertilizer prescriptions, and weed control; and stand management, including
tree spacing, thinning and pruning, permanent sample plots, and yield and growth models.
Particular emphasis will be given in the early years of the project to reviewing and refining the
optimal planting density and fertilizer application rates for the main project species, in order to
adjust the implementation of the plantation and protection forest components as necessary. New
five year work plans have been prepared by MFO, which were reviewed and approved by IDA
at appraisal. The component would finance (a) research services; and (b) technical assistance,
including consultancy services, domestic training programs, and overseas study tours and
training. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that MFO wouldfurnish to IDA for review:
(a) an evaluation reportfor the current year and an annual work plan for the next calendar year
for the research program by December 31 of each year; and (b) two reports analyzing the results
of the accelerated research programs in fertilization and planting density by May 31, 1997.
2.36      Experimental Plantations. The component would support establishment of 140
hectares of experimental plantations as an intermediate step in the dissemination of research
results from small controlled research trials to large commercial timber plantations. The
2 Mycorrhiza is the symbiotic association of fungus with plant roots that is essential for
successful growth of many species, particularly on drought prone or low nutrient sites.



- 24 -
experimental plantations would average 20-100 hectares in size and would evaluate the impact
of different silvicultural treatments on tree growth. The design focus will be on planting
materials, stocking densities, fertilizer regimes, site preparations, and tending regimes.
2.37      Extension. The extension program is designed to establish information links among
the eleven project research groups, provincial and county research institutes, the provincial and
county project management offices, and the project afforestation entities. Information is
designed to flow in both directions: researchers are expected to identify tested research results
that will lead to more efficient afforestation; and project staff and farmers are expected to
provide feedback on implementation experience. The institutional structure for channelling
information back and forth is the Research and Extension Advisory Panels, which were
established under NAP at the national, provincial, and county levels (see para. 4.10). MFO has
prepared a detailed extension plan for the project, which was reviewed and approved by IDA
at appraisal. The plan disseminates all the technical guidelines related to seedling standards,
nursery management, silvicultural technology, and environmental management that have been
agreed with IDA. Key extension messages include the importance of genetic planting materials,
particularly identification of superior provenances and clones and clonal propagation techniques;
improvements in nursery management, particularly root cutting, containerized seedlings, and
mycorrhizal association; and cost-benefits of silvicultural techniques, particularly site
preparation, spacing, fertilization, and tending.
2.38      The component would finance (a) domestic traimng programs for project staff and
afforestation entities; and (b) incremental extension operating costs, including consumables,
travel and associated subsistence. To simplify disbursement and accounting procedures, the
project will not directly disburse against incremental operating costs of extension; instead, an
average unit extension cost has been incorporated into afforestation establishment costs. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that MFO wouldfurnish to IDA for review by December
31 of each year an evaluation report for the current year and an annual work plan for the next
calendar year for the extension program.
Institutional Capacity Building Component
2.39      This component would strengthen the capacity of both public and private sector
institutions in planning, management, and investment in human and forest resources. It is
designed to support the institutional changes now underway as part of the transition to a market
economy. In parti lar, it would strengthen the framework for increased levels of private sector
investment and enh.ice public sector capacity for efficient resource management. It would
comprise the following five sub-components.
2.40      Human Resource Development. This sub-component would support local training
for 41,600 people, 180 months of overseas training for 60 persons, 53 months of overseas study
tours for 105 persons, and 8 months of international consultancy services. IDA reviewed and
approved a plan for technical assistance activities during appraisal, which is summarized in
Annex B7. All of the technical assistance would be classified as Institutional Development. Key
capacity building areas include silvicultural management, nursery management, afforestation



- 25 -
model design, forestry research and extension, environmental protection, natural resource
economic analysis, and market supply and demand analysis.
2.41      Forestry Information System. The limited availability of data on production costs,
prices, and changing supply and demand conditions has impeded efficient resource allocation in
the forestry sector. To improve the collection and management of forestry data, this sub-
component would support the expansion of the pilot information system introduced under NAP.
The project would finance (a) desktop computers and software for provincial and county project
offices, (b) related technical assistance and trainirg, and (c) incremental recurrent operating
costs.
2.42      Investment Promotion. As part of the transition to a market economy, the private
sector is expected to provide an increasing amount of investment funds for afforestation and
wood processing in the medium-term. However, despite some increase over the past few years,
the overall level of domestic and foreign private investment remains small. Therefore, the
project would support computers, office equipment, incremental operating costs, and technical
assistance for a new investment promotion agency in one province, Fujian, to demonstrate new
institutional arrangements to promote private sector investment in forestry.
2.43      Natural Forest Management. Another important structural change in the forest
sector in the coming decade will be the continuing reduction of secondary growth natural forests
as a result of unsustainable management and excessive harvesting. In view of the economic and
environmental importance of indigenous woodlands in China, this sub-component would support
a pilot program in one province, Jiangxi, to strengthen management of natural forests. The
project would finance: (a) preparation of a natural forest management plan; and (b) establishment
of research trials based on new thinning, harvesting, and regeneration prescriptions.
2.44      Policy Studies. To support the government's on-going reform program in the sector,
the project would finance studies of the following key policy issues: (a) restructuring options for
state-owned wood processing factories; (b) price reform options to complete the transition to a
market economy; and (c) external sector reform options to rationalize trade policy for forest
products.
2.45      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) all training and study tours would
be carried out in accordance with a training program acceptable to IDA; and (b) policy studies
would be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and timing acceptable to IDA, which
would include recommendations for Jfture actions; such studies would be provided to IDA for
comment prior to completion; and thereafter, the completed studies would be revised in light of
IDA's comments and provided to the responsible government 2gencies for consideration.
D. ENvIRoNMENTAL ASPEUJs
2.46      The project would generate significant environmental benefits, including increased
forest cover, preservation of biodiversity of global significance, and reduced soil erosion,
flooding and river sedimentation. However, since the project would support some activities with



- 26 -
potentially adverse environmental impacts (such as earthworks in plantations, small blocks of
monoculture, and pesticide use), it has been rated Category B. The Government carried out a
comprehensive assessment of environmental impacts, mitigation measures, management issues,
and monitoring requirements during project preparation. Based on this assessment and the NAP
experience with environmental protection, the Government has prepared a detailed environmental
management plan (EMP) to strengthen safeguards against problems from insect and disease
outbreaks, soil erosion and fertility loss, fire, and ecological degradation (the EMP is available
in the project files). IDA reviewed and approved the EMP and related implementation
arrangements during appraisal. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that all project
activities would be carried out in accordance with an EMP acceptable to IDA. The main
elements of the EMP are summarized below.
2.47      Forest diversity will be maintained through the following measures. First, no large
contiguous expanse of single species plantings will be established under the project; rather, there
will be mixtures of blocks of single species, with any one block not exceeding 100 hectares in
size. In plantations, these blocks will be divided by strips of natural or planted broadleaf trees
for protection purposes (e.g., firebreaks, erosion control, seed trees). In protection forests, the
planting blocks will combine a variety of trees, grasses, and bushes in one area in order to create
a multi-tiered canopy, which is essential for good erosion control on steep slopes. More than
three-quarters of the total planting area in the project involve species native to China. Second,
all clonal plantations would be established with multi-clone mixtures or as block mosaics of
single clones and would use no less than 10 clones of any one species at the county level.
Third, most project plantings would be established on land that is either barren or sparsely
covered with grasses. While some plantations may involve clearing of severely degraded
secondary forests, the EMP guidelines prohibit clearing of any forest area with more than 30
percent crown closure. Fourth, no plantings would be established on sites of identified
historical, cultural, or ecological significance.
2.48      Soil and water conseration will be promoted through the following measures:
vegetative cover will be maintained during site preparation and tending on slopes over 15
degrees; stands will be planted along the contour, with staggered planting holes; the collection
of fallen leaves and branches will be forbidden; "mitre drains" will be established along
firebreaks; and soil conservation measures such as counter-slope terraces, contour ditches, and
"v-shaped" ditches will be established where severe erosion is already occurring. Fire control
will be strengthened as follows: firebreaks will be established at 80 hectare intervals in all
plantations, which primarily involve 15 meter bands of fire-resistant species such as Schima
superba; every afforestation entity will have fire control plans, which will be integrated into the
county level fire control system; and every afforestation entity will possess fire fighting
equipment.
2.49      Integated Mest management has been practiced for many years in Chinese forestry,
with heavy emphasis on biological control. Local pest and disease forecasting stations monitor
pest population and infestation levels and provide timely information to afforestation entities.
In addition, there is an active research program in pest control that focuses on specific insect and
disease problems in commercial tree species. Besides isolated, sporadic outbreaks of pests, there



- 27 -
appears to be only one potentially serious infestation problem in areas near project planting sites:
a North American mealy bug has infested about 300,000 hectares of southern pines in
Guangdong Province. MFO is presently working with the U.S. Forest Service to develop
parasite populations to control the bug and NAP supervision missions are monitoring their
efforts.
2.50      The project includes four safeguards for pest and disease control. First, the site
selection process is designed to minimize pest control problems, as stands are less vulnerable
when planted in optimal locations. Second, viruses and natural predators are used against certain
insect pests. For example, the Bacillus thurengiensis virus is used to control caterpillar damage
in masson pine and the paper mulberry host (Broussonetia papyrifera) is used to control beetle
damage in poplar. Third, chemical pesticides are used in severe outbreaks and the project is
expected to fmance $1.6 million in pesticides. All the products to be used in the project are
registered with the relevant Government authorities and have been approved for forestry use by
the National Environmental Protection Agency. Pesticides are applied mainly by hydraulic
knapsack and hand-held ultra-low volume spraying, and, when the outbreak is severe, aerial
spraying. Training will be provided for farm and county level personnel in safe handling and
use of pesticides. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that (a) all agrochemicals used
under the project would be selectedfrom a list acceptable to IDA; and (b) the storage, handling,
distribution, and use of such agrochemicals would be consistent with guidelines satisfactory to
IDA. Fourth, a rigorous quarantine system exists for both inter-province transfer of seeds and
seedlings and the importation of planting materials from abroad.
2.51      Compliance with the EMP guidelines will be monitored by project management
office staff, who regularly visit the field sites as part of the comprehensive inspection system
supported under the project (see paras. 4.26-4.27). As with NAP, compliance with the agreed
guidelines would be a pre-requirement for IDA reimbursement of afforestation establishment
cczts.
2.52      Environmental management will be supported by a comprehensive program of
training and research. MFO has prepared and discussed with IDA a satisfactory training
program for staff at the central, provincial, county and afforestation entity levels in the areas of
environmental management and monitoring, soil and water conservation, fire control, and
handling and use of pesticides. Similarly, the project supports a network of monitoring plots
that are designed to gather data on soil and water run-off, fertilizer leaching, soil fertility, pest
and disease incidence, and other environmental variables. hI plantation areas, the project will
continue to support the 97 monitoring plots established under NAP as well as establish an
additional four plots in new project areas. In protection forest areas, three sample watersheds
will be monitored. An assurance was obtained at negotiations. that MFO would furnish to IDA
for review by May 31, 1997 a report of the environmental monitoring program.
E. CoMpLIANcE wrIH BANK FoRESTRY PoLIcIES
2.53      The proposed project is consistent with the new operational policies regarding Bank
Group involvement in the forestry sector. The project objectives fit into the overall Bank



- 28 -
sectoral objectives to reduce deforestation, enhance the environmental contribution of forests,
promote afforestation, and encourage economic development. Similarly, the project follows the
recommended sectorwide approach to forestry issues, as it addresses investment requirements
in several sub-sectors and reviews general policy and institutional constraints. Finally, the
policy framework in China satisfies the required conditions for government commitment for
sustainable management and conservation-oriented forestry. In particular, the policy framework
delineates (a) sound management practces for existing forests; (b) the roles and rights of the
government, private sector, and local people in resource use and management; and (c) protection
of forest areas with high biodiversity and environmental services values. The areas of weakness
in the regulatory framework, such as restrictions on pricing and international trade, will be
addressed in studies under the project (see para. 2.44). The areas of weakness in enforcement,
such as over-cutting of natural forests, will be addressed in pilot activities developed under the
proposed GEF project (see paras. 2.22-2.23).
F. STATUS OF PREPARATION
2.54      The Government has prepared an extremely comprehensive feasibility study that
identifies the objectives, targets, implementation arrangements, organizational strcture, and
financing requirements for the project, excluding the nature reserve management component
which is discussed below. A list of selected project documents is given in Annex F. All
afforestation sites for the plantation and protection forest components have been identified in the
project provinces. Detailed technical plans have been prepared for about 65 percent of the total
project area. The remaining technical plans would be completed durig the fist year of the
project. Most project nurseries have been established and are producing seedlings for the first
year planting program. Similarly, the participating provincial governments have identified and
secured the total local counterpart fumding requirement for the project. The Ministry of Finance
and MFO will jointly hold a workshop on technical and financial management of the project for
provincial staff prior to credit effectiveness. Finally, most of the project implementation
structure is already in place, since the project draws heavily on the existing leading groups and
project management offices established under NAP. However, a few new leading groups and
project management offices would need to be established in the counties and provinces that are
new to the project.
2.55      A separate feasibility study, financed under the GEF Pre-Investment Facility, has
been prepared for the nature reserves management component. It provides a detailed description
of the objectives, components, implementation arrangements, and environmental benefits of the
proposed GEF project. Appraisal of the GEF project would take place following the GEF
Executive Council's approval of the project's inclusion in the GEF work program.
Consideration of the first tranche of GEF operational phase projects is now expected in
December 1994. Negotiations would quickly follow thereafter, in view of the comprehensive
preparation work already completed.



- 29 -
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. PRoJECr Com
3.1       The total project costs are estimated at $356.0 million, including a foreign exchange
component of $58.0 million or about 16.3 percent of total project costs. Afforestation cost
estimates are based on quantities derived from the agreed species models and average unit prices
currently prevailing in project areas. A detailed breakdown of establishment costs per hectare
for each tree species is given in Annex Cl. Price contingencies of $26.1 million are included.
Price contingencies for costs expressed in yuan are based on annual domestic escalation rates
of 9 percent for 1995, 8 percent for 1996, 7.2 percent for 1997, 6.5 percent for 1998-99, and
6 percent for 2000. Price contingencies for costs expressed in US dollars are based on annual
international escalation rates of 2.9 percent for 1995, 3 percent for 1996, 2.7 percent for 19, 7-
98, and 2.5 percent for 1999-2000. Physical contingencies of $33.6 are included, based on an
average rate of 10 percent for goods and services. Taxes and duties are not included in costs.
Project costs are summarized in Table 3.1 and the detailed costs are given in Annexes C2 and
C3.
Table 3.1: PROJEr CoSTs
Local Foreign   Total    Local Foreign   Total    %    %
-        (Y million) -  -         ($ million) -  Base Forex
Plantations              1,459.9  278.9 1,738.8     167.8  32.1  199.9  67.5 16.0
Protection Forests        289.5   35.7  325.2       33.3   4.1   37.4  12.6 11.0
Nature Reserves Management   70.4   26.2   96.6      12.3   4.6   16.9   5.7 27.4
Planting Stock Development   245.8   56.2  302.0    28.3   6.5   34.8  11.7 18.6
Research and Extension     30.8    1.0   31.8        3.5   0.1    3.6   1.2  3.2
Capacity Building          10.4   21.6   32.0        1.2   2.5    3.7   1.2 67.5
Total Base Cost          2.106.8  419.6 2.526.4    246.4  49.9  296.3  100.0 16.8
Physical condngency       245.6   47.4  293.0       28.2   5.4   33.6  11.4 16.0
Price contingency         495.1   65.4  560.5       23.4   2.7   26.1   8.8 10.3
Total Project Cost       2.847.5  532.4 3.380.9    298.0  58.0  356.0  120.2 16.3



- 30 -
B. FINANCING
3.2       The financing plan is summarized in Table 3.2. The proposed IDA credit of SDR
141. 7 million ($200 million equivalent) would cover 56 percent of total project costs, including
91 percent of foreign exchange costs and 49 percent of local costs. A GET grant of $18.4
million will be requested under the first tranche of GEF operational phase projects, to finance
the nature reserves component. It would cover 5 percent of total project costs, including 9
percenit of foreign exchange costs and 4 percent of local costs. Counterpart funding would cover
the balance of project costs. The structure of counterpart funding would vary from province to
province. A typical financing package, excluding the nature reserves component, follows:
IDA                                                  60%
Provincial Govermment and Provincial Forestry Department  13%
Prefecture/Municipality Government                    2%
Cou. ty Government and County Forestry Bureau        10%
Beneficiaries                                        1S%
Total                                          100%
In cases where no prefecture or municipality government would be involved, the provincial and
county governments' financing shares would be higher.
Table 3.2 PROJECr FINANCING
Local Foreign   Total
-        ($ million) -
IDA                                                147.0  53.0  200.0
Proposed GET Grant                                  13.4   5.0   18.4
Provincial Govermnent                              43.3   0.0   43.3
Prefecture and Municipal Governments                6.7   0.0    6.7
County Govermnent                                  33.3   0.0   33.3
GET Local Counterpart Funds                         4.3   0.0    4.3
Beneficiaries                                      50.0   0.0   50.0
Total Financing                                   298.0  58.0  356.0
3.3       The financing from provincial and county governments would come from budgetary
revenues; their contributions would typically account for less than one percent of their total
annual budgetary allocations. Afforestation entities, county forestry bureaus, and provincial
forestry departments would obtain part of their counterpart contributions from accumulated



- 31 -
proceeds of their reforestation and reinvestment funds. These have been generated by special
fees paid by farmers and state forest farms on timber sales that are designated for future forestry
development purposes. Combined, these fees represent a total of 18 percent of gross sales
revenues. A portion of the fees are paid into special accounts held by provincial and county
governments, which will use these funds as part of their counterpart contribution in the project.
The remaining share of these fees is retained in a type of escrow account in the name of the
paying afforestation entity, which will use these funds as part of its counterpart contribution in
the project. The balance of the beneficiaries' contribution will be in the form of cash or labor.
C. PROCUREMENT
3.4       The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3 and reviewed in detail
in Annex C4. Civil works worth $272.3 million would be required in the project, which amount
to 76 percent of total project costs and comprise labor costs ($220.2 million), seedlings ($35.7
million), survey and design work ($5.0 million), and shed construction ($11.4 million) for
afforestation establishment. These works are small, widely scattered, and scheduled according
to the time of year and availability of seedlings. This work, which would not be suitable for
competitive contract bidding, will be carried out by casual labor paid on a piece-work basis and
managed and supervised by the staff of the afforestation entity. Each forest farm will recruit
workers individually from the local area and pay them according to prevailing local wage rates.
Most farms have already done this for several years and there are established local labor markets
for this seasonal work. A few of the larger farms may also carry out some of the work on force
account. IDA reviewed these labor procedures at appraisal and found them acceptable.
3.5       Goods worth $44.9 million would be required for the project, comprising seeds
($0.6 million), fertilizer ($29.0 million), pesticides ($1.7 million), vehicles ($10.9 million), and
office and nursery equipment ($2.7 million). ICB procurement procedures would apply to
fertilizers (except calcium magnesium phosphate and calcium super phosphate), pesticides,
vehicles (except tractors), photocopying machines, and computers and software, for a total of
$37.4 million or 83 percent of all goods. A margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the
c.i.f. price of imported goods or the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less,
will be allowed to domestic manufacturrs bidding under ICB procedures. Contracts would be
grouped into packages of US$250,000 or more. LCB procurement procedures acceptable to
IDA would apply to calcium magnesium phosphate fertilizer, calcium super phosphate fertilizer,
tractors, and irrigation sprinklers, for a total amount of $3.9 million. Previous project
experience has shown that these items are available locally at prices significantly below those
of the international market. Foreign bidders would therefore not be interested in bidding for
them, although they would be allowed to participate in the bidding process if desired. Shopping
procurement procedures would apply to office equipment (except photocopying machines) and
miscellaneous nursery materials and equipment (except irrigation spriniders), under contracts not
exceeding $75,000 and $1.1 million in aggregate, since small quantities of diverse equipment
are required. Contracts would be awarded on the basis of comparisons of price quotations
solicited from at least three qualified suppliers, as described in Bank guidelines. Direct
procurement procedures would apply to seeds, since their genetic suitability is the only criterion



- 32 -
for choice, for a total amount of $0.6 million. Organic manure and fertilizer distribution costs
would be locally funded, for a total amount of $1.9 million.
3.6        Services worth $16.1 million would be required for the project, comprising training
and technical assistance ($2.7 million), research services ($1.5 million), and indirect costs
related to extension, information management, and supervision services ($11.9 million).
Consultants would be employed in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants. Local training, overseas training, study tours, research services, and indirect
operating services would be procured by procedures acceptable to IDA.
Table 3.3: PRocuREmENT PROF1LE
($ million)'
Procurement Method
ICB      LCB      Other2     NBFI      Total
Afforestation Establishment                                 272.3               272.3
(149.8)             (149.8)
Seeds                                                         0.6                 0.6
(0.6)               (0.6)
Fertilizer                              24.8        2.3                 1.9      29.0
(24.8)     (2.3)               (0.0)    (27.1)
Pesticides                                1.7                                     1.7
(1.7)                                   (1.7)
Vehicles                                 9.7        1.2                          10.9
(9.7)     (1.2)                        (10.9)
Office and Nursery Equipment              1.2       0.4       1.1                 2.7
(1.2)     (0.4)     (1.1)               (2.7)
Indirect Costs4                                               8.5       3.4      11.9
(4.7)     (0.0)     (4.7)
Research Services                                             0.5       1.0       1.5
(0.5)     (0.0)     (0.5)
Training and Technical Assistance                             2.0       0.7       2.7
(2.0)     (0.0)     (2.0)
Proposed GEF Project5                                                  22.7      22.7
(0.0)     (0.0)
Total                                   37.4        3.9     285.1      29.7     356.0
(37.4)     (3.9)   (158.7)     (0.0)   (200.0)
' Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by the IDA credit, including contingencies.
2 Other procurement methods include direct recruitment of labor, force account, local and international
shopping, and direct purchase.
3 NBF: Not Bank-financed.
4 Includes costs related to extension, supervision, and information management.
S Procurement under the GET grant would be in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Detailed
procurement arrangements will be reviewed and agreed during the appraisal of the GEF project.



- 33 -
3.7       IDA Review. All contracts for goods would be grouped into bid packages whenever
possible to attract competition and permit bulk purchasing. Standard bidding documents
approved by IDA would be used. All contracts for goods in excess of $250,000 would be
subject to prior review by IDA, which would cover about 50 percent of the total goods by value.
All contracts for consultants' services in excess of $100,000 for engagement of firms and
$50,000 for engagement of individuals would be subject to prior review by IDA, which would
cover about 25 percent of the total consultants' services by value. Other contracts for goods and
services, including all research services, would be subject to ex-post review by IDA supervision
missions. Further details on the tining of procurement activities are given in Chart 1. ICB
procurement will be handled by a central procurement section in the project management office
in MFO, which will engage the China National Machinery Import and Export Corporation as
its procurement agent.
D. DISBuRSEMENT
3.8       Funds from the credit would be disbursed on the following basis:
(a)  Goods (fertilizers, imported seeds, pesticides, vehicles, office equipment,
nursery equipment, tools and spare parts) ($43.0 million): 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 75% of local
expenaitures for other items procured locally;
(b)  Afforestation Establishment (labor, seedlings, indirect costs, guard/storage
sheds) ($154.5 million): 55%;
(c) Consultants' Services, Training, and Study Tours ($2.0 million): 100%; and
(d)  Research Services ($0.5 million): 100%.
Disbursements for afforestation establishment costs would cover: (a) all labor requirements for
site preparation, conservation works, planting, and tending; (b) seedlings; (c) guard/storage
sheds; and (d) indirect costs related to survey and design, extension, information management,
environmental management, and supervision. All of the indirect costs, except survey and
design, support the initial training and supervision requirements related to the transfer of new
technologies and management systems in the early years of the project. Disbursements for
afforestation establishment would be made against an agreed schedule of unit costs per hectare
for each species. The schedule for the first year of the project, excluding guard/storage sheds,
is given in Annex C5; thereafter it would be revised yearly on the basis of actual cost experience
recorded in audited statements of expenditure and monitored by supervision missions.
Disbursements for afforestation establishment woisld be made after county project management
offices have inspected afforestation sites and certified that all work complied with the technical
and environmental guidelines agreed with IDA  (see para. 4.27).  Disbursements for
guard/storage sheds would be based on the agreed unit cost of yuan 360 per square meter in the
first year and modified as necessary thereF er.



- 34 -
3.9       Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) for
expenditures relating to (a) afforestation establishment, (b) training and study tours, (c) contracts
for goods not exceeding $250,000 equivalent, and (d) contract for research services and
individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent and for consultants' services with firms
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent. The supporting dij2uments for SOEs would be retained by
the provincial project management offices and the central project management office in MFO
could retrieve them as required for IDA supervision missions. In the case of contracts for goods
and services above these thresholds, disbursements would be made against the full documentation
with the contracts themselves and other supporting documents.
3.10      In order to disburse the credit proceeds efficiently, a special account would be
opened by the Ministry of Finance in US dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA with an initial
deposit of $13 million, equivalent to the credit's financing of average expenditures for four
months during the first three years of the project. Applications for replenishment of .his account
will be submieited monthly, or whenever the account is drawn down by 50 percent, whichever
comes first. Retroactive financing of up to $11 million would be provided against expenditures
made between September 1, 1993 and the date of signing of the Development Credit Agreement,
for survey and design work, seeds, seedlings, fertilizer, and site preparation for the first year
of planting.
3.11      The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000 and the closing date
would be December 31, 2001. The estimated schedule of disbursement is given in Annex C6.
Over 80 percent of all disbursements will be made during the first four years, while the
plantations and forests are being established; relatively small amounts will be disbursed for
tending activities, research and technical assistance during the final two years. The project
disbursement schedule is consistent with the general disbursement profile for forestry investment
loans in China.



- 35 -
4. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. OVERALL PRoJECr MANAGEMENT
4.1       The project would be implemented by MFO, the 17 provincial forestry departments,
258 county forestry bureaus, and 5 nature reserves. Most of the project management structure
is already operational, as it draws h eavily on ihe existing NAP structure for plantation
managemenit, the existing YRPFP structure for protection forest management, and the existing
Department of Forest Protection structure for nature reserve management. As with most
projects in China, leading groups would be responsible for policy and strategic management
issues at each level, and project management offices would be responsible for detailed planning,
management, and supervision of project activities. Detailed implementation arrangements at the
national, provincial, and county levels are reviewed below and summarinzed in Chart 2.
4.2       National Level. The national leading group is chaired by the Minister of Forestry
and consists of two vice-ministers, the director of the central Project Management Center
(PMC), and the directors of relevant departments from MFO; the directors of CAF, Academy
of Forest Inventory and Planning, and the China General Management Tree Seed and Planting
Stock Administration. This group sets the principles and policies for the afforestation program,
approves the project's overall implementation plan, and coordinates inter-ministerial discussions
with the State Planning Commission, Ministry of Finance (MOF), and State Audit
Administration.
4.3       The central PMC in MFO has overall responsibility for project design, execution
and monitoring. The PMC, which currently manages NAP, is headed by a director who reports
directly to the minister and comprises 25 staff in the areas of silviculture, environmental
management, economics, procurement, accounting and finance, and information management
Although the PMC was set up under NAP as a separate department within MFO, it has worked
closely and liaised effectively with the other related technical departments. The PMC establishes
technical standards for the project, approves provincial work and financing plans, supervises
provincial compliance with project inspection and reporting requirements, manages project
accounting and information systems, trains provincial level staff, and monitors project
performance. In addition, the PMC is responsible for managing a variety of centralized
administrative services, including international procurement, selection of consultants,
arrangements for overseas training and study tours, execution of policy studies, review of IDA
credit proceeds withdrawal applications, and general liaison with IDA.
4.4       Provincial Level. The provincial leading groups are chaired by the vice-governor
responsible for forestry and consist of representatives from the forestry, finance, planning, and
audit departments. They detemine provincial policies, approve the provincial work plans, and



- 36 -
mobilize provincial counterpart funds. The provincial project management offices (PMOs)
would all be located in forestry departments; they would simply subsume the existing NAP
offices in the fourteen provinces that participated in the earlier project and would be established
in the three new provinces (Heilongjiang, Shanxi, and Shaanxi). They would be responsible for
the following activities: approving the design of all afforestation plans; supervising
implementation of all work; ensuring timely commitment and provision of counterpart funds;
adapting the national environmental protection guidelines to specific provincial conditions; and
conducting project-related staff training programs.
4.5       MOF and MFG would jointly prepare Project Implementation Rules (PIR)
delineating the respective roles of the finance and forestry agencies at the national and provincial
levels in the technical and financial management of the project. The PIR would specify the
standards and conditions under which the provinces agree to carry out the project. MOF and
MFO would jointly issue the PIR to the project provinces, along with the specific terms and
conditions for on-lending the proceeds of the IDA credit, under cover of a document that would
also include an acceptance letter to be signed by each province. The acceptance letter would be
specific for each province and would include the amount on-lent, the project components, and
an agreement to abide by the PIR in project implementation and to abide by the on-lending terms
set out in the Development Credit Agreement.
4.6       CountW Level. The county leading groups are chaired by the mayor and consist of
representatives from the forestry, finance, planning, and audit bureaus. They determine county
policies, approve individual site plans, ana mobilize county counterpart funds. County PMOs
play a key role in the project management structure, as they work directly with afforestation
entities to design afforestation schemes, supervise and inspect all work, ensure adherence with
the agreed technical and environmental standards of the project, and initiate disbursement of
project funds. All PMOs would be established in the forestry bureaus. In counties with
plantation activities, PMOs either would subsume existng NAP offices, if the counties
participated in the previous project, or would be newly created. In counties with protection
forest activities, PMOs would be located in the existing county offices of YRPFP, which have
successflully coordinated the inputs of the three different bureaus involved in the design, funding,
and implementation of protection forest activities (forestry, agriculture, and water resources).
In counties with nature reserve management activities, the PMOs would be located at the nature
reserves.
4.7       The provincial governments will sign a project implementation agreement with the
county authorities, who would in turn sign a comparable document with the township authorities
or afforestation entities, identifying the respective responsibilities in project implementation.
4.8       An assurance was obtained at negotiations that all PMOs at the national, provincial,
and county levels would be established and maintained in forestry agencies, with staffing,
functions, and responsibilities acceptable to IDA. In addition, issuance of PIR acceptable to
IDA, and provision of written acceptances of the PIR and on-lending terms and conditions from
aU the project provinces (except Shaanxi, which is only partcipating in GEFfinanced activities)
would be a condition of effectiveness.



- 37 -
B. MANAGEMENT OF TECHNICAL ACrffwES
4.9       Seedling Production. A new Seedling Production Coordination Group (SPCG) will
be established at the national and provincial levels to supervise production and distribution of
planting materials in the project. The national SPCG will comprise technical experts from the
China General Management Tree Seed and Planting Stock Administration, CAF, the Academy
of Forest Inventory and Planning, the Afforestation Department of MFO, and the PMC. It will
develop seedling criteria and nursery management guidelines, prepare an annual plan for seedling
production, monitor compliance with technical standards, coordinate nursery research issues, and
prepare training programs. The provincial SPCG will comprise staff from the corresponding
lower levels of government. It will supervise the production and distribution of planting
materials in each project nursery, implement research trials, and conduct training programs.
IDA reviewed the staffmg and terms of reference for the SPCG at appraisal and found them
acceptable.
4.10      Research and Extension.  The research and extension component would be
implemented through the organizational structure successfully developed under NAP, as follows.
First, Research and Extension Support Panels (RESPs) would continue to operate at the natic .al,
provincial, and county levels, under the supervision of the project management offices. The
RESPs are responsible for identifying research and extension priorities, supervising
implementation, providing technical advice as required, and determining training requirements
and programs. Scientists from CAF will serve on the national RESP and scientists from
provincial research institutes on provincial RESPs, primarily in the areas of improved planting
materials, silvicultural technology, forest pests and diseases, soil and water conservation, and
information management. New RESPs would be established in the provinces and counties that
did not participate in NAP. Second, the actual research work would continue to be managed
by eleven Central Research Groups (CRGs) organized under the national RESP. Eacb CRG
compnses around a dozen experts from CAF, provincial forestry research institutes, and forestry
universities. Each CRG is located in a central place, such as a provincial forestry research
institute, with good access to field research sites and adequate scientific facilities. The CRGs
are responsible for designing and implementng research trials and identifying domestic and
foreign specialists as required. Third, the actual extension work would be managed by extension
agents in the PMOs at each level. IDA reviewed the staffing and terms of reference for the
RESPs and CRGs at appraisal and found them acceptable.
4.11      Nature Reserve Management. The Division of Nature Reserves (DNR) in the
Department of Forest Protection in MFO will be responsible for technical management of the
nature reserve component at the national level. DNR currently has only four full-time staff
persons and, consequently, the project will strengthen DNR management capacity through
provision of four additional staff positions and one resident advisor. The provincial PMOs will
be responsible for technical management at the local level for the first two years of the project.
Thereafter, management responsibilities would be devolved to the nature reserves themselves,
with the exception that tie Shaanxi PMO would continue to manage project activities since four
different sub-reserves are involved.



- 38 -
4.12      Environmental Management.  The Environmental Protection Groups (EPGs)
established at the national and provincial levels under NAP would continue to be responsible for
environmental management issues in the project. EPGs would be created in the new provinces.
The national EPG comprises representatives from the PMC, Forest Protection Department and
Environmental Protection Office in MFO, CAF, and the Academy of Forest Inventoty and
Planning.  It has overall responsibility for developing and refining the environmental
management plan (EMP), monitoring adherence to the EMP guidelines, and preparing training
programs. The provincial EPGs are responsible for adapting the national guidelines to local
conditions, supervising implementation of the guidelines by afforestation entities, and developing
monitoring plots. IDA reviewed the staffmg and terms of reference for the EPGs at appraisal
and found them acceptable.
C. AFFORESTATION ENTrTEs
4.13      The main afforestation entities in the project are collective forest farms, share-
holding forest farms, state forest farms, and individual households. In line with the Bank Group
Country Assistance Strategy, the selection of afforestation entities has emphasized non-state
production units, particularly those organized on a share-holding basis. In fact, the share of
state production in Bank-fnanced forestry projects has declined dramatically over the past
decade, from 100 percent in the Forestry Development Project to 25 percent in NAP to less than
10 percent in this project. Less than 25 percent of the counties and none of the afforestation
entites that participated in NAP would be involved in this project, in order to promote
maximum transfer of new silvicultural technologies in China.
4.14      Collective Forest Farms (CFFs) will account for 448,200 hectares of afforestation
in the project, 50 percent of the total planting area. This land is collectively owned by the
community, which assign land use rights to a forest farm enterprise that invests in afforestation
on behalf of the community. There are two ownership/management structures. Typically, the
CFF will sign a long-term "labor contract" with individual farmers to establish and manage a
specific piece of forest land. Under this arrangement, the CFF will pay the household for its
labor and provide aU the inputs, but will retain all the equity in the investment and,
consequently, all revenues from thinning and harvesting. However, in cases where the CFF is
short of suitable land for afforestation, it may acquire additional land from individuals in
exchange for a share of the revenues from thiDnning and harvesting. Under this "share-holding
contract," the CFF pays labor, provides inputs, and provides a small return to the farmer for
the land investment. Under both arrangements, the CFF is responsible for all management
decisions and the use and repayment of all project funds.
4.15      Share-Holding Forest Farms (SHEs) will account for 323,100 hectares of
afforestation, 36 percent of the total planting area. There are two ownership/management
structures in this new, innovative land-use arrangement. First, as noted above, individual
households will assign land to a CFF or a state forest farm. However, there are three important
differences in this case: (a) the parties form a new legal entity, a share-holding company, that
is liable for the use and repayment of project funds; (b) the farmers typically provide their labor
as an unpaid, equity contribution to the project; and (c) the parties are jointly responsible for



- 39-
management. The farmers receive a much larger share of the revenues in this case, as a result
of their contribution of labor and assumption of repayment risk. Second, in a few cases,
individual households with surplus labor, land, and capital will pool their resources and form
a share-holding company for afforestation. They are responsible for all technical and financial
management in the project.
4.16      State Forest Farms (SFFs) will account for 81,900 hectares of afforestation, 9
percent of the total planting area. There are two different arrangements. If the SFF has not
fully developed all existing forest land, it will use the project funds to expand afforestation on
its own land. However, if all forest land has been developed, the SFF will acquire additional
land from individual households or CFFs in exchange for a share of the revenues from thinning
and harvesting. Under this "share-holding contract, " the SFF pays labor, provides inputs, and
provides a small return for the land investment.
4.17      Individual Households will account for 46,800 hectares of afforestation, 5 percent
of the total planting area. They are completely responsible for the provision of inputs, technical
management, and the use and repayment of project funds.
D. FiNANCIAL MANAGEMENT
4.18      IDA Credit. The proposed IDA credit would be on-lent from MOF to the provincial
fmance departments as follows. The portion of the credit for plantation establishment and
related activities would be on-lent with a 4.5 percent interest rate, eight-year grace period on
principal repayments, and twenty-year maturity period. The portion of the credit for protection
forest establishment and related activities would be on-lent with a 2.5 percent interest rate, ten-
year grace period on principal repayments, and twenty-five year maturity period. This leads to
a weighted average interest rate of 4.2 percent for the whole credit. The loan would be
denominated in Special Drawing Rights (SDR) and payable in U.S. dollars, and the provincial
governments would assume all foreign exchange risk between the SDR and renminbi during the
period of their debt service. An assurance was obtained at negotiations with respect to these
on-lending terms and conditions to the provinces. The PMC in MFO would manage the portion
of the IDA credit used for international procurement, consultancy services, overseas training and
study tours, research operating costs, and policy studies, although the provinces would assume
the debt service responsibility for these activities. The general on-lending conditions would be
spelled out in the document transmitting the Project Implementation Rules to the participating
provinces (see para. 4.5); detailed on-lending arrangements would be contained in separate on-
lending agreements signed between MOF and the participating provinces.
4.19      The provincial finance departments would on-lend the IDA credit to the county
finance bureaus (or, in some cases, to prefecture/municipality finance bureaus) on the same
terms and conditions as received from MOF. However, an additional interest rate spread not
to exceed 2.0 percent may be added to any part of the IDA credit that is on-lent in local
currency, since it will be necessary for the provincial government to build up a reserve for the
foreign exchange risk. The proportion of the credit on-lent in local currency will vary
significantly across the provinces, in line with the different foreign exchange risk capacities at



- 40 -
the provincial, prefecture/municipal, county and afforestation entity levels. However, very little
of the foreign exchange risk would be passed on to the final project beneficiaries, who earn all
their income in local currency and have no capacity to hedge against exchange rate movement.
This intermediate on-lending would be governed by on-lending agreements signed by the finance
agencies at both levels.
4.20      The county finance bureau (or prefecture/municipality finance bureau) would on-lend
the IDA credit to the afforestation entities on the same terms and conditions as received from
the provincial government. Again, an additional interest rate spread not to exceed 2.0 percent
may be added for any funds received in foreign exchange but on-lent in local currency. This
final on-lending would be governed by on-lending agreements signed by the finance agencies at
the county level and the afforestation entity. The final on-lending rate to project farmers would
not exceed 6.5 percent for plantation activities and 4.5 percent for protection forest activities.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations with respect to these on-lending interest rates, grace
periods, and matuity periods for the final project beneficiaries.
4.21      Counterpart Funds.  The provincial governments would be responsible for
identifying and raising local counterpart funds. All counterpart funds provided by ihe provincial
and county governments would be in the form of loans. The final on-lending terms to
afforestation entities would be as follows: the grace period and maturity period would be the
same as the IDA credit and the interest rate would not exceed the corresponding rates for IDA
funds on-lent in local currency. These funds would be on-lent to the afforestation entities on
terms and conditions set out in the PIR.
4.22      Project Accounts. The Bank of China (BOC) and its branches will serve as the
project's channel for disbursing and collecting all project loan funds. Each provincial and
county finance office will open a project account at the local BOC branch, which will maintain
sub-accounts for the different loan sources (IDA credit, provincial government loans, county
forestry bureau loans, etc.). BOC will assume no risk under the project and will not charge any
special fees related to disbursement and collection.
4.23      Reimbursement Procedures. Both finance and forestry staff at every level would
be involved in reviewing the reimbursement applications from afforestation entities for work
financed under the IDA credit and counterpart funds, in order to ensure sound financial and
technical management of project activities.   The procedures would be as follows.
Reimbursement documentation would be prepared by the county PMO, with the countersignatre
of the county finance bureau, and sent to the provincial PMO; the documentation would be
reviewed and approved by the provincial PMO, with the countersignature of the provincial
finance department, and sent simultaneously to MOF and MFO; MFO would have a seven-day
timer period to review the application and raise an objection if the application is not consistent
with the technical guidelines of the project; if MOF does not hear back from MFO within the
time period, it would automatically process the application; if MFO raises an objection within
the time period, MOF would not process the application until the MFO objection is resolved.
In order to expedite these procedures, many provincial and county governments have agreed to
appoint finance staff as deputy directors of the PMOs.



- 41 -
4.24      Accounts and Audit. The afforestation entities, the county and provincial PMOs,
the World Bank Department in MOF, and the relevant branches of BOC would each maintain
separate accounts for project funds. The provincial audited accounts would be submitted to the
World Bank Department in MOF, with copies to the PMC, within four months of the end of the
financial year. MOF would submit to IDA within six months of the end of the financial year
a consolidated audit report by the State Audit Administration (or another independent auditor
acceptable to IDA) containing a summary of the findings of the provincial audit reports and a
report on the accounts maintained by MOF. The audited accounts would include details of
withdrawals from the Credit Account made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure, and the
auditor's opinion about whether these withdrawals were against expenditures eligible for
reimbursement by IDA. The following assurances were obtained at negotiations: (a) the
Borrower would maintain consolidated accounts for all components for annual auditing by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and (b) the consolidated project accounts together with
the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each financial
year.
4.25      Recover of Project Investments. The afforestation entities would be responsible
for full repayment of the IDA credit and local counterpart loans. They will repay the debt,
according to the terms and conditions set out in the provincial acceptance letters of the PIR, to
the county finance bureaus, which will repay up the line to MOF. All the beneficiaries have
non-project sources of income to cover debt service requirements, since they will be liable for
full recovery of project loans in most cases prior to final harvest. In addition to these direct
finance charges, the afforestation entities have to pay the reforestation and reinvestment fees
described in para. 3.3, and a variety of product taxes a' ounting to 18 percent of gross sales
revenues.
E. MONIoRING, EVALtTATioN AND REPORTING
4.26      The national, provincial, and county PMOs would monitor the project's progress
and evaluate the overall impact of the project and the economic and financial benefits of each
component. Project monitoring would be based on the existing information system in MFO,
which performed well under NAP. The primary objectives are: (a) measure the growth and
quality of the stands over the rotation period, in order to determine if any adjustments to the
silvicultural prescriptions are required; (b) measure environmental parameters such as soil and
water run-off, in order to assess environmental impacts and mitigate any adverse impacts; (c)
review capital and recurrent operating costs, in order to optimze cost-benefit relationships and
ensure adequate returns to project beneficiaries; and (d) monitor changing market prices and
conditions, in order to determine the optimal harvesting tme and product size.
4.27      Project data would be collected through several different inspection visits of planting
areas. Sites would be inspected at the time of planting and again six months later to gather
information on mortality, plant health and height, and environmental management. A third
inspecdon would follow in the second to fourth year, after weeding is finished and the canopy
has closed. Later inspections would be necessary prior to each thinning to ensure that the post-
thinning stocking density and basal area will optimize the future development of the stand. A



- 42 -
final inspection would be carried out three to five years before harvesting to confirm that the
stand is meeting the production targets and changing market conditions. Inspections will also
be carried out in the nurseries to ensure satisfactory seedling quality and nursery management.
4.28      The inspection program would be carried out by county PMO staff, who would
record and transmit the information to the provincial PMCs. Provincial offices would be
equipped with small computers to enable them to collect and summarize the data for transmission
to the central PMC. The PMC would have ultimate responsibility for monitoring and analyzmg
the physical and financial progress of the project and for recommending any adjustments to the
design of the project during implementation. MFO will prepare and furnish to IDA semi-annual
progress reports in March and September of each year. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that MFO and the provinces would undertake with IDA a midterm review of the
progress of and prospects for implementation by September 30, 1997. The project completion
report containing the fmal assessment of the project would be submitted to IDA no later than six
months following the closing date. A list of key monitoring indicators, a table for monitoring
afforestation establishment costs, and a plan for IDA supervision are given in Annexes DI, D2,
and D3.



- 43 -
5. PRODUCTION,                 TS AND PRICES
A. PRODUCrION
5.1       The yield levels for species grown in the plantation component are summarized
below and presented in detail in Annex El. Species that are grown for constuction timber
(Chinese fir and slash pine) will typically be thinned twice, around years 10 and 14, prior to
final harvest; poplar and Schima superba, however, are not thinned since the former is planted
initially with wide spacing and the latter serves as firebreaks. The wood extracted during
thinnings tends to be small in size and used primarily for building poles and fuelwood. The
volume produced ranges from 3.5 m3/hectare for slash pine to 8.9 m3/hectare for Chinese fir
durng the first thinning, and about 20 m3/hectare for all species during the second thinning.
The total production volume at the time of final harvest varies greatly by species, site quality,
and management program. For example, Chinese fir grox n for small-diameter timber on low
quality sites in 20-year rotations will produce 143.1 m3/hectare, while the same species grown
for large-diameter timber on high quality sites in 30-year rotations wil produce 379.8
m3/hectare. About 90 percent of the final harvest constitutes standard timber, vith the balance
consisting of bark, branches, and unusable wood that is consumed as fuelwood. The total timber
yield is further disaggregated into large dimension logs (above 20 cm in diameter), medium
dimension logs (around 12-20 cm in diameter), small dimension logs (around 8-12 cm), and cull
timber (below 8 cm in diameter).
5.2       Species that are grown for pit props (masson pine, slash pine, loblolly pine, and
larch) wiUl also be thinned twice, around years 10 and 14, prior to final harvest around year 20.
The production volumes average 4 m3/hectare during the first thinning and 10 m3/hectare during
the second thinning. Again, the total production amounts at final harvest wiUl vary widely,
ranging from 131.3 m3/hectare for larch to 183.0 m3/hectare for loblolly pine. Black locust,
however, is grown in shorter rotations and is therefore only thiimed once; it produces 64.0
m3/hectare at final harvest. Species that are grown for pulpwood (masson pine, slash pine, and
larch) wiUl generally be thinned once, in year 10, with an average volume of 4 m3/hectare.
Again, the total production amounts at final harvest in year 18 will vary widely, ranging from
99.5 m3/hectare for larch to 141.6 m3/hectare for slash pine. Eucalypt and poplar, however, are
grown in shorter rotations and are therefore not thinned; the former produces 77 m3/hectare in
a 7-year rotation and the latter 93.7 in3/hectare in a 10-year rotation. Bamboo grown for
pulpwood will annually produce 4.2 tons/hectare in years 7-10, 5.7 tons/hectare in years 11-14,
and 8.5 tons/hectare in years 15-20.
5.3       As reviewed in pam. 2.17, protection forests will be managed to optimize
environmental benefits not production quantities. Nonetheless, they will produce a significant
volume of wood products, as summarized below and presented in detail in Annex El. Species



- 44 -
that are grown for timber (masson pine, Chinese fir, sawtooth oak, cypress, and alder) will be
thinned twice, in years 13 and 19, which will primarily produce building poles and fuelwood.
A portion of the growing stock will be harvested in year 25 and every five years thereafter to
promote regeneration of the forest, which will produce small but marketable surpluses of timber.
For example, during the first regeneration cutting in year 25, total production will range from
20.5 m3/hectare for sawtooth oak to 41.8 m3/hectare for Chinese fir. The other species will
produce a variety of forest products: Chinese chestnut is expected to produce an annual yield per
hectare of 0.6 tons in years 4-9, 2.5 tons in years 10-20, and 2.0 tons in years 21-25; Pear is
expected to produce an annual yield per hectare of 4 tons in years 3-6, 12 tons in years 7-17,
and 8 tons in years 18-25; Eucommia will produce 67 kg/hectare of bark during the first peeling
in year 8, 160 kg/hectare during the second peeling in year 16, and 373 kg/hectare during the
final peeling in year 20; and Chinese sumac will produce an annual yield per hectare of 90 kg
of gallnut (a raw material in acid for the tanning industry) in years 5-7, 165 kg in years 8-17,
and 135 kg in years 18-25. The hill closure treatment program will not produce any marketable
surpluses of timber, although a small amount of fuelwood will be produced.
5.4       In order to estimate total project production, the amount of wood of each size class
from both final harvest and thinnings as well as the total production of miscellaneous forest
products has been estimated for each species. Over a 33-year period, the project would produce
about 114 million m3 of timber, 10.8 million tons of fuelwood, 5.2 million tons of bamboo
wood, 0.7 million tons of bamboo shoots, 0.3 million tons of resin, and 1.5 million tons of fruit
and nuts. The total volume of project production by species is shown in Annex E2.
B. MARKS
5.5       As reviewed in paras. 1.7-1.10, supply and demand for timber products is currently
not in equilibrium in China: consumption significantly exceeds sustainable yields and, as a
result, mature forests are being over-harvested at the rate of 500,000 hectares per year. The
large consumption of timber primarily reflects three factors: the huge growth in rural and urban
construction over the past decade, the increased demand for paper products as a result of rising
incomes, and the steady demand for wood products by the mining and railway sectors. The
recent Country Economic Memorandum (No. 11932-CHA) projects continued strong growth in
the economy over the next decade, which will lead to increased demand for timber, pulpwood,
and other forest products. Gross domestic production is expected to grow by 8.9 percent per
year in 1992-2000, fueled by an average annual increase in gross domestic investment of 7.3
percent. Consequently, the market prospects for project production are extremely favorable and
there is virtually no risk that aggregate demand conditions will change significantly over the life
of the project.
5.6       Every province completed two analytical exercises to ensure that the species, end-
uses, and sites proposed for the plantation component would be consistent with specific local
market conditions. First, a comprehensive market survey was prepared as part of project
preparation based on terms of reference supplied by IDA. The market surveys reviewed exisdng
forest resources (including forest areas, growing stock, and growth rates), trade (both inter-
provincial and international), consumption (disaggregated by construction timber, pit props,



- 45 -
pulpwood, plywood, fiberboard, particleboard, furniture, and other uses), industrial processing
capacity (including installed capacity and current utili7ation rates), prices (including raw material
and final product), and marketing infrastructure. Based on this information, the provinces then
prepared supply and demand projections for 2000 and 2010 to identify which end-products and
species should be grown under the project. IDA reviewed a sample of these studies and found
them acceptable. Second, the provinces reviewed the prevailing roadside timber prices at all
planting sites proposed for the project to ensure that every site would achieve a minimum
financial rate of return of 12 percent. As a result, all project sites are located in areas of strong
demand close to specific end-use markets, such as sawn timber mills, pulpwood factories, and
retail log markets.
B. PRICES
5.7       Prices. All project output would be sold in the free market, subject to no price
controls or marketing restrictions. Timber prices have increased dramatically over the past few
years as a result of the phased elimination of fLxed and "guidance" prices and other
macroeconomic reforms. For example, between 1990 and 1993, the average roadside price
increased by 60 percent for masson pine, 40 percent for slash pine, and 35 percent for Chinese
fir. However, a few species have showed a decline in real terms as a result of changing market
conditions, such as Italian poplar (which has been replaced by Chinese white poplar as the
preferred building material in rural areas in northern China) and paulownia (which has been
flooding local timber markets and creating downward pressure on prices). As a result, these two
species, which were supported under NAP, were not included in this project.
5.8       Domestic prices for small and medium diameter timber are generally in line with
border price equivalents. However, the local prices for large diameter timber are about 10
percent lower and pulpwood are about 5 percent higher than corresponding import prices (see
Annex E3). This reflects the impact of the remaining price and trade restrictions in the economy
(see paras. 1.8 and 1.16). As long as the Government maintains its current macroeconomic
reform program, it is extremely unlikely that supply and demand conditions would lead to any
significant change in prices from present levels. Policy slippage in pricing is unlikely, as an
attempt to reintroduce timber price controls in 1988 met with widespread resistance and was
quickly abandoned.  All inputs used in the project, such as fertilizer, seedlings, and
agrochemicals, would be sold at free market prices.
5.9       The input and output prices used in the project financial and economic analysis are
presented in Annex E4. The financial prices of fertilizers and pesticides are based on actual
import prices from recent NAP procurement. The financial price of labor is a weighted average
of the various daily wage rates currently prevailing in project areas, which amounts to 9.5 yuan
for protection forest establishment, 10.5 yuan for plantation establishment other than eucalypt,
and 11.5 yuan for eucalypt establishment. The fimancial output prices are weighted averages for
each major species and size class based on field surveys of actual prices by MFO staff. They
are roadside prices and incorporate the costs of logging and skidding. For economic analysis,
the farmgate values of fertilizers were calculated on the basis of World Bank commodity price
projections, with adjustment for transport and handling costs. The economic values of other



- 46 -
inputs were considered equivalent to the fimancial prices or adjusted by the standard conversion
factor. The economic output prices are actual border prices for comparable imported wood and
wood products, adjusted for processing costs and inland transport as required.
I



- 47 -
6. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISK
A. BENEFITS
6.1       The project would generate the following benefits: (a) an increased supply of wood
products; (b) reduced wood imports; (c) strengthening of human resources and sector
institutions, which would raise the overall productivity of resource use in the sector; and (d) a
wide variety of environmental benefits. The major financial benefits of the project would be
incremental timber production valued at $5.0 billion, bamboo production valued at $379.1
million, fruit and nut production valued at $354.4 million, other miscellaneous forest products
valued at $144.0 million, and fuelwood valued at $68.0 million, for a total project value of $6.0
billion in current financial prices over the 33-year life of the project. As reviewed below, much
of this production would accrue to some of the poorest and most remote households across
China. The major environmental benefits would include increased forest cover, preservation of
biodiversity of global significance, and reduced soil erosion, flooding and river sedimentation.
MFO attempted to quantify and value some of the indirect environmental benefits based on
guidelines provided by IDA during project preparation. It estimated that the protection forest
program would reduce sediment discharge in the Yangtze River basin by a total of 412 million
tons of soil over a 33-year period. Based on the current cost of sediment removal at dams in
project areas, the benefit of reduced sedimentation was valued at $11.8 million.
B. EMPLOYMENT AND NCOMES
6.2       The project's afforestation activities would generate over 350,000 person-years of
work for 600,000 rural households during the project's six-year implementation period. The
other project activities related to mnrsery management, research, and extension would also
generate additional employment opportunities that have not been calculated. In addition, the
nature reserves management component would develop an innovative pilot program to address
the critical issue of social sector and labor reform in state-owned enterpfises, based on the
redeployment of redundant labor from timber harvesting enterprises to new, environmentally
sustainable employment.                                         1
6.3       The project would have a particularly strong impact on poverty reduction, since it
focusses on resource constrained, remote mountainous areas. The incidence of absolute rural
poverty is much greater in the project areas than throughout the rest of the provinces, as a result
of limited access to productive land, low agricultural productivity, limited off-farm employm at
opportunity, and underdeveloped human capital. MFO estimates that 20 percent of all project
beneficiaries fall below the absolute poverty line. In line with the recommendations of a recent
World Bank report on poverty in China (No. 10409-CHA), the project would create new income



- 48 -
earning opportunities in poor areas based on the best use of indigenous natural and human
resources, which would raise all beneficiaries above the poverty line. It is estimated that project
labor payments would lead to a 100 percent increase in annual income for poor households
during the six-year implementation period, from an average of 250 to 500 yuan per capita per
year. However, the more significant income generation would occur at the time of thinning and
final harvesting, which ranges from 7 to 30 years depending on the product, species, and region.
It is estimated that net revenues from project production would lead to a five-fold increase in
income for project households on an annual basis over the life of the project. This production
income would provide more than sufficient capital for consumption and investment requirements
and, consequently, would break the poverty cycle for the poor beneficiaries.
C. RENT AD CosT RECOvERY
6.4       Cost recovery would involve several elements.  The cost of fertilizer, agro-
chemicals, seedlings, and other inputs would be recovered by payments from beneficiaries. The
cost of research, extension, training, and technical assistance would be recovered either through
fees levied directly on beneficiaries or through taxes paid on project production. Project taxes
include the product tax (10 percent of gross revenues), the specialty tax (8 percent of gross
revenues), and a portion of the reforestation and reinvestment fees described in para. 3.3. The
cost recovery analysis in Annex ES shows that at present tax rates, project charges would be
sufficient to cover project costs with a recovery index of 94 percent discounted over the life of
the project. Rent recovery is 59 percent discounted over the life of the project.
D. FINANCLAL AND EcoNoInc ANALYSIS
6.5       Financial and economic analyses has been carried out for each species, the plantation
and protection forest components, and the project as a whole (see Annex E6). The analysis is
based on: (a) one rotation for all species, so that none of the costs and benefits of replanting a
site have been considered; (b) a 33-year time period, which captures the full rotation of all
plantation species but not all protection forest species (consequently, residual values have been
assumed in the final year for the protection forest); (c) complete production and harvesting costs,
including the costs of extraction trails, logging, and skidding to the roadside; and (d) complete
investment costs, including physical contingencies. The rates of return for individual species
include costs related to project supervision and management, environmental monitoring, and
information management; but they do not reflect any costs related to the project's nursery
program, research and extension program, or institutional capacity building program. However,
the analysis of the components and the project as a whole includes all these costs.
6.6       The financial rates of return (FRRs), before tax and debt service, for most of the
individual species grown in the plantation component are about '5-2- nercent. However, several
species generate particularly high returns, including Populu: simon z7 percent) and eucalypt
(29 percent), as a result of their shorter rotations and high market values. The FRRs for species
grown in the protection forest component are generally much lower since they are managed to
optimize environmental not financial benefits. The FRRs for timber species and the hill closing
models are about 10-13 percent. However, the economic tree crops generate good returns:



- 49 -
Eucommia is 18 percent, pear is 21 percent, chestnut is 23 percent, and sumac is 26 percent.
The FRRs for the plantation and protection forests components are 18.1 and 15.1 percent before
tax, and 14.4 and 13.2 percent after tax, respectively. The overall FRR for the project is 17.6
percent before tax and 14.2 percent after tax. Sensitivity analysis indicates that these fmdings
are relatively robust to wide changes in key parameters. Output prices would need to decline
by 41 percent, production costs would need to increase by 67 percent, or capital costs would
need to increase by 112 percent in order for the overall project FRR before tax to fall below 12
percent.
6.7       The economic rates of return (ERRs) are based on prices described in para. 5.9.
The economic prices for traded inputs and outputs are based on World Bank price projections
or border price equivalents. The economic prices for non-traded inputs, such as labor and
seedlings, are based on a standard conversion factor of 0.97, except for sldlled labor, which is
based on a conversion factor of 2.0.3 All economic values were converted to local currency at
the January 1994 exchange rate of Y8.70 to $1.00. The economic analysis does not incorporate
any valuation of indirect environmental benefits such as reduced soil erosion.
6.8       The ERRs do not differ significantly from the corresponding FRRs, for the
following reasons: the standard conversion factor is close to 1; while the economic prices for
large diameter timber are slightly higher than financial prices, the economic prices for pulpwood
are slightly lower; and while the economic price of unsldlled labor is lower than the financial
price, the economic price for skilled labor is higher. The ERRs are about 15-20 percent for
most of the individual species grown in the plantation component and 11-13 percent for the
timber species and hill closing models in the protection forest component; again, several other
species have higher returns. The ERRs for the plantation and protection forests components are
18.0 and 16.2 percent, respectively. The overall ERR for the project is 17.7 percent, which is
quite robust to wide changes in variables. Output prices would need to decline by 41 percent,
production costs would need to increase by 71 percent, and capital costs would need to increase
by 112 percent in order for the overall project ERR to fall below 12 percent.
F. RISKS
6.9       Since MFO has a strong record in managing large afforestation programs, there are
few technical and institutional risks. The main risks include: (a) an unexpected decline in
domestic prices for certain project outputs, which has been addressed through a high degree of
diversification of species and end-products in the project design; (b) inadequate provision of local
counterpart funding during implementation, which has been addressed through an understanding
that failure to provide local funds on a timely basis would result in the exclusion of the
afforestation entity, county, or provincial government in continued involvement in the project;
and (c) an outbreak of pests or diseases, which has been addressed through a comprehensive
forest health monitoring program and provision of pesticides as required during implementation.
3 The standard conversion factor is calculated on the basis of zn official exchange rate of
Y8.70 to $1.00 and a shadow exchange rate of Y9.00 to $1.00.



- 50 -
7. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1       At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower that:
(a)  all plantations and protection forests would be established in accordance with
afforestation models acceptable to IDA, and MFO would complete the review
of all technical design plans for afforestation sites in accordance with
guidelines acceptable to IDA by October 31, 1995 (paras. 2.4 and 2.18);
(b)  an annual work plan and fnancing plan for the plantation and protection
forest components for the next calendar year would be furnished to IDA for
review by December 31 of each year (paras. 2.13 and 2.19);
(c)  an evaluation report for the current year and an annual work plan for the next
calendar year for the planting stock development and nursery management
program (para. 2.32), the research program (para. 2.35), and the extension
program (para. 2.38) would be furnished to IDA for review by December 31
of each year;
(d) three reports analyzing the results of the accelerated research program in
fertilization (para 2.35), the accelerated research program in planting density
(para. 2.35), and the environmental monitoring program (para. 2.52) would
be furnished to IDA for review by May 31, 1997;
(e)  all training and study tours would be carried out in accordance with a training
program acceptable to IDA (para. 2.45);
(f)  policy studies would be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and
tining acceptable to IDA, which would include recommendations for future
actions; such studies would be provided to IDA for comment prior to
completion; and thereafter, the completed studies would be revised in light of
IDA's comments and provided to the responsible government agencies for
consideration (para. 2.45);
(g)  all project activities would be carried out in accordance with an environmental
management plan acceptable to IDA (para. 2.46);
(h)  all agrochemicals used under the project would be selected from a list
acceptable to IDA; and the storage, handling, distribution, and use of such



- 51 -
agrochemicals would be consistent with guidelines satisfactory to IDA (para.
2.50);
(i)  all PMOs at the national, provincial, and county levels would be established
and maintained in forestry agencies, with staffing, functions, and
responsibilities acceptable to IDA (para. 4.8);
(j) the portion of the IDA credit for establishment of plantations (and related
planting material, research and extension, and capacity building activities)
would be on-lent to the provinces and thereafter to the final beneficiaries at
an anmnal interest rate not to exceed 4.5 percent for funds on-lent in foreign
exchange and 6.5 percent for funds on-lent in local currency, with a
repayment period of 20 years, inclusive of eight years' grace period on
principal repayments (paras. 4.18 and 4.20);
(k)  the portion of the IDA credit for establishment of protection forests (and
related planting material, research and extension, and capacity building
activities) would be on-lent to the provinces and thereafter to the final
beneficiaries at an annmal interest rate not to exceed 2.5 percent for funds on-
lent in foreign exchange and 4.5 percent for funds on-lent in local currency,
with a repayment period of 25 years, inclusive of ten years' grace period on
principal repayments (paras. 4.18 and 4.20);
(1) consolidated accounts would be maintained for all components for annual
auditing by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and the consolidated
project accounts together with the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA
within six months of the close of each financial year (para. 4.24);
(ni) MFO and the provinces would undertake with IDA a midterm review of the
progress of and prospects for implementation by September 30, 1997 (para.
4.28).
7.2       Issuance of Project Implementation Rules (PIR) acceptable to IDA, and provision
of written acceptances of the PIR and on-lending terms and conditions from all project provinces
(except Shaanxi) would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 4.8).
7.3       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would constitute a suitable
basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 141.7 million ($200 million) on standard IDA terms with 35
years maturity to the People's Republic of China.



CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
Forest Area in ProlctPrvinces 1I
(000 ha)
Pfovine                           Thber Forest                        ConservatIon  Specia  Fudwood   Lightly        Tot
Provl~~~~~ca   TImber Forest ~~~~~~~~~FOF.,                     Faest    Fores    Stootad
Young     Middb    Pro-mature   Mature  Over Matue  Sub-total                                      Tmber    Banboo
Hebei          423.7      416.1      91.8     35.9        2.1      968.0      342.7    12.7    201.0    202.0   1,727.0
Shanxi          288.0     408.8      89.0     34.4        8.0      828.2      245.4    12.8      10.4    460.0   1,547.4
Uaonrn        1,018.7     762.8     189.6    104.9        3.9    2,099.9      809.0    33.1    354.0    164.5   3,401.1
HIloang       4,680.0    5,650.0   1,870.0  2,790.0     400.0   16,200.0    1,290.0   720.0    310.0    990.0  10,610.0
Zhelan        1,372.8    1,097.0    193.1    161.8               2,824.7       74.9    29.0      31.4    492.9   3,462.9       509.8
Anhtd           870.6     481.1      71.0     34.3        9.0    1,465.9      119.5    14.2      42.6    302.8   1,945.0      203.4
Fuflan        1,689.3    1,560.3    181.3     80.1        9.6    3,380.8      223.9    31.3    192.a    934.2   4,782.6        609.2
Jlangxl       1,687.8    1,383.2    268.7    179.2       38.8    3,555.7      191.9    32.0    677.2   1,421.3   6,778.1       534.0
Henan           530.9     172.3      28.8     15.1        2.4      749.5      341.2    27.7    117.3    266.4   1,491.1          7.0
Htue          1,228.6     984.3     233.4     00.2       10.7    2,617.1      336.4    48.9    428.9    437.0   3,767.3        121.0
Hunan         2,723.3    1,033.2    148.2    255.0       53.8    4,213.3      225.3    80.0    288.5    609.5   5,390.6       609.6
Guangdong     2,828.8    2,579.2    648.2    163.0               6,117.2      282.0   331.5    380.4    332.8   7,423.7        311.9
Guanxl        1,678.4     938.2     753.7    268.8      153.6    3,788.7      859.0    14.4    129.7    647.4   6,339.8        240.1
Sichuan       2,239.0    1,707.1    072.0    093.8      07B.0    8,289.7    3,382.1    163.8     12.8  2,900.2   12,738.7      342.1
Guizhou        840.9      478.3      67.2     87.2       20.8    1,472.4      230.2    43.2    209.4    896.3   2,850.6        49.8
Yunnan        2,139.8    1,017.2    844.1    028.7      489.8    5,719.2     1,799.2   033.4    461.0   3,181.9   11,764.7     124.8
total        26,018.2   21,214.1   0,230.1  6,852.2    1,878.1   61,190.7   10,732.3  2,218.1  3,717.8  14,097.6  91,966.6    3,622.6
11 Based on 1992 data.



CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
Foresw Land Use In ProMt PAnc"s II
rooo .hi
NpevAvi        AvWidb LS       NonAForm" l         fLa
PMWMD             FLft Stocked                            UBW~~~~~~LlhlI                                NefrUomaSt,v IorTotal    Coverase
Piovince          Filly Stocked                                           *~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sakie"nt.ii  Aftfoeststlon  Land       i%f -I
T_b   Conseivation  Spad   Fswood  Econado         l
Foests    Foets   Forsel   Foets    Fret          _
Hbl           908.60      342.70   12.70    20100    769.00           2,204.00   202.00    93A0   127.30   7.30       2,907.00   13,108.00   18,739.90    12.24
Shold         828.20      246.40   12.80     10.40    172.40          1,269.20   460.60    797.10  106.60  19.20      3,S00.40    9,110.40   16,661.60   0.10
Uauiln       2.098.90     808.00   33.10    354.60  1,a33.00          4,689.60   164.50    161.00  584.80  12.20      1,034.30    7.46.10   14.692.50    32.14
IeonJleng   15,200.00    1,290.00  720.00    310.00   70.00          17,690.00   990.00    140.00 2.160.00  30.00     3.e90.00    7,660.00   32,160.00    54.70
Zb2ao-       2,824.70      74.90   29.00     31.40    90.60   508.60  3,660.40   492.so    285.30  100.30              886.60   4,023.10   9,366.60    38.01
AnhJ         1,465.90     119.60   14.20     4'.60    410.60   203.40  2,258.10   302.00    145.80  121.80   6.90     1,651.10   9,433.00   13,816.50   16.33
Fi4Isn      3,380.60      223.90   31.30    182.60    665.80   60o.20  6,003.40   934.20    243.50  290.20            2,601.70   3,171.10  112,10.10    41.18
.Ilaunsgs    3,SS5.70     191.90   32.00    577.20  1.101.00   534.00  5,992.40  1,421.30    107.20  426.90           2,548.40    6,176.10   16,672.30    35.94
Mogun         749.60      341.20   27.70    117.30    328.40    7.00  1,571.10   255.40    175.00   69.40   8.30      1,622.10   12,998.70   16,700.00  9Al
H4bd1        2,617.10     335.40   48.90    420.90    500.90   121.00  3,952.20   437.00    930.10  146.00   1.00     2,085.00   11,038.70   19,690.00    21.26
4,213.30     225.30   00.00    268.60  2,101.70  560.00  7,618.40   B0060    859.80  377.60   2.00       2,627.20   9,109.10   21,203.60    326.4
0um-dong    8,117.20      262.00  331.50    380.40    S5.20   311.90  7,998.20   332.60    373.10 1.601.20   1.20      607.20   6,963.60   17.67.106   45.25
Oubnd        3.788.70     858.60   14.40    129.70    809.20   240.10  0,021.70   547.40    677.10  s13.00            5,435.70   10,564.30  23.760.00   25.34
SktaImn      6,289.70    3,382.10  153.90    12.80    69150   342.10 10,072.10  2,900.20  7,828.20  265.90   6.40    4,902.00   29,932.00  56,707.70    18.17
Guiiwu       1,472.40     230.20   43.20    209.40    215.00   49.80  2,220.60   895.30    682.60   116.70   9.00     4,624.30   8,19#.00   17,647.10    12.50          00 P
Ywman        5,719.20    1,799.20  633,40    451.00    076.00   124.80  9,404.20  3,101.90  4,0089.00   201.10        7,440.50   13,904.70   38.267.40  24.17o 
ILA
Toal        81.190.70   10,732.30 2,218.10  3.717.90 10,732.20 3,622.50 92,213.80 14.09780o  17.008.20 7,203.50 103.10  48.180.30  164,245.80  343,7t2.10  26.83
11 Based on 1982 data
211Heft between fWb tocked forst see and total se.



CNna
Forest Resource Development and Protection Project
Fortest Stock In Proiect Proyices 1/
1'000 CtI Meteri
Coner vation  Speel  Fuelwood   Lihtly
Ptovlne                           TimberFamst           Forest                     F" st   Forest:  Stacker   Other 21         Total
Young     Middle  fte-matur   Mature  Over Mature  sub-total                                                  Tkber    Bamboo 3/
Hebei         6,517.7   20,518.4   8,008.2  3,020.6     173.8   36,234.0   14,890.1   790.6    527.0  3,620.9  20,359.5   70.428.7
Shanxi        6,070.0   23,158.8   7,3s4.9  1,141.9     223.8   37,96s.4    5,704.9   902.5    176.0  4,803.0   1,242.5   60,805.1
uaonln       27,189.8   52,334.1  14,735.7  10,f60.8    388.3  105,298.5   10,001.7  1,517.9    607.4  2,622.8   4,025.5  131,173.8
H     _llongjlan    189,960.0  440,950.0  208,300.0 327,800.0   54,610.0 1,201.400.0   91,590.0 73,470.0  1,300.0  30,600.0  92,020.0 1,497,040.0
ZhejlN       19,167.1   43,481.3  119061.6  14,134.8            98,734.8    2,502.0  2,922.6    454.6   ,279.3   11,6633   112,466.6  646,130.0
Anhti        18,626.0   28,214.3   6,607.2  3,042.6    1,058.0   67,547.1    3,702.9  1,047.9    211.9  6,797.3  21,052.3   90,159.4  410.9300
Fupan        45,749.0  165,883.2  26,226.8  10,147.9    3,785.6  244,792.5   12,374.5  4,530.1  2,120.1  28,387.7   880,71.6  378,682.4  797,490.0
Jlangx       32,408.4   76,836.0  26,450.5  17,903.6    4,353.5  156,958.6    5,164.6  3,440.5  2,939.9  27,238.1  46,450.2  242,191.9  957,3e0.0 
Henan        11,999.3    8,600.0   1,801.3  1,439.0     214.8   23,853.4    14,505.0  1,861.2    212.0  2,499.1  48,683.8   91,616.1    5,120.0
Hubel        31,061.2   37,865.7  15,304.0  C.103.8     546.1   90,870.8   19,202.2  5,765.0  3,170.8  4,874.3  14,009.2  138,13.1  191,300.0
Hunan        40,151.9   59,999.0  12,055.8  23,841.9    5,395.4  141,444.0   10,985.0  4,420.0  2,240.4  14,402.5   11,450.6  184,849.7  024,390.0
Guandong    38,080.0  .98,430.0  28,770.0  14,080.0             177,370.0   10,260.0  9,880.0  3,000.0  4,840.0   7,088.7  212,428.7  183,680.0
Guangid      10,497.6   42,284.2  55,370.0  21,264.4   16,231.1  163,653.3   56,898.0  1,953.8  1,097.2  12.901.8  28,745.9  265,240.0  409,170.0
Sichuan      45,068.4  112,736.1  92,585.4 236,067.2  220,913.8  713,370.7  529,722.7 29,337.6    578.7  83,771.8  53,010.4 1.409.791.9  430,210.0
Gukhou       24,978.0   29,896.1   7,226.8  7,954.9    4,184.9   74,240.5    21,005.9  1,722.9  4,981.1  18,947.7  18,130.6  139,680.0  405,780.0
Yunnan       99,944.6  154,030.2  108,173.0 110,904.2  184,437.1  61,.649.1   257,181.1 160,810.0  29,740.5 135,889.4  1265234.8 1,366,406.7  128,680.0
total       033,364.0 1,388,010.0  8265941.0 8165430.3  502,516.0 3,965,273.3  1,072,901.1 300,460.8  53,354.1 393,442.5  592,298._ 8.377,730.6 5,240,140.0
1/Bsead on 1992 data.
2 InchxIn timber ftom scattered, faln and dead trees.
3/ In '000 bamboo plants.



CIINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
TImb#r Suppol In Prolet Provine
C'OO Cubic Metwe
P,ow,.      Yeau             Consvalntion                                         lnust,-                                             Othta                          Totat
Usban Area  Rult Area  Sub-total  Ma Ptp"  PacIaginat    PK4   funituo  IWood  Aticuttuw Otbo II Sub-total   Oto 21 hntel-psovinas  Sub-total  Timbet   Bamboo 31 S9np 4l
Hebe           2000         256.0     470.0   726.0       207.4      42.7    17.0    81.5    12.3      41.2   16.8   419.8    364.9                  364.9   1,609.0
2010        374.0     6809.0  1.082.0     303.6      02.6    24.9   110.3    10.0    60.2   24.7   613.1    633.0                    633.9   2,200.0
Shan6          2000         122.2     738.7   860.9       663.4      26.6    34.4    36.0      7.6     74.6   44.1   779.1      *0.0                  96.0   1.736.0
2010        233.3   1,147.0  1,381.2     1,113.0     40.4    51.2    92.6    10.1   t66.0  6W.0  t,667.6        214.1                214.)   3,162.9
Uomo^9         2000          62.0     472.0   624.0       161.0      23.0   30.0   W04.0       0.0    42.0   24.0   093.0    263.0                   203.0   1.460.0                186.0
2010        164.0     667.0   821.0       206.0      34.0   661.0   162.0      6.0     61.0   34.0  1,063.0    328.0                 326.0   2,200.0                258.0
Halesn?         2000      1,660.0   1,360.0  2.920.0      200.0     250.0  1,300.0   690.0   490.0    400.0  280.0  3,610.0   1,680.0      4.10,0   6760.0   12,290.0                o0
2010       1,940.0   1,620.0  3,460.0     260.0     280.0  1,410.0   730.0   640.0    230.0  380.0  3,930.0   2,310.0      4,760.0  7,070.0  14,460.0                 0.0
Zh*t            2000        400.0   1,703.0  2,103.0       19.0      160.0   360.0   300.0   200.0    200.0   58.0  1,307.0    300.0                 300.    3,710.0                00.o0
200         600.0   1,910.0  2,618.0        8.      180.0   600.0   360.0   292.0    200.0    6.0  1,664.0    360.0                  360.0   4.620.0                748.0
AMlud           2000        124.0   1.359.0  1,483.0      174.)      133.0   475.0   626.4   306.0   606.0  102.7  2226.0        66.6                 6S.6   3,763.6               1,300.0
20)0        300.0    2971.2  3,271.2      264.6     262.3   678.8   721.8   444.6    680.6  337.3  3,290.9    310.2                  310.2   8.872.3              3,400.0
Fujean         2000         743.4   1,66.0  2.248.4       140.0     340.0  2,180.0   310.0   600.0  1,192.6  340.0  6.002.6   1,028.3      2,673.0  3X601.3  10.862.3  61,30.0    1.22.0
2010        940.0   1,994.0 2t034.0       160.0     368.0  2.449.4   469.0   660.0  1,262.1  396.0  6.624.6   1,180.0      2.673.0   33.0   12.311.6   7,88s0.0    1,640.0
.Iaoi|d        2000       1,110.0   1.36980  2.467.0      203.0      60.0   817.0   260.0   279.0  1.281.0  110.0  3,000.0      67.       1,600.0  2.0)7.0   7.604,0   44.630,0
2010      t,366.0   1.8660  3,033.0       270.0      60.0  1,020.0   276.0   638.0  1,416.0  t22.0  4,600.0    617.0       1,800.0  2.417.0    A600   68.320.0
enon           2000         000.0   2,740.0  3.640.0     1,400.0    300.0   200,0   660.0   100.0    100.0  160.0  2,00.0.0    660.0                 wo.0   7,000.0
2010      1,300.0   3,800.0  6,100.0     1000.0     400.0   300.0   700.0   160.0    200.0  260.0  3,800.0    800,0                  800.0   0,900.0 
2000        820.0   1,440.0  2,260.0      210.0      40.0   120.0   100.0   100.0    300.0  110.0   s60.0    700.0                   700.0  3a40.0  26.700.       1.640.0
2010      1,100.0   1,s00.0  3,000.0      300.0     100,0   660.0   160.0   260.0   600.0  160.0  2,010.0   1,638.0                 1,639.0   6,648.0  63,400.0    3.670.0
HU"a            2000        646.9   3,229.3  3,876.2      680.)     221.8   490.1    67.6   206.1       7.0   I to.0  1,60.6   1,172.0              1,172.8   B.728.  86.772.8     700.6
2010        704.3   3,438.9  4,143.2      68.6      268.3   612.9    66.2   226.0      10.4  170.5  1.090.9   1,308.8               1,308.8   7,344.0  118,716.8    841.6
2000        044.0   t,416.0  2,380.0      160.0     341.0  1,200.0   243.0   120.0    63.0  224.0  Z331,0    877.0                   977.0   6,688.0  67,8760         00
2010      2,226.0   2.6)0.0  4.836.0      180.0     416.0  2,000.    365.0   220.0    66.0  24a,0  3,484,0   1,621.0                1.621.0   9,840.0  72,346.0       0.0
Obgsd          2000         390.0   1,170.0  1,600.0      220.0      02.0  1,620.0   380.0    70.0    46.0  110.0  2817.8    722.4                   722.4   6.200   I86,000.0      311.1
2010        496.0   1,307.3  1,603.3      241.1      70.0  1,023.6   426.0    60,0    520.0  136.0  3,384.7    602.0                 802.0   6,000.0  2t.000.0      404.3
sichun         2000       1,600.0   2,094.0  3X94.0       770.0     400.0  1,260.0  t,800.0   100.0    80.0  130.0  6,268.0    860.0                 860.0   9,70w.0   1,600.0      400.0
2010      1,00.0   2.400,0  4.000.0       068.0     600.0  1,960.0  1,900.0   282.0  1.250.0  190.0  7.110.0    840.0                840.0  12,060.0   2,000.0      7.0
iAto           20C0         720.0     360.0  1,o00.0      180.0      26.0   196.0  1l0.0    200        36.0   79.0   666.0       76.2                 76.2   1,820.2   2,000,      140.0
2010      1,307.0    660.2  1,867.2       200.0      60.0   320.    210.0    60.0      60.0  160.0  1,060.0    136.7                 136.7   3,062.8   2,200.0      330.0
vim""          2000         204.3    410.3   014.6        262.3      40.2   2B4.3   202.2   262.2    161.9  101.8  1.314.,   1,400.6               1t,400.    3,330,0   64,800
20)0        266.6     616.6   774.0       330.8      60.8   673.6   229.3   320.3    229.3  108.3  1.961.3   1,688.7                t.s0s.7   4.826.0  66,700.0
TotS           2000      10t,600.   21,836.3 32,336.1    6,388.8   2,486.1 10,811.6  6,892.2  2,778.1  6,872.) 2,009.4 34,960.6  10.672.7  8,233.0  18,006.7  66,162.4  362,608.6    6.468.6
2010     14,907.1  28,004.0 44,001.1     7,279.6   3,271.3 16t,78.1  8,877.2  4,073.0  8,919.2 2,827.7 47,024.0  14,7e0.6  8,233.0  24,021.6 1t1,040.8  403,570.6  12,001.8
It  tkAieg bat. _uck, fai skew, pow  p, matc. ocl, textile, sowesein ae .pooSb.
21 btWc&ang Supply v Loslcelweous domands.
3/ h 'OCO ba_bo plants.
41 Pnsft desod tom wood aubtha of stoo, plastic end cememt.
4;h,



CtiNA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
rooo CNe
Proin       youC_X                                                             ta                                                 Othe                         Tobt
Utben Aes Rhal A    Sub-totd  M1. Reope  PeAlino  A4     Eurnitum. Fwood  Agduhluemo Ow tt StA-totl   Other V itewpo4ner  Sub-toed  rrm  Biameb 32  Sevtag 41
2000     1t.70.0   1.600.0  3,470.0    1,006.0    204.0   61.0   30.0    68.6   168.3    0.06  2.001.7   1,743.3                1.743.3   7.216.0
2010      2.,80O    1,600.0  4.300.0   1,330.0    440.0   110.0   440.0      0.0   263.0  110.4  2,03.4   2,66.0                2.,866.0  .9t8.4
Shanx          2000       867.9   1,321.6  1.989.8     2484.7      60.0   17.0   190o.    4S.0   263.0  161.0  3.342.7    346.7                  46.7   6.76.2
2010        685.0   2.116.9  3,100.0   4,12n.8     147.0  26n.0   370.      63.0   662.0  211.0  6,683.6    663.0                683.0   6.6).1
I..eo.ning     2000       1,327.0   1.142.0 2t466.0     482.0      67.0  1.000.0   4800    14.0    99.0  106.0  2.2)6.0    686.0                666.0   6.441.0               166.0
2010      1.439.0   1.2017.0  2,646.0    620.0    100.0  1.468.0   012.0    24.0   106.0  123.0  2,660.0    743.0                743.0   6.338.0               268.0
2000      2.260.0   2.1)0.0  4.430.0     260.0    300.0  2,360.0   160.0   460.0   60O.0  400.0  4,420.0   2,220.0              2.220.0  11,070.0               60.0
2010      2530.0   2.2)0.0  4.60.0      280.0    260.0  3.210.0   160.0   460.0   800.0  240.0  6.470.0  1,170.                1.770.0  12.040.0               60.0
2ImeN*e 2000               600.0   2.130.0  2,730.0      23.0     180.0   367.0   767.0   462.0   200.    68.0  2.067.0    6o0                  603.0   6,400.0
2010        700.0   2,130.0  2.,30.0      20.0     180.0  665.0   641.0   677.0   200.0   68.0  2.666.0    601.0                 601.0  56900.0
Attn.          2000        624.0   3.12.9  3,766.6     234.1     293.9  936.0   026.4   328.0   710.6  362.7  3.e87,6    236.6                 236.6   7,700.0             1,300.0
2010      1.018A    4.043.e  6,060.0     314.6    412.3  1,020.0   866.6   600.9   SS66.   761.4  6.02a,6    610.2               510.2  to0,00.0             3,400.0
Fu#sn          2000       1.0000.  2,630.0  3,630.0     166.0    610.0  3A,10.0   610.0   610.0  1,647.0  440.0  7,142.0   1,660A.    2,673.0  4.423.0  16.136.0  60,600.0
2010      1,300.0   2,660.0  4,2e0.0     166.0    160.0  4.200.0   626.0   70    2,137.0  480.0  6,126.0   2,060.0     2,673.0  4,633.0  16,016.0  62,60.0
Q2000     1.17.0   1,383.0  2,681.0      270.0     60.0  1.3s1.0   260.0   3.0   121.0  110.0  3,740.0    617.0        2,000.0  2,617.0   6.91,0  64,0700
2010      1,438.0   1.66A.0  3,122.0     270.0      60.0  1,963.0   276.0   663.0  1,416-0  122.0  4,646.0    6:7.0    2.600.0  3.017,0  108.04A   66910.0
Henan          2000       1.300   3,600.0  5,200.0     2.000.     400.   200.0   600.0   100.0   300.0  200.0  4.000.0    600.0                 600.   10000.0                           %
2010      1,600.0   6.460.0  7.280.0   2,600.      500.0  300.0  S60.0   200.0   460.0  400.0  6.600.0   1,120.0               1,120.0  14,000.0
Hubdi          2000       1,309.9   1.64,6  3,204.7     260.0      66.  1,116.6   641.4   161.6   42a,0  713.9  3,36t.7   1,00.3               1,006.3   7.672.7  37,00.0    1.640.0
2010      2,193.6   2.376.6  4,670.2     33e.6      44.6  2,000.0  1,110.0   369.6   74.1  1,064.6  6.7#06   1,797.3            1,767.3  1t2,4.0  60,000.0   3,670.0
N.mm           2000        947.5   4,303.6  6,261.0     622.2     2600  1,306.6   1131    270.3      7.0  126.6  2,6s8.7   1,876.0             1,676.0   6,626.7  106,846.3   700.6
2010      1,366.1   6,448.0  8.611.7     956.0     360.0  1,782.4   162.6   369.2    0.4  180.3  3,761.2   2.791.7              2,71.7  1a334.6  127,731.2    841.6
OmeeGdong      2000      1.463.0   2,2e8.0  3,781.0     120.0     314.0  1,826.0   243.    722.0     3.0  224.0  3,301.0    603.0               903.0   7.666.0  62.000.0     478.0
2010      2,341.0   2,464.0  4,635.0     :60.0     416.0  2,446.0   360.0    260    66.0  240.0  4,611.0   1,862.0              1,662.0  :0,9890   01,600.0   13,1.
Gvenl_         2000        440.0   1,700.0  2,140.0     246.0      60.0  2.0W.0   400.0   180.0   66.   14SA   ,620,0    60.0                   60.    6.460.0  20,0W.0      360.0
2010       6300    1,660.0  2490.0       270.0      90.0  3.000,0   460.0   120.0   600.0  17Q0  4,70.    1,000.0 1t0000   9.190.0  24,000.0                   460.
Sicten         2000      2,067.0   4.817.0  6.74.0     1,100.0    30f0A  1,6.D  3,360     146A   2,038.0    6 o   ,620.0   1,700.0             t,70D0  17,0940    2,000.      4S0.0
2010      3,665.0   5,4t6.0  9.3tao    1.2000      30 .0 2,0600  3,620.0   262.0  2,130.0   66.0  s.60,0   2,00.0               2000.0  20,403D0  2t300.0      780.0
OmMou          2000       1,000.0    600.0  1,60W       220.0      36.0   270.0   210.0    30.0    60    ttO.   826.0    100.0                  100.0   2.626D0   2.200.0    t:Qo
2010      1.600.0    370o0  2.270.0      300.0      700   400.0   260a0      0.0   100.   200.0 1t,360,      :60.0               $60.0   3010.0    6QO.0       400.0
Yunnan         2000        240.0    480.    730.0       310.0      46.0  1,600.0   210.0   645.0   206.   126.0  2,364.0   1,486.0             1,466.0   6,6e0.0  16,160.0
2010        340.0    690.  1,030.0       400.0      69.0  1.600.0   230.0  1.106.0   406.0  142.0  3,686.0   2,o04.0            2,04.0   7.006.0  20,970.0
raw            2800      10,414.3  35,243.1 5.3657.4   .766D.0  3a16. 19AS6.1  6.,0.6  4,743A   6,*.8o 3,437.7 66,396A 416,08.0       4,673.0  21,660.6  133,006.   6,166.3   6,266.6
2010     20,67.   42.047.7 ee,n7.s    13,396.    4.297., 20.342A4 1S,330   6,600.7  10,699.6 4,706.7 77,632,6  22,44.2  6,073.0  27,317.2 173,067.6  4417,6t.3   10689.6
U! hcddn testt,u. rel d_e., _ees metdm_ pamo _, tamale meet1we  pls
2!t b*mheme  demnds.
31 f    bsA,ptarOQt  .
40 fts*  I   teem vsed  _tbeftee of  d, gtbsON  GtA _mn.l
2:                                                                                                . 'OOameehfI



CHINA
FOREST RESOURC  DEVELOI2HNT AND PROTECTION PROJCT
Afforestatlon Area bV Species and Province
species                   Hebei Shanxi Heron Lismning Mel longlang Zheltang Anhui Fujian JimnBxi Iubei Htunan Guawgdong GumngI Sichuan Cuizho unnmawn Total
Protection Forest:                                                                                  150.00                          130.00                  280.00
Cypress/Alder                                                                                        10.00                           20.00                   30.00
Nasson Pine                                                                                          17.00                           15.0                    32.00
Chinese Fir                                                                                          10.00                            MO.0                   25.00
Sawtooth Oak                                                                                         20.00                            2.00                   22.00
chestnut                                                                                             23.00                            6.00                   29.00
Pear                                                                                                                                  4.50                    4.50
Eucoasil                                                                                                                              8.70                    8.70
Chfnese Swuuc/idhite Birth                                                                                                            7.00                    7.00
Nilts-Closure-I af                                                                                   50.00                           31.80                   81.80
litIs-Ctosure-2 b/                                                                                   20.00                           20.00                  40.00
Plantation:                 50.00 25.00  25.00    30.00         70.00   35.00  33.00 35.00   52.00  30.00  40.00    35.00   70.00   30.00  25.00 35.00  620.00
Chinese Fir                                                              12.00  13.40  6.00   17.5          15.40      5.00  10.00   7.40  13.20  9.30  109.20
Nasson Pine                                                              10.00  6.40  8.50  10.00            6.00      8.60  30.10   7.60  11.80  3.00   102.00
slash Pine                                                                3.00   1.30  4.40   9.00          10.10             2.40                           30.20
Loblotty Pine                              8.00                           4.00  3.10  4.20   6.00                      4.00   4.00                           33.30
Japanese Larch                             4.00    13.00                                             22.60                            4.50                   44.10
Korean Larch                 6.70  19.70                        70.00                                                                                        9%.40
other Conifer                       3.30                                                                                              7.00           8.90   19.20
Chinese Wdite Poptar cl     41.30  2.00  2.00    17.00                          4.50                                                                         66.80
Eucalyptus                                                                             4.00                           12.40  13.00                   9.10   38.50
Slack Locust                 2.00         11.00                                                                                                              13.00
other Broad-leaf Tree dI                                                  1.00  2.30   1.40   3.50   2.40  4.30        3.00    1.50   3.50           0.70   23.60
Noso Bamboo - New                                                         2.00   0.40   1.60          3.00                     2.00                  2.00    11.00
woes Samboo, - Rehabilitation                                             3.00   1.60  4.90    6.00   2.00   4.20      2.00    5.00                  2.00    30.70
Arundinaria                                                                                                                    2.00                           2.00
... .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Note:
al will-closure with no enrichment planting.
bI will-closure with enrichment planting.
c/ Including Popuus Simonil.
d/ including Schisma Sup~erba.



- 58 -                         Annex B2
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
LIST OF PROJECT COUNTIES
I. Intensively Managed Plantations
1.   Hebei Province (19 counties and 50,000 ha): Qinghe, Linxi, Jize, Xincheng, Guantao,
Dingxing, Xingtai, Yixian, Zaoqiang, Shahe, Zhaoxian, Pingshan, Yuanshi, Shenxian,
Weichang, Xiongxian, Chengde, Saihanba, and Mengluan.
2.   Shanxi Province (12 counties and 25,000 ha): Guangling, Yingxian, Hunyuan, Datong,
Lingqiu, Youyu, Huairen, Zuoyun, Xinrong District, Pinglu District, Yanggao, and
Tianzhen.
3.   Liaoning Province (16 counties and 30,000 ha): Xinmin, Fushun, Huanren, Fengcheng,
Kuandian, Xiuyan, Liaoyang, Dengta, Fuxin, Zhangwu, Chaoyang, Beipiao, Kazuo,
Panshan, Jianping, and Lingyuan.
4.   Heiloneiiang Province (20 counties and 70,000 ha): Wuchang, Yanshou, Mulan,
Qing'an, Suiling, Hailun, Tangyuan, Huanan, Hegang, Boli, Baoqing, Linkou, Acheng,
Yilan, Jidong, Hulin, Jixi, Tonghe, Ning'an, and Muling.
5.   Zhefiang Province (15 counties and 35,000 ha): Songyang, Suichang, Kaihua,
Changshan, Longyou, Wuyi, Jinhua, Pan'an, Chun'an, Tonglu, Lin'an, Jiande, Anji,
Quxian, and Lanxi.
6.   Anhui Province (14 counties and 33,000 ha): Qimen, Xiuning, Yixian, Xuanzhou,
Guangde, Ningguo, Guichi, Qingyang, Dongzhi, Yuexi, Taihu, Huaining, Huoshan, and
Jinzhai.
7.   Fujian Province (10 counties and 35,000 ha): Hua'an, Nanjing, Changtai, Minqing,
Gutian, Longyan, Yongchun, Zhangpu, Dehua, and Provincial State Forest Farm Bureau.
8.   Jiangxi Province (17 counties and 52,000 ha): Chongyi, Longnan, Quannan, Xinfeng,
Taihe, Yongxin, Yongfeng, Le'an, Yihuang, Chongren, Dexing, Wuyuan, Geyang,
Jing'an, Jingdezhen, Ninggang, and Yifeng.
9.   Hubei Province (12 counties and 30,000 ha): Jianshi, Enshi, Lichuan, Xuan'en,
Dalaoling Forest Farm, Wufeng, Changyang, Xianning, Tongshan, Chongyang, Fangxian
and Puqi.



- 59-                            Annex uB
Page 2 of 2
10.  Hunan Province (17 counties and 40,000 ha): Liuyang, Lingxian, Ningxiang, Leiyang,
Linxiang, Suining, Xinshao, Zhuzhou, Yongshun, Huaihua, Chaling, Zixing, Chenxan,
Yiyang, Hengsban, Qidong, and Youxian.
11. GuanWdong Province (13 counties and 35,000 ha): Deqing, Lianshan, Lianxian,
Wengyuan, Shixing, Yangxi, Gaozhou, Zengcheng, Leizhou Forestry Bureau, Xijiang
Forestry Bureau, Yangiang, Xinyi, and Huizhou.
12.  Guangxi Autonomous Region (15 counties and 70,000 ha): Ziyuan, Rongshui,
Xiangzhou, Liucheng, Yulin, Zhaoping, Hepu, Huangmian Forest Farm, Daguishan
Forest Farm, Weidu Forest Farm, Liuwan Forest Farm, Gaofeng Forest Farm, Qinlian
Forest Farm, Linghsan, and Nanning City.
13.  Sichuan Province (9 counties and 30,000 ha): Qingchuan, Beichuan, Pingwu, Shawan
District, Mabian, Leipo, Jiangyou, Shifang, and Qionglai.
14.   Guizhou Province (8 counties and 23,000 ha): Rongjiang, Taichuan, LAping, Jianhe,
Kaili, Jinping, Huanping, and Tianzhu.
15.  Yunnan Province (12 counties and 35,000 ha): Funing, Yongping, Yongsheng, Xinping,
Yuanjiang, Wenshan, Mojiang, Maguan, Shuangjiang, Yuntaishan Forest Farm,
Jiangbian Forest Farm, and Biquan Forest Farm.
16.  Henan Province (8 counties and 25,000 ha): Lushan, Tongbai, Miyang, Songxian,
Luoning, Lushi, Lingbao, and Xinyang.
H. Multi-Functional Protection Forests
1.   Hubei Province (21 counties and 150,000 ha): Badong, Yichang, Xingshan, Zigui,
Zhicheng, Suizhou, Songzi, Nanhang, Baokang, Dawu, Yingshan, Luotian, Huangzhou,
Hong'an, Macheng, Qichun, Xishui, Guangshui, Huangmei, Wuxue, and Daye.
2.   Sichuan Province (20 counties and 130,000 ha): Baxian, Jiangin, Jiangbei, Changshou,
Yongchuan, Fuling, Fengdu, Wulong, Nanchuan, Shizhu, Pengshui, Zhongxian, Kaixian,
Liangping, Youyang, eastern district of Suining, Zizhong, Tongliang, Qijiang, and
Weiyuan.



B3
-60-                                        Page   of 2
SABL AEEFLUAM  MODFI
Affo   _tai   Modd of Io      du '-mawed pl4udon
C  lie  t ul"OUuildide-tlh.W
D9it,e Iatlial Plantatif X U0  -
Site I    is lG   claes
-s                                            i-) Z15.^
tfti_wbtmt~~~~~~~~~~1                            -             142X1 _te
twi    klgbtt..                                      10.8   11                               18.0
lts age laet.am Oat.cem                               3 2.5   14.9                       *        9
3  iawft                Cut Shhab
lF bwl^ :asxbis^:  
__ .  _ w*             ,       3K
_.m  or time iefo,* latavuaduet. Cstt'ee'              ZU'5  189                             1421
tItS#*Ipdi,l. Cattle e"'b.os er.k                     SW    wS
ot otri_  Lfto nat muiet CuItif*                1819  1421
V l*>  .-t rtq.t 17. 7   .........L3                                                        Qt!L2t
r.t~e, taat vi uttiupeub.:'                            8.0  *12.78 3a
mt Dtemet v.1g.-_t;193
HetiAel laiteras il. (4lil<           
A.ff    "=. MOd   of Intwuj           -mmaq.d   l
Oe"tw -t lau^lilt*e.Oi_..
1 Sti hdm I1d4 idm glas
,.ll'-ast.'8 "am,
a. *..ll .
--  ~~~~jy ~~3240                                *        _
t _  4De),                                                         0. til.t
AWW  5d$S                                             2.6           5.*                        tS
Awne 3i~ib     ^)                                 .2.8             7.0               '       13.)
?   t~i 4-6 _                  tu    -            .
S. t-. a A           40X4#X.WID
_~  L_u , .    ..... W.                                                                        ._
'1t06  Of ?FM WwU hW_* wltp z WOW        1           .12j10       .Z0a
Wuubw .3 titt    U?ulllu                                                            Zito
Xt_~~~~d f tSh                                              Z_ito:$li
-of,gg1 Z;Uta    1,, .3 tim
i_  d g   b  elalag lgM                             s                                        1
lItabr. td*l Od     .. 89Stt                                                                  l-CL2
. Fr_ _._ .eh                 2~. ._ 
.-.--                        2s.:
..wu  llm  A..3 3.1   _ . __  .....  ..;..  .._____---__--__---__--__-__-__*-



-61-                                          AM  B3D
Page 2 of 2
CEIINA
FOREST RESO;URCED DEMD2PM4T AN= PROEMO = J-cr
Affoeatdogn Mode of Intnedy-mwge pln
Populu  aimnui war. ipa
:;iat lnd*fO*ibetiS
SJ.,.,12 .q l atlat Pfj#t*tJat, 6  trtw ha.
Troo-m ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Se tny.>"Oxc*
_ wuq. _.1g  f                     11                           5
R W Internali 8.tt        : tl.PS
Ya   t_  _th heow b_ OiiIe
IUffof5*0C8*Affuuw atof Twow Wo    Ilw r"moRm
ZFW  I
'ru&  df Tm. uftq ta hIfe5(  _ ul~
_qh. _f _ ai..... (_._, m,,____,,eOw)................ 
T_ e.t of fuOdtt (calf. _c43t                                                                11 5.
i.e d iwilw Vale              4. 83-
ITmaIldwu krat awof1.mid 4%)v2                                                          17
t1bZWk    7~        -eew      4     a      2     z      e     3     J            77
ho        kkm   N* 40ond CA)
Afforsao Moe of Inwoedmaa. plw*Lo
LAi   amfens
I ecdlag targeti lne-tiae
5.r.atty ot Intbal Plaatatioo,000 tr.,ha.
Stto ladzai It oa.lao.
.~~~~~~~~~~~ 103  )*3
: ' ffi X t (a)                   .    ~~      ~~3.2  7.4         11t.1)       IGA)t
Acaapau  (ow;                                                     5.8)43  1'-'          .    0.I
. Kj.
*om df GbOUg(uf  a                                                 8.1           19.0       181.5
ftad   ie  8. o  bm4___ ___...,___________.________



Annex B4
- 62 -                           Page 1 of 6
CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
PLANTING STOCK DEVELOPMENT AND NUPSERY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Introduction
1.        Few tree species have achieved the levels of domestication found in agriculure.
Forest tree plantng material development is at an early stage and species respond in different
ways. Some tree species adapt themselves readily to pnation estblishment and will survive
and grow under the most rudimentary silvicultural managent. Cinminghamia lanceolata
(Chinese fir), an indigenous species, and Robiua pseudoaccacaa (black locust), an exotic one,
are good examples of this. Others, such as the exotic eucalypts and pines or indigenous
Pauldownia spp and Metasequoia spp, are less adaptable but can be productive given good
cultural practces. The first three are examples of genera which are made up of a number of
different species, most of which are adaptable like the borassicas of agriculture. The agricultural
and horticultual examples have indicated development patterns that can be used by foresters to
improve planting material and these can be applied equally to the easily adaptable and less
versatle species. Once a genus has shown promise, development starts with the identficaton
of adaptable species and then populations that may have developed good, characteristic genetic
constitutions (provenances). Within these populadons will be individuals with significantly
superior characters for desired productivity - and these will form the core of a breeding
program. The ultimate objective is the supply of high quality planting stock in adequate
numbers, which may be seeds, seedlings (sometimes cultivars), or clones.
2.        The type of plantimg stock chosen will relate to a number )f variables, including
include species, climate, site, costs, etc. Some species can be satisfactorily established in a
number of ways (direct sowing in the field, direct sowing into nursery beds or containers,
sowing in beds then transplaing into beds or containers, pre-germination and direct sowing into
the field, beds or conainers) while others must have one or two of these practices or they will
not survive. There are an increasing number of species that can be cloned due to the significant
improvements in cloning technology over recent years. These will give planters the option of
continuing with seed and seedling planting or changing to cloning; the optimal choice will
depend on establishment costs and productivity. Chinese foresters currently weight establishment
costs much higher than productivity gains: their principal objective is to obtain as much
productivity gain within the current costing parameters. However, tree crops are perennial and
often renewable and it is important to gather, analyze and interpret plantation data to link
productivity gains for yields of different commodities with plant production costs in order to
rationalize investment in planing stock development.
Planting Stock Oualitv
3.        It is well known that plant quality is dependent upon its genetic constitution and the



Annex B4
- 63 -                            Page 2 of 6
physical condition of plants taken to the field; and that survival and growth relates directly to
plant quality, given reasonable site preparation practices. The genetic quality of seed is being
improved through breeding programs in the Chinese Academy of Forestry and provincial
research institutions and universities. Improved parent stock is being assembled (in clonal
orchards) or upgraded (in seed staads) by staff of the National Seeds and Seedling Stations.
Details on the genetic aspects of planting stock development are reviewed in Annex B4 on
research. This annex reviews the technologies leading to improvements in the physical quality
of planting stock.
4.        Seedling Uniformity. In order to address the subject of quality, it is essential to
have a base line for comparisons and a systematic process for making compansons. The
fundamental target of any nursery manager is the supply of an adequate number of plants with
uniform development, health and quality. This will require recognition of the basic biological
law that aU populations have some degree of variability and that this variability can be idenified
by grading plants within the population into a series of classes depending on the parameters
measured. These are known as growth class distribution diagrams and it is a biological fact that
normal plant populations have a bell-shaped growth class distribution curve. If the distribution
is packed closely around the center point (mean), the population is homogeneous; but if the bel
has an extended base with many classes on either side of its center, then the population is
heterogeneous. Heterogeneous populations need special efforts on the part of management to
improve them for planting. Examination of populations in this way sometiies reveals that size
classes are considerably more on one side of the mean than the other; this indicates skewed
populations that are often associated with in-breeding or some other form of disturbed genetic
balance. Such populations need to be handled with particular care. Examples of these from
outside China are the in-bred populations of Acacia mangium in Sabah and Eucalyptus
tereticornis in India. It is likely that the Chinese populations of E. exscerta and E. globulus may
be in this category.
5.        Measurement of Variation.  Variation can be expressed mathematically by
calculating the standard deviation (sd) of the mean (x), dividing this by the mean and
representing the result as a percentage, the coefficient of variation (cv). e.g. x = 24.00 cm,
sd = 3.47 cm, cv = 14%; x = 24.00 cm, sd = 9.76 cm, cv = 41%. The example shows that
two populations with identical means have vastly different levels of variation, the higher the cv
the more the variability of the population. When dealing with natural populations, i.e. seeds
harvested from the natural forest (called "wild" populations to differentiate them from
populations with any level of domestication), a high degree of heterogeneity can be expected.
Nursery management will have to measure this and decide on the best method to reduce it. In
many cases, seeds will be harvested from plantations that were either established from earlier
plantations or from natural forest harvests. These will have their own characteristics depending
upon the genetic quality of the original harvest and the breeding system of the particular species.
Again, any peculiarities due to these factors will appear in the growth class distributions.
Therefore, it can be seen that these simple tools will help management significantly improve the
homogeneity and, consequently, quality of their planting stock.
6.        Samplina Levels. The system for assessment of nursery populations has already
been discussed with MFO. The new Seedling Production Coordination Group (SPCG) is



- 64 -                             Annex  4
Page 3 of 6
responsible for (a) issuing guidelines for nursery assessment; and (b) amending the agreed
planting stock standards to include not only seedling measurements but also acceptable variation
levels. Data from the assessments will indicate the quality of each nursery and give project
management a clear picture of where the best stock is raised and where more effort is needed
on the part of nursery managers to improve their work. In the early stages of the project, it will
be necessary to measure the same samples several times during seedling development in order
to determine the best time for evaluating variation and planning culling. Since nursery size
varies greatly under the project, it is important to decide on a suitable level of sampling; this
can only be determined by trial and error. For example measuring one plant in one thousand
is a 0.1% sample unit, one in ten thousand is a 0.01% sample unit, and so on. The critical issue
is that the sample should represent the population, i.e. the larger the variation in the population,
the larger the sample should be. Fortunately, in nurseries it is possible to stratify sampling by
allocating sample units to beds; it is essential that beds are adequately and randomly sampled.
7.        Seedling Assessment. The most usual data used in seedling measurement are the
height and collar diameters. In some cases, particularly for broadleaf plants, the number of
nodes above the cotelydon node are recorded. Every plant in the plot is measured and this
should be done systematically, always starting from the same corner of each plot and measuring
along one row and down the next. For plants in broadcast beds, this will not be possible;
nonetheless, measurements should still commence at the same selected corner of the plot. Field
observations have indicated that root development is equally if not more important than shoot
growth. Therefore, in the initial phase of the project, it will also be necessary to carry out root
development assessments. Since the sample plots will be measured more than once during the
growing season, it will be necessary to choose the samples for root assessment from plots
adjacent to measurement plots. Two seedlings of mean height and collar diameter, two of mean
height and collar diameter 0.5 sd's above and below the mean (6 plants in all) are chosen for
root evaluation. If mnrsery staff believe more intensive root evaluations are needed, then these
numbers can be increased. It is important that the outermost two rows of the bed are not
sampled for root development assessments.
8.        Data Analysis. The means for each parameter in every plot are calculated together
with their sd's and cv's; with this data, the nursery manager will be able to have some idea of
the uniformity within the nursery. Since beds are usually stocked at different times, even with
stock from the same seed lot, this information will give a picture of variation caused by location
in the nursery and different sowing and/or pricking times. Management should carefully review
the distribution of growth classes to be sure that the populations being raised have normal
patterns. If they are skewed in any way, immediate steps should be taken to rid the nursery of
the unwanted plants causing the skew. If the nursery is large and has been divided into a
number of blocks, the next step for management analysis is to pool the data from each block
separately and calculate the mean, sd and cv. Once again, this gives a picture of how the plants
are responding to management throughout the nursery. Finally the mean, sd and cv is calculated
for the nursery as a whole.
9.        In the early years of the project, measurements will be needed at intervals
throughout the growing period, perhaps measurements every fifteen days. In the north, where
seedlings remain in nurseries for more than a year, this will accumulate a good deal of data even



AnneLB
- 65 -                             Page 4 of 6
though measurements will only be needed during the growing period. Experience will quickly
indicate if this interval is suitable for nursery evaluation. The objective is to ensure that the
plants leaving the nursery will be. of uniform size and development for field planting. The
SPCG will decide on the plant quality to be sent to the field from each nursery and will be able
to inform field staff of the specific numbers that will be required. Needless to say, the number
of high quality uniform seedlings produced in a mursery will be much less than the total number
of seedlings grown, in view of the type of populations currently developing from the
undomesticated or, at best, partially domesticated seed lots available in China. Seedlings that
fall outside the required parameters will have to be culled. By strictly adhering to the agreed
technical standards, the SPCG will quickly cause nursery management to determine reasons for
poor homogeneity and devise methods to improve it.
Tvve of Planting St
10.       Planting stock can be divided by origin (seedlings or clones) or by physical
characters (bare-root or contaimezed). Of course, there can be many sub-divisions of origin
referning to the level of domestication, which relates to the degree of testing each has undergone.
For example, better homogeneity and growth would be expected from: (a) full-sib than half-sib
seeds; and (b) clonal material from clones selected through clonal testing procedures than those
from primary clones (untested phenotypes). It is very important that nursery management
differeniae between seedling and clonal material because each has different characteristics. A
seedling is a complete plant made up of both shoot and root systems in the primary stage of
juvenility. During germination, it has to go tbrough certain normal biological patterns: the
hypocotyl extends, cotyledons unfold and become photosynthetic, the first leaf is formed that
may be distinct from later leaves, and then the plant gradually develops. On the other hand,
cuttings only have shoot characters at the start, which are already in a somewhat advanced stage
of development. As soon as cuttngs form roots, they proceed with normal growth, which is
usually much quicker than that of seedlings at the same stage in the mnrsery. Thus, it is not
unusual for cuttings to require only half the nursery period of a seedling.
I.       Seedling versus Cuttigs. Some species have high rooting propensity, which means
they can be directly set in containers or into bare-root beds. Others are more difficult to
propagate (30% to 60% rooting) and need to be set in rooting beds before transplanting to either
containers or bare-root beds. Chinese fir and poplar are both excellent examples of the former
and the pines of the latter. Some species have to be set from physiologically active material and
will need high humidity conditions to prevent desiccation of tissue while roots form. Others can
be set as dormant, usually woody cutting, and will need only a moist rooting medium.
Eucalypts need the former conditions while poplar roots readily from dormant, woody cutings.
Whatever the method, at the time of transplanting into containers or bare root beds, root
development should be minimal in order to minimize transplant damage because cutting roots
are often rather large and brittle. Transplandng care is also needed for seedlings and it should
take place when the germinant has the minimum of lateral roots. The germination conditions
should minimize root length development and transplanting carefully timed. In order to reduce
the possibility of "J" root formation, the transplanting spot should have a suitable hole and the
transplanter should hang the roots in the hole before making the seedling firm. Ideally, dry sand
can be poured into the hole to anchor the plant and after transplaning seedlings are watered to



- 66 -                             Annex 13
Page 5 of 6
consolidate the sand. Pinching the soil around the seedlings is common practice and effective
if carefully done by experienced labor; however, the method is open to misuse and a heavy
handed laborer can severely damage the root system. Nursery management must devise methods
of monitoring the quality of transplanting work by their labor forces.
12.       Bare-Root Plants. It is generally considered that bare-root plants are cheaper than
containerized stock because bed preparation is relatively low cost and transportation cheaper as
plants are light in weight; this does not compare either survival or early growth. Losses due to
poor survival are easily calculated but slow early growth will lead not only to lost producdvity
but increased costs of weeding. Nevertheless, there is an important place for bare-root seedlngs
in the project, particularly in the north and for mucL of the Chinese fir, poplar, and some pine
species plantings. For bare-root seedlings (Chinese fir, larch, pines), the most important nursery
practice will be root pruning. This is essential for controlling seedling height growth and
developing the optmal root system for field plaing. One feature of field plantng oftr
overlooked is the fact. that root damage at this time iterrupts plant growdt and attracts
pathogens. Therefore, nursery managemen must ensure that roots develop in the upper 15 cm
to 20 cm of their beds, so that seedlings can be lifted without root damage. This is
accomplished by undercutting; the frequency of unercutting will be controUed by the rate of
plant development (more frequently in the south than in the north). Ideally, root pruning is
mechanized but this is not possible in smaller, especially hill nurseries, so hand-held
undercutting tools will be needed for the task.
i3.       Containerized Plants. Plastic polybags are the main type of container used for
planting stock in China. These bags work well if the bag size, poting mixture, nursery
duration, and nursery management are correct. Unfortnately, these conditions are often not met
in nurseries in China - usually bags are too large, mineral potting mixtres are unsuited for
essential fibrous root development, platings are delayed due to poor weather conditions, and
nursery supervision is often not sufficiently rigorous. AU these factors will cause plants to
become either too small to bind the root plug of the potfing mixture; or too large for effective
transportation and transplanting. The biggest problem is root distortion caused by the roots
spiralling as they try to exit the bag. Experiment results from a large nmber of species prove
that this seriously retards early growth after transplanting in the field. There is the likelihood
that a completely new root system will form around the original system, which then becomes
moribund and a target for pathogens (as observed on a number of sites in China). It is
impossible to prune such a system once planted in the field.
14.       Nursery managers have noted ihese problems during NAP and embarked on a series
of trials to develop improved containers. The outcome of years of research is the development
of root trainers (reusable containers with vertical ribs inside the cavity that cause roots to grow
downward). The bottom of the container is open (the size of this opening varies with root
trainer type) and the roots grow out without coiling. Root trainer plants are arranged on open
wire-net benches above the ground so emerging roots grow into the air and quickly wither. The
physiological effect of this is for the withered root to establish a growing point immediately
inside the bottom of the container. This means that downward root growth will begin as soon
as the seedling is planted in the field. While the initial investment costs of root trainers are
high, they are reusable and the relative cost is reasonable.



- 67 -                             Annex B4
Page 6 of 6
15.       Since the hole at the container bottom precludes the use of mineral potting media,
the root trainer has an added advantage in requiring an organic potting medium, which is ideal
for development of fibrous root systems. For most species, whether conifer or broadleaf, the
optimal size of the container is no more than 150 cc to 200 cc -- and many conifers can be
effectively planted from containers with less than 100 cc capacity. Organic potting media
coupled with relatively small cavity size has two benefits. First, the roots securely bind the plug
and it is usually unnecessary to transport the containers to the field. Second, the organic potting
medium is much lighter in weight than the usual mineral mixures, which will reduce
transportation costs and be of particular benefit when planting on hilly sites. The rapid growth
immediately after transplanting is a significant benefit and likely to reduce weeding costs. Since
the root system is well aligned, there will be less likelihood that the lower bole of the seedling
would develop sweep or other defects. As it will be necessary to phase in root trainers over
time, priority should be given to the most valuable planting stock, particularly clones. It would
be advisable to plan to establish all clonal stock of eucalypts, larch, and pines, and some amount
of identified Chinese fir clones in root trainers. Black locust clones would also benefit from root
tainer containers.



- 68 -                             Annex B5
Page 1 of 10
CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
RESEARCH PROGRAM
1.   Chinese Fir
This adaptable species will make up 18 percent of the plantation component and 9
percent of the protection forest component. Research efforts to refine clonal propagation
procedures and to expedite the identification and testing of tmly superior clones are urgently
needed.
1.1   Research Objectives:
- To shorten mid-size timber rotations from 25 years to 20 years.
- To sustain average annual increments of 10.5-12 cubic meters per hectare.
- To lower establishment and management costs while improving yields.
- To improve wood quality.
- To insure that cultural practices promote good soil and water husbandry.
1.2   Current Problems:
- Supplies of improved seeds do not meet sowing requirements.
- Number of selected clones is inadequate.
- Stand density management information is needed for specific site types.
- Specifications of economic rotations for specific sites need refinement.
- Seedling and clonal plnting stock unmessarily variable.
1.3   Research Program:
- Management of seed production areas, seed stands, and seed orchards, both from a
seed production aspect and a seed quality aspect.
- Refinement of clonal propagation methods, including the establishment and
management of multiplication gardens, and improved uniformity of clonal plandng
stock.
- Acceleration of superior clone selection and testing; stardization of clonal testing.
- Establishment, with the Fertilizer CRG, of trials to examine the reaction of tested
clones to various fertilizer regimes.
- Checking, and revising as necessary, plantation cultural standards, to insure that
research results are implemented as best management pracdces.
- Intensifying plaing density resarch; continuing tending and thinning trials.



- 69 -                             Annex B5
Page 2 of 10
2.    Masson Pine
Masson pine will stock 20 percent of the plantations and 11 percent of the protection
forests in FRDPP. It is extremely important for the NAP and FRDPP research and
implementation efforts to provide effective cultural and genetic models to bolster the large
national planting programs with this species. The provenance and seed orchard programs are
starting to produce verifiable gains. High research priority should be assigned to refining the
utilization of the best provenances, to the design and management of clonal seed orchards, and
to the testing, breeding, and reselection of orchard clones and their progenies. Heavy selection
emphasis should be put on stem form and volume growth rate.
2.1   Research Objectives:
- To improve the stem form and volume growth rate of planted trees.
- To shorten mid-size timber rotations from 25 to 20 years, and pulpwood rotations
from 20 to 15 years.
- To raise the mean annual increment of pit prop plantations to reach 11 to 12 cubic
meters per hectare and the mai of pulpwood plantations to reach 9.5 to 10.5 cmh.
- To lower establishment and management costs while increasing yields.
- To raise pulp yield per unit of dry wood weight to S0 percent.
2.2   Current problems:
- Stem form generally poor, compared to exotic pines and Chinese fir.
- Supplies of improved seeds do not meet sowing requirements.
- Young clonal seed orchards are slow in coming into production.
- Provenance distribution and utilization need refinement.
- Selection for wood quality is premature.
- Cultural prescriptions for pulpwood plantations need refinement.
- Seedling planting stock is unnecessarily variable.
- Pine caterpillar is still uncontrolled.
2.3   Research Program:
- Management of seed production areas, seed stands, and seed orchards, both from a
seed production aspect and a seed quality aspect.
- Acceleration of full-sib breeding and progeny testing of clonal orchard selections,
standardized and coordinated across participating provinces.
- Continued provenance testing.
- Intensifying planting density research; continuing tending and thinning trials.
- Development of operational-scale clonal propagation methods.
- Development of integrated pest management for pine caterpillar.
- Checking, and revising as necessary, plantation cultural standards, to insure thA)t
research results are implemented as best management practices.
- Extension of studies on mycorrhizal associations, in cooperation with the Mycorrhizae
CRG.



- 70 -                             Annex B5
Page 3 of 10
3.    Poplar
Poplar species will be planted on 11 percent of the plantations. The state of the art
and technology of poplar culture is high, with research results from the national and NAP
programs guided by the CAF already well applied. Tested clones of exotic and indigenous
species, as well as tested hybrids, are widely employed in commercial plantations and in
developing agro-forestry systems.
3.1   Research Objectives:
- To increase the production clone pool; specifically, to test and select three new clones
of P. tomentosa and five clones of P. X euramencana.
- To define optimum silvicultural prescriptions which will increase average annual
increments from 15 cubic meters per hectare to 20 cmh.
- To shorten rotations to 5-6 years for pulpwood, to 12-14 years for veneer.
3.2   Current Problems:
- A broMJer base of productive clones is always desirable.
- More poplar species and hybrids should be utilized.
- Declining ferdlity of poplar plantation sites.
- Extending clonal material of P. deltoides and P. X euramericana and other species
into the more continental climates of Liaoning and Shanxi.
3.3   Research Program:
- Development of integrated pest management to control insect and disease damage in
poplar plantations.
- Selection of clones specifically for pulpwood production, integrating wood density and
volume growth.
- Checking, and revising as necessary, plantation cultural standards, to insure that
research results are implemented as best management practices.
- Testing of various clonal stocks and their cultural practices in Liaoning, Shanxi, and
Hubei.
4.    Larch
Larch will be planted on 23 percent of the plantations, including extensive areas in
Heiongjiang province, which was not included in NAP research efforts. Mean annual
increments are projected at about 8.5 cubic meters per hectare with these northerly species,
indicating that rgorous research focused on species and provenance selection, intraspecific
genetic improvement, and planting stock quality can result in significant improvement in growth
and yield. Further refinement of rooted cutting methods is key to offsetting low seed orchard
productivity and to effective utilization of interspecific hybrids. Clonal propagation, therefore,
should receive high research and development priority.



- 71 -                             Annex BS
Page 4 of 10
4.1 Research Objectives:
- To increase annual plantation productivity from 8.5 cubic meters per hectare to 10
cmh.
- To extend intensive plantation management research into Heilongiang.
4.2   Current problems:
- Low and erratic productivity of larch clonal seed orchards.
- Lack means of producing commercial quantities of seeds from good interspecific
hybrid crosses.
- Most seed orchard clones have not been progeny tested.
- Fertilization research is incomplete. Some conclusive results have not been applied.
- High level of variability in planting stock is reflected in plantation variability.
4.3   Research Program:
- Commercialization of rooted cuttng methods. With research scale success in excess
of 80 percent, cost effective, large scale clonal propagation is only a developmental
step away.
- Development of hedging orchard technology.
- Standardization of half-sib and full-sib progeny testing across existing clonal seed
orchards.
- lItensifying planting density research; continuing tending and thinning trials.
- Studying mycorrhizal associations, in cooperation with the Mycorrhizae CRG.
- Exploring cultural techniques for stimulating flowering in seed orchards.
- Continuing interspecific hybridization work, assuming that clonal propagation
successes will permit mass propagation of excellent hybrid combinations.
- Adapting root-trainer container technology for seedling and cuttng culture.
5.    Exotic Pines
Slash and loblolly pines will account for 10 percent of plantations. The startling
contrast in growth and form between these species and Masson pine on many mid-elevation sites
suggests that provenance research, particularly with loblolly pine, should be extended. Slash
pine seeds from current clonal orchards are genetically inferior to imported orchard seeds. The
genetic bases in China for these species are still too narrow. Loblolly pine adaptability and
generally better growth rates should be recognized more broadly.
5.1   Research Objectives:
- To improve the genetic quality of existing seed orchards.
- To increase the production of genetically improved seeds.
- To develop a cost effective method of clonal propagation for these species.
- To develop a silvicultural prescription for a 15 year pulpwood rotation, with an anmual
increment of at least 12 cubic meters per hectare and a pulp yield per unit of dry



- 72 -                            Annex B5
Page 5 of 10
wood weight of 55 percent.
- To develop silvicultural prescriptions for construction timber rotations of 20-25 years
with an annual increment of at least 12 cubic meters per hectare.
5.2   Current Problems:
- Improved seeds of these species must be imported for the project.
- Densities of seed orchards, seed stands, and seed production areas are generally too
high.
- Breeding of orchard clones is not standardized and systematic.
- Provenance testing of loblolly pines from Upper Coastal, Piedmont, and Southwest
regions of the United States needs emphasis.
- China's genetic base for loblolly pine, in particular, needs expanding.
- Selection for wood quality is premature.
- Seedling planting stock is unnecarily variable.
5.3   Research Program:
- Optimizing the seed productivity and quality of seed production areas and provenance
resource stands.
- Optimizing the genetic quality and productivity of clonal seed orchards.
- Monitoring disease and insect threats. Developing integrated pest management for
significant treats.
- Checking, and revising as necessary, plantation cultural standards, to insure that
research results are implemented as best management practices.
- Continuing tending and thinning trials.
- Adapting proven nuery technologies and prcedures to improve the uniformity and
morphological and physiological quality of pine planting stock.
6.    EuRa1ypis
Eucalyptus species will be planted in 6 percent of the plantations. As with the exotic
pines, a wealth of knowledge and technology for the intensive cultivation of these species has
been developed abroad and to a significant extent, within South China. The adaptation of
existing experience to specific site and species combinations should be the focus of this research
program. Emphasis will be placed on E. tereticonus, E. urophy11a, E. grandis, E.
camadinsis, E. globulus, and E. urophylla X E. grndis hybrids.
6.1   Research Objectives:
- To match species and provenances, families, and clones within species to sites and
silvicultural regimes.
- To improve the genetic quality of seedig and clonal planting stock.
- To develop silvicultural systems which will produce over 20 cubic meters of
pulpwood per hectare per year, in a seven year rotation.
- To develop disease resistant clones.



-73 -AnneAB
Page ( of 10
6.2   Current Problems:
- Sites with high quality, fertile soils are limited.
- Numbers of proven, tested superior clones are limited.
- Seedling and clonal planting stocks are too variable; nursery operations are neither
perfected nor standardized.
- Appropriate species, provenances, and clones for specific sites are not yet well
defined.
- More effective disease and insect control methods are needed.
6.3.  Research Program:
- Establishing seed orchards to supply genetically superior seeds for use until clonal
propagation is universal.
- Establishing breeding banks for the propagation of superior families as sources of
superior clones, including interspecific hybrids.
- Refinement of clonal propagation methods, including the establishment and
management of clonal multiplication gardens, root-trainer containerization, and
improved uniformity of clonal planting stock.
- Acceleration of superior clone selection and testing; standardization of clonal testing.
- Optimizing silvicultural prescriptions for species-clone-site combinations (Consider
standardizing yields on a weight basis, i.e., tons of dry wood per hectare per year).
- Developing integrated pest management for controlling serious insects and diseases.
- Study potential mycorrhizal associations and identify best inoculants, in cooperation
with Mycorrhizae CRG.
7.    Broadleaf Spies
While broadleafed, deciduous trees will be used on less than 5 percent of the FRDPP
intensive management plantations, almost one-half of the protection forests will involve
broadleafed species alone or in combination. Experience with black locust, in particular, can
be used in the protection forest component and research methodology transferred to Quercus,
Eucommia, and other genera, often of local interest.
7.1   Research Objectives:
- To develop optimum silvicultural prescriptions for black locust and Paulownia.
- To identify provenances of Alnus and Lirodendron, and to relate these to potential
planting regions and sites.
- To develop efficient systems for rooting cuttings of Alnus and Liriodendron.
- Transfer research methodology and developed technology for broadleafed species to
the core research group in Sichuan and Hubei which will work on afforestation
techniques for multi-purpose protection forests.



- 74-                             Annex B5
Page 7 of 10
7.2   Current Problems:
- Clonal plantation models for black locust and Paulownia are not tightly defined.
- Many agro-forestry systems using broadleafed species are still in developmental
stages.
- Provenance work for Alnus and Liniodendron is incomplete.
- Tending prescriptions for some species are not complete.
- Potential mycorrhizal associations should be examined.
7.3   Research Program:
- Establishing the best silvicultural prescriptions for black locust, Alnus, and
Liriodendron.
- Selection of new species.
- Continuing provenance research; extending broadleafed species applications into
Shanxi.
- Refine clonal propagation methods for black locust; develop commercial scale
methods for Alnua and Liriodendron.
- Develop the silvicultural potential of Schima superba.
8.    Pertilization
Fertilization research must be intensified and upgraded. Careful and systematic study
of plant responses; of soil and foliar analyses; of timing, dosage, and form variables; and of
costs will be needed to construct useful response models and good diagnostic tools. A soils and
fertilization expert will assist in updating methodology and in planning further focused research
efforts. Early results will improve or verify the fertilization prescribed by the FRDPP
afforestation models.
8.1. Research Objectives:
- To develop site specific ferdlizer prescriptions for the major plantation species in
FRDPP.
- To develop an understanding of the relationships between growth responses and inital
site, stand, and foliar characteristics.
- To justify the cost of ferdlizer applications on the basis of demonstrated incremental
wood production.
8.2   Current Problems:
- Fertlization research lacks sufficient emphasis; needs additional scientific and
financial support.
- Some current prescnpton recommendations are based on trials which did not include
low range dosages.
- Approach to developing response models and useful diagnostic tools which predict
responses of species/site combinations should be more systematic, less random and



- 75 -                            Annex BS
Page 8 of 10
empirical.
8.3   Research Program:
- Evaluating responses of the six major plantation species to phosphorous, nitrogen,
and/or potassium fertilization under an appropriate spectrum of soil/site conditions.
- Determining the optimum form, timing, and dosage of fertilizer applications.
- Justifying the costs of fertilizer recommendations.
- Organizing fertilizer research on a range-wide and long term basis, within each major
species.
- Understanding the relationships between growth responses and initial site, stand, and
foliar characteristics.
9.    Wood Properties
Considerable progress on establishing the wood property characteristics of plantation
species has been made through NAP research. Development of a working microdensitometer
makes work with small samples from very young trees practical. High priority should be
assigned to understanding genetic and non-genetic variauion in wood density and other wood
properties in pulpwood species which can be clonally propagated, such as the eucalypts, poplars,
and larches. Wood density variation in the seed-propagated pines should receive lower priority,
with chemical and fiber characteristics of these species being last on the list.
9.1   Research Objectives:
- To measure and understand the non-genetic and genetic variation in wood properties,
particularly wood density, of the major plantation species.
- To insure that intensively managed plantations produce wood that is of a quality well
suited to the products derived from that wood.
- To insure that forest managers and other wood producers recognize that gross or net
volumes are not always the best measures of plantation productivity.
9.2   Current problems:
- A need to better use the tremendous literature on wood quality that is available for the
eucalypts and exotic pines and larches.
- Detailed wood quality research for Masson pine is premature.
- Within tree variation patterns in wood density should be examined as soon as possible.
These patterns can be affected by silvicultural regimes.
9.3   Research Program:
- Assessing within-tree variation in wood properties of Chinese fir and poplars.
- Determining juvenile-mature correlations for wood properties of Chinese fir and
poplars.



- 76 -                             Annex B5
Page 9 of 10
10.   Mvcorrhizae Research
Excellent progress has been made on understanding mycorrhizal associations in
plantation conifer species.  More emphasis on identification and utilization of potential
mycorrhizal associations in eucalypt species is needed.
10.1  Research Objectives:
- Improve techniques for isolation, culture, and propagation of mycorrhir.Ail fungi.
- Identification and selection of mycorrhizal symbionts which promote the survival and
growth of plantation species.
- Commercialize the production of inoculants and their applications.
- Extend mycorrhizal research to eucalypt species.
10.2  Current problems:
- Pool of effective, proven mycorrhizal strains is limited.
- Methods for large scale production of inoculum are not worked out.
- Needs for artificial inoculation in the field are not defined.
10.3  Research Program:
- Developing technology for beneficial mycorrhizal fungi on Larix gmelini, L. olgensis,
and L. leptolepis.
- Exploring the potential for beneficial mycorrhizal fungi on Eucalyptus.
- Continuing the development of Pisolithus tinctorius strains as a practical artificial
inoculant for pines.
11.   Protection Forests
An eleventh core research program, centered at the Sichuan Academy of Forestry
and heavily involving the provincial research resources of Sichuan and Hubei, will plan and
execute research on afforestation techniques for multiple-use protection forests.
11.1  Research Objectives:
- To develop cost-effective forestry and agro-forestry systems which can help to
improve environmental and socioeconomic conditions in the middle reaches of the
Yangtze River.
- To quantify the effects of these systems on soil and water regimes.
11.2  Current Problems:
- Low quality of the selected sites, for example, site index 10 meters for Masson pine.
- Pressure to minimize investment per unit area.
- Limited knowledge of how potential species combinations will perform and produce.



- 77 -                                 Annex B5
Page 10 of 10
- Limited knowledge of how cultural practices will affect soil erosion and run-off.
11.3  Research Program:
- Developing cost-effective forestry and agro-forestry systems for relatively poor sites.
- Measuring the effects of cultural practices such as tending, thinning, and selective
harvesting on erosion and run-off.
- Quantifying the biomass yields, including wood, fruit, firewood, etc., on run-off
plots.
- Testing different species of grasses and shrubs for erosion control and soil
amelioration. Nepalersis is a candidatm with high poteiit al.
- Testing species of local interest, e.g., Cupressus, sumac, chestnut, etc.
- Identifying woody species with rooting characteristics which would stabilize
landslide-prone soils.



-78 -                              AnnexB6
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
EXTENSION PR,OGRAM
Introduction
1.        FRDPP will continue the extension program  and instittional arrangements
developed under NAP. The program draws on three different sources: (a) the technical project
stndards developed by MFO and approved by IDA during appraisal, which cover seedling
sandards, nursery management, silvicultural technology, and enviromnental management; (b)
the thirty-three extension messages that were developed and diseminted under NAP, which
emphasized improved planting materials, nursery management, and silvicultural technology; and
(c) the recent research results of the on-going NAP research program. The main elements of
the extension program are reviewed below.
Clonal P!anting Stock
2.        The value of clonal planting stock has finally been recognized in China, which is
one of the most impressive achievements of NAP. In order to achieve the ambitious clonal
targets in the project, the cloning capacity for species already in production (Chinese fir, black
locust, eucalypts, poplar and some other broadleaf species) will have to be increased. This will
be achieved by establishment of additional cutting orchards in provinces and counties with these
species in their plantation programs. Under the present production situation, this could be
effectively completed by the second year of the project. The only problem that is likely to arise
will be allocation of land for the orchards. In order to make allocation of land attractive, it may
be necessary to set prices on the number of cuttings harvested or increase the cost of clonal
plants.
3.        Prio   Spci   Introduction of cloning techniques for the larches is given high
priority in the extension program because (a) there is evidence of high rooting propensity; and
(b) there are available both hybrid populations and selected outstanding individual trees that can
be cloned to produce the productivity benefits that have been seen to accrue from such primary
clones. The Accelerated Planting Matrial Development Program initiated under NAP and an
on-going ODA project will help identify suitable material for the cloning program. Work will
concentrate initially on multiplying stock to establish cutting orchards; consequently, it may be
necessary to install green houses so that iultiplication is not held back by seasonal influences.
4.        The remarkable successes with cloning different species of pines will be extremely
valuable to future pine planting. The extension program will therefore focus on development
of material for establishment of cutting orchards and dissemination of cloning technologies in
appropriate provinces. High priority should be given to cloning of the various hybrids developed
locally or imported from QC eensland. The project is fortunate that cloning of hybrids has



- 79 -                            Annex B6
Page 2 of 3
proved much easier than multiplication of the parent species.
5.        The results of cloning Al=us sp and Liriodendron sp, which are two important
broadleaf species in the protection forest component, have shown great promise. Since it is
essential for trees to quickly cover the fragile watersheds of protection forests, clonal material
will ensure speedy establishment and high value production. Once again, centralization of
selected trees and their multiplication for establishment of cutting orchards is a high priority.
For all these clonal species, the extension staff will have to ensure that local staff understand
management methods for cutting orchards and the differences in handling practices between
seedlings and clonal plants.
Improved Planting Stock
6.        The extension program must ensure that the new practices in improved planting
stock development and nursery management, which are reviewed in Annex B4, are quickly
conveyed to field staff. Implementation of technologies is an on-going exercise and changes
should be made as soon as possible after net. information is authenticated. Four separate items
are listed for priority extension, as they have demonstrated already that there will be significant
productivity gains.
7.        MySfrrhiza. The central research group has found that careful inoculation with PT
mycorrhiza produces rapid early growth of pine seedlings; there are indications that this
advantage is maintained as plantations develop. Currently, the inoculum is being produced in
Beijing and distributed. Extension staff should encourage development of decentralized inoculum
production of PT and monitor gains from other mycorrhiza under study so that successful results
will be quickly transferred to the field.
8.        Root Trainers. The initial work in China supports international experience that root
trainers have a number of benefits over poly-bags. Some trainers are already being produced
in a number of southern provinces and the planting stock production schedule indicates that
nearly 60 million plants will be raised in root trainers during the project. There are some
critical technical practices essential for the efficient adoption of root trainer technology, such as
the organic potting media and raised mnrsery pot-standing to permit air pruning of emergent
roots. Extension staff will have to ensure that root trainers are used correctly in nurseries as
well as encourage more nurseries to adopt the root trainer technology. Priority should always
be given to the most valuable planting material, such as seedlings from tried and tested progeny
and, of course, clones.
9.        Root Prning. Pruning the roots of bare-root planting stock has already started in
the northern nurseries and is graduatly being intrduced in the south. The objective is
development of a root system that is not damaged during lifting prior to transportation to the
field and of a suitable type to commence early growth after field planting. Extension staff will
have to monitor work in the northern nurseries to ensure that the practice is properly carried out.
In the southern nurseries, they will have a more difficult task since root pruning is not
traditional. Since growth is more rapid in these nurseries than in the north, more frequent
pruning will be needed to develop the required root system type for transplanting. Adequate



-80 -                               Amex B6
Page 3 of 3
supplies of the newly designed hand-held root pruning tool will have to be made available and
labor will have to be trained in its use.
10.       Wood Ouality Tes=n&. The central research group has developed a densitometer
that can be used to estimate wood density of young trees. There are breeding programs in
different stages of development all over China and also plantations being raised for fiber
production and pit props. Extension staff should encourage extensive use of this new tool so that
local researchers and, more importantly, plantation managers will become aware of the wood
quality of their plantings. Some routine system will have to be developed so that wood quality
as measured with the densitometer becomes a stadard measurement in plantation records.
Silvicultre Practices
II.      IDA reviewed and approved at appraisal the afforestation models developed by
MFO. However, several of the models conne to incorporate silvicultural treatments that do
not optmize growth and economic returns according to international experience. Consequendy,
the following three items have been included in the extension plan for dissemination during the
project.
12.       Chemical Weedicides. The cutting of wood shrubs and control of weed growth has
been a major expense in larch establishment in the north. Research tials on a number of
weedicides have shown that an appropriate mixtre of "velpa" and "glyophosate" significantly
will reduce weed regrowth and, conseauently, plantadon establishment costs. This technology
will be disseminated under the project, in accordance with the project's strict environmental
magement guidelines on the storage, handling, and use of agro-chemicals.
13.       Fertize. Research trals have shown that phosphate fertilizer is more effective in
promoting early growth on plantations of Chinese fir and eucalypts than the more commonly
used blanced NPK fertdlizers. Height and collar diameter growth in treated plantations
increased significantly following application of 25 kg of phosphate. Since this is locally
available and cheaper than the balanced fertlizer, extension agents will educate the afforestation
entities on these fertilization findings. Of course, the results are from relatively young
experiments so the recorded gains may not continue. Once results from the cnmbination of soil
and foliar analyses become available, the extension staff will be in a better position to advise on
specific applications.
14.       Spacing. The initial plantiag densities for many species in the project exceed
internaional standards. This is a complex issue in China because of (a) the strong market
demand for small-size wood products such as building poles and (b) the need for short-term
income generation for many afforestation entities. Since the large planting densities bring in
early returns on plantation investment, it is difficult to convince farmers to reduce their stocking
densities in order to maximize production over time. However, research in many countries with
a wide range of species has indicated that the spacing currently practiced in China is too narrow.
This brings trees into competition too early, thereby causing some growth losses in respect of
site potential. Extension workers bave to face this problem and where possible find farms where
lower planing densities could be introduced.



-81-~ ~~ A ~B7
-81 -mx R
*~CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMEBT ANi) PROTECTION PROJECT
TRAINING AND TECHICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Category/Topic                    Lenth          -    Number of Participants
(days)      Year I   Year2   Year3   Year4    Total
A. Overseas Study Tour                           35        35       20       15      105
Nursery Techniques          IS             10       10        5        5       30
Planting Techiques          15             10       10        5        5       30
Fertflization               IS              S        5                         10
Plant Protection            15                       5        5        5       1S
Naural Resource Economics   15              5                                   5
Project Management          15                       5        5                10
Environmental Management    15              5                                   5
B. Overseas Training                             20        25        5       10       60
Nursery Management          90             10        5                         15
Silvicultural Mnagement     90             10       15                         25
Protection Forest Tecimology   90                             5                 5
Economics and Information    90                      5                10       15
Category/Topic                                              Number of Days
Year I   Year2   Year3   Year4    Total
C. InternatonalConsultants                       65        65       70       25      225
Research Advisory Group                                      45                45
Natral Forest Management                   20       20                         40
Protection Forest Management               20       20                         40
Other                                      25       25       25       25      100
D. Local Consultants                             60        90       90               240
Policy Studies                             60       60       60               180
Other                                               30       30                60
Category/Topic                                     Number of Participants-
National  Provincial    County      Farm       Total
E. Local Training                    500       3,300     19,800     18,000     41,600
Project Management             100        700      2,000                 2,800
Silviculmural Management                  480      2,400                 2,880
Extension                                                    12,000      12,000
Research                       100        480      1,200      6,000       7,780
Demonstration Plantations      100        480     12,000                 12,580
Environmental Management       100        640      2,200                  2,940
Information Management         100        520                              620



CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPIENT AND PROTECTION PRWOECT
Afforestation Unit Cost by Speciet
(TuuVha)
............... ............................... ............ .........................  ,,,,,,,,,,.......................................... .............................. ..............................................._
Labor                           Chemical Organic            Guard/Stg.
Site Prep. Planting  Tending Sub-total Seedling FertilizeManure    Pesticide  Shed         Other a/   Total
..............................................................................................................................................
Protection Forest
I  Cypress/                             551       190        418    1,159        88        0         0        6         60        130    1,453
Atder                                  0        0           0        0        88        0         0        0          0          0       88
2  Nbsson Pine/                         485       171        456    1,112       123        0         0        6         60        130    1.431
Broad-leaf Tree                        0        0           0        0                  0         0        0          0          0       6
3  Nasson Pine                          551       171        561    1,283       162        0         0        6         60        130    1,641
4  Chinese fir                          836       190        599    1,625       180        0         0        6         60        130    2,001
5  Sawtooth Oak                         333       152        228      713       190        0         0        6         60        112   1,081
6  Chestnut                            1.036      190      1,083    2,309     1,374      473         0       23         60        280   4,519
7  Pear                               1.216       190      1,083    2,489     1,374      515         0       23         60        280   4,742
8  Eucoam.!a                            722       171        684    1,577       917      252         0       12         60        180   2,998
9  Chinese Sumac/                       390       238        542    1.169     1,430        0       220        8         60        180   3,067
Uhite Birth                            0        0           0        0        28        0         0        0          0          0       28
10 Hills-Closure-I                      124       67         95       285        68        0         0        6         60         66      485
II Hills-Closure-2                        0        0         95        95         0        0         0        6         60         66      227
Plantation b/
1 Chinese Fir (18)                      882       168      1,344    2.394       163        0         0       11        108        209    2,884
2  Chinese Fir (16)                   1.250       197      1,260    2,707       195      207         0       11        108        209   3.437
3  Chinese Fir (14)                   1,418       236      1,082    2.735       234      414         0       11        108        209   3,711                       oo
4  Nasson Pine (14)                   1,155       189        903    2,247       180      207         0       11        108        209    2 962
S  Nasson Pine (16)                   1,029       158      1.008    2,195       150      104         0       11        108        209    2776                        1
6  Slash Pine (18)                      746       179      1,269    2,153       175      104         0       11        108        209    2,759
7  Slash Pine (16)                      819      210       1,071    2.100       210      207         0       11        108        209    2.845
8  Slash Pine (14)                      924       263        914    2,100       263      295         0       11        108        209   2 985
9  Loblolly Pine (16)                   819       210      1,071    2.100       220      207         0       11        108        209   2:855
10 Japanese Larch (16)                1,029      200       1,082    2.310       330        0         0       11        108        209   2,968
11 Japenese Larch (14)                1,092      221       1,029    2,342       363      186         0       11        108        209   3,219
12 Korean Larch (16)                  1,029      200       1,082    2,310       240        0         0       11        108        209   2,878
13 Korean Larch (14)                  1,092      221       1,029    2,342       264      186         0       11        108        209   3.120
14 Chinese Uhite Poplar (tI)            630       158       61    1,428         508      695         0       11        108        189   2 939
15 Populus Simonif (12)                 557      158        567    1,281        378      597         0       11        108        189   2,564
16 Eucalyptus (1)                       909      127        805    1,840        192      925         0       11        108        199   3,275
17 Slack Locust (18)                    672      126        756    1,554        688      207         0       11        108        189   2.756
18 Schima Superba (II)                  830      116        630    1.575        275        0         0       11        108        199   2.168
19 Noso Bamboo - New (II)             1,103      945        819    2,867      1.733      718         0       11        108        209   5,65
20 Noso Bamboo - Rehab. (11)          1,239         0        819    2,058         0      638         0       11        108        209   3,024
21 Arundinaria (II)                     924      651         882    2,457     2.160      393         0       11        108        209   5:338
........ ............ ... . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . .    . . . . .. .. . . . ... . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ... .
a/ Including costs for Management. Environment Monitoring, Inspection/Supervision. survey/design, and miscellaneous equipment.
b/ Figures in parentheses denote site index.
In



China
Forest flesouc"e 3velopment and Protection Project
Intelusively Managed Plantation Component
Dotaled Ctoat
(US$ '0003
Sease Cost                                                               Total* Including Contingoncies
1999      -1996         1997        1996        1999        2000       Ttotl         MS9         3996        1997        1998         29,99      2000       Total
A. Obtedial.
1. Vrtilliso
VA?                           2,872.30   4,266.10   4,979.18   2,170.88               -            -  14,288.47   3,264.92   4,991.72   9,992.00   2,601.00                -           -  16,933.24
Urea                          1,420.90   2,0911.995  2,394.39   1,029.28              -            -   6,926.12   1,1.7 2,436.07   2,8091.43   1,272.09                    -           -   8,204.06
ZCi,                            196.60       294.39      13303       147.S9                        -     9,71.86     223.44      344.42      400.78       182.76           -           - I I151AG
Si~tota1 teztillser   4,489.40   6,642.41   7,0.0 3,346.04                     --  22,186.49   5,102.44   7,772.2                   9,74.2    4,137.69-                            26,286.71
2. Pesticlde                        197.03      234.92      273.74      110.22            -           -     701.91      178.48      274.89       329.42      146.11           -           -      926.860
smtobtal" watoriala,                4,646.44   6,077.33  7-i,990.34   1,466.26               --  22,970.36   9,290O .9 2   8,.047.09   9,601.62   4,283.99                                       27,215.90
Pick-up                          4,21t.77            -           --                 -                 -   4,211.77   4,786.90                         - -         -                       -    .786.90
Fig*-fighting Vehicle              960.19            .                                                -     968.18   1,093.30             -           -           -           -                1,093.30
Itrck                              631.03            .           -            -           -           -     631.01      717.20            -                 -                 .                  717.20
Fex MachOne                         33.30            -           -            -           -           -      33.10       37.62            -           -           -           -.                  37.62
Zeros Machine                      169.75            -           -            -           -           -     169.79       192.93           -           -           -           -                   92.93
Electric typewrIter                136.99            -           -           -            .           -     136.99      199.20            -           -           -           -           -      3S.20
Laze: Print.r                      169.96            -                       -                        -     3189.9S6    21S.9                         --                                         219.49
subtotal Equ.iosut                  6,331.g9                         -           -           -           -   6,334.91   7,396.60             ----                                 -               7,196.60
C. Labow
tend Clearing                    9,173.03   7,677.01   9,030.03   3,671.21                .           .  29,792.07   9,060,31   8,98.78  10,866.84   4,784.43                 -           -30,914.36
site Prep*ration                 6,773.09  13,331.64  1,1998.93   6,629.97                -           -43,733.99   9,971.03  19,365.18  10,290.SS98,193.99                    .           -S193,20.76
forest tracks                      696.93   3,043.09   1,219.93         929.29            -           -   1483.23        792.10   1,220.51   1,463.26        649.16           .           -   4,325.01
Planting                         2,716.19   4,186.94   4,77S.77   2,139.12                -           -  3,798.32   3,087.09   4,899.09   9,747.21   2,619.40                 -           .  36,392.79
tending                          4,3.    13,476.23  l9.043.31  18 121.97  11,970.19 ....I,~S0.43  67~,0. 36   9,049.60  12,960.13  22,916.68  22.397.00  14,671.17  4  61457~ 82652
"atotal Lakbor                    2-1,799.46  37,114.93  49,263.78  31,267.82  11,970.19   1,990.43 194,966.99  24,776.23  43,427.74  99,266.99, 36,643.96  14,671.37   4,614.57 349,418.24
D. 0Other
Guard/Stolage Shed               1,941.79   2,306.48   2,687.99   3,160.69                .               7,696.55   3,752.33   2,698.79   3,234.27   1,434.50                -           .   9,119.69
Sutvay/Da-4iqn                     618.30      929.84   1,0780.8        469.69            -- 3.088.66                   702.73   1,083.31   L-29. 27         979.S9- 
Sutotal Other...,600                             3,232.321   7,6j.41   1.6 -6                             - 10,789.23   2,499.06   3,!8.1.3   4,_932.94~ 2 .030.0Sk               -               2795
Total laovetnent Costs                  34,937.94  43,226.96  61,030.93  36,360,46  11,570.1S   1,990.41 194,654.07  39,708.81  99,296.93  73,420.71  44,937.94  14,671.17   4,614.97 232,610.37 
RI ecurrent Costs
A. Zncrmmntal Operating Cto ts
tnformatlon P4anagaaant             97.30       342.93      213.92      189.24       92.76       21.49      712.63       44.90      166.77)     296.99       228.94      117.6?       27.94      863.12
Znv3ro,ment lloitorinq               17.30      340.67      210.78      182.09       91.18       21.49      701.47        6490      164.99      291.66       226.99      119.87       27.94      891.99
managesant                         211.74       522.41      877.92      839.22      909.06      191.92   3,088.68       240.69      611.20   1,096.90    3,012.47        641.44      366.93   3,799.26
tnspection/supervlsion              97.10-      140.67      210.76      182.05       91.38       23.49      701.47       68.90      164.99      293.66       224.99      119.67       27.94      891.99
Totl RearestCosts,                     183.09      946.29   19513.00   1,366.99         791.38      216.00  9S 209.2!             1      0SS 117.24   1,824.78   1,693.40   990.80      280.74  _6.326.29
I tetl                                                                                                                                                                        15,661__ _   .9__ _ _  _ _ _   _ _   1 .3   , _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _   ___ S_3_2___3 .4
total                         ~~~~~~~~~~39,320.99)  40170.89  82,923.91  37, 72.0 i--  12,391.93   3.766.43 199,662.33  40, 144.1 5( 6,364.17  79,241.47  46,629.30   9639        ,9.328664
China
Fotest Rsso,srce Devolopmeani and Protect ton Project
capacity Building Component
Detailed Cto,t
(3U1$ 1000)
Base. Cost-                                               Totals Including Contingencies
3999     3996-   1997         1998     1999      2000    total - 1999          1996      1997      1998      1999      2000    Total
1. Zaeetast Coat.
A. Squilent
Ctoumter                                       940.90          -                                           5    46.90   621.96       --e                                        621.96
soft...:.                                      164.07                      ...............   .              64.07    MA6.4                                                       MA -.-    66
"total Zquimant                                    709                                                        710.97   809.09           -                        -                  e  08.09
S. tossUt.itmaol Tecl.iaal Asaistanoc
International Consultants                       90.29    67.00    70.29        16.79         .             244.29   102.97    78.40    04.9         20.70         .-   266.21
Local Consultento                                 6.2S      6.25      6.25      6.29 S                      29.00      7.0i      7.31      7.92      7.       7 1 --             29.60V
Subtotal Institutional Technictal Assistanace    98.90    73.29         76.94    23.00           .        - 269.25   109.60    89.71    92.06    28.43                --   119.88V
C. Iraloi4  /ttudy towrs
Oversees Training                               240.00   300.00    60.00   120.00            -         - 720.00   272.77   193.03    72.20   148.31                -              44.31
local Training                                  376.21   158.97   172.47       69.60                       S  77.214   200.27   186.00   207.99    86.02          .             679.84
Overse,as Study Tour                            249.00   249.00   140.00   109.00            .             739.00   278.46   28.67   168.40   129.17              -               63.37 
Ruta,otal training/Study Tousts                    661.21   703.97   372.47   294.60            -         -2,032.24   791.90   823.?0   448.24   364.09               -          2,387.93
Total tavosrmeat Coat.                               3,4W66.7   777.722 -448.97 -337.6-0             -         .3,012.46 1,669.22   909.41  9T4 0.3 0   192.S2                        . 3,13.46
Investment promotIon Cents:                     91.24    91.24    91.24    93.24             -         -   364.94   103.69   106.79   109.79   312.76             -- 433.00
Natural Forest Manegeme't                        29.0000  20    290  2         29.00 -o                -   100.00    28.43      29.29     10.89    30.90           -             t19.69
Ttatl fleuvoaart costs                                  130.60   136.93   396.47   196.43    40.21    40.23   660.92   148.44  1L60.21   169,29   19.1               A9.0       92.29   793,62
trotal                                                 3,9-99.28   91414    09.44   414.06    40.21   4-0.21 3,671.36 1,8617.66 1,089.61   728.99   989.90    93 .03    9-2.29 4,309.08



forest kamic.r os1m      at ad Prtecatin  "goect
miatvipb-Ils Protectiomn locut comaweit
ma.. cost                                                    toaijcado    mi osal
199       1995   ..s....                 (9        200        total-   195        19          97       196        19              O~... tstl
2. lkwsstsmt coso"
A. Ibtswilao
f.orti(Ius:                     317.23    611.10    166.26    335.70           -         -  2,696.77    563.29    166.99    922.32    414.919                     -  2,467.39
Pesticide                        1o. 37     0S.59     94.17     40.64          -         -    20.317      S7.2S     94.29    113.01      10.23         --    31S.10
Organic Nants                 9!     3    jj[7        HA        30.34             ,2 77.91                43.11     19.10     69.09      37.S0                    -    209.79
odtatu   MaIsials                 _421.153  -7686.66    910.99    406.77          -              .)1 4-03.644  9-20.46  3I.105.91    1-02.73              -- 3.0(2.76
pickup                          029.12          -         -          -         -              629.12    711.40          -          -                              -    71S.4
Fit*-flobting Vehici.            93.49          -         -         -          -                3.49      94.90         -                                               94.90
Korea n.aclt,.                  169.71                    . -       -          -               169.71    192.93                    --                  --    192.93
Electrical Typswits:             61.93          -         -         -          -         -     63.93      93.12         -                    .                   -      93.12
Later Puint,:                     6.11                                                          S."--  i   6.91
Bt.AAA    tqAPI~Mt                 970.00                                                       9  - -- 970.00  1.103.37                                            .1131
C. tabot
Site preperation              2,009.70  3.477.60  4,200.94  371.713.7S                     11,407.47  2.17S.1514,060.40  1,005.09  2,1.115- S                       13,624.16
Conservation Wlcst              303.36    272.31    326.93    130.16           -               92.16    161.06    316.40    393.43    t60.67           -            .010S.30
forest tracks                    0t.99    (36.79    196.60      69.79          -         -    491         94.32    162.39    202.09      61.02                        5 44.6)
Planting                        607.06  1.076.9*  (.166.0 5o 42.16                          3,:I6:6.11    7680.86  1.260.16  I.S76.23    670.73        .            4,206.01
?.ndlnq                         979.26  2,371.45  1.7014.04  3.2S3.IS1 (.77.0       462.83 12.119.44  1.112.99  :2.)7::6l  4 469.14  4.021.3*  2.25I.       60.14 (S.234.66
Subtotal Labor                   4.0(2.61  7,136.315 7633177111106                     462.3 29011    ,469    ,8.831.707.11  7,013.46  S.146                   601.14 34,710.02
0.Other
Gua:dltetrago Shad              36. 21    179.31    675.66    209.6 SO-  3,931.41    438.94    677.64    6(1.34    3S17.99                                       .-2.286.1l
su:v.ioosaIgn                   2131.64    147.22    413.24    173.71          -         -   .3(.01    243.06    406.20    497.30    214.73            -            (.361.31
subtotal Othe                       0.1      96.3(093             463.40                       3  1079.06    661.1998.6.213(.4            127                           3.6(9.46
total Inw.tusnt Costs                S,9.63R  9-,049.14 31,736.42  6,1-77.33  1.770.00    462.63 31.'603.02  6,617.94 P0R6.7  (4.121.74  8,129.93  2.214,61    001.1  42.5(1.60
nI. s*ourrent costs
A. Increment.al Operatintg Coot&
lnfor.atlon Nanagasst            11.64     36.11      19.73     11.22     26.20       6.39    147.71     17.78      41.11     71.06     61.30      33.22      e.31    239.S7
Envtronawnt Nonltoring           38.61     43.60    66.98       18.22      30.64      7.19    22S.30     20.47      11.32     60.60     71.91      38.66      9.66    273.06
Nanagsant                        7.1      19.6.9    329.73    301.10    100.19       55.20  1,34.6.0      67.24    227.60    396.76    377.06    216.19      71.74  1.397.24
inspection/Su.pervision          36.02     40.24      61.98     11.37     30.01       7.19    213.24     39.23      47.09     74.16     66.43    36.io        9.06    216.271
Total 0V  can4t C"ost                   (24.44   -317.34    (18.36    469.91    273.47      767   (.702.30    (43.70    371.32    623.62    180.76    346.77        99.76 2163
rota"                                 0,121.27  9,366.6 (8 2.214.90  7,047.23  2,001.16    1,39.16 P7.1so-.12  6,961.69 1090.0   34,767.16  6,0.92,001.43   701.31 4268,61.41                                          00
Forest  esource  China
Fort psouct,osvslcpssnt and protection Projoet
Planting Stock Onvalopsant Component
Detailed Cwost
"so. Coat                                                    totals IncludI2o continoncs
1991      1996     3L9-9-7    196        19        200       ttl        19                   (97       (9        199        00       toa
I. Sawa.tsant Costa
A. Materials
1.  ad
Slash fine          316.16     61.33     34.61          -                         232.36    132.04     t 91.1     41.4                    -          -    249.14
loblloit Pi".       308.02     76.17     32.01          -                         237.64    123,60     69.33      3'9.29        -                    -    212.10
Caribsan Pipe        24.06     37.40      7.46          -         -          -     49.71     26.25     20.36       9.97         -                          S 7.16
tocalyptus           16.71     13.10      1.63                                     37.41     21.20     (5.32       6.71                   -                43.34
sutotal 66.ds          266.10    167.99     9017           -                          37.32   _301.23  2319.97    -96.96           -          --             622.16
S. SeedIngs
349               1,769.26  3.030.06  3,166.6313,S10.49           -          .9,910.44  2.016.66  3,146.16  4,294.77  1,914.16s                        11,606.17
(NP              3.934.62  6.(29.19  6.961.32  3.136.20           -         -20,161.33 j.(l1.90 7,171.7 0  37   1  _3,S70                 -          - 23.e96.96
Jkltotal Seedlings  1.703.88  9,160.06 30,130.11  4,737.60                 -      30,1(1.77  6.162.751(0.719.O9 12,672.10  S.030.60                     - 35,703,53
3. Pesticide                -    172.43               172.43                         4.1  -              201.74               213.09                    -    414.93
scEot1 (tatetiaJL.      1,797.44  EP.124  30,6(0.72  4,699.10           -            3..19,93.726.77.   11,139.79 1,6.60036                                   6701
Pick-up              1,423.91         -               -         -          -       1,423.91  (.610.35                                  -                   1,610.11
Eruck                  631.03         .         -          -                         0 31.03    737.20                   -         -717.20
Tractor                     -  (.013.79          .                              -1,031 9            -1,136.23            -                              - 1,366.23
Spdink(r               3130.34        -          .                              -    310.34    327-2                                                         S  - 32.72
Croaks:       43.77          .         -         -          -         -  43.71  49.74                -         -          -         -         -  49.74~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  S2
Plastic Shalte:        326.90         -                    .                          26.9 PS  144.22          -                                              44.22
Chemical Powger          6.10S-o-                                               -      910       96                                                            9.6
Chemical Spray.:        29.24         .                                                924      3.3-                               -                           31
Root Cuttar             12.40         -          .                   -          -     32.40     3.0.2          .         -         -                          36.62 
Seeding Nachina          1.01                    -                                      .03      1.70                                                          S       .70
BeddIng Iaetdne         3312          .            .2                                  13.12    3114           -         -         -                    -       11.4
Seedling Litter          0.91         -                                                 :- -  .9  (.03                                                         1    .03
Notor Tticycls          12.10                                                         1       2.14  (3.80                -                                     13.00
Maat.: Pop.              1.4S         -                                         .      13.41    31.14                                                         3S.74
Other                   36.S1         -          -                                    36.11     41.62          -         -         --                  .      43.62
Sthtotal tqoivmnt       2,707.47  (.013.79          -                   - -           3,721.26   .1.6(162                                                     4.203.41
total                        6,7.030,34.21 10,630.72  4C.6*0.20               -            4744    .913   2160  12,769.06  6,043.69-rl(019



"eoples Repubtic of Chine
62r Caime bute Reseve  eneeat toject
sojoeet C"o 8lrasp
I     I Total
____ ____ ____ __  trot ipu  Same
Local      fuen          r Tat)l     Loeal      roI e        I otol    pcheoqe  costs
a. cepoamt srte: Itsegtbe.7q rSoteleatn sCltm
t39(v01t IUqe@t. a otgengastlonAt, U          l Uis Plnnnlog                            2,061.906   2.309.20,   6,113.2S4    490,011    StS,539  1,013,09             S4        6
tap elotl   field Iawel froteetlee aStIeF                                             21,021,023   5,912,21   26.939.316  3,656,614  l,02,232  4,69s,1DS            22       21
0e.elaplmg Com.ommiv Pctticipal ice                                                    *0,4,, 110 ..2JU!dq      I t-ILM   1.500.551    $13.2pI JL01S.A22              20        12
subtotal C_mngUst me: Stglhemlng ?trotectilm  sieus                                       22.89.099  12.329.0"a  05640.se6  S.655,4o96  2,379I,0174i  714,31             20       ,42
B. Compowat %wooetatal ragest Naaenen                                                     10.142.541      109.9s5  10.9123.06  1.164,096    122.916  1,69e,00l            I        It
c. coma   Threat *e  eloplng lmtslatteml capaslOf
1.  sg tleatietl Osotet
toma tIne                                                                           1,699.2S0      316,91   2.11S.610    29S,S21        55,024    3SO,551         16        2
, national      @                                                                   4LI43,         __2d3-S!L?    5524.% $   1|,20 Si4    41-S^99 _1,1146,03        32   t--4
Subtotal Oegeteatsalma  sevetopneel5 .0 2,6290  2.691.4S    8,543.096  1.01611)l  -469.12)  1.401,224                                                                 22        9
9. 3,ambs"l.s Shllis
sr"ervie tre*elnt                                                                   0.1241723   4,604,620  I,Sl9,324t  1.414,134    014,111 2.229,451             37        32
.hoject "mageemot *.212. 49   1.652.41   4,924.690    569.139    201.32                                                                               056.460        24    _
Subletal compoweat liesee  Savaloping gmtltuaAalt capacify                                11.26.9to1  9,024.219  26.284,129  2.999.904  1.511.166  4.511.131             24       21
O. Compnent feat: Seoloplng Metature ReS* t. Umtgaeut latoettion sytpe
I. Date  emoegeent                                                                     1.100.134    2,509,S19   1.169,6e7    205,241    010,353       655,594        69         4
2. ilCen rntoe. VWs blotino g       ntc5.410  %_ 1.12 _.12S.S1o    960.423                                                                  6.e 9239 1206S.3          9        6
Subtotal Componenut froats oavel.plng Uautto Reserve Ramangament Znterseettee slate"    6,140.926   2,3.46,091   9,09S5,51  -1. 112,614i   541.205  1.120.960            22        1
e. Ceepenent rtos: SuppoetIng "tows s esoir retmest eb
Ise re RSearchd tProgrms                                                                1.440.0 1     15051.90   1.945.402    2se.449       *7.,9S    220.345         26        2
Reseetch - Smell Ceat  e "t'g-o                                                         2.313,S6 . 20tJ!    2,521.121    4e2 15O            26,31    419'!d            a         I
Subtotal Co _pone _t fiest sutpplimO notets Reset.. rsseeh                                e153.6ii      11.II oi    66,0l - 652i U0          4 et2    716,015         16         S
Tta  esisiC comt                                                                           10,414,00i  26.192.1I9 -90.600.41 U12246 2  4,5.SS,42 16.001.40s               21i      I0
php,lcdl Coatingencles                                                                      614,206       49.42      661.069    106.050        0.606      MAS.4S6        1         I
Rlice Cent ingeucis.                                                                     2  902.044   2,2.1   232~4tO?I  11,214.51           420.9305,95 j ~92   492?             4 
vtoetal  00JCt Tstes                                                                       ofiffi '    - 20'.662.416 1230,Sid6,    i1121,404  4.914,949 2,712.433        22       la!
Cltino
Forest Oosrco Developeant and Rrotectton Pro5-ct
Rsea*rch and Technology trans.far COceeat
votailla coot.
(Us$ '800)
Sve. cost                                           Totals including contingencies
1995     1996    1997    1998      19t9     20e   Total    3995    It96         3997     3990     199     2000    Total
n. R t Cst
A. saleare.
Resarch                             ISI.72   151.72   1SI.72   1Sl.72   151.72        -  710.62   172.44   177.S3  162.19   107.52   192.19         -  912.47
ateslon                             3214.71   134.71 34.71   134.71   314.71         - 1,673.56   300.42  191.64   402.80   413.67   421.42        - 2.012.91
P9lot Plsatlon                        9.20     9.20     9.20     9.20     9.20             45.98    10.41    10.76   t1.07    11.36    11.66        -   55.30
Conswrvetlon trials                   IS       1. .1lS           l.lS     1.15        -     5.7      1.31    1.34     1.38     1.12    t.l6         -    6.91
Subtow  SaslaRI                        496.7e  496.70   496.78   496.70   496.78         - 2,403.91   164.62   581.28   197.81   613.91   629.91       - 2967.61
D. taeret.al  eentl   CDt t                                                                                                                                912
Soseaclb                            tSt.72  151.72             151.72   111.72   I1.72  -  75.62  172.44   177.11   102.59   187.52   192.19        -  912.47
stmnslom                             62.07    92.07    82.07    02.07    92.07            410.14    93.20    96.01    98.76   101.43   103.07       -  493.56
90lot plantation                      1.4      1.04     1.04     1.84     1.84        -    9.20     2.09     2.15     2.21     2.27     2.13        -    11.06                                       S.
Cons. w ton trials                    0.2      0.21     8.21     0.23     0.23        -     1.15     0.26    0.27     0.28     0.28     0.29        -     1.38
1           t tl          t    Coat   211.86   215.06   211.06   211.06   231.86   -       1.179.11  268.07   275.98  283.03 291.10S  299.08           - 3.410.47
12.       2.64 712.64  .6 72.64   7.             - 6.661.22 *832.69   1S7.26  861.67   901.46   929s.01           4,486.10



China
Foett Rescutea Dwuvelopent nd Protection Project
"eojant  qmmts by tlao
Bse" Cst I', '002BaeCot(18  0
1991    _t96         199        1999       199         2000     total        199S       196        197         1999      1999        2000      Total
Protection Porests                 S  209.91  01.491.0S 106.616.79  61,310.93  17,840.S3   4,694.39 321,2S2.30   6,12S.27   9,366.89  12,214.60   7,047.23   2,051.56        539.50  37,36S.32
2  Intensive Piartatleo              307,292.61 419,086.37 S43,94.72 320,242.36 107,118.29  32,767.96  1,730.902  3S,320.99  49,170.91  62,S23.53  37,729.01  12,351.53   3,7t6.43 199,962.31
4. plantirn  Stack  Dlvlqgant         75.SIS.15  91,646.01  92,113.29  42,543.09           -          - 302,020.34   0,679.90  10,S34.2S  10,610.72   4,800.10           -          _  34,714.99
5.  Resreb and technology TranSter   6,374.00   6.374.00   6,174.00   6,374.00   6,374.00             - 31,870.00      732.64     732.64     732.64     732.64      732.64          -   3,663.22
S. Capacitg building                  13.913.73  7.913.03   S,267.31   4.124.36       350.00     310.00  31,958.41   I.S99.20     914.14     60S.44      474.06 _ 40.23         40.23   3.673.30
soea  rA     06amS                     4S613,5.2  606,913.27 754,126.11 442,S99.94 132,030-81  37,012.34  2,429,903  52,459.00  69,710.77  06,727.14  50,873.04  19,175.96   4,346.29 279,299.24
Ptysical Contingecies                  54,906.90  72,913.21  90,771.53  13,247.70  11,894.36   4,149.1- 292,336.01   6,311.13   8,387.73  10,433.9?   6,120.43   1,625.79       922.89  33.601.93
PsticeCntingao
Local                              19,450.96  76,499.71 161,049.64 134,343.00  S6,830.69  19,937.40 464,114.S7   1,775.97   9,792.96  10,S11.00  15,441.73   6,533.18   2,291.66  93,346.50
Foreign                             2,t35.09   4.751.49   8.298.55   9,409.36      171.04      91.99  21,117.S1     279.90     546.11     913.96     621.77       19.66       S.97   2.427.30
Ss*toetl Inflatiou                   17,6I6.05  01,250.21 169,144.21 139,752.44  17,009.72  19,999.46 45,232.06   2,055.07  9,339.10  19.464.95  T6,063.1S   6,512.64   2,297.64  9S,773.8
Devaluation                          S9122.09   9,934.53  16,266.45  10,474.22       331.01     101.96  41,031.11  -1,203.71  -5,969.44 -12,257.61 -10,162.9S  -4.311.19  -1.117.97 -31,341.67
Subtotal Ptice Coontitlncies           23 009.14  90 794.74 185 610.66 150,226.67  57.341.57  20,091.41 527,063.19      952.15   3,470.66   7,207.24   S,8S0.6S   2,241.66      779.77  20,432.14
etxl          C0062                    53t4,300.22 770,111.22  1,030.912 646,069.99 205,256.74  62,452.09  3,249.303  19,621.36  91,517.15 104,368.35  62,074.13  19,243.41 5,6B4.90 333,133.31
or eign IsacSnge                      17S,494.68 121,217.37 136,438.07  69,309.40   1,800.12      470.40 s03,n30.20  19,193.06  12,837.11  13,912.83   6,647.73      160.77      43.20  93,092.77
00



- 87 -                                    Anex C4
Page 1 of 2
CgINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT AND PROCUREMENT BY INVESTMENT CATEGORY
TOTAL     --IDA DISB. - -
UNIT PRICE      TOTAL      VALUE 121  RATE  VALUE       PROCURE.
CATeGORY                        (YUAN) (11    QUANMTITY    (tUSD'000)  (%) (US.D'000)    METHOD t31
1. EQUIPMENT                                                13,610            13,610
Vehicles                                                 10,928    100%   10,928
Pick-Up Trucks (1.5 ton) 130,400           418         7,121            7,121    ICB
Fire-Fighting vehicles   181,600            50         1,186             1,186    ICB
Trucks  (5-10 ton)       183,000            60         1,434             1,434    ICB
Tractors                  42,000           210         1,186             1,186    LCB
Office Equipment                                          1,702    100l    1,702
Computers/Software        47,880           130           808               808    ICB
Photocopying Machines     92,300            32           386               386    ICE
Typewriters               29,700            64           248               248    S
Printers                  26,600            64           222               222    S
Fax Machines              28,800            10            38                38    S
Nursery Equipment                                           742    100%       742
Sprinklers                18,000           150           353               353    LCB
Plastic Sheds             13,800            80           144               144    S
Other Miscellaneous            ..           ..           245               24S    S
Investment Center Equipment                                 238               238
Miscellaneous                  ..           ..           238    100%       238    S
2. Materials                                                31,265            29,387
Seeds                            *-         6,911 kg        622    100%       622    DP
Fertilizer                                               28,984            27,105
Calcium-Phosphate          1,051 mt    17,343 mt       2,343    100%    2,343    LCB
DAP                        2,070 mt   60,053 mt       15,949    100l   15,949    ICB
KCL                        1,354 mt      6,244 mt      1,085    100%    1,085    ICB
Urea                        1,755 mt    34,335 mt      7,728    100t    7,728    ICB
Organic Manure                 ..           ..           210       0t        0
Local Distribution Costs       ..           ..         1,669      0o         0
Pesticides                       ..            ..         1,659    100t    1,659    ICE
3. Civil Works                                             272,301           149,766
Afforestation Labor               ..           ..       220,168      55%  121,093    OTH
Guard/Storage Sheds              360 sm    26,743 am     11,408      55W    6,274    OTH
Survey and Design                 ..           ..         5,021      55%    2,762    OTH
Seedlings                         ,,           ,.        35,704      55t   19,637    OTH
4. Technical Assistance                                      2,703             2,024
International Consultants   283,330 /mo.        8 Mon.      286    100%       286    OTH
Local Cc,nsultants            54,375 /Mo.       4 mos.       30    lOOt        30    OTH
Overseas Training             34,800 /mo.     100 noO.      844    100%       844    OTH
Local Training                   121 /per. 41,600 pars.     680       O%        0
Overseas Study Tours         121,800 /a*.      53 mos.      863    100t       863    OTH



Annex C4
- 88 -                             Page 2 of 2
TOTAL     --IDA DISB.--
UNIT PRICE      TOTAL      VALUE [2]  RATE  VALUE       PROCURE.
CATEGORY                       (YUAN) tl]      QUANTITY    (USD'000)  (%) (USD'OOO)    METHOD [3]
5. Other                                                    13,454            5,215
Research Services                 ..           ..           426    100%      426    OTH
Indirect Costs                                           12,910            4,671
Salaries                       ..           ..         4,417      0%        0
other (4]                      ..                      8,492     55*    4,671    OTH
Natural Forest Management         ..                        119    100l      119    OTH
TOTAL                                                      333,333          200,000
NOTES:
[1] Unit values exclude physical and price contingencies.
(2] Total values include physical and price contingencies.
[3]  ICB - International Competitive Bidding, LCB - Local Competitive Bidding, S a Shopping,
DP - Direct Procurement, and OTH = Other.
[4] Other indirect costs includes extension, supervision, and information management.



- 89 -                              Annex C5
CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE FOR AFFORESTATION ESTABLISHMENT COSTS
(Yuan Per Hectare)
Site
Tree Species    Seedling   Preparation   Planting     Tending       Other      Total
A. Plantations
Chinese Fir      216        1,297        214        1,180         120       3,027
Masson Pine      166        1,105         177         945         120      2,513
Slash Pine       151         864         234        1,008         120      2,377
Loblolly Pine    147         819         210        1,071         120      2,367
Japanese Larch    348       1,067        213        1,050         120       2,798
Korean Larch     256        1,067        213        1,050         120       2,706
Chinese Poplar    508        630          158         641         100      2,037
Populus Simonii  378         557          158         567         100       1,760
Eucalyptus       118         909         127          805         110      2,069
Black Locust     688         672         126          756         100       2,342
Schima Superba   275          830         116         630         110       1,961
Bamboo-New    1,733         1,103        945          819         120      4,720
Bamboo-Rehab.      0        1,240          0          819         120      2,179
Arundinaria    2,152          924         651         882         120       4,729
B. Protection Forests
Conifer/Broadleaf  196        518        181          437         100       1,432
Masson Pine      174          551         171         561         100       1,557
Chinese Fir      196          836         190         599         100       1,921
Sawtooth Oak     209          333        152          228         100       1,022
Chestnut       1,507        1,036         190       1,083         250      4,066
Pear           1,507        1,217         190       1,083         250      4,247
Eucommia       1.008          722         171         684         150       2,735
Sumac          1,604         390         238          542         150      2,924
Hill-Replanting   66          124         67           95          50        402
Hill-No Replanting   0          0          0           95          50        145
Note: Afforestation establishment costs for disbursement purposes exclude expenses related to
fertilizer, pesticides, guard sheds, equipment, research, training, study tours, and technical
assistance.



- 90 -
CHI
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
--_--_.--_-----------------------_----------------------__-_-_-_---_____-----__---.
Project Disbursements           Ch4na Diab.
IDA            -------<---------------------------      Profile a/
Fiscal Year/        Semestral   Cumulative   Cumulative   ----------------
Semester          -       ($ Million) -----              Yr/Semester   %
1995 b/                                                             Year 1
First (Jul-Dec, 1994)            12           12            6   First           0
Second (Jan-June, 19s5)          12           24            -.   Second        30
1996                                                                Year 2
First (Jul-Dec, 1995)            16           40           20    First         38
Sec(.nd (Jan-June, 1996)         16           56           28    Second        46
1997                                                                Year 3
First (Jul-Dec, 1996)            20           76            38    First        54
Second (Jan-June, 1997)          24          100           50    Second        66
1998                                                                 Year 4
First (Jul-Dec, 1997)            24          124            62    First        70
Second (Jan-June, 1998)          26          150            75    Second       82
1999                                                                 Year 5
First (Jul-Dec, 1998)            14          164            82    First        86
Seor-id (Jan-June, 1999)         14          178            89    Second       94
2000                                                                 Year 6
First (Jul-Dec, 1999)            10          188            94    First        96
Second (Jan-June, 2000)           8          196            98    Second       98
2001                                                                 Year 7
First (Jul-Dec, 2000)             4          200           100    First       100
a/ Disbursement nrofile for China - Agriculture Sector. From the World Bank Operations
Policy Department, July 27, 1993.
bi Includes retroactive financing of $11 million tz cover expenditures incurred between
September 1, 1993 and not more than one year before the signing of tha Development Credit
Agreement.
Completion Date: December 31, 2000
Closing Date: December 31, 2001



- 91 -                                  Page 1 of 3
FOREST RESOVRCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
REY MONZTORZNG INDIcATops
Ycar I             Year 2         ----p        Year 6
Indicators                         Unit  Plinned Actual    Planned  Actual    ---->   Plamed  Actual
A. Plantation Program
Establishment Amount
Chinese Fir                   ha
Masson Pine                   ha
Loblolly Pine                 ha
Slash Pine                    ha
Larch                         ha
Other Conifer                 ha
Poplar                        ha
Eucalyptus                    ha
Black Locust                  ha
Other Broadleaf               ha
Bamboo-New                    ha
Bamboo-Rehabilitation         ha
Average Mortality Rate
Average Acceptance Rate
B. Protection Forest Program
Establishment Amount
Masson Pine                   ha
Chestnut                      ha
Chinese Fir                   ha
Sawtooth Oak                  ha
Pear                          ha
Eucommia                      ha
Mixed Masson Pine/Oak         ha
Mixed Cypress/Alder           ha
Mixea Sumac/Birch             ha
Other Species                 ha
Hill Closure-Replanting       ha
Hill Closure-No Replanting    ha
Average Mortality Rate
Average Acceptance Rate
C. Capacity Building Program
Overseas Study Tours            no.
Overseas Training               no.
Local Training                  no.
international Consultants       days
Local Consultants               days



AMencD1
92 -                                  Page 2 of 3
Year 1            Year 2         ----        Year 6
Indicators                        Unit  Planned Actual   Planned Actual    ----.   Planned Actual
 ----                                     ------- _    _  __  ______                          -------
D. Planting Material Program
Seedlin.gs Production Amount
Bare-Root                   no.
Clonal                      no.
Chinese Fir              no.
Larch                    no.
Poplar                   no.
Eucalyptus               no.
Other                    no.
Root Trainers               no.
Poly-Bags                   no.
Culling Rates                   t
Bare-Root                    f
Clcnal                       c
Root Trainers                f
Poly-Bags                    f
E. Research and Extension Program
_____________________________
Pilot Plantation Estaklisbment  ha
F. Financing
Project Costs
Plantation Component        yuan
Protection Forest Component yuan
Planting Material Component yuan
Research and Ext. Component yuan
Capacity Building Component yuan
IDA Financing Provided         y.an
Local Financing Provided
Province                    yuan
Prefecture/Municipality     yuan
County                      yuan
Beneficaries                Yuan
G. Procurement
Quantities
Fertilizer
CMP                       Mtt
KCL                       mt
DAP                       mt
Urea                      Mt
Imported Seeds               kg
Pesticides                   mt



AnuLD1
-93 -                                    Page 3 of 3
Year 1             Year 2         ---->        Year f
indicators                         Unit  Planned  Actual    Planned  Actual    -P---   Planned Actual
G. Procurement Continued
______._..___________________
Quantities
Vehicles
Pick-Up Trucks            no.
Fire Vehicles             no.
Trucks                    no.
Tractors                  no.
Unit Costs
Fertilizer
CMP                       yuan
KCL                       yuan
DAP                       YUa
Urea                      yuan
Vehicles
Pick-Up Trucks            yuan
Fire Vehicles             yuan
Trucks                    yuan
Tractors                  yuan
E. Economic Data
Avg. Domestic Inflation Rate     t
US$/Yuan Exchange Rate
US$/SDR Exchange Rate
Average Labor Wage Rate         yuan
Timber Prices
Chinese Fir-Large Diameter   Y/cum
Chinese Fir-Medium Diameter  Y/cum
Chinese Fir-Small Diameter   Y/cum
Masson Pine-Pulpwood         Y/ cu
Masson Pine-Pitprops         Y/cum
Slash Pine- Medium Diameter  Y/cum
Slash Pine-Pitprops          Y/cum
Slash Pine-Pulpwood          Y/cum
Loblolly Pine-Pitprops       Y/cum
Larch-Pitprops               Y/cum
Larch-Pulpwood               Y/cum
Poplar-Large Diameter        Y/cum
Poplar-Pulpwood              Y/cum
Eucalyptus-Pulpwood          Y/cum
Black Lscust-Pitprops        Y/cum



AmeX2
94 -                                 Page 1 of 2
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOZPNT AMD PROTECTION FORMST PROJECS
AFFORESTATION MNIT COSTS MONITORING TABL$
(Yuan Per Hectare)
Site                        Conserr.
Total Seedling Preparation  Planting Tending  Works   Otber
A. PLANTATIONS
Chinese Fir
Planned
Actual
Masson Pine
Planned
Actual
Loblolly Pine
Planned
ACtual
Slash Pin&
Planned
Actual
Larch
Planned
Actual
Poplar
Planned
Actual
EuCalyptus
Planned
Actual
Black Locust
Planned
Actual
Bamboo-New
Planned
Actual
Bamboo-Rehabilitation.
Planned
Actual
B. PROTECTION FORESTS
__________________
Masson Pine
Planned
Actual
Chestnut
Planned
Actual
Chinese Fir
Planned
Actual



Annex D2
- 95 ~                              Page 2 of 2
',:A
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTZON FOREST PROJECT
AFFORESTATION MNT COSTS MONITORING TABLE
(Yuan Per Hectare)
Site                         Conserv.
Total  Seedling  Preparation  Planting  '.ending   Works    Otber
B. PROTECTION FORESSS CCNT.
Sawtooth Oak
Planned
Actual
Pear
Planned
Actual
Eucommia
Planned
Actual
cypress/Alder
Planned
Actual
Sumac/Birch
Planned
Actual
Hill Closure-Replanting
Planned
Actual
ill Closure-No Replanting
Planned
Actual



- 96 -                                     Annex D3
CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
IDA SUPERVISION PLAN
Dates                      Activity                                 Expected Skill            Staff Input
Requirement                 (Sw)
8/94    Project Launch Workshop: Review procurement,    Procurement, financial management         2
financial management, monitoring and evaluation,    specialist.
and auditing requirements for project.
2/95    Supervision Mission: Review plans for first-year  Economist, forester, planting material  8
irnplementation, particularly for plantations,  specialist, environmental management
protection forests, and planting materials. Mc&itor   specialist.
project maragement systems, particularly
procurement, disbursement, and accounting.
4/95    Supervision Mission: Review plans for first-year  Biologist, sociologist, training        10
implementation of nature reserves component.    specialist, data management specialist,
Review project management systems for GEF grant.  economist.
7/95    Supervision Mission: Review first-year          Economist, forester, planting material    8
performance, particularly for research, extension,    specialist, research specialist.
nurseries, and capacity building. Monitor project
management systems.
10/95   Supervision Mission: Review implementation of   Biologist, sociologist, training         10
nature reserves component and GEF management    specialist, data management specialist,
systems.                                        economist.
1/96    Supervision Mission: Review second-year         Economist, forester, planting material   12
implementation plans, particularly for nature   specialist, environmental management
reserves, plantations, and protection forests.  specialist, biologist, sociologist
Monitor project management systems.
7/96    Supervision Mission: Review second-year         Economist, forester, planting material   12
performance, particularly for nature reserves,  specialist, research specialist,
research, extension, nurseries, and capacity    biologist, sociologist
building. Monitor project management systems.
1/97    Suvervision Mission: Review third-year          Economist, forester, planting material   12
implementation plans, particularly for GEF,     specialist, environmental management
plantations, and protection forests. Monitor project   specialist, biologist, sociologist
management systems.
9/97    Mid-Term Review: Review past performance of all   Economist, forester, planting material  14
components and adjust future implementation plans    specialist, environmental management
as necessary. Monitor project management systems.  specialist, research specialist,
biologist, sociologist
1998-  SuNervision Mission: Based on needs of project but   To be determined according to the
2000    at least one supervision a year. ;,ast mission will    needs of the project.
discuss PCR.



CHINA
FOREST RESCURCE DEVELOPMET AN  PROTECrioN PRoJEcT
Production Yield by Species
",,      ............................... ...................... .................................. ......... .............. I..................... ..................... .......................................... ... .... ... ..
Thiming 1                                Thiming 2                                             Harvesting 11
....... ........... ..  ....           ................................               ....................
Year     Titber    Fuehiood            Year        Titber      Fuetwood               Year      Timber  fuelwood    Resin               Other 2/
(.3/ha)   (torvha)                      (03/ha)    (tonvha)                           (.3/ha) (ton/ha)   (kg/ha)               (kg/ha)
...................................................................................        ..   .......................................................................................................................................    . .... . ... .....
Protection Forest
I  Cypress/Alder                 13                 3.50                   19       8.04        6.20                   25   29.66    13.40
2  Hasson PinleJ                 13                 7.50                   19       8.30        5.30                    25   34.26    11.40
Broad-leaf Tree
3  Masson Pine                   13                 3.70                   19       15.96       6.40                    25   40.52    10.00
4  Chinese fir                   13       2.51     10.30                   18       13.78       6.40                    25   41.81    10.40
5  Sawtooth Oak                  14                 5.70                   20        3.96      12.60                    25   20.52    18.90
6  Chestnut                                                                                                                                                           2,500
7  Pear                                                                                                                                                              12,000
8  EucoQmia (Bark)                                                                                                                                                      373
9 Chinese Sumac
Gutinut                                                                                                                                                              165
10 Hills-Closure-I               20                 5.20                                                               25    8.00    10.00
Without Project Yield                            1.00                                                                               3.00
11 Hills-Closure-2               20                 5.70                                                               25   10.00      4.00
Uithout Project Yield                            1.00                                                                               2.00
Plantation
I  Chinese Fir (18)              11      8.85       3.50                   14      12.78        4.30                   30  379.80    11.50
2  Chinese fir (16)              10       8.49      3.40                   14      12.06        4.00                    20  164.30      7.70
3  Chinese fir (14)              11       4.15      1.50                   14       13.32       4.10                    20  143.10     9.60
4  Hasson Pine (14)              10       5.00      1.90                                                                18  125.20      7.90      1,090
5  Hasson Pine (16)              10       3.83      2.00                   15       8.20        2.70                    20  164.00     9.40       1,280
6  Slash Pine (18)               10       3.64      2.00                   14       14.12       5.40                    30  247.60      7.50      3,780
7  Slash Pine (16)               10       3.50      2.00                   14       10.20       3.00                    20  166.30     9.50       2:590
8  Slash Pine (14)               10       4.50      1.70                                                                is  141.60     9.00       2.300
9  Loblolly Pfne (16)            10       3.80       1.40                  14       11.20       3.60                    20  183.00    12.00       1,300
10 Japanese Larch (16)           10      4.00       1.60                   15      11.40        3.50                   Z,  139.00      6.00
11 Japanese Larch (14)           10      4.70       1.80                                                               18  105.50    11.00
12 Korean Larch (16)             10      3.70       1.30                   15       9.50        3.00                    22  131.30     9.00
13 Korean Larch (14)             10       2.00      0.70                                                                18   99.50    10.00
14 Chinese White Poplar (11)                                                                                            15  124.70     6.40
15 Populus Simonif  (12)                                                                                                10   93.70     4.50
16 Eucalyptus (11)                                                                                                       7   77.00     4.30
17 Black Locust (18)              7       4.00      1.70                                                                15   64.00     4.00
18 Schfea Superba (11)                                                                                                  20  124.90    20.60
19 Hoso - New (ii)
aiwboo Wood                                                                                                                                                        8.S4A
Samboo Sheot                                                                                                                                                       2,000
20 Noso - xehab. (11)
Bamboo Wood                                                                                                                                                        6,835
Bamboo Shoot                                                                                                                                                       1 450
Without Prolect Yield
Bamboo Wood                                                                                                                                                        2,050
8mbeoo Shoot                                                                                                                                                         450
2t Arundinaria (II)
Samboo Wood                                                                                                                                                       13,000
Bamboo Shoot                                                                                                                                                         400
........ ............. _. ............. ......... ................. ........ .............. ... ... .... ...... .... ... ........... ..................... ... ... .. .............. .............. ............... .................     ....
Note: 1/ Harvestine of proteciton forests constitutes first regeneration cutting, covering 30% of stand.
2/ Yield calcutated at full development.



CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPENET AND PROTECTIOti PROJECT
Total Project Output by Volume and Value a/
.... ........... ...... ..................... ............................. .......... ................................... ......................................................................... .. ............ ..... .... ....................... ... ..
without Project                                    With Project                                      Total Incremental
........ .. . ........... ........................................................................ ...  ..................................................................................  ...... ............................... ...... .........
Timber           Fuetwood    Other b/         TiMber                Fuetwood     Other b/          Timber             Fuelwood    Other b/
('000 N3)(O000 O I 000 Ton)(O000 Y) ('000 1)   ('000 M3)  (000 Y) ('000 Ton) ('000 Y) ('000 O)  ('000 13) ('000 Y)  ('000 Ton)(*000 Y)  ('000 y)
......................................................................  ...................................................  .................................................
Protection Forest           2,400 100,800       400 22,000           0     34,211  3,372,981      4,337 238,538 3.995,550  31,811  3,267,844    3,937  216,538 3.995.550
1 Cypress/                                                                  2,188    264,864        347   19,058               2,188   264,864        347   19,058         0
Alder                                                                        0          0          0        0                   0          0         0        0
2  Hasson Pine/                                                             2,847   346,104         407  22,361                2,847   346,104        407  22.361           0
Broad-leaf Tree                                                              0          0          0        0                   0          0         0        0          0
3  tasson Pine                                                              6,191    859,692        643  35,376          *    6,191    859,692        643  35,376           0
4  Chinese Fir                                                              5,245   895,241         678  37,263                5,245   895,241        678  37,263           0
5  Sautooth Oak                                                             3,311    238,675        818  45,012                3,311    238,(75       818  45M012           0
6  Chestnut                                                                     0          0          0        0  2,684,240        0          0         0        0  2,684,240
7  Pear                                                                         0          0          0        0    398,97v.       0          0         0        0   398,975
8  Eucoamfa                                                                    48      5,481         61   3,350    513,755        48      5,481        61    3,350   513,755
9  Chinese Sumac/                                                             5,1    24,814           0        0   398,580       591    24,814          0        0   398.580
White Birth                                                                  0          0          0        0                   0          0         0        0          0
10 Hills-Closure-I            900 37,800        160  8,800                  5,911    292,414        608  33,440                5 011    254,614       448   24,640         0
11 Nilis-Closure-2          1,500 63,000        240  13,200                 7,880   441,360         776  42,680                6,380   378,360        536  29,480          0
Plantation                      0       0         0       0  1,406,628     82,563 40,463,227      6,814  374,795  5,045,570   82,563 40,463,227    6,814 374 795  3,638,942
1 Chinese Fir t18)                                                          4,376  3,150,026        210   11,570               4,376 3,150,026        210  11 570          0
2  Chinese Fir (16)                                                         8,078  4,940,495        660   36,293               8,078  4,940,49ff      660  36,293          0
3  Chinese Fir (14)                                                         8,767 5,027,126         830   45,646               8,767 5,027,726        830  45,646           0 'D
4  Nasson Pine (14)                                                         9,453  3,936,111        711  39,131    102,874   9,453  3,936,111         711  39,131   102,874 
S Hasson Pine (16)                                                          ".,55S 3,805,272        685   37,689    80,870    8,555  3,805,27         685   37,689    80,870
6  Slash Pine (18)                                                             M3    405,835         46   2,540      15,233      823   405,835         46    2,540    15,233
7  Slash Pine (16)                                                          2,178   983,267         175   9,650    40,741    2,178   983,267          175   9,650    40,741
8  Slash Pine (14)                                                          2,192   929,000         161   8,828    44,850    2,192   929,000          161   8,828    44 850
9  Lobtolly Pine (16)                                                       6,593 3,088,959         566  31,136      56,277   6,593 3,088,959         566  31,136    56,277
10 Japanese Larch (16)                                                      3,073  1,432,133        221   12,149               3,073  1,432,133       221  12,149          0
11 Japanese Larch (14)                                                      2,667  1,212,132        310  17,037                2,667  1,212,132       310   17,037         0
12 Korean Larch (16)                                                        5,000  2,330,808        460   25,310               5,000  2,330,808       460  25,310          0
13 Korean Larch (14)                                                        6,273  2,865,217        661  36,369                6,273 2,865,217        66t   36,369         0
14 Chinese Uhite Poptar (11)                                                5,961  3,395,067        306  16,826                5.961  3,395,067       306  16,826          0
15 Populus Simonit (12)                                                     1,780    547,368         86   4,703                1,780   547,368         86   4,703           0
16 Eucalyptus (11)                                                          2,965    768,699        166   9,105                2,965    768,699       166   9,105          0
17 Slack Locust (18)                                                          884    433,338         74   4,076                  884   433,338         74    4,076          0
18 Schima Superba (11)                                                      2,948  1,211,775        486  26,739                2,948 1,211,775        486  26,739           0
19 noso Bamboo - New (11)                                                                                         1,262,513        0          0         0        0  1,262,513
20 Moso Baoboo - Rehab. (HI)                                 1,406,628                                            3,310,028        0          0         0        0  1,903,400
21 Arundinaria (11)                                                                                                 132.184        0          0         0        0    132,184
Total                       2,400 100,800       400  22,000  1,406,628    116,774 43,836,208     11,152 613,334  9,041,120  114,374 43,731,071    10,752 591,334  T,634,492
Note:
a/ Production is based on one growing cycle for each species, Aich ranves frau 7 to 30 years.
Values are expressed in current financial terms.
b/ Inctudins alt other products, such as fruit, nuts, and resins.
I



CNINA
FOREST RESOURCE OEVELOPENT AND PROrECTION PROJECT
Border Prices for Primary Products and inputs
(In 1994 Constant Prices)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.., ..................... .............................................................. ... .... . ......................................................... ..... .......... .....
Bamboo                                                   Potasslum  Large Logs Pulpwood
Shoot Chestnut       Pear    Resin      Urea       DAP   Chloride    (cu.m)    (cu.m)
Met lrade Status                                                 X        X          X        X          N        r           N 4                 N
1994 Prices
Wortd Market Price (USS/ton) 1/                              1,045      869        509      405        127      137         116         88        18
Ocean Freight (US$/ton)                                          0        0          0        0         40       40          40         i5        15
CIF or FOS Port (US$/ton)                                    1,045      869        509      405        167      177         156        103        33
CIF or FOB Port (Y/ton) 2/                                   9,091    7,556      4,432    3,524      1,453    1,540       1,357        896       287
Port Chargei and Margin (Y/ton) 3/                            (843)    (705)      (424)    (342)       156      164         147         90        42
.ransport: Port to Wholesaler (YVton) 4/                       (45)     (45)       (45)     (45)        45       45          45         36        29
Price ex-mill                                                8,202    6,806      3,963    3,136      t,654    1,748       1,549      1,022       358
Processing Adjustment 5                                      0.60     0.75       0.90     0.90       1.00     1.00        1.00       1.00      1.00
Processing/Assembty Cost (Y/ton) 6/                           (817)    (272)      (291)  (1,043)        30       30          30          0         0
Quatity Adjustment 7/                                       (2,148)  (1,617)   (2,306)
Transport: Farm to Wholesaler (Y/ton) 8/                       (75)      (75)      (75)      (75)       75       75          75         60        49
Economic Farm-gate Price (V/ton)                             1,882    3,140        894    1,705      1,759    1,853       1,654      1,082       407
financial Farm-gate Price (V/ton) 9/                         1,430    2,600        780    1,300      1,755    2,070       1,354        966       434
2005 Prices
........... 
Uorld Market Price (US$/ton) 1/                                993       825       484       385       155       154        114         88        18
Ocean freight (USS/ton)                                          0         0         0         0        40       40          40         15        15
CIF or FOB Port (USS/ton)                                      993      825        484      385        195       194        154        103        33
CIF or FOB Port tY/ton) 2/                                   8,636    7,178      4,210    3,347      1,697    1,688       1,340        896       287
Port Charges and Margin (V/ton) 3/                            (802)    (671)      (404)    (320)       178      177         146         90        42
Iransport: Port to Wholesaler (Y/ton) 4/                       (45)      (45)      (45)      (45)       45       45          45         36        29
Price ex-mill                                                7,789    6,462      3,761    2,976      1,919    1,910       1 530      1,022       358
Processing AdJustment 5/                                      0.60     0.75       0.90     0.90       1.00     1.00        i.00       1.00      1.00
Processing/Assembly Cost (Y/ton) 6/                           (817)    (272)      (291)  (1,043)        30       30          30          0         0
Ouality Adjustment 7/                                       (2,148)  (1,617)   (2,306)
Transport: Farm to Wholesaler (Y/ton) 8/                       (75)     (75)       (75)     (75)        75       75          75         60       49
Economic Farm-gate Price (Y/ton)                             1,633    2,883        713    1,561      2,024    2,015       1,635      1,082       407
Financial Farm-gate Price (Y/ton) 9/                         1,430    2,600        780    1,300      1,755    2,070       1,354        S56      434
If tJorld market prices for bamboo shoot (canned and in salt water), chestnut, pear and resin are based on actural FOB China port prices (data
from "China Customs Statitics Yearbook 1993") and adjusted to 1994 prices.  Log price Is based on large diameter larch (22-30 cm) irqported
from C.l.S., on a per cubic meter basis (data from Japanes Luder Market Report, April 1993). Pulpwood price is based on J-sort of small
diameter mixed whiteuood, larch and red pine, on a per cubic meter basfs (IENIN Coomincatlen).  Fertilizer prices are based on the World
Bank Commodity Price Forecasts dated November 2, 1993.
2/ Exchange rate of Y8.7a USI.00.
3/ Port handling L:arge of Y25/ton plus 9% distributor's margin.
4/ Based on rail transport charse of YO.04/ton/kss an average distance of 900km and a rail transportation convertion factor of 1.25.
S/ Includirig spoilage of 5X for chestnut, 10X each for banboo shoot and pear and 10% loss for resin.
6/ Including cost of cardboard cartons of Y5/box for bamboo shoot, chestnut and pear, packing density of 50 boxes/ton; packing cost of
Y400/ton for resin; labor cost of V42/t for bamboo shoot and V525/t for Resin and a conversion factor of 0.97.
7/ Including quality adjustment cost, inferior product value and a conversion focter of 0.97.
8/ Based on road transportation charge of YO.5o0ton/km, an average distance of 50km for timber anid 150km for other.
9/ FinancIal prices are based on large diameter Chinese fir for logs and smalt diameter larch for putlpwood.



CHNIA
FOREST RESOIJRCE DcVELOPIENT t4D PROTECTION PROJECT
input And Output Prices For Financiat And Economic Analysis
(Yuan)
,,..,,,............................ .................. ................................... .... ...... .............. .......................  ......... .......................................... ..................... .. .............................
Input                                                                                               Output
,................. ..................................  .....        ............. . ........................ I................................................. ......... .............. ... ......................... ..... ......... ................
Financial  Economic                                                 Financial Economic                                            financial  Economic
Unit        Price      Price                                      Unit          P-ice    Price                                     Unit       Price       Price
.........   ........................                              ....  .    ..........    .... .....                              .... ... .............. ...... ...... ................... ........ .
Labor                                                                Cypress                                                            Loblol.y Pine
For Protection forest        day         9.50       9.22            Small Dim.                cu.m.        504.00   478.80              Large Diam.          Cu.m..     652.60      717.86
For Plantations 11          day         10.50      10.19            Cull                      cu.m.        230.00   230.00             NediuA Diam.          cu.m.      555.10      555.10
For Euc. Plantations        day         11.50      11.16            Residual Value            cu.m.         42.00    42.00              Small Diam.          CU.M.      392.40      372.78
Fertilizer                                                          Sawtooth Oak                                                          Cull                  cu.m.      282.90      282.90
DAP                          kg          2.07       1.85             Small Oiam.              CU.M.        264.00   250.80            Japanese Larch
Urea                         kg          1.76       1.76             Cult                     cu.m.        172.50   172.50              Medius Diam.          1u.m.      548.60      548.60
Potassium  Chloride          kg          1.35       1.65             Residual Value           cu.m.         42.00    42.00              Small Clam.           Cu.M.      434.40      412.68
Calcium Superphosphate    kg             1.05       1.05          Chtstnut                     kg            2.60      3.11.            CuLt                  Cu.m.      293.25      293.25
Organic Manure                 ton       11D .00    106.70           Pear                        kg             0.78     0.89          bKorean Larch
Pesticide                      kg         50.00      50.00           Eucomnia                                                             Medium Diem.          CU.,.      548.60      548.60
Seedling                                                               Small Oiam.              cu.m.         180.00   171.00             Small Diam.           cu.M.      434.40      412.68
Cypress                   1000 pint    35.00       33.95             cull                     cu.m.        100.00   100.00              Cull                  Cu.m.      293.25      293.25
Alder                     1000 pInt    55.00       53.35             Bark                      kg           39.00    42.90            Chinese White Poplar
Broad-leaf Tree           1000 pint    55.00       53.35             Residual Value           tree          12.00    12.00              Large Diam.           cu.m.      676.00      743.60
Sawtooth Oak              1000 pint    55.00       53.35           Chinese Sumac                                                        Medium Diam.          cu.m.      533.00      533.00
Chestnut                  1000 pint 1,650.00  1,600.50               Gullnut                   kg           19.50    21.45              small Diam.           cu.M.      240.00      228.00   1
Pear                      1000 pInt 1,650.00  1,600.50               Residual Value           Cu.m..        42.00    42.00              Cull                  cu.m.      172.50      172.50
Eucommia                  1000 pInt   275.00    266.75             Hills-Closure                                                      Populus Simonii
Chinese Sumac             1000 pint   715.00    693.55               Cull                     Cu.m.        180.00   180.00              Large Diam.           CU.m.      409.50      450.45  o
White Birth               1000 pint    55.00       53.35             Residual Value           Cu.m.         42.00    42.00              Medium Diam.          cu.m.      339.30      339 30
fills-Closure             1004 pint    45.04       43.65          Chinese Fir 21                                                        Small Diam.           Cu.M.      241.20      229:14
Chinese Fir 2/            1000 pInt    50.00       48.50             Small Diam.              Cu.m.        564.00   535.80              Cull                  cu.m.      181.70      181.70
Chinese fir 3/            1000 pint    65.00       63.05             Cull                     Cu.m.        310.50   310.50            Eucalyptus
Hasson Pine 2/            1000 pInt    45.00       43.65             Residual Value           Cu...         54.00    54.00              Madium Diam.          cu.m.      326.30      326.30
Hasson Pine 3/            1000 pInt    50.00       48.50           Chinese Fir 3/                                                       Small Diam.           cu.m.      258.00      245.10
Slash Pine                1000 pInt   105.00    101.85               Large Diam.              cu.m.        965.90 1.062.49              Cull                             172.50      172.50
Loblolly Pine            1000 pInt   110.00    106.70               hedium Diam.              cu.m.        798.20   798.20           Black Locust
Japanese Larch           1000 pInt   110.00    106.70                Small Diam.              cu.M.        508.80   483.36              Medium Diam.          cu.m.     544.70      544.70
Korean Larch              1000 pInt    80.00       77.60             Cull                     Cu.m.        328.90   328.90              Small Deam.           Cu.,.      388.80      369.36
Chinese White Poplar   1000 pInt 1,540.00  1,493.80               Hasson Pine 2/                                                        Cull                  cu.m.      241.50      241.50
Populus Simonii           1000 pInt   605.00    586.85               Nedium Diam.             Cu.M.        520.00   520.00            Schima Superba
Eucalyptus                1000 pInt   115.00    111 NS               Small Diam.              cu.M.        384.00   364.80              HediLum Diem.         cu.m.      533.00      533.00
Black Locust              1000 pInt   550.00    5!    .              Cull                     cu.m.        264.50   264.50              Small Dim.            Cu.m.      367.20      348.84
Schima Superba            1000 pInt   10'i.00   1I  .05              Residual Value           cu.m.         48.00    48.00              Cull                  Cu.m.      271.40      211.40
hoso Bamboo               1000 pint 3,850.00  3,7..4.50           hasson Pine 3/                                                     Noso Bacboo
Arundinaria               1000 pInt 1,800.00  1,746.00               Large Diam.              cu.m.        638.30   702.13              Bamboo                  kg         0.46        0.46
Medium Diem.             Cu.,.        522.60   S22.60              Bamboo Shoot            kg         1.43        1.88
Small Diam.              cu.M.        376.80   357.96           Arundinaria                kg
Cull                     cu.m.        266.80   266.80              Bamboo                  kg         0.26        0.26
Slash Pine                                                           Banmoo Shoot            kg         1.43        1.88
Large Diam.              Cu.M.        664.30   730.73           Resin                      kg         1.30        t.70
Ntedium Diaem            cu.M.        533.00   533.00            Fueluood                 ton        5S.00       55.00
Small Dbia.              cu.m.        385.20   365.94
Cutl                     cu.m.        257.60   257.60
,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,...................................................................... ,,,,,,,............................................... ............. ......................... . .....................................................
Note:
1/ Except for Euca(yptus.
2/ For protection forest.
3/ For plantations.
01



- 101 -Amex E
Page 2 of 2
CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
Main Conversion Factors
Shadow Exchange Rate                                   Y9.00 = USS1.00
Standard Conversion Factor a/                          0.97
Standard Discount Rate                                 12 percent
Machinery/Equipment bt                                  1.20
Labor - Rural Unskilled Labor                          0.97
- Skilled/Technician                              2.00
Transportation - Rail                                   1.25
- Road (market)                            1.00
rimber - Large Diameter                                 1.10
- Medium Diameter                                 1.00
- Small Diameter                                 0.95
- Cull                                            1.00
Fuelwood                                                1.00
Other Inputs/Outputs                                    Border or Market Prices
a] SCF = (Official Erxchange.Rate)/(Shadow Exchange Rate) = 8.7/9.0
b/ For locally manufactured machinery and equipment procured locally.



- 102 -
FOREST RESOWRCC DVOPNM   AD A    TROZCTICO PROJECT
RET AMD COST RECOVE Y ANaLYSZS
(COMSTAIT 1994 !Mw '000)
_._.___________________------------------_---_-_------_--__-----_--___------
TOTAL
DUMRNG PROJTECT'S LiFS a/
Incremental Zncome  b/                                        4,744,484
Less:
Imputed Value, Farm Labor c/                                 346,637
Imputed Value, management Services d/                        474,448
Imputed Return to Own Capital ./                             237,224
Allowance for Risk/Uhcertainty d/                            474,448
Subtotal                                                1,s32,75a
Eq.tal
Project Rent                                               3,211,726
Less Project Charges:
Taxes L/                                                   1,027,305
Interest and Loan Repayment q/                               874,578
Total Charges                                           1,901,683
Rent Recovery zndex (t) h/                                         59.2t
Project Costs  i/                                             2,02S,030
Cost Recovery Index (1) J/                                         93.9*
Notes: a/ Expressed as proseat values over 33-year project life, discounted at
12*.
b/ Based on the net incremental income of afforestation entities before
deducting project charges azd debt services.
c/ Based on incremental labor valued at 97J of the market wage.
d/ Based on lot of incremental income.
e/ 9ased on 5* of incremental income.
f/ Tax rates include 18* for reforestation and reinvestment fees and 18J for
for product and specialty taxes.
g/ Avera%ge on-lending rate for all project loans is 4.2t.
h/ Project charges as a percentage of project ret.
i/ Total project costs exclude afforestation entity labor contribution.
J/ Project charges as a percentage of proBect cost.



CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return Analysis for Project
(Constant 1994 o000 Yuan)
...... ......... ..... ........... .......... ................... .   .....  .........    ....    ........................ ..............................................   ---------------------------------------........................... .  ..  .. 
Item          year      1         2         3        4         5       6       7       8       9        10      11      .F      13      14        15         16
.......................................................................................................................... I...........................................
Expenses
Material/Equipment         157.284    146,369  169,037   74.739          0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0         ..0                  0
Seedling                  49.624     79,692 91 612 41 044             0       0        0       0       0       0       0        0       a       0          0          a
Fertilizer                41.992     63,492   73.714   32,049         0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0   o              0o         0
Pesticide                  1,804      2,745    3,204    1,382         0        0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0          0
Equipment                 63,534          0         0        0        0        0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0          0
Organic Hanure               330        440       506      264        0       0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0                     0
Labor                      224,477    386,726  515,344  333,463  149.678  93.883 127.591 158,124 175,239 196,775 203.803 231,677 186,795 185,101    319.245    387,534
Site Preparation          94,507    144,495  168,848   72,573         0       0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0          a
Land Clearing             45,012     66,790   78,561   33,680         0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0          0          0
Conservation               1,421      2,367    2,844    1,132         0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0          0          0
Forest Tracks             6,785      10,282   12,045    5,167         0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0          0          0
Planting                  29,608     45,796   52,944   23,160         0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0          0          0
Tending                  47,143    116,995  197,987  192,676  134,901  67,987  40,339  39,896  39,879  38,724  39,077  38,405  38,359  38,118         38,515     37,410
Cutting/Harvesting             0          0    2,112    5,074   14,778  25,896  87,252 118,228 135,360 158,051 164,726 193,273 148,436 146,984    280,73l   350,123
Other                       28,444     47,176   59,916   36,538   15,123  12,683  11,937  tl,840  11,702  11,543  11,418  11,345  11,261  11,228        11,228      11,075
Guard/Storage Shed        16,774     25.106   29,262   12,618         0       0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0          0
Survey/Design              7,240     11,076   12,981    5,563         0       0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0          0
information Management       633      1,575    2,377    2,375    1,835   1,609   1,609   1,593   1,570   1,544   1,523   1,512   1,499   1,494         1,494      1,471
Environment monitoring       654      1,605    2,417    2,090    1,062      253        0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0          0
Management                 2,510      6,239   10,506   11,827   11,170  10,568  10,328  10,247  10,132  10,000   9,894   9,833   9,761   9,734         9,734      9,604
Inspection/Supervision       636      1,574    2,373    2,066    1,056      253       o        0       0       0       0       0        0       0          0          0        1
Nursery Program             25,891     11,956       701    1,500        0        0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0          0        -
Research Program             6,374      6,374    6,374    6,374    6,374         0       0       0       0       0       0        0       0       0          0          0       O
Capacity Building Program  13,859       7,899    5.213    4 070       350     350        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0          0          0
Base Expenses              456,330    606,499  t-6,584  456,684  171,525 106,916 139,528 169,963 186,941 208,318 215,221 245,022 198,056 196,329    330,473    398,608
Physical Contingency        54,900     72,967   PCt769   57,241   15,884   4,549         0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0          0          0
Total Expenses             511,231    679,466  847,353  509,925  187,410 111,465 139,528 169,963 186,941 208,318 215,221 243,022 198,056 196,329    330,473    398,608
Revenues
Large Diameter                 0          0        0         0        0       0       0        0       0  16,757  21,327  24,754   9,521        0    394 568    591,852
Medium Diameter                0          0         0        0        0       0  63,433  90,059 103,372 119,284  95,004 110,273  42,413         0    326,354    504,510
Smatl Diameter                 0          0        0         0        0       0  74,512 106,209 122,120 138 864 137,109 163,578  80,154 102,718    196,673    243,396
cutl                           0          0        0         0        0       0  26,426  37,910  43,710  77,683 102,352 123,250  68,061  76,723    138,929    167,186
Fuetwood                       0          0        0         0        0       0   2,121   3,174   3,726   9,819  13,659  16,259  13,742  18,371       31,046     29,301
Residue Vatue                  0          0        0         0        0       0       0        0       0       0       0       0        0       0          0          0
Bamboo                         0          0    5,970   14,178   34,862  53,326  76,567  93,676 106,582 116,035 122,630 127,244 129,447 130,743    133,076    138,000
Other                          0          0    4,118    9,976   31,340  59,208  92,405 119,374 136,580 149,181 185,319 231,513 292,404 323,939    323,541    325,795
Total Revenues                   0          0   10,088   24,154   66,202 112,534 335 483 450,402 516,090 628,222 677,400 796,870 636,342 652,494  1,544,186  2,000,039
Without Project Revenue      7,976     18,942   32,775   38,258   38,258  38,258  38,258  38,258  38,258  38,258  38,258  38,258  38,258 38,258         38,258     34,258
Balance Before Taxes      (519,206)  (698,408:l870,040)(524,030)(159,466)C37,190)157,697 242,180 290,890 381,646 423,921 SiS,590 400,028 417 906  1,1F5,454  1,563,172
axes                           0          0    1,704    4 077   11,046  18,587  57,715  77,575  58,880 107,756 114,871 134,663 103,956 105,044    265,038    348,249
Fees                           0          0      657    1,560    3,835   5,866  26,505  36,064  41,336  51,548  52,626  60,401  36,322  34,120    130,856    180,944
Balance After Taxes       (519,206)  (698,n48)(872,401(52       )                              128,540 160,675 222,341 256,424 320,526 259,750 278,742    779,560  1,033,919
. . . ........... ......... ................. ..............  .................  ..................... ................................ ... .. . . ..... ........ .. ... ...
Net Present Value (a 12X)           2,347 d34 
FRi Before Taxes                          17.6X
fR8 After Taxes                           14.2X
FRR: 20X decrease sales price            15.3X          SWITCHING VALUE (8 12X):    40.5X
FRR: 20K increase production cost        15.5X                                        66.6X                                                                                   (4
FRR: 20X increase capital cost           16.2X                                       112.4X                                                                                    



17         18         19          20         21         22         23          24         25        26        27       28      29      30        31         32        33
,...............................  ............................................................................................................ ........... .................................... .............................................................
0          0          0           0          0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0       0        0          0          0        0
o          0          0           0          0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0       0        0          0          0        0
0          0          0          0           0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0      0         0          0          0        0
0          0          0          0           0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0      0         0          0          0        0
o          0          0           0          0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0       0        0          0          0        0
'0          0          0          0           0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0      0        0           0          0        0
381,269    614,228    723,359  1,500,936  1,434,221  1,396,830    792,749    291,867   259,616   197,408  e11,239  78,656    504  121,397    154,520    146,933   58,005
0          0          0          0           0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0      0         0          0          0        0
0          0          0           0          0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0       0        0          0          0        0
o          0          0          a           0          0          0           0         0         0         0        0      0        0 o                   0        0
0          0          0           0          0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0       0        0          0          0        0
0          0          0           0          0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0       0        0          0          0        0
37,471     36,234     34,831      32,833     26,955     21,264      16,416     14,285    13,604    11,156     7,259   2,478    504       504        378        216       61
343,798    577,994    688,528  1,468,103  1,407,267  1,375,566    776 333    277 5,2   246,011   186,253   203,980  76,177         0  120,893    154,142    146,717  57,944
10,838     10,561      9,848      8,976       7,041      5.253      3,524       2,543     2,222     1,3       1,186     510    238       238        179        102       29
0          0          0           0          0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0       0        0          0          0        0
0          0          0          0           0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0      0         0          0          0        0
1,434      1,392      1,303       1,201        969        753        545         426       388       30z       205      78      28       28         21         12        3
0          0          0           0          0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0       0        0          0          0        0
9,404      9,170      8,545       7,7m       6,071      4,500       2,980      2,118     1,834     1,431       981      432    210      210        158         90       26
0          0          0          0           0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0       0        0          0          0        CI
0          0          0           0          0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0       0        0          0          0        0,.
0          0          0           0          0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0       0        0          0          0        00
0          0          0           0          0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0       0        0          0          0 
392,107    624,789    733,206  1,509,912  1,441,262  1,402,082    796,273    294,410   261,838   199,147   212,425  79,166    742  121,635    154,698    147,035   58,034
0          0          0           0          0          0          0           0         0         0         0       0       0        0          0          0        0
392,107    624,789    733,206  1,509.912  1,641,262  1,402,082    796,273    294,410   261,838   199,147   212,425  79,166    742  121,635    154,698    147,035   58,034
682,273    295,926           0     38,555     61,422     71,862      30,807          0         0         0          0       0      0126,331    160,189    152,076   60,019
591,158  1,029,044  1,129,824  3,348,601  3,618,766  3,901,193  2,127,517    637,254   304,043    34,528    40,498  13,051        00 598,730    758,905      20, 336  784.278
173,215    921,796  1,333,305  2,969,403  2,729,224  2,640,274  1,524,640    522,583   433,167   323,351   402,965 147,528         0  133,795    169,868    161,361   63,694
119,476    153,629    210,593    411,349    370,083    316,604    164,429       49,882   121,859   147,284  -.75,951  70,909       0   13,082     16,617     15,788    6,232
19.526     24,586     33,267      77,052     76,419     69,797     35,541       8,217    27,053   313,928    41,356  17,201       0    2,060      2,626      2,500      987
0          0          0    320,339    508,393    529,456    268,594            0   255,332   374, 411   446,397 182,971      0        0          0          0        0
142,406    144,997    144,997    144,997    116,744      72,576      22,473          0         0         0         0        0      0        0          0          0        0
318,776    335,045    346,076    40~,?969    387,018    331,783    255,778    188,240   188,240   157,950   100,646  29,744        0    3,440      4,914      4,914    1,966
2,046,830  2,905,023  3,198,062  7,713,265  7,868,069  7,933,545  4,429,779  1,406,176 1,329,693 1,071,452 1,207,812 461,405         0  877,438  1,113,120  1,056,975  417,175
38,258     38,258     38,258    131,156    158,040    180,174       69,381          0    24,962    34,537    38,875  17,827       0        0          0          0        0
1,616,464  2,241,976  2,426,598  6,072,198  6,268,768  6,351,288  3,564,124  1,111,765 1,042,894   837,768   956,512 364,413   (742) 755,802    958,421    909,940  359,141
358,769    513,518    564,918  1,316,148  1,309,499  1,319,856    741,035    248,405   184,586   115,632   127,830  46,593         0  159,209    201,953    191,757   75,683
187,938    279,993    310,059    760,420    758,586    770,276    425,685    133,069    94,498    55,568    68,136  25,464         0   95,913    121,614    115,452   45,564
1,069,75   1,448,465  1,551,620  3 ,99,630  4 ,200,682  4,261,156  2,397,404    730,291   763,810   666,568   760,547 292,356   (742) 500,681    634,855    602,731  237,893
... .                                 .. oo.                          .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .    .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .
o   o   o   o   o   o     o          o          o         o         o       o      o        o           o          o        o~~~~~~~~~~
o   o   o   o   o   o     o          o          o         o         o       o      o        o           o          o        o~~~~~~" 



CHINA
FOREST RES0URCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Analysis for Project
(Constant 1994 $000 Yuan)
.......... ...................... .............. ............................. ......... ................ ......... ............... ......----------.......-------------.--..---......-------------~  .. ....  . ... ..  .  . .. . 
Item          Year     1         2         3        4        5       6       7       8       9       10      11       12     13      14       15         16
. ............... ............ ....................... .. .---. -.. -. -. ---....  . .............  .. ..... .. .. ...  - -- -- -- -- -- -- --- ------ --- -
Expenses
MaterialEquipment         153,576    140,688  162,428   71,828        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
Seedling                 48,135    77,302   88,864   39,813          0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
Fertilizer               39,783     60,215   69,869   30,378         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       a       0          0          0
Pesticide                  1,  4    2,745    3,204    1,382         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
Equipment                63,534          0        0         0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
Organic Manure              320        427      491      256         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
Labor                     217,742   375,124  499,883  323,219  144,614  90,120 122,646 152,263 168,864 189,769 196,594 223,635 180,085 178,431    308,586   374,842
Site Preparation         91,671    140,160  163,783   70,396         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
Land Clearing            43,662    64,786   76,204   32,669          0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
Conservation              1,379      2,296    2,759    1,098         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
Forest Tracks             6,582      9,974   11,684    5,012         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
Planting                 28,720    44,422   51,356   22,466          0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
Tending                  45,729    113,485  192,048  186,656  130,279 65,001  38,011  37,582  37,565  36,445  36,787 36,135  36,091  35,857    36,242    35,171
Cutting/Harvesting            0          0    2,049    4 922   14,334  25,119  84,634 114,681 131,299 153,324 159,807 187,500 143,994 142,574    272,344   339,671
Other                      41,921     71,726   93,197  61,011   29,352  24,521  23,048  22,860  22,593  22,287 22,044  21,903  21,740 21,677         21,677    21,381
Guard/storage Shed       19,357    28,973   33,768   14,561          0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
Survey/Design            13,900    21,265   24,924   10,681          0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
information Management    1,266      3,151    4,754    4,749    3,671   3,218  3,218   3,186  3,140   3,087   3,047  3,024   2,998  2,988           2,988      2,941
Environment Monitoring    1,307      3,211    4,833    4,181    2,123      506       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
Management                4,819      11,979   20,172   22,708   21,446  20,290  19,829  19,674  19,453  19,200  18,997  18,879  18,742  18,689     18,689     18,440
Inspection/Supervision    1,272      3,148    4,746    4,131    2,113     506       0       0       0       0        0       0      0       0          0          0
Nursery Program            28,124     13 720      701    1,500         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
Research Program           11,406     11,406   11,406   11,406   11,406        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0      o
Capacity Building Program  13,859      7,899    5,213    4,070       350     350       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0 an
Base Expenses             466,629    620,563  772 828  473,034  185,722 114,990 145,693 175,122 191,458 212,056 218,638 245,539 201,825 200,108    330,263   396,223         1
Physical Contingency       56,139     74,659   92,731   55,015   17,117   4,712        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
Totat Expenses            522,768    695,222  865,559 528,049  202,839 119,703 145,693 175,122 191,458 212,056 218,638 245,539 201,825 200,108    330,263    396,223
Revenues
Large Diameter                0          0        0         0        0       0       0       0       0  18,432  23,459  27,230  10,473       0    434,024    651,037
Medium Diameter               0          0        0         0        0       0  63,433  90,059 103,372 119,284  95,004 110,273  42,413       0    326,354   504,510
Small Diameter                0          0        0         0        0       0 70,786 100,898 116,014 131,921 130,253 155,399  76,716  97,582    186,839   231,226
Cull                          0          0        0         0        0       0  26,426 37 910 43,710  77,683 102 352 123,250 68,061  76,723    138,929   167,186
fuetwood                      0          0        0         0        0       0   2,121   3,174  3,726   9,819  13,659  16,259  13,742  18,371      31,046    29,301
Residue Value                 0          0        0         0        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0          0          0
Bamboo                        0          0    5,970   14,178  34,862  53,326  76,587 93,676 106,582 116,035 122,630 127,244 129,447 130,743    133 076    138,000
Other                         0          0    5,419   13,093   39,976  74 202 114,741 146,533 167,499 184,256 227,856 284,521 358,353 396,890    396,999   398,756
Totat Revenues                  0          0   11,388   27,271   74,838 127,529 354,094 472,550 540,902 657,429 715,214 844,175 699,206 720,309  1,647,267  2,120,015
without Project Revenue     9,339     22,181   38,379   44,800   44,800 44,800 44,800  44,800 44,800 44,800 44,800  44,800  44,800 44,800    44 800    44 800
Balance Before Taxes     (532,108)  (717,403)(892,550)t545,578)(172,801)(36,974)163,600 252,627 304,645 400,573 451,776 553,836 452,581 475,401  1,272,204 1,678,992
....................................................................................................................................
Net Present Value (3 12X)          2,412,359
ERR                                      17.7X
ERR: 20X decrease sales price            15.3X         SUITCHING VALUE (9 121):     40.81
ERR: 20X increass production cost        15.7X                                      70.8X
ERR: 20X incredse capital cost           16.2X                                     112.3X 1
" h



17          18          19          20          21          22          23          24          25         26         27        28     29       30         "I          32        33
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0        0
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0        0
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0        0
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0        0
36,7     59,09    7004   14470  13 0,7   1,5 07    76,4                          28 9    2070   1 060    204,5   7612                 48   11,5         14,8        14,2    5626
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0        0
06,7    59     09    7004   14470  13 007   15,07    06,4                        08,9    207 0   1 060    2045             0612       08  01,5          14    08   04 2    5626
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0        0
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0        0
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0 
35,230      34,030      32,668      30,730      25,029      19,509      14,80       12,739    12 U79       9,944      6,499   2,234    489        489         367         210        59
333,543    560,679    667,872  1,424,060  1,365,049  1,334,299    753,043    269,255   238,: -1   180,665   197,860  73,892                 0  117,266    149,518    142,315   56,206
20,924      20,389      19,012      17,329      13,595      10,145       6,810       4,917      4,297      3,362      2,294      9bf,   459       459         344         197        56
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0         0
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0         0
2,868       2,783       2,606       2,401       1,938       1,506       1,089         851        775        615        410      156     56        56          42          24         7
0           0           0           0           0           0l          0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0         0
18,055      17,605      16,405      14,928      11,657       8,639       5,721       4,066      3,522      2,747      1,883      830    403       403         302         173        49
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0        0
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0 
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0         00
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0 
389,697    615,097    719,552  1,472,120  1,403,673  1,363,952    774,659    286,911   255,007   193,971   206,652  77,112    948  118,215    150,229    142,722   56,321 
0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0          0          0       0       0         0           0           0        0
389,697    615,097    719,552  1,472,120  1,403,673  1,363,952    774,659    286,911   255,007   193,971   206,652  77,112    948  118,215    150,229    142,722   56.321
750,501    325,518            0      42,410      67,564      79,048      33,887            0          0         0          0        0       0  138,964    176,208    167,283   66,021
591,158  1,029,044  1,129,824  3,348,601  3,618,766  3,901,193  2,127,517    637,254   304,043    34,528    40,498  13,051                  0  598,730    758,905    720,336  284,278
164,554    875,706  1,266,640  2,820,933  2.592,763  2,508,260  1,448,408    496,454   411,508   307,183   382,817 140,152                 0  127,106    161,375    153,293   60,509
119,476    153,629    210,593    411,349    370,083    316,604    164,429            49,882   121,859   147,284   175,951  70,909          0   13,082       16, 617     15,788    6,232
19,526      24,586      33,267      77,052      76,419      69,797      35,541       8,217    27,053    33,928    41,356  17,201          0    2,060        2,626       2,500       987
0           0           0    326,227    517,694    539,920    273,335               0   255,332   374,411   446,397 182,971          0         0           0           0        0
142,406    144,997    144,997    144,997    116,744          72,576      22,473           0          0          0          0        0       0        0           0           0         0
389 499    412,877    427,966    499 822    475,626    406,216    307,408    224,305   224,305   188,242   120,050  35,566                  0    4,511       6,445       6,445    2,578
2,1717120  2,966,358  3,213,287  7,671:391  7,835,659  7,893,614  4,412,998  1,416,112 1,344,101 1,085,576 1,207,068 459,851                  0  884,453  1,122,176  1,065,645  420,605
44,800      44,800      44,800    138,R998    165,006    185,732        71,213            0    24,962    34,537    38,875  17,827          0        0           0           a         0
1,742,623  2,306,461  2,448,935  6,060,273  6,266,980  6,343,930  3,567,126  1,129,201 1,064,132   857,069   961,540 364,912   (948) 766,238    971,947    922,924  364,i84
-0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



- 107 -                                            Annex E6
Page 5 of S
CHINA
FOREST RES0URCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
Summry of Financial and Economic Analysis
..... ....._............................. ........................................................................._. ..__
Financial            Financial           Economic          Economic
Species                             IRR                NPV 8/                IRR              NPV a/
(1)               ($000 Y)              (M)             ('000 Y'
Protection Forest                          15.1              195,229              16.2             279,736
1  Cypress/Aider                           10.1                 (450)              9.7                (559)
2  Hasson Pine/Broad-leaf Tree             11.2                 (204)             10.7                (312)
3  Masson Pine                             12.1                   34              11.7                  (92)
4  Chinese Fir                             13.4                  529              13.0                 386
S  Sawtooth Oak                             9.9                 (355)              9.4                (44)
6  Chestnut                                22.6               r,461               25.6              10,900
7  Pear                                    20.8                5,884              23.2               8,304
8  Euccmmia                                18.1                3,782              18.4               4,045
9  Chinese Sumac/White Birth               25.9                5,7M               27.8               7,041
10 HiIls-Closure-1                         10.7                 (110)             10.9                 (93)
11 Hitls-Closure-2                         12.0                   (1)             12.2                   10
Plantation                                 18.1            2,152,375              18.0           2,132,623
1  Chinese Fir (18)                        18.2                7,077              18.0               7,007
2  Chinese Fir (16)                        20.7                7,745              20.4               7,464
3  Chinese Fir (14)                        18.2                5,240              18.0               4,947
4  Masson Pine (14)                        17.5                3,070              17.2               2,918
S  Masson Pine (16)                        18.5                4,306              18.3               4,191
6  Slash Pine (18)                         14.7                1,907              14.5               1,859
7  Slash Pine (16)                         18.9                4,770              18.7               4,712
8  Slash Pine (14)                         18.5                4,039              18.3               3,931
9  Lobiolly Pine (16)                      19.7                5,677              19.5               5,558
10 Japanese Larch (16)                     16.1                2,609              15.8               2,379
11 Japanese Larch (14)                     16.5                2,509              16.1               2,268
12 Korean Larch (16)                       15.8                2,264              15.4               2,040
13 Korean Larch (14)                       15.9                2.066              15.4               1,834
14 Chinese White Poplar (II)              24.2                 8,533              24.6               9,244
15 Populus Simonii (12)                   26.9                 4,684              26.8               4,690
16 Eucalyptus (II)                        28.9                 3,594              28.1               3,410
17 Black Loeust (18)                       18.7                2,851              18.6               2,803
18 Schim  Superbe (II)                     16.3                2,091              15.8               1,881
19 Noso Bamboo - New (11)                 23.7                11,844              25.6              14,543
20 Noso Bamboo - Rehab. (II)               21.1                5,758              21.7               6,756
21 Arundinaria (1I)                        22.0                5,309              23.3               6,184
Total Project                              17.6            2,347.604              17.7           2,412,359
................. .....................................         . .        .       *        ._
a/ Based on 12X disrount rate.



- 108 -                   Afx    E
Page 1 of 2
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILES
A. Government Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1. Feasibility Study Report for the China Forest Resource Development and Protecdon
Project, Ministry of Forestry, October 1993.
2. Afforestation Models for Intensively Managed Plantations, Ministry of Forestry, April
1993.
3. Financial Analysis of Silvicultural Models for the Intensively Managed Planuttion
Component, Ministry of Forestry, October 1993.
4. Economic Analysis for the Silvicultural Models for the Intensively Managed Plantation
Component, Ministry of Forestry, October 1993.
i. Afforestation Model Establishment and Financial and Economic Benefit Analysis for
Multiple-Use Protection Forest, Ministry of Forestry, October 1993.
6. Plan for Development of Improved Planting Material, Ministry of Forestry, October
1993.
7. Guideline on Technical Management of Seedling Nurseries, Ministry of Forestry,
October 1993.
8. Standards for Seedlings of Major Species for Project Plantation, Ministry of Forestry,
October 1993.
9. Research Plan, Ministry of Forestry, October 1993.
10. Extension Plan of Scientific and Technological Achievements, Ministry of Forestry,
October 1993.
11. Report on Analysis of FRDPP's Impacts on Environment, Ministry of Forestry, October
1993.
12. Training Plan, Ministry of Forestry, October 1993.
13. Procurement Schedule for Equipment and Materials for FRDPP, Ministry of Forestry,
October 1993.
14. Terms of Reference for Tree Seedling Production Coordination Group for FRDPP,



- 109 -                            Page 2 of2
Ministry of Forestry, Octobe; 1993.
15. Afforestation Model Establishment and Benefit Analysis of the Feasibility Study for
Multi-Functional Protective Forest Project: Report on a Special Subject, Forestry
Exploration and Design Insitute of Sichu-.n, April 1993.
B. Consultant Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1. Conservation Issues in Protective Forests: A Draft Report for FRDPP Pre-Appraisal
Mission, Ben Haagsma, June 1993.
2. High-Yielding Techniques on Bamboo Cultivation: Consultancy Report for Pre-
Appraisal of FRDPP, Lou Yiping, June 1993.
3. Technical Report on Nurseries: Pre-Appraisal Mission of FRDPP, Andrew Gordon,
June 1993.
4. Report on Larch, Pcplar, Nurseries and Plant Quality: Pre-Appraisal Mission of
FRDPP, A. Gordon, June 1993.
5. Silvcultural Management of Natural Broadleaved Forests in Jiangxi Province, Ian
Hutchinson, October 1993.
6. Appraisal of Research and Extension in FRDPP, Groome Poyry, December 1993.
C. Working Papers
1. Project Costs
2. Financial and Economic Analysis



S~~~~~~~~~S
e1atlNA                                               PROCURIMEt tCHtt)ULEFOR EQUIPMENhTAHD MTERIALS                               fistForeat Resfiocesa Devetopoent eWProtection Proj.
-ackage I
rertJ. t zer (Batch I          ICS   4.412  50*                                                                                                                     
(31.000 MT)
Package 2                                                 J2DAALiAI-U
Fert1I Iter( (atch 2>          LCB      427 aes-                          -                         
(3.O00 MT)                                    CUA
Package 3   6- 6                                                                           A L
Office Equipment               PS       5OS s.4.e              -      - -                 
Package   l       U -8         -                                                    a A   A I                                                                        -
Olfic* Equipment               ice   1186         e
pcckage9
Pickup Trucks                  XIS   1,015
(418 sets)
Package 10                                                                                     II
Sprinklers                     LCI      350 ee5e        - -- ~.          -- -            -                               
(ISa 6ets)                                                                                                                                                               L-      = ===   ;                                      
Package ti                                   *.S                         
Fertilizer (Batch 3)           ICB   0,85!   em                      1..              --- 
(41.816 MIT)
P'ackage Il_n 
Fertilizer (Batchs 4)         J.CB    1,024  s,u .                                                                                          
(1,112 HrT)                                                                                           H4 -           4   4=H 4
Pzcksge 13                                                                                                                    Kl-
Pesticides (Batchi I)          ice      824   ce        . -             . -              I-= = =-
packages 34 - ISs,se,                                                                    
S-t aTrucksg                   ICB   2,604  sel                 --           .         ~          -        -
Fire-fightin      eils"-                                                        .                                                              
t-      01*01014JOI 5e~tMC0,Sie.                         4w 504 ot  lo5iee**04
S-4aICIu m6 51 01U55.cUaSS*4*tA1mftOAtA                        C1501CM' SOAUM,.OMn05, wss A     t   ""I A   to 'S                                         tas Woo%...
I-leases gtuMAjeUBtSeeSCO.aset5*a,Om.p 05 CS5.l.CS   SI,eeeCzl.Ol.
e.eAti*AAMSO u~aseA,ew  S *e.seceess.ce                                                                                                                          fa



a n     -n- n            a
a  0                  t       4n~ftw           W           INw it~                             i
r 9                                   4 Is II~~ 2"   IN       -s J 
lEA                                                       U,.    ftUIt A"- 
k I  I~  I  fl I             a    -4             -,                I
II-             II                     I  i                            ft1 I  I# I  i    I
111111                                                 U~~~~~1  II,      '   1 U                  5
11111!!'       ___    .111 III~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11             t
IN~- -
I                                                              -             'ri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
-         U,
J    u   P     I             1 Fj'   -FI         I , 4INo                      0 
I    't 0 0 [ f   k    I      P          I  1     9   I I              i     - -
S  -                                     r    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   'II~~~~~IIIC
j   JOS                        ii~~~~~~~~~~1   fIDI      I    1  1                        lAt
U           If  I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  lt
I                                                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Il  w
ZJOZSId ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                           1I,.~ *. 
Um
IN       It   I P
P. II I
P    P  n  If   4 P IN    It  It  I  Is  11   d      I-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f



- 112 -                                              Cbl= 2
CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENTAN3 PROTECTION PROJECT
Project Organiadon Structure
EXISTING GOVERNMENT                           NEW PROJECT MANAGEMENT                             EXISTING FORESTRY
STRUCTURE                                        STRUCTURE                                     STRUCTURE
Management and                 Oeparuneft
_   Plann,ng
..  Yangtze River
    Fin=ance and     |     FPaject Oeoanrte    I
_Procurement
.~~~~
MOF         h                                       J    Seed and Seeling              Ge nofTeera A
Coordnaon Gmu            |    ana  Seso
z
0                                                                                 i4 GEFP  am         - M  4FO  omsPtotI
SPC                                                        ntco Ou
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Reseuch and Exteson  .         Chinese AcadeMy
SupDon Panel        ,.        of ForestrY
G enra    c_      r             Institute$
..Afforestatton
t   Managennint anaOeparnt
Finance and
04hnartnse|-                                                See and Seeling  . .
J   |   .    I  l                                      7   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coorsnauon G{OUD   |  Seesmg stab"n
3  H   am                                                  ; t            GEF Pogram                   Oe-ar"ent
0.
ab ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ eerf an Exeso '              - 1 ||ERionneta
Pmv| ncaal Planntng||                                      -      po nGru
I  I  Commlssion    I I         I                 E, enson  gens 
Researcn and Extenaon   - - I   County Reseca     |
Suotot Panelnsatu i
Finance     U|r Managt an                                                    |
13ureau     ll                                      li        Pam 
CJ I   r   I                                           I I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Researcn and edtenswnL.    County Reseamh
ICounty Planning                                                 SuIi ae
IC;arnswson                                                           I
I  Extension       |-  -    TduaEtnn |
|   Agent            L         Satn 



IBRD 25549
\  RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                I
KAZAKHSTAN            g     >J....                                                                         2         _ i> 
r t ~~~~~~~~~MONGOLIA,    /
0 ~ ~ ~~~~*
UZBeKQSTAN            |>t>                                                                                                 /l    
SeaCofIC PA
| <     (!/IAbI';                                                               i \<                                   so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19Jpan /
WMANGOAN
AFGHAN ) I 6CSTAN                                                           e6F
CHNAIONAL ;CAP ITAL                                                                                             __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _
FOREST  RESOURCE DEY'ARELOMNTN                  a1V\         S       G0o           vAN;>-S             g-  ;
.-  :.: INMMERCfLINTATfONSL BOUnmNDARS   20    < oG Chn   G    ,rIU WN OEAN
seui
tiEBa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PBRAY19
Th.~~~ |--i.      PRTCfN-IEm,_                                 T: )                      t*rf  U;DN
Th'. ~~        ~         ~        ~        THI W.           sv<,          t3NSzr( 



