R-
:_                                                                            0 :          :7S : 3
iStS
| l  w     i           l                     0 X,f:                                       ta               0             I w  r--.~  .4 
|                                                                                         . ,  - .   . , .f@ -   ,, ,   - .......... ., - ,. ........... - ... ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . . .
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
21~ ~ ~       M                                                                                          PM" s''''   ''      ' ' '"''4'''E'- '''' ''''''"'- 
"MA  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
.4M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
II              et-I                                                                                                                                " tu=? 0 d  I   mu  l
_ _ _ _ _   _ _                                                                                        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~   .   .. .
f-.,               . ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
~~~< r   _   -~~~~~~~~~~  --   -----  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --in-  --.  -   - -   -~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1    ..    .........
3 [t    ^           i                  S ^;;                                             8.;                          |  r                      r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .....  ...
l IiWA:leMa't: I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....... ... 



FRDHP
WB Lon P!rojet
Report on Analysis of FRDPP# s
Impacts on Environment
October 1993



Contects
Report on Analysis of FMP's IDacts ont
L General Intrd1uon
2. Policy Frame
3. Evioment Assessment
3.1 Mfintence of Biological Diversity
3.2 Soil Erosion Control
3.3 Pests and Deseses Control
3.4 Forest Fire Prevention
4. Eavironmental Management and Monitor
4. 1 Environmental Management and Monitor for IP Component
4.2 Environmeal Management and Monitor for MPF ComPonent
4.2 Enviromental Monitoring Scheme
5. Implementation of the Scheme
5.1 Organizational Structe
5.2 Training Arrangemt
5.3 Training Schedual
6. Cost Estimate
Annex 1: Eavironment Protection Guideline for IMP Component
Annex 2: Environment Protection Guideline for MPF ComPonent
Annex 3: Execution on the Environment Protecdon Guideline
and the Impleenting Progam for NAP s Envirnmental
Monitoring
Annex Map



Report on Analysis of FRDPP' s
Impct son Environment
L General Introbdtin
Forest Resource Development and Protection Project (FRDPP) is the
continuation of National Afforestation Project ( NAP ) and its
major objectives are to establish intensive management plantation
(IMP) and multi-use protection forests (MPF). as well as to
improve the management of natural reserves. According to the
preliminary evaluation of the natural conditions. economic
development and environmental aspects in the project area and on
the principle of achieving optimal benefits it has been decided
that the project will be implemented in 16 provinces with a total
area of 780,000 hectares. The specific arrangement is decribed as
follows.
Involved in the establishment of IUP are the provinces of Hebei.
Shanxi, Liaoning, Heilongjiang, Zhejiang, Anhui. Fujian. Jiangxi.
Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Guangdaog, Guangxi, Sichuan, Guizhou, and
Yunnan with a total area of 530,000 hectares  Right tree species
shall be selected to suit the local conditions and as many native
species shall be planted as possible. Consideration also must be
given to the species' characteristics such as fast-growing.
high-yielding and good woody quality. The major species to be
selected for IMP component are: Chinese fir, Masson' s pine.
Slash pine. Loblolly pine. Larch. Eucalyptus. Moso bamboo and



etc. At the time of IMP compoent is being established. the growing
stock will reach to 0. 94 million cubic meters, the accumulated
timber production 0. 7 uill.on cubic meters, gross income 30.2
billion(RNEB) yuan.  euatie, the forest coverage in project area
will increase by 3-5%, which will be advantageous to improve
ecosystem and protet natral forest resource.
involved in the establishment of MPF are the provinces of Hubei and
Sichuan with a total area of 250,000 hectares. Right species
shall be selected to suit the local conditions and as many native
species shall be planted as possible. Consideration also shall be
given to the species with good protecting capability and also to
the fruit tree species with high value. The species for MPF
component to be selected are: Chinese fir, Masson s pime Sawtooth
oak, Cypress, Chestnut.Eucommia, Chinese sumac. and oth, r
broadleaved trees. After the fulfillment of MPF component the
forest coverage in project areas of upper and middle reaches of the
Yangtize River will increase by 3-5%, reduce soil losses up to
40 million tons,add water storage more than 2 billion tons. In
affition to the above ecological effects, the growing stock will
come to 0.25 million cubic meters, accumulated timber production
0.05 million cubic meters, and the total income will reach to
4.95 billion (RMB) yuan.
Involved in the strengthening the management of bio-diversity and
natural reserves using the Globle Environment Facility' s Fund
(GEF) are the natural reserves of Xishiuadgana n Yunnan, Wuyisban
Mountain in Fujian, Shezmongjia Mountain in HubeiL Qinling Mountain
in Shaanxi and Poyang lake in Jiangxi with the Major purposes for
improving the protection and management of these natural reserves
-2-



and the species having globle and interal sigificane by adoping
new metods of ornization, planng, teoloical developmet,
I.noition  Imaan and community priiain
The detdis of FDPP lyout are shw in the project sketch map.
2. Policy Frame
Guadelnes of environment protection for IMP and MPF components
of FRDPP have been issued in accorawnce with the possiblity of some
potential impacts on environment caused in the implementation of
the project. It is also considerd related laws and regulations,
especial based on making rational use of natural resources,
preventing environment pollution and ecosystem deterioration, bring
the project's ecological and economical benefits into full play.
and the experience gained from the NAP practice. The names of
refering laws and regulations are Environment Protection Law.
Forest Law, Water and soil Conservation Law, Regulation of Plant
Quarantine. Regulation of Forest Fire Control, Guadeline for Forest
cutting and Regeneration, Provisional Mleasures on Cosing-up
hills for Better Growth of Forests, Regulation of Afforestation
Design, and Guadeine of Enviroment Prtecton for NAP.
3. Envirocental Assessment
FRDPP will speed up the development of intensive management
plantation and increase timber production,which will faciltate the
protection of natural forests.forest ecosystem and
bio-diversity. Especially. the establishment of MPF will play a
demonstrative role in the ongoing construction of the protection
-3-



forest system along the Yangtse River, in soil and water
conservation and in improving the natural and ecological
environment along the middle and upper reaches of the Yangtze
River. The implementation of GEF, not only will improve to keep
bio-diversity for five state natural reserves with globle and
interal significance, but also will strengthen the Chinese
natural reserves to protect bio-diversity and improve management
ability. But the afforestation and management activities will
have some potential impacts on enviroment. If such problems are
not dealt with properly, they will produce negative effects. These
potential impacts include that large area of pure coniferous
plantations and or single clone without any environment protection
measures are easily affected by pests and diseases and cause soil
degradation;improper site preparation for afforestation may cause
or accelerate loss of water and soil; irrational use of chemical
fertilizers and pestcide may result in some environmental
pollution. etc.
NAP s experience over the last 2 years proves that the NAP' s
environment protection guideline is practical and in compliance
with the actual conditions of project area. Since the environment
protection guideline has been carried out in afforestation design
and implementation, some negative affects on environment have
been basically eliminated. Thus natural environment has been
rationally utilized and natural forests, diversity of ecological
environment and tree species preserved.
FRDPP is the continuation and expansion of NAP. For solving the
potential problems in project establishment, some adaptable
measures should be adopted to provent these problems . for
-4-



wate;r strip or hole-site-prep ton should         s e  i
.. , g  ' ,..-. . .  p l-  1 , , .             ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e-u1.i   rj
p~!anadon  Oveall tel)atOl.wic            zmImettion of 
NAP have, changed-this traditionalbe
In addition, in order to achieve.thg purposeq of.soil and wae.-
conservation. optimal conservecy engineering measures should be
adopted in the:Ximplementation of MPF. Based on the environment
protection'regulations issued by the government department
concerned and the experience gained from NAP. the Ministry of
Forestry has formulated. the Environment Protection Guideline for
FRDPP to avoid the potential environmental problems concerning
occurrence of pests and diseases. loss of water and soil, reduction
of soil fertility, forest fires and degradation of ecological
environment. Each participating province is required to follow
the two guidelines to prevent any negative impacts on environment
from happening.
3.1 Maintenance of Biological Diversity. FRDPP will continue to
foilow NAP's regulations on environmental protection and enrich:.
such regulations based on the practical experience over the last
few years. When the sites are selected for IMP, natural forests
which have preserving value are not allowed to cut. The barren
hills and wasteland suitable for afforestation, shrub land or
open forest land with crown closure less than 309% shall be
selected. Some low-yield plantations (annual growth less than 3
-5-



destroyed many times  and resulted in broken ft.rest. blth
economical and environmental benefits are low can be transformed
into high standard plantations. Small watersheds shall be designed
and improved as units for the establishment of MPF and trees
growing in those areas(except ill and rotted trees) shall be kept
so as to maintain the ecological environment and bio-diversity. In
additioii. afforestation is not allowed in rare fauna and flora
reserves and in the places with historical and cultural relics.
Establislhmenit o.f mixed plantations.  Major plantitiz species
selctedi re gt.'d quality local ones. having suitable azdlii  ztr-wing
fast and( highi vield. According to the regulations stated in the.
kwvi r inmr-Ilt Pr(tt-etie in Guidelines for FRDPP mixed plantati' iis shall
be -stablished in block or strip to avoid large areas uf plantatioti
of monoculture. The species layout for MIPF shall follow the
principles descrilbd below:
1) The to) sides of the mountain or hill ridge and the upper part
..f the slope will be planted with arbor or shrub species: tLh
middle part of the slIpe planted with timber species: the lIx
part planted .ith economic species and fruit trees or tiirber
sxpecies.
2) M,ixture of arbor and shrub species with grass will be encourr ;ed
in the steeply sloping part with over 25 degrees. which, as a
result. is coinducive to increasing bio-diversity. controlliingz
loss of soil and water and reducing the occurence o,f piests aiid
*lisea~~s.



3. 2 Soil Ernsion Cnntrol. To avoid the .ntential imnacts r.--i,1 -i t
from improper site preparation. tending and cutting tiperatit.ins
and to reduce the loss of water and soil, appropriate measures f-
site preparation, tending and harvest shall be adopted according to
the site- conditions and silvicultural targets. NAP practical
experience has proved that planting vegetable strips along
contour line and arrangement of holes in triangle form can
effectively reduce the loss of soil and water. Such measures
will continue to be used in IMP component. Additionally.pri.iper
methods for site preparation must be worked out according to tlhe
situatiun concerning the loss of water and soil in the pr. ject
area.  In steeply sl-.ping areas. the measures of closing uip iil-
hills for better growth of forests shall be adopted. For tending if
a young stand. hltle enlarging and soil loxsening sliall ba- CoIInduct1I
to maintain as muici surface vegetation as possible. .ieIcis *Olici:
are cut during tendiiig shall be left on site.  The deztd brancliht-s
and fallen lea-ves in the forest are not allowed to collect -s ;Is tU
improve the noisture retention of  forest land and maintaini tllh-
soil fertility.
Logging will reduce forest coverage, damage surface vegetatimn.
cause loss ..f water and soil and weaken the soil fer-tility.
According to FRDPP regulations on environment protection. IVP slull
be clearcut block bv block. which shall not be larged than *5
hectares if the sloping area is over 15 degrees and 20 hectares
if below 15 degrees. based on  Regulation for forest citting and
regenerating' issued bv MFO). Selection cutting is mainil:. adtiptt.ed
for bamboo harvesting with the intensity of less than 15'%o
(number or stens). Clearcut of MPF is not pernitted.Unly thinninLg
and regeneration cutting are allowed. During cutting. co nsidterinv



--3       
an regenerate.        -    ...xi:*
j e j'. > ' 1 t 2   . -~  -." '   '-**.* -  -   *.-.
3.-3 Pest and Disease Control., Cnsideration must be given to
and disease control when sites and species are selected';-
'According to the.regulation on envi.onment protection biological,-
methods shall be adopted as well as possible to control pests and
diseases. NAP analytical results in controlling pests and
diseases using monitoring plots will be Lsed in FRDPP afforestation
activities. Timely removing sick trees can improve ther
pest-and-disease resisting capability of the whole stand. When
. serious pests and diseases occur,pesticides must be used, which.
however. must be registered with the departments concerned and
approved by the National Environment Protection Agency. For safty.
the personnel in charge of use of pesticides must take mandatary
training.
When seeds. seedlings and planting materials areWWhen seeds.
. seedlings and planting materials are to be imported to China or
transported between provinces,quarantine regulations must be
strictly carried out. The details are described in the
-regulations on environment protection.
Each county participating in the project has its own forest pests
and diseases monitoring station in charge .;f monitoring anal
-8--



forecasting of forest pest and diseases.
3.4 Forest Fire Prevention. According to the regulations. fire
breaks are required in the establishment of plantations. Along the
boundary area of coniferous plantations, such species as Schima
superba with fire-resisting capability must be planted. Each
afforestation entity shall establish its own fire control
organization to be equipped with fire control equipment and work
out strict fire control plan, which shall be included in the
provincial and county forest fire control system. In southen
provinces forest fires seldom occur due to plentiful rainfall and
mixture of natural broadleaved forests. In northen provinces
forest fire control and monitoring facilities have been
strengthened since the Daxnganling forest fire in 1987.
4. Environment Management and Monitoration
In order to prevent above mentioned potential problems during the
implementation of FRDPP, Guideline of environmental protection
for the project have issued by MFO. Every project provinces.
according to the actural conditions and guideline of
environmental protection should make the detailed regulation on
environmental protection, and every stage from project design to
implementation must be carry out strictly based on regulations of
environmental protection.In addtion, inspection and supervision
on the implementation of FRDPP's environment protection
guidelines will be carried out by the project offices at
different levels. Those activities will be conducted along with
the quality inspection and acceptance of afforestation work. The
project offices at the county level shall take the implementation
-9-



of Environment Protectiow Guidelines as a mandatory condition for
inspecting and accepting the afforestation work. If the
requirements are not met the afforestation work will not be
accepted and the related costs not reimbursed. The World Bank
Loan Project Offices will monitor and supervise the
implementation of environment protection guidelines by using
sampling method. If some problems are found it is required that
some measures are taken to correct them within a spe-ified period
of time.
4.1 Environmental Management and Mlonitor for IMP Component. The
major target for IMP is to produce good quality timber to satisfy
increasing requirement of wood market. So in the cultivation. it
must satisfy the requirement of tree growth rather than resulting
in environmental deterioration. In order to achieve this target.
according to the regulation to design and implement. overall-site
-preparation must be promitted, avoid large area of planting
single coniferous species or same clone.vegetable strips should
be planted along the contour line to prevent soil from losing . and
also based on the regulation to cutting, more details are showed
in annex 1.
4.2 Environmental Management and Monitor for MPF Component. The
main purpose of MPF component is to improve ecological
environment and prevent soil erosion . As it is located in the area
with more serious soil erosion. it is possible to plant mult
-canopy forest to keep bio-diversity according to soil erosion
situation in design and implementation. Small hole
-site-preparation which disturb original vegetable and soil
construction as small as possible. would be adopted. the
10 -



appropriate conservancy engineering measure such as cut down
ditch or earth bank, should be set up on the slopes of more than 25
degrees or langer than 200 meters. In additional, small watershed
should be considered as a unit to control soil erosion and to
utilize reasonably land resources so the implementation should be
hills-closure on upper slope or ranges, protecting-timber
plantation or wood-fuel plantation on middle of slopes, fruit trees
on the valley or lower slopes, at the same time, in order to fix
slope and intercept sediment, it is necessary to set up conservancy
engineering measures in valley , such as check-dam and sediment
trap, more details can be seen in annex 2.
4.3 Environmental Monitoring Scheme. Plan for environment
protection and monitoring . In order to better carry out the FRDPP
s environment protection guidelines and monitor the impacts of
afforestation activities on environment, two plans are worked out
for both IMP and OPF components.
4.3.1 Environmental monitoring plan for LUP Component. FRDPP is the
continuation and expansion of NAP. Among the 16 provinces
participating in FRDPP there are 14 provinces involved in NAP where
93 monitoring plots have been laid out. The practical experience
gained over the last 2 years shows that the layout of those
monitoring plots is appropriate and the data collected have
basically reflected the impacts of afforestation activities on
environment. The monitoring plots will continue to be observed
and monitored. No more monitoring plots will be needed in the 14
provinces. In the newly participating provinces of Heilongjiangand
Shanxi 4 monitoring plots will be set up to monitor loss of water
and soil, soil fertility and pests and diseases. In addition in the
_ U} -



counties where conditions exist, the impacts of fertilizer
application on environment shall be monitoredL
4.3.2 Environmental monitoring plan for MPF component MPF component
will be planted along the middle and upper reaches of the Yangtzi
River in the provinces of Sichuan and Hubei. In order to monitor
the impacts of afforestation activities on environment. 3 typical
small watersheds will be selected in the project area. 3-5
monitoring plots and a contrast plot will be established in each
watershed where such contents as loss of water and soil. pests and
diseases and soil fertility will be monitored.
5. Implemetation of the Scheme
5.1 Organizational Structure. The Ministry of Forestry will be in
charge of environment monitoring and management of the project.
Environment protection groups with full-time persons in charge will
be established at central. provincial and county levels.
5.1.1 The Ministry of Forestry will be responsible for FRDPP
environment monitoring and management.The World Bank Loan
Projects Management Centre will set up an environment protection
group consisting of experts from the Department of Forestry
Protection under the Ministry of Forestry.Academy of Forestry and
Academy of Forest Inventory and Planning. This group will be in
charge of the following jobs:
(9 Working out the regulations on environment protection and
supervising the implementation of such regulations.
--12-



(2) Formulating the plan for laying out the monitoring plots and
the plan for monitoring,determining the quantity and distribution
of such plots and supervising the implementation of such plans.
(3) Working out the training plan for the personnel in charge of
environment protection and taking part in the implementation of the
plan and su     i
(D Organizing the analysis -if data submitted by the provincial
environment protection groups.
5.1.2 The project office of each province will set up an
environment project group. which will be in charge of:
W1  Working out the detailed regulations on environment
protection according to the actural conditions of the province
and inspecting the implementation.
(2) Setting up the monitoring plots.putting the regulations into
effect according to plan and reporting the monitoring results to
the central environment protection group at a regular basis.
(9 Working out and carrying out the training plan for the
personnel of the province.
() Adding suplementary contents to the regulations on
environment protection. working out the overall design of each
FRDPP county and the afforestation design of each afforestation
entity based on the regulations and working out environment
protection measures and putting them into practice.
-1?-



5.1.3 The environment protection group set up by the project office
of each county will take the responsibility for:
(D Supervising and inspecting activities in implementing the
regulatioL
(2) Setting up and observing the monitoring plots and reporting
monitoring data to the provincial project office at a regular
basis.
(1) Providing training to tree planters.
5.2 Training Arrangement. Training will be held at the central.
provincial. county and AE levels. The management and technical
personnel involved in environment protection of the project will be
trained to make them familiar with the regulations and details of
the environment.protection guidelines and to help them implement
such stipulated guidelines and regulations in the project. The
training plan is decribed in details as follows.
5.2. 1 Training to be held at the central level. Training at the
central level will be organized by the WB Loan Project Management
Centre for the personnelfrom the provincial project offices. The
traiRing contents include measures to be taken for implementing the
environment protection guidelines stipulated by the Mlinistry of
Forestry and methods for monitoring and assessing water and soil
conservation. soil fertility and pests and diseases control. It
is planned that two trainig classes will be held with one week for
each and a total of 100 persons will be trained by the experts
-14-



and prufessurs tL be invited from the National Environment
Protection Agency. Ministry of Forestry s departments in charge of
environmental monitoring and assessment and from the environment
group of the WB Loan Project Management Centre.
5.2.2 Training at the provincial level.Training at the provincial
level will be sponsored by the provincial project offices. Thz
participants will be from the environment groups of the county
project offices. The training contents will focus the measures to
be taken for implementing environment protection guidelines
formulated by the Ministry of Forestry, detailed regulations for
environment protection worked out by the provinces, methods and
assessment of environment protection, and use and management of
pesticides. It is planned that three training classes will be held
which will last one week each with a total of 600 trainees. The
training classes will be taught by experts from the Ministry of
Forestry's departments of environment monitoring and assessment.
the WB Loan Project Management Centre and by the personnels of
the provincial environment groups who have been trained at the
central level.
5.2.3 Training at the countv level.The county project office will
provide training to the technical persons from the afforestation
entities (AE) who are involved in afforestation designs and
operations. It is planned that one training class will be held
annually, which is one week long. Every AE is required to send
one person to participate in the training class which focuses how
to implement environment protection guidelines and detailed
regulations. how to take environment protection measures and how to
use and manage pesticide. The training class will be taught by the
- 15-



experts from the provincial environment group and the technical
persons from the county environment group who have been trained
at the provincial leveL
5.2.4 Training at the AE level. Each AE will organize training
for its personnel. Training contents will focus how to apply
afforestation designs and environment protection regulations to
land clearing, site preparation, hole digging, planting, tending,
manuring, etc.
5.3 Training Schedual. Based on above regulation of scheme,
traiming details held by every level arranged as below table.
stim \, year     total     1      2      3      4
state     class      2       1            1
number    100     50            50
province   class     3       1      1     1
number    600    200   200   200
county    class      4       1      1     1       1
number  2000    400   600   700    300
AE        class      8       2      9     2       2
number   7000    1500   2000   2500   1000
6. Cost Estimate
The total cost for both environment monitoring and training is
estimated at 2.317 million Yuan (RMB). which is broken down as
follows:
6. 1 Cost for Environment Monitoring. The cost for environment
monitoring is estimated at 1.905 million Yuan, which covers the
following three aspects.
- 16-



6.1.1 The cost for monitoring IMP component totals 1.34 million
Yuan, of which 0.93 million Yuan vill be used for observing the
93 monitoring plots. 0.21 million Yuan for setting up the 4 new
monitoring plots (40,000 Yuan for capital construction, 60,000
Yuan for purchasing instruments and equipment, 150,000 Yuan for
observing the monitoring plots) and 0.2 million Yuan for monitoring
the impacts of manuring on environment
6.1.2  The cost for monitoring MPF component totals 255.000 Yuan.
of which 120.000 Yuan will be used for capital construction. 45.000
Yuan for purchasing instruments and equipment. 75.000 Yuan for
observing monitoring plots. 6.000 Yuan for maintenance and repair
of instruments and equipment. and 4.000 Yuan for contingencies.
6.1.3 The cost for aggregating, processing and analysing the
monitoring data collected totals 0.3 million Yuan.
6. 2 Cost for Training. The cost for training at the central.
provincial and county levels is estimated at 0.412 million Yuan, of
which 32,000 Yuan is needed for the training at the central
level, 0.18 million Yuan for the provincial-level training and 0.20
million Yuan for the countv-level training.
-17-



ANNEX 1:
Environment Protection Gu
ideline for IMP Component
NAP's experience over the last 2 years proves thatthe NAP s
environment protc_tion guideline is practical andin compliane with
the actual conditions of the projectarea. Since the environment
protec don guideline wascarried out in afforestation  design and
implementation somepotential negative affects on environment
have been basicallyeliminated. Thus, environment pollution has
been controlled,and diversity of ecological environment and tree
species waspreserved.
The areas and objectives of FRDPP intensively managed plantations
are basically the same as NAP. For resolvingenvironment protection
problem  of  afforestation  andtending  in  FRDPP,   guideline
of environment protectionon NAP has been further enriched. and
can be used as theFRDPP guideline of intensively managed
plantations.
1. Maintenance of Diversity of Ecological Environment
1. 1 Lands eligible for plantation establishment are as
follows(by order of priority): barren land, shrub landand open
forest land or land with crown closure lessthan 30%. Low-yiec.d
forests and forests with defects shallbe selected for improvemen
virgin forests and secondarynatural forests around
-1S-



afforestation areas should bepreserved and protected. To
develop plantations at the costof cutting valuable virgin forests
is not allowed.
1.2  When designing a new plantation, any conservation areawith
historical significance, human cultural heritage. or habitatsfor
rare plants and animals within the area must bemaintained.
Any exploitation or damage of those sites isprohibited.
1.3 slore attention should be paid to rational arrangement of
establishing mixed plantations. In predominantly coniferous
areas. the ratio of hardwood plantations to conifers should be no
less than 205% in each county. The plantation area of single
species of each block should not be more than 100 ha. mixed block
plantations should be adopted so as to avoid large areas of
monoculture.
2. Soil and Water Conservation and Soil Degradation Control
2.1 Activities of site preparation in all areas should be
carried out along contour lines, and planting hole will be
arranged in triangle form.
2.2 Site clearing with fire is not allowed for controlling soil
and water erosion. Original natural broad-leaved tree species shall
be preserved when site clearing is done.
2.3 Strip or hole-site-prepration should be used in project
plantation. Overall-site-prepration should be forbidden in
principle. except specific conditions with gentle slopes under 15
-19-



degrees, which have to be used, such as agroforest. but it is
necessary to have conservancy engineering and biological
measures, such as contour terrace. vegetable strips.
Strip-site-preparation that is allowed on slopes between 16 and
24 degrees has to be made along contour lines of the hills. If
length between the upper and the lower slope is over 200 meters. 3
meters-width existing vegetation along contour line should be
maintained for every 100 meters.
On steep slopes over 25 degrees. hole-site-preparation has to be
made and and will accept small hole arranged in triangle form as
possible.
Site-prepration on any degrees of slope, natural vegetation on
top. ridge and foot of hill must be properly protected.
In areas where erosion is arious regardless of the slope. soil
conservation measures such as anti-slope terraces, strips. holes.
contour ditches, and so on should be used.
when plantatoins are established on tableland vegetation at the
edge area shall be reserved or planted so as to prevent the loss of
soil and decrease of runoff.
2.4 Organic fertilizer should be used where it is available. It
should be encouraged that surface soil and tending grass are put
into the hole for increasing organic material of soil. V'ariety
and quantity of fertilizer must be determined according to
condition of soil nutrient. Chemical fertilizer should be used
scientifically and not spead over soil surface to avoid pollution
-20-



of '.ter resource and environment.  In order to rehabilitate and
improve soil fertility, intercopping and planting green manure
crops should be carried out in plain ares.
2.5 The measure of extending holes and loosening the soil of
surface should be used for controlling soil and water erosion
during tending young stands. at the same time, weeds should be
cut and left on site.
2.6 To maintain and improve soil fertility and trees growth, no
collection of fallen leaves and branches under the plantation is
allowed. Fuelwood forest should be developed so as to meet the
need for fuelwood.
2.7 Great attenton has to be paid to soil erosion and water loss
when fire breaks are set up in plantions,   Mitre Drain" meazures
should be adopted on the fire break.
2.8 Cutting in block shall be adopted when harvest cutting is
conducted. If cutting is done on a slope over 15 degrees the
cutting block must not be larger than 5 hectares: If the cutting
area has a slope of less than 15 degrees the cutting block must
be no larger than 20 heetares. When cutting is conducted
attention must be paid to prefection of undergrowth. Regenertion
must be carried out one year after cutting. Skidding roads must be
designed according to the requirements to prevent the loss of water
and soil.
2.9    When  the planting  sites are  selected  and prepared
measures for environment protection must be adopted .which shall be
-21-



specified clearly in the afforestation design and strictly followed
in planting operations.
3. Prevention and Control of Diseases and Pests
3.1 -Putting prevention first' is the general policy in forest
pests    and  diseases   control.    When  establishing
high-yielding plantation, silvicultural methods must be adopted
in conformity with planning and designing so as to create
optimal conditions for tree growth and not for pests diseases
development. Methods of integrated pest   management  must be
adopted accordingly,   aiming  at the maintenace  of ecosystem
functions and improvement of natural resistance of plantation.
3.2 Only healthy seedlings are to be used in afforestation.
Seedlings with diseases and pests are forbidden. Young and
middle-aged plantations should be tended and managedL while trees
with heavy diseases and pests should be cleared away.
3.3 Establishing large areas of plantations with clonic
monoculture is forbidden. Planting mixed forests with multiple
clonic varieties shall be encouraged. A county is required to
have at last 10 clonic varieties for establishing plantations.
3.4 Quarantine regulations must be strictly carried out.   When
seeds,  seedlings  and breeding materials are to be transported
between provinces or regions the supplier must apply for
necessary plant   quarantine  certificate  one month  ahead
based   on   the requirements  given  by the quarantine office
in the provinces or regions where the plants will be sent.
.22-



The quarantine office in province or region must inspect the
certificate of the seeds, seedlings and breeding materials
transported. Reanation is made if necessary.
Any people or organizations that intend to import tree seeds.
seedlings, or other breeding material to China must apply for
quarantine and include requirements from quarantine office into
the order agreements. A phytosanitary certificate from export
country to certify all quarantine requirments of China has been met
is required. Seeds, seedlingsor other breeding materials imported
are determined to  beinfested.   isolation  experiment  in
accordance with the suggestions of quarantine office shall
be conducted. If the materials bring serious diseases and
pest, they must be grown in isolation for at least one year. The
materials can be planted only when they are proved to be free
from any dangerous diseases or insects.
the diseases and pests. if they are found to be harmnful. must
be disposed of according to the requirements of plant quarantine
office.
3.5 Forest diseases and pests control stations, must regularly
forecast time, extent and tendency for major pests and diseases
outbreaks to afforestation entities. Each afforestation entity
must assign persons who are responsible to develop a
monitoring plan. monitor common pests and diseases of
local  areas.   and  report monitoring results to the county
project office.
3.6 Effective measures should be adopted to increase amount and
-23-



kinds   of  beneficial  organisms  in  plantation  areas. such
as protecting beneficial birds, setting up protection
devices  for parasitic   wasp  and breeding  beauveria bassiana
and Bacillus thuingiensis for biological control of pests.
3.7 Regulations of safety using pesticides issued by the
government must be strictly carried out. Training of people
handling pesticides are required. The kinds of pesticides of
lower-toxicity with shorter life time and higher effectiveness
should be chosen and used to ensure the safety of people
and animals and prevent environmental pollution and killing of
beneficial organisms.
4. Fire Control System
4.1 Forest fire control organization of the provinces( regions)
and counties participating in the project are responsible for
protection of plantations and fire control of their regions.
and inspect and promote afforestation entities to improve
their fire control organizations and measures.
4.2 Each afforestation entity must work out a forest protection
and fire control plan and submit it to the county project
cffice, Contents of the plan should include: improvement of
existing forest fire control organization; delineation of
fire control areas; formulation of fire control rules and
assignment forest guards to patrol the plantations. manage fire
used in field, report fires and assist concerned department in
investigation and handling of forest fire cases.
-24-



4.3 In the establishment of plantation, fire breaks are
required, or fire mantle is set up. The width of main fire break is
15 meters and width of secondary breaks is about 10 meters. Areas
of conifer plantation between breaks should not be over 80 ha.
5. Environmental monitoring and forecastinB
5.1 Relevant field technicians(e.g. pest. disease. fire control.
silviculture) should monitor the changes of the plantations
including water and soil conservation soil pertility. pests and
diseasas, forest fire control etc.and report violations and other
information to the environmental officers in the project office
at the county-level. likewise the county project office
environmental officers reports to the provincial project
environment group. The province environment group reports to the
central project environment   group.   All are responsible for
implementation.   monitoring.  inspections of the Guideline at
their  levels.   If problems are found. methods to solve them
must be raised. Management departments at higher level must take
measures immediately according to monitoring results so as to
prevent environment pollution and its extension.
5.2 Each province must set up sample sites in the proiect areas to
monitor any impacts of plantation on the environment. The number
and location of sites will be determined by Cental Environment
Group. The provincial project environmant group is responsible
for setting up the sites.
5.3 Information gathered during monitoring will be included in
the project information system.
-25-



Annex 2
Environment Protection Gu
ideline for MPF Component
The guideline is formulated according to the laws and regulations
of  the  People  s  Republic   of China ,  namely Environment
Protection Law, Forest Law , Water and Soil Conservation law.
Regulations of the Prevention and Control of Forest Diseases and
Pests , Regulation of Plant Quarantine , and Regulation of
Forest Fire Control, Provisional Mleasures on closing up hills for
better    growth   of  forests worked out by MFO .  and  the
experience gained from the construction of the Yangtzi River
Protection Forest system.
1. Maintenance of Diversity of Ecological environment
1.1 Construction of Mtulti-use protection forest will be
conducive to expanding forest coverage and impoving
ecological   envrionment.   Attention  must  be  paid  to
protection of areas with historial cultural heritage . or
habitats for rare plants and animals, natural forests,
ecological diversity reserves.
1.2 The M[PF component should make small drainage areas as
units, Planting and controlling should be carried out in the way
combined engineering and biological measures.    According to
water and soil erosion condition , suitable sites and right
-26-



species shall be selected. Arbor and  shrub species shall be
planted on both sides of the ridge and upper parts of the
slope ; timber species in  the middle part of    the slope and
economic forests and timber forests in the lower par1s.
1.3 For the establishment of protection plantations in small
watersheds. planting and tending of closed forests    will be
adopted so that the mixed forests of different species are
formed. In steeply sloping areas (over 36 degrees) and areas with
poor site conditions planting of arbors shrubs and grass shall be
etcouraged to maintain diversity of ecological environment.
1.4 For sparse natural forest growing on hill ridges. in
gullies. on steep slopes (over 36 degrees) and in the area with
exposed rocks, and for the plantations with crown closure less
than 0. 3. closing up hills for better growth of trees shall be
conducted. For the spaces in the forests replanting or diddle
seeding shall be adopted.
2 Soil and Water Conservation and Soil Degradation Control
2.1 All activities of afforestation on the slope should be
conducted along contour lines. and planting holes arranged in a
triangle form. Burning for clearing up the land to be planted
nust be banned and special attention shall be paid to preserve
broad-leaved arbor and shrub species to control soil erosion.
2.2  For establishing plantations under this project overall site
preparation will not be used. Holes or strips will mainly be
adopted. Site preparation for planting timber forests will follow
-27--



IIbe regulat4uns stated in the Environment G;x,tectL1n Guideline
for IMP component. For fuelwood forests planting sites will
be perpared in block by digging small holes. For economic
forests planting sites shall be prepared in block or strip by
digging big holes. spaces in the forests will be filled by means of
replanting or dibbling seedlings in small holes.
2.3 Both engineering andplanting measures shall be carried out on
slopes of more than 26 degrees, or on the length of slopes much
longer than 200 meters, which should be used to design water
holeing ditches,earth bank or vegetable strips along cortour lines
for controlling water and soil erosion.
2.4 when tending for young stands attention must be paid
to controlling water and soil erosion. In general. tending
in part of an area should be usedfor example extending holes and
loosing the soil. For increasing organic material of forest
soil. weeds should be left on sitE.
2.5 Top closed canopy should be controlled at about 0. 6 after
stand crown-contact which will be facilitate for plant growing
in frrest and raise the cover rate of plant on surface of
land. Fallen leaves and branches are not allowed to collect so
as to increase store capability of the surface of forest land.
2.6 Fertilizer application by holes or ditches should be used
when tending economic forests, Using organic fertilizer shall be
encouraged for improving soil.
2.3  Clear cutting of timber forests :. prtetion plantation is
-2S-



not allowed. Only Lhining, sanitation cutting ur zcge-igeraLiuui
cutting is allowed. Rotation cutting and felling by strip
must be carried out for fuel forests . but the intensity must
be below 3C%.
3. Prevention and Control of Diseases and Pests
3. 1 - Putting prevention first' is the general policy in
forest pests   and  diseases    control.       When establishing
high- yielding plantation. silvicultural methods must be
adopted  in conformity with planning  and designing  so as to
create optimal conditions for tree growth and control for pests
and diseases . Methods of integrated pest management must be
adopted accordingly , aiming at the maintenance of
ecosystem  functioi.s and improvement of  natural resistance *f
plantations.
3.2 Only healthy seedlings are to be used in afforestation.
Seedlings   with  diseases    and    pests  are  forbidden.
Young and middle-aged plantations should be tended and
managed , while trees with heavy diseases and pests should be
cleared away.
3.3 Quarantine regulations must be strictly carried out.
Use of seeds, seedlings, and breeding materials must be under
strict control.
3.4 Forest disease and pest control stations, must regularly
forecast time, extent and tendency for major pest and
disease outbreaks to afforestation entities. Each afforestation



entity must assign persons who are responsible for developing
monitoring plans to monitor common pests and diseases of in
the local  areas.  and for reporting monitoring results to project
office.
3.5 Effective measures should be adopted to increase
amount and kinds of beneficial organisms for biological control of
pests.
3.6 Training of people handling pesticides is required.
The kinds of pesticides of lower-toxicity with shorter life
time and higher effectiveness should be chosen and used to
ensure the safety of people and animals and prevent
environmental pollution and killing of beneficial organisms.
4. Fire Control System
4.1 Forest fire control organization of the provinces c regions)
and  counties  participating    in    the    project    are
reponsible  for protection of plantations and fire control of
their regions .   and inspect  and  promote afforestation
entities to improve their fire control organizations measures.
4.2 Each afforestation entity must work out a forest
protection and fire control plan and submit it to the county
project  office. Contents of the plan should  include
improvement of existing forest fire control organization;
delineation  of  fire  control  areas    formulation  of fire
control rules and assignment of forest guards to patrol the
plantations. management of fire used in field. reporting fires and
-30-



assisting concerned departments in investigation and handling of
forest fire cases.
4.3 In the establishment of plantation , fire breaks are
required , or fire mantle  is set up.  The width of main fire
break is 15 meters and width of secondary break is about 10
meters. Areas of conifer plantation between breaks should not be
over 80 ha , fire breaks are also required for closing up the hills
for better growth of forests.
5. Environmental monitoring and Inspecting System
5.1 Design and arrangement of MPF component shall be made
according to the county s overall design and annual
operational schedule to meet the requirements of this
guidline.   Implementation  of  the project shall strictly
follow the approved design.
5.2 Relevant field technicians  ( pest , disease, fire control.
silviculture)   should  monitor the changes of the plantations
including improvement of water sources  ,   water and soil
conservation . soil fertility . pests and diseases. forest fire
confrol etc.  and report to the environmental officers in the
project office at the    county-level , likewise the county
project office environmental  officers  report   to the
provincial project environment group. The provincial environment
group  reports to the central project environment group.  All
are responsible for implementation , monitoring.  inspections
of    the Guideline  at their levels. If problems are found .
methods to  solve them    must    be  raised. Management
-31-



departments at higher level must take measures immediately
according  to  monitoring  results  so  as    to prevent
environment pollution and its extension.
5.3 Each province must set up sample sites in the project areas
on a watershed-by-watershed basis to monitor the impacts of
afforestation activities on water and soil erosion improvement of
water sources and soil fertility. The number and location of the
sites will be determined by the Central Environment Group. The
provincial environmental groups are responsible for setting up
the mogroups are responsible for setting up the monitoring sites.
5.4 Information gathered during monitoring will be included in the
project information system.
-32-



ANN-EX 3:
Execution on the Environment Protecti
on Guideline andthe Implementing Pro-
gram for NAP Envirnmental Monitoring
1. Survey
1.1. The 'Environment Protection Guideline for NAP- WAS Printed and
distributed to all project provinces ( regions) for
implementation after being approved by the Bank in May 1990. In
order to ensure its smooth implementation. the World Bank Loan
Project Management Centre (PMC) of the Ministry of Forestry
worked out   the Execution plan for the Guideline  . Souin
afterwards. the 16 project project provinces(regions) have in
accordance with the requirements of the Guideline formulatecl
their own detailed rules of implementation based on the regional
and local conditions. For three years of implementation for NAP.
both the Guideline and the -Implementing Program of Environmental
MonitorLng  were well carried out. Alot of work has been done and
yielded a good result, -especially. in rational exploitation nf
natural environment, prevention of environment pollutioli.
protection of ecosystems and establishment of samle plots ftnr
environment monitoring.
1.2. Establishment and Improvement of the Environment Protection
System
The environment protection work for NAP was carried out in the time
with the implementation of the project. In order to achieve this
work successfully. it had in 1991 established the environmental



protection system for NAP, including one group at the central level
and 16 groups at the provincial level while a special staff was
assigned in charge of the environmental protection activities for
each project office at the county level. There are about 360 people
involving in the three-levelled system. For the past three years,
this system has played an active role in personnel training,
instruction of project construction and inspecting and
supervising the Guideline s implementationL
1.3. Inspection and Supervision
This work was carried out heavily in ombination of the examination
and acceptance of the quality of project execution, meanwhile.
the approach for the operational inspection is also peractised as
per administrative level and the procedures of construction (such
as disgging holes, planting and tending).( i). Whether the
environmental protection measures are appropriate which will be a
major factor in terms of qualitv for project construction and if
the environmental protection measures for any subcompartment was
not satisfied the requirement will not be accepted and also not
be allowed for application of reeimburement. (ii). The PMIC of the
Ministry of Forestry and the provincial project offices have been
done a lot of work in inspection and sampling checking the
environmental protection measures for the project plantation
establishment, if the technical standard are not meet the
requirements of Guideline, it is requested that the improvement
measures must be adopted in a timely way.
2. Achievement in Environment Protection
2.1. From the -Overrall Design for Afforestation - of the county
-34 -



level to the  Design for Afforestatiuin Operratiui  uf Llic
planting entities, which had in a grest extent embodied the
maintenance of biodiversity. (i). protection of the natural
forests: In the - overall Design for Afforestation -, all the
project counties persist in afforestation by using of the barren
hills suitable for tree planting so as not to destroy the
original forest vegetacion and basically meet the requirement
regarding the site selection f-r the Guideline. Based on three
consecutive years' inspection and monitoriing over 16 project
provinces (regions), no natural forests with crown closure of
more than 30% were deforested in project establishment. (ii). In
the Desiggn for Afforestation Operation', all units had paid
high attention to keeping the original vegetation in blocks and the
conifers and broad-leaf trees scattered over the mountain ridges
and feet so that a mixed coniferous and broad-leaf stands of
neqly planting species with the survival ones were formed.
According to the field inspection for ten provinces (regiuns)
such as Anhui, Fujian. Zhejiang. Guangdong. Guangxi. Sichuan.
Guizhou, Jiangxi and Yunnan in 1991 and 1992. the most original
conifers and broad-leaf trees on the mountain ridges and in
concaves areas of the silvicultural subcompartment were
preserved.  (iii). Sticking to the principle of favoured trees
for suitable land. The regime of different species arrangement
for different site conditions had been basically practised in
project afforestation. For example, the Chinese fir were mixed with
broad-leaf trees in Jiangcxi, Fujian and Guizhou. the planting
composition in the project afforestation for southern provinces.
the Masson s piine were uaually planted on the mountain ridges
and summits while the Chinese fir on the slopes and in the
concave areas.
-35 -



2.2. To orgainize planting operation based on the requirements of
the Guideline so as to decrease the risk of water and soil
erosion. For past three years, the measures being adiopted and the
achievements herefrom have been eyestriking in this aspect. (i).
The strip and hole site preparation were widely conducted. The
old way of over of overall site preparation for the land with the
sllope over 15 degree were now changed, and the patterns for site
preparation such as strip site preparation. counter-slope terrace
and hole site preparation were basically as different slope carried
out.  (ii). Planting along the contour line . According to the
incomplete amounted to 70%. In recent two years, in line with the
recommendations from the Bank mission. we have made further
emphasis on the contour site preparation and planting and issued
a special circular operation stipulated by the Guideline would
not be eligible for acceptance and reinbursement. As a result.
the contour operations have been futher implemented. According to
the selective examination to seven provinces (regions ) such as
Hunan. Jiangxi, Guangdong, Zhejiang. Guangxi and Henan. The
satisfactory rate of the contour operation had reached up to
95%.  (iii). Other measures for water and soil conservation, such
as leaving a buffer belt in advance and by way of fish-scale pit
planting have been increasing improved. Based on the results of
selective examination to four provinces of Zhejing. Anhui. Hunan
and Jiangxi from the PMC. the reseravationn of buffer belts for
planting sites was 90% in 1991 95% in 1992 and 98% in 1993 of
Zhejiang Province, 80% or so in 1991. 95! in 1992 and 100%C in
1993 of Anhui Province while adopting fish-scale pit planting was
92% in 1992. and 95% in 1993 by Hunan Province and less than 60% in
1992 and reached to 87% in 1993 for Jiangxi Province.
.~~~~~~~~~~-3 



2.3. Fire Control Measures
All the relevant provinces (regions) have corporated ire control
in project afforestation into the fire prevention system of the
whole forestry sector, meanwhile, it had also paid attention to the
implementation of fire prevent measures for the project itself.
With all the project planting sites, it had except reserved the
fire line and concurrently some new fire break were built up.
The fire prevent measures for project afforestation appears
outstsnding in Anhui. Jiiangxi and Fuijian Provinces. In Anhui.
1606 kilometres of forest road were built and 535 kilometres of
fire break belts and 5272.8 kilometres of forest road were built up
in 1991 and 1992 while some 3412.5 kilometre in 1991 and 1392 ii.
Fujian Province. The ususl practice of paying less attention to
building if fire break belts in afforesting activities in a plaaned
way has thus been changed thoroughly.
2.4. Disease and Pests Control
As per the rc-iuirements of Guideline, the work of disesse asd pests
control shall give top priority to prevention first integrated uith
a combination of prevention and control.
(i). Adopting appropiate silvicultural managanent measures so as to
create a favourable environmental condition for the growth f young
crops.
(ii). The seeds and seedlings contaminated with diease and pests are
strictly banned using for project afforestation. The seeds
(including scion cuttings) quarantine system were widely
practised no matter what the improved seeds (scion cuttings)
-31-



domistically allocated or imported overseas, which must subject
to a quarantine department. Otherwise. those seeds will not be
allowed using for nurserying.
(iii).Strengthening monitoring and prevention of diseases and
pests. All the relevant provinces (regions) have paid a high
priority to the work of forecast and control for the forest
diseases and pests and some 49 monitoring spots have so far been
set up and started in providing information for the departments
concerned.
(iv). Training of the pesticide operating personnel. The P.UC has
deveoped a training program regarding how to properly use the
pesticides and approved by the the Bank. Under the
recommendation of the Bank s consultant. the PIMC also comwpiled
Allanual of Pesticide Store and Transportation for NAPS and issued
to all the project provinces (regions) for implementation in
early Aprill of 1993. All the units are requested to have the
operators to beoperatorsl993. All the units are requested to have
the operators to beoperators to be reamed in accordance with the
requirements of the manual prior to the pesticides are being used.
2.5. To do Well the Training Work for Environmental Protection at
All Levels
According to incomplete ststistics. two training courses at the
central level were held with the trainees up to 160 person/time
in 1991 and 1992 while the trainees of 745 person/time at the
province level and of 4731 person/time at county level. Through
technical training. the awareness of envinronmental protection
for public had been strengthened. thus facilitating the
-38-



implementation of Guideline.
2.6. The Design of Environmental Monitoring Sample Plot and
Progress of Monitoring Activities
2.6.1. Basic Tenet To keep abreast timely the results of water and
soil conservation, the change of soil fertility and the
occurrence of diseases and insect pests, so that an oriented
measuer is developed the -Implementation Program for the
Environmental Monitoring- and the 'Plan for the Establishment of
Environmental Monitrong Sample Plots'. Both were issued to 16
project provinces (regions) for execution. Soon afterwards.
according to the unified requirements of MFO, all provinces
(regiond\s) set up a variety of monotoring plots fpr field data
collecting and obtained primary achievements.
2.6.2. The Pattern for the Monitoring Plots Establishment. The
water and soil conservation is monitored by use of run-opp plots
and the changes of soil fertility is tested through the analysis of
soil sample being collected after fertijizing and planting while
the monitoring for diseases and insect pests is carried out
within some experimental plantation. For details of the pattern for
monitoring plot establishment, see the -Implementation Program of
Environmental Monitoring for NAP. (attached)
2.6.3. The Monitoring Sample Plot being Established. In line with
the   Implementation Program of Environmental Mornitoring  and
the   Plan for the Establishment of Environmental Monitoring Sample
Plot. some 20 sample plots for water and soil conservation have so
far by the end of 1992 set up at the central and soil provincial
R .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3



levels (of which, 7 at the central level, 13 at the provincial
level), also some 30 sample plots for the soil fertility monitoring
being established (of which, 9 at the central level, 21 at
provincial level), while 49 sample plots for diseases and insect
pests monitoring were housed (of which, 9 at the certral level
and 21 at the provincial level), for details, see attached table.
2. 6.4. Data Collecting and Analysis. The activities of
environmental monitoring started from 1991. Soon after the
establishment of the monitoring plots. the observation and
monitoring works were carried out. By the end of 1992, the province
of Guangdong, Hainan, Guangxi. Zhejiangm, Shandong, HebeL, Hunan,
Anhui, Hubei, Sichuan, Yunan, Fujian and Liaoning had throgh the
monitoring activies put forward 13 primary monitoring reports.
Based on one years s monitoring data, some change can be seen at
a couple of sample plots whereas no obvious change have been
recorded at most plots. A BRIEF ACCOUNT FOR THE MONITORING PLOTS IS
AS POLLOWS:
2.6.4.1. Monitoring for Water and Soil Conservation
(i). The runoff monitored. from July to Oct. in Hainan Province, is
4345 m/sq. km. yr in the zone with stripsite preparation along the
contour line. accounting for only 30% of that in the check areas
while 9886 m/sq. km. yr in the zone with overall site preparation.
accounting for 68% of that in the check areas. This indicates the
method of strip site preparation along the contour line is of the
betteer effect for water conservation.
(ii). The monitoring sample plots fpr slash pine in Anhui
-40-



Province was set up in March 1992. From April 7 through Nov. 30. the
routine monitoring was carried out with the primary data
obtaineed as followss Under the annual precipitation of 1553 mm, in
the treatment zone (site preparation in blocks) the surface
runoff volume was 32908 m/sq. km. yr, while in check areas 61049 m/
sq. km. yr, in the treatment zone the solid drainage was 25. 07m/sq.
km.yr while in check areas, 381.21 m/sq.km.yr1 the runoff
coefficient in the treatment zone was 0.480 while in check areas
0.8 90. This indicates that the site preparation in blocks for
afforestation has a better capability of water conservation than
thit of check areas.
2.6.4.2. Monitoring of Soil Fertility. There are two components for
soil fertility monitoring: one is the impact of fertilizing to
the soil and the other is the change of soil fertility after
afforestation without fertilizing.  Based on the primary
observation. a precise conclusion for this two monitoring have so
far not reached yet.
2.6.4.3. Monitoring for Forest Diseases and Insect Pests. According
to the information provided by the environmental protection
monitoring, the poplar bole-bore pasts had occurred in different
degree in Hubei,Hebei and other provinces in 1992. In the Yangtze
River Valley. the young growth of poplar in cne. or two years old
were damaged by the longicorn beeltes with 0.5-20% plants
infected. In view of the above situation, Hubei Province had
energitically extended the integrated prevention and cnntrol
techniques regarding the poplar longicorn beetles with emphasis
on clearing the supplementary nutrition sources of Apriona
germari. which turned out a success. For example. by planting
-41-



paper-mlberry to attract and catci the adult toanicorn beetles
in a stretct of fOO nu pupl.  PltxuLatiM, the  irnected plants
had reduced fran 1A8% to 2L Based an the intuatian of the out-
break of insct the project office and the Forest Disease and
Pests Prev'ention and Control Station of the Departmen of orest,
Hebei Province had in June 1992, at Dingzra held an a-the-spot
meeting regarding the "[nngirn Beetles Prevntion and Control
for Pcplus Tauentcasa and sae spuciric activities for amtrol
were assigned. In 1991, the Centre Eumlyptus Subject Group of
MAP had disomered the eiilyptus pseudous slatanaruu  in the
disease and pests unitong for eucalyptus in Youyn  cmxnty,
Qzaxg&mg Province. then follated bir a tracing omitoring, and
the result showed that the intected rate for E. urcphylla(seedt-
ings)dewrstration plantion was L. While that at the crossbred
E grandis and urphytlla clkml dciatiu ptantation was 16.
6%. lhrauh awalysis. lhc fmaLures and caus  of the occurrence
being i; daififd, sow p.uventimn and Lct'L .         --mere iwo-
rked out and yielded a certain result. In 1992, the occerree
rate in project plantatim had remrkably reduced.
a Lssen and Comments
3.1. As mentioned above, since the NAP was implemented for tbree
years, a lot of enviromental protecaon works have been done and
made some progres.         . thro  the iMpln an of the 
Environmental Protection Guideline', it had changed the usual
practice of paying less attention to environmntal protection in
afforesting activities, and an active result thereby is expected.
However, systematic efforts of environmettal protection is
firstly introduced into the activities of plantation
establ;shment in China. so tbat it is still needed to be further
-42 -
:. .  -  .,*  -....... 
...~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                 .  - .......................... 



CHINA NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PRQJECI1T
LIST FOR THE EVNME  MTRN SAME PLOTS
ITUL5     SUtZL NMl  mI1vEi3          LWATIOB       ARFW    TIA CF             IMIATION
mDss   ses u                                    srEcu  EWmJqaNWn
I      L h             uronl,                                 _ _
0a1  Via-  zL wmq.        06 11.. Der I801      .1.., 1991-19
2                            =                                      -
3      E_ic 1Eiuin    Am  Ii
Maa  Filr       Lad..         0.n tl   Dc. 1991        r. 1992-1995
4                       Fujian
Chiame Fir      LluyKn&       (.  nM *W.lS91        1Jan. 191-199 6
S                       Hlunn
Y b_mn  S Pine   YH  in.      n.s1*  -9pt 19D       --wPt. 1991-1D9
Eucalyptus      Yalwi.        i).l t=i Juaw. 1991   June. 1901-19JAJ
water and ."It      7                       GuangdcmuI
neil fertlity.              Plnu Caribh. YanijUlawg    0. nE1ta Ikt. 1901        1992-:ec. Isls
limewe t ud J                               Gunuudnuw
inpents.
A;nu. S Pine   Gulping.        n.951,  June. 1901    July. I9l-l'
9                       Gu.nnd
Eucalyptus      Dinupun.   n . Ira  Amy. 11         Any. 1901 - 19s,
III              _      lInnan                              I
||Chin    Fir   Xiuynnu.      it mum  Aug. 1991       at. 199-1907
I1I                     Sichuan                             t
Chimrse Fir    .Ilzhr.u.      o.. Olia  1903        IAr. 1-19'I-9
12                       uun
Euaalyptus    |Bauhan.       I. niha Aar. 193        Adar. W1--19
13                      Yaum.
|Chine Fir  D|umuuaha    0. (E,  Yay. 19M           :An. 1991-196
14                      cunder CAF!
Ckineue Flr     Ditto         0.12,.  :ar. 991        'lar. 1901-1991
is
| |a F l1   Ditto             0_  n,r Jan.1991      Jan. 1992-1996
16
Exotic Pine     Ditto                                Ja.,   h1 1991  Jal 1902-19
17
Larch           Lia'i"ag  n . tOM  July. 199         Aug. 19901-1996
18                      cauder CAF1
Larch           *itto)l      0.Utla July. 19         A.1991-1995
19
Euclyptbs       CGAM=pu       n.rha Jun  199        JUD. 1991-1995
:n                      (uader CAPI
Wandilnzi.
21     Larch            Lianninm      3.Hha  'Ay. 1991      ;ay. 9g2- 1996
Z     Chine  Fir    ZheJml.          21.    1991           mar. 1991-1993
:i     Lnblnily Pine    ZheJiang      U      1992           Aar. 1993-19M6
T'xuclu.
24 Slash Maew        zhejiag'     gu.    1991           Mar. 1992-199
Z5     Chinese Fir       Anhui        1.SIh   June. 1992     192Q-1995
-45-



CHINA NATIONAL AFFORESTATION PROJECr.
11ST FOR THE ENVRM                        MONITORING SAMPLE PLOTS
ITEMS     SERI  MM  INUIT99I          1LWATIUS      AREAS  fl3E OF             OURTICIE
_____      ~~una __                                      ES!zseIF   ____
"it fertlUty.        29   ,    ii a    i_ r    lD_          1. so   J    _m.    19= 1091190
2Z     chim      ir     F .. Enr     FQ   NMv. IOD1         A_. I110-IN
21              1sojS MM(ke.  Q                  1901 1U01-190
29     tIAlolly Pine   FJi.                  D OC . WD1     MY. 1902-1905
an      ;a-. S Finw    FJiand        4*1.45o my. 9loX       19MI-190
31      Slaub pine   | m   Qn    1l (ut Mar. IONJ           Jar. 192-I996
:2     Chline_ Fir       Hlui        ;h       June 1Iva     Jun. 2999-l9W
S11XIES                        _     EsWS NT
: Eucalyptum   Sludawksult  Ibh              Jan. 1IVA      Jan. 1901-1994
Yaaaud,g.
34      %lnash rime     Gumanslw&u    lb     Jan. 1901      Jolt. 1991-104
:       b..u a Pine   GUagal         Z 4h1  June. IgWl      July. 199l-219%4
ziyuandanl.
3s      Chine  Fir      Gu.nn g      2h      Juu. 1901      June. 1991-1094
37      Eucalypt1       libunm        2ha    ANy. 1t9       :by. 1991-1905
39            r pine    Sichuan      4hl    Oct. 1901       *fr. 992-2997
:9      Cilem Fir       Guizhnha        Q 8    19t9         1999-1998
40     Chtne Fir        Yunnan        .nha I 1999           1999-1999
4 1     Eurlyptu       y    u           m 01l July. 1991    July. 191-1991
Jirnuxd
42     Chale, Fir       muuier ) A    L Q Olhz Feb. 1991    July. 1902-L19S
Fujinn
43      Chizm F.r       uaer CA              Fe1991         July. 1992-2995
Jjan1,1c
44     Slaub FIne       (under CAFI  1h.    mr. 99          July. 199-21995
Jiialupa
45      Sia  Fin h  P      ler CAl   lb.    ;br. 1991       July. 199Z-19D5
46      Slash Pine     cunder CAD    Il.s    Mr. 19         July. 1992-l995
Henan
47      1hplar          c_wuer CAlF  lh.     Ay. 1901       July. 1999-195
47      P-lr            undr CAF)   1h       Any lwtl       July. l-l9
Jianigxi
49      iMlS * Mine  Luwder CAF   Q. 1lb. De. 199Z          Jan. 1993-199B
S)      Eucalypte       wunder CAF   lb.    June 1991       June. 1991-1996
-46-



CHINA NAflIUNAL AEFYtMSU'lAUN PR1UJCT:
LIST FOR THE ENVIRONMENT MONITORING SAMPLE PLOTS
.zii  in s   amo    WCmnao   Mm; TM W                                MMRUn
7 l_fil"          =MS        Vr        W.W1891       2m-87
70                      I_~
'- 1in    U,.w               fl.U    hr. 189       b. 199-189
77      mmnuabi                     m ION    k.m              o.=I
78      =6sE  r%0       X2= 0-  0. lo(w  Nr. 191            b. 1 -
Mm ine          Ditto       0a0m    hr. 1991        by. 19-1
71
roplar          H dnh.       fl Zba  Yby 1992        br. 1992-19
so                      Humfan
Chimoeo Fir        r          (lw   ay 1992 l        Xby. 992-9l
82 I
Chineme Fir    Liuying        (low  by 19tW         34ay. 1992-199
Chignae Fir    Twa .l (lhim  by. le                 lay. L992-1994
liunan
Chine Fir    Ltayan.         f.. n ha  May. 1992     My. 1992-1994
95                     Ih_n            _
Iallaun        Jiaywdan.    5. Iba   Apr. W192      1992-19W
Italian        xlant         5. Mha   Apr. 1992      t992-1997
S7      rml.ar         Hubei
itallan        S,iidvw.      5. lhb   Apr. 1992     192-1997
as      lInplar        Hubei
Eucalyptus     Yang-i.       Iba     June. 1991     Jtne. 2991-1905
P. caribm      jafaJimg". O. 'bha  Jan. 1991        Jan. 1991-19%1
.S%lab Pine     Guiping.    n.tMhl June.1991         July. 1991-197
91                      Gunmgzi
Eualyptus       Ziyuauxian.o. 0.hha  Bdens          St L993-1991
92                      couunawzi             built
Eucalyptus      D;ingwmxmn    . 2ha   bay. 1991         t 199-1995
03                      flina
:an a lSine   Cangaian.    O.: a   1B                1992-1996
_Iamm S Pine   Iluanwips.   0.2;a    99              199 B-96
9B          CEuizbAua
Eucalyptus     BDalh         0.lha l.99t             1991-193r
97                      YuSMM
;A1 e" 1, Pine   Jianwci.    n. flIha  Doc. 1992    Jan. 19E3-996
98                       under CAF:
Eucalyptus      GuUaFrua    n. dOGha June. 1991     June. 1991-19%
99                       under CAF:
-48-



_  _      _~~  4         
I-
~~~~ .
,
.1~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.
.*1
~~~J.~~~



iAP or FRDPP DzIRIJII   & EWNIROiTM.. IlTOING PLOTS IOITION or NAP ati FIIRIPP
I                         IIetIQ1gjI~~~~~~~~~~~aii   *
{             t~~~~nner  oinogglla                                         Jint  
A, {lebi jw'es,.> e ,/ I 
J    i   tt  w          -le Llebe i
;   j)  ---tbi}9  o X    S        2         "sall~~~~~~~~~~~Iterm igra
~~~~~1     F~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~W
i t wf 'JllUttF4                         -      .           . r I lol rallIa 1
/  f ' >   ,      tQ ..... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rFLSInt illy ?111n1ir iisr.
Cuunty~~~
.0,                                                        Plot  flir     I t  .
.i                     .                          j .    .
___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1 ,311ihw'>mlrflr.



