Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24206-CN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26230; TF-28737)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 141.7 MILLION (US$ 200 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
FOREST RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND PROTECTION PROJECT
June 27, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2002)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Yuan I = US$ 0.1205
US$ 1 = Y 8.30
Year Average
1994  $1 = Y8.50
1995  $I = Y8.30
1996  $1 = Y8.30
1997  $1.= Y8.30
1998  $1 = Y8.30
1999  $1 = Y8.30
2000  $1 = Y8.30
2001 $1 = Y8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Weights and Measures Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAF           Chinese Academy of Forestry
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CTBEP         Commercial Timber Base Establishment Program
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FRDPP         Forest Resource Development and Protection Project
FRR           Financial Rate of Return
GEF           Global Environment Facility
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IMPC          Intensively Managed Plantation Component
MPFC          Multiple-Use Protection Forest Component
NAP           National Afforestation Project
NFPP          Natural Forest Protection Program
NPV           Net Present Value
PMC           Project Management Center (in SFA)
PMO           Project Management Office
R&E           Research and Extension
RESP          Planning and Extension Support Panels
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawing Right
SFA           State Forestry Administration
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:  Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager/Director:  Mark. D. Wilson, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Liu Jin, EASRD



CHINA
FOREST RESOURCE DEV
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                 10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  12
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                 13
9. Partner Comments                                                               14
10. Additional Information                                                        14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             26
Annex 8. Implementation Agency ICR Brief                                           7






Project ID: P003557                                       Project Name: FOREST RESOURCE DEV
Team Leader: Jin Liu                                      TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: FOREST RESOURCE DEV                            L/C/TFNumiber: IDA-26230; TF-28737
Country/Department: CHINA                                                Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: AT - Forestry; VM - Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   1992-06-29                             Effective: 1994-11-03
Appraisal:  1993-11-05                                MTR:   1997-05-01
Approval:  1994-06-07                              Closing: 2001-12-31
Borrower/mn1plementing Agency:  People's Republic of China/State Forestry Administration
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Gautam S. Kaji
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                               Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Manager:      Mark D. Wilson                            Joseph Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:  Liu Jin                                   Richard Scobey
ICR Primary Author:   Pierre Sigaud (FAO); Zhou
Weiguo (EASRD); Thomas
Brummer (Consultant); Liu
Fuyan (Consultant)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Forest Resource Development and Protection Project (FRDPP) was designed to enhance the



productivity of forestry resources, the efficiency of resource use, and the institutional capacity for
sustainable management in the three major types of forest land in China: plantations, watershed protection
forests and nature reserves. The project would: (a) expand the supply of commercial timber and pulpwood
through establishment of intensively managed plantations; (b) develop improved models for watershed
management through establishment of protection forests; (c) enhance biodiversity conservation through the
protection of nature reserves; (d) strengthen the operating efficiency of technical support services in the
forestry sector, particularly planting materials, research, and extension programs; and (e) strengthen the
capacity of forest sector institutions in planning and management.
The project objectives were clear and well understood by the participating agencies. The bulk of China's
very limited timber supply was being drawn through unsustainable exploitation of natural forests in the
past decades. The Government's Natural Forest Protection Program (NFPP), whicb launched the logging
ban for nature forests in 1998 further widened the timber supply gap. The project objectives supported the
government's afforestation drive to improve timber supply, release the pressure on natural forests and
improve the ecosystem. These objectives reflected Government development priorities and are consistent
with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The project design was relatively sirnple, and included
introduction of improved silvicultural techniques, watershed land use models, environmental management
guidelines, research priorities and extension of best practice for the forestry sectors and related government
agencies.
The market and price risks were manageable, since China has large gap of timber supply in its domestic
market and the project can produce timber of different dimensions according to market conditions. The
risks of pests or fire destroying the plantations were minimized by incorporating suitable environmental
measures into the project design and adopting pest and fire monitoring systems. However, the project may
not achieve expected benefits without continuing management inputs from the forestry entities and the
Governments policy support for plantation logging. This could be promoted through appropriate
post-project management arrangements and active government commitment.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's objectives remained unchanged.
3.3 Original Components:
The project has the following six components:
(a) Intensively Managed Plantation Component would establish 620,000 hectares of plantations for timber
supply in sixteen provinces as the second phase for the plantation program initiated under the National
Afforestation Project (NAP);
(b) Multiple-Use Protection Forest Component would establish 280,000 hectares of watershed protection
forests in the middle and upper reaches of the Yangtze River Basin in Sichuan and Hubei Provinces based
on new silvicultural models and improved land-use planning;
(c) Nature Reserves Management Component would enhance biodiversity conservation through support
for new management of natural forest habitats for Giant Pandas and other endangered species, and
development of new training, research, and information management programs;
-2 -



(d) Planting Stock Development and Nursery Management Component would raise the quality of planting
materials through introduction of improved genetic materials and nursery management technologies, and
support the production of 2.1 billion seedlings for afforestation under the project.
(e) Research and Technology Transfer Component would strengthen the operational focus of relevant
research and extension in China through provision of technical assistance and operating support for eleven
priority research programs, experimental plantations, and a field extension network; and
(f) Institutional Capacity Building Component would strengthen the capacity of public and private sector
institutions in forestry through support for training and technical assistance, development of an information
management system, development of a new private sector investment promotion agency, improved natural
forest management, and carry out policy studies.
The components were reasonably.related to the project objectives. In response to the lessons learned from
previous Bank supported projects, the project emphasized the introduction of new afforestation
technologies, particularly improved planting materials and planting models for a wider range of species,
integration of protection forests and nature reserves management into project activities and capacity
building of forestry agencies.
The formulation of Research and Extension (R&E) objectives and their translation to operational terms
provided a sound basis for achieving the overall project objectives. The design recognized the need to
depart from traditional research, and focus on more precise targets with immediate operational application
for the implementation of the plantation and forest protection program. It also set up a unique arrangement,
aimed at rapidly disseminating research results to field afforestation entities. However, the design was
over-ambitious in regard to the rapid application of several of technologies, including clonal forestry and
containerized seedlings. The design also heavily relied on reaping immediate benefits from short-term
research programs, but underemphasized the ongoing long-term research that is necessary for sustained
improvement of forest practices.
3.4 Revised Components:
Component                                          Cost           Rating
Intensively Managed Plantation                  $239,800,000         S
Multiple-Use Protection Forest                  $ 44,700,000         S
Nature Reserves Management                      $ 21,400,000         S
Planting Stock Development and Nursery Management  $ 41,000,000      S
Research and Technology Transfer                $  4,400,000        S
Institutional Capacity Building                 $  3,500,000        S
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was assessed for quality at entry and the rating was satisfactory. The project design is
consistent with the Bank's CAS and government priorities, and was carefully structured to include
meaningful innovations. The Bank's applicable safeguard policies on environmental assessment, natural
habitats, pest management, and forestry were adhered to adequately. Project designers were aware of the
enviromnent-economy-social linkages, and benefits were achieved in these three aspects.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
-3.



4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project was carried out by State Forestry Administration ( former Ministry of Forestry), 17 provinces,
autonomous regions and municipalities, and 313 counties. The outcome of the project as a whole, both in
relation to its development objectives and its physical implementation, is satisfactory. In principal, the
project has achieved its objectives and yielded sound development impacts. The project has fully reached its
objectives of extending the forest resources, which will expand commercial timber supply, developing
improved models for watershed management, strengthening the technical support services on planting
material, research and extension programs. It is expected to generate most of the economic and
environmental benefits projected in the project Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and the financial risk is
considered to be acceptable. The project basically reached the objective of strengthening the institutional
capacity. Under this aspect, the domestic training and extension program was extremely successful, which
has effectively disseminated improved silvicultural technologies and project management experience to the
project agencies and entities. As a result, institutional capacity building in forestry management was greatly
improved. However, number of people involved in the overseas training and international technical
assistance was less than the designed targets, which has limited the introduction of the experience from
abroad.
The project objectives and achievements were completely in line with the current Government development
strategy and the Bank goals of environment improvement, technology transfer and institutional capacity
building. As about one-third of the project counties are poverty counties, the project has had an impact on
poverty reduction by generating employment opportunity and income raising for poor households in the
remote areas.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(1) Intensively Managed Plantation Component (IMPC) A total of 749,135 ha intensively managed
plantations have been established, 121% of the SAR target for timber plantation establishment. Of these,
about 59% are conifers, 28% are broadleaf trees and 13% are bamboo. This result has exceeded project
design targets that required at least 23% of broadleaf trees and 7% of bamboo to be planted. Native
Chinese species comprise 79% of total planting compared with the target of 75%. The plantations were in
general well planted and tended, with average survival rate of 95%, and the plantation models and
environment protection measures have been adopted in most planting sites.
However, in some cases fertilizer applications were not enough or were applied too late. This occurred for
two reasons: (a) organic matter was substituted for chemical fertilizer and there are no equivalent
application rate standards; and (b) the project's centralized procurement system for fertilizer resulted in
very long delays for the fertilizer delivery. In some plantation sites, the Environmental Protection
Guidelines were not correctly followed. Deficiencies included planting lines not properly following the
contour, incorrect terrace building allowing water to collect and flow down hill, insufficient water cut-offs
on roads and paths and vegetation was not appropriately retained on slope bottoms.
(2)  Multiple-Use Protection Forest Component (MPFC)   A total of 282,218 ha of multiple-use
protection forests were planted, 101% of target. This component was designed to develop improved models
for watershed management and improve land use plan in key degraded watersheds. Three categories of
plantations were established: new planting in deforested sites 156,126 ha, hill closure to allow natural
regeneration 86,992 ha, and enrichment planting on hill closure sites 39,100 ha, which are close to the
design targets of 57.1%, 28.6% and 14.3% respectively.
-4 -



The successfully implemented protection forest component has utilized a multiple use approach to ensure
protection requirements and also allow economic activities such as fruit, nuts, medicinal plants production
as well as controlled timber production. This approach will improve project entities and farmers' economic
situation while local communities are able to enjoy environmental benefits such as higher levels of well
water and less erosion in these rehabilitated catchments where they live. Many varieties of trees, shrubs and
grasses have been planted or retained, which has improved the biodiversity. Soil erosion has been reduced
and water runoff is better controlled in the project areas. For example, a monitoring plot in Chongqing
Municipality showed a reduction of 30% in silt load following development of the protection forest.
Plantation quality is generally good and the result is a vigorous vegetation cover in terms of both ground
cover and vertical stratification, except on extreme sites such as slips at the very high altitudes where
growth is much slower. Models for forest management in watersheds have been developed and some
domestic programs have now adopted the protection models.
Land use planning and catchment selection for the multiple-use protection forest component were based on
master plans of integrated watershed management formulated by agencies of the forestry, agriculture and
water resources sectors. Though integrated management has been successfully carried out for the forest
zones, the progress of related activities carried out by agriculture and water resource departments in other
zones outside the project areas has lagged behind and it will have the negative impacts on the overall
functions of minimizing soil erosion and water runoff for some catchments.
(3) Nature Reserves Management Component This component is designed to strengthen biodiversity
conservation in nature reserves through testing of innovative approaches for organization, planning, skills
development, information management, and the integration of local communities into reserve management.
The implementation of the component focused on the following five aspects: (a) strengthening management
of nature reserves; (b) restructuring the management of natural forests adjacent to nature reserves; (c)
developing institutional capacity; (d) developing new nature reserve management information systems; and
(f) supporting nature reserve research. This component is financed by the Global Environment Facility
(GEF) and was carried out separately as an independent project named the Nature Reserves Management
Project. As informed by SFA, the implementation of this component (project) has reached it's expected
targets and has had a broad positive impact on nature reserve management. The Nature Reserves
Management Project was launched in July 1995 and will close on June 30, 2002. A separate project
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be undertaken soon, hence that project's related evaluation
including cost and financing has not been included in this report.
(4)  Planting Stock Development and Nursery Management Component  Total tree stock production
was 2.533 billion, 120% of SAR target, of which 94% were the first class planting stocks. The stocks
were generally available on time and in the quantities and species planned. The real success of this
component is the rapid dissemination of improved genetic materials from research programs into field
planting. About 249 superior clones, 630 superior families and 35 superior provenances were developed for
the major afforestation species. Clones were 7.8% of the planting stock production and container stocks
were 13.6% of production, which have reached the SAR target of 5% and 14% respectively. Seedling
production has made improvements in bed width reduction, mycorrhiza use, reduced sowing densities, use
of root cuttings, increased use of colonel material and the use of plastic bag containerized stock.
However, as the project supervision mission indicated, most of the plantations continued to exhibit a wider
variation in tree height and diameter than that expected after the adoption of improved nursery technology
and use of improved genetic material. The implication is that tree stocks were not correctly culled and
graded, or properly transported and handled. It is an evident from field visits that the guidelines used for
acceptance of planting material need to be more strict. Therefore, it seems that nursery management
-5 -



remains a constraint on planting quality improvement and should be further improved in future forestry
projects.
(5)  Research and Technology Transfer Component  The ten research programs established under the
NAP were to be carried out in the project. One new program was initiated on protection forests. The
research programs have been closely linked with project plantation establishment and have contributed to a
sustained flow of innovations. Integrated Research and Extension Support Panels (RESPs) at national,
provincial and county levels have successfully planned and supervised research work, although the
effectiveness of RESPs and Central Research Groups varied from one group to another. The organizational
structure was generally rated as efficient by project staff interviewed.
The majority of the individual research programs, carried out by Chinese Academy of Forestry (CAF) and
provincial research institutions, have been rated satisfactory or very satisfactory, reflecting the quantity
and quality of outputs. The most striking results are noticed in seed genetics quality and tree breeding
improvement and the establishment of demonstration stands and pilot forests. For all important tree species
within the project, provenance areas were identified, seed stands, seedling seed orchards and clonal seed
orchards were established or improved, and clonal selection and propagation were started for a number of
species. Except for loblolly pine, for which improved seed has still to be imported, national programs are
now in a position to regularly supply site matching, high quality reproductive materials. This is one of the
most significant achievements of the project, since it will contribute to upgrading of the quality of future
plantations.
The extension program, aimed at disseminating a specific set of technologies appears to have had a
significant impact. The main technologies disseminated include: planting material selection and
development, seedling production and nursery management, fast growing species cultivation, fertilization,
thinning, protection forest planting and management, and pest control. Interviews of field technicians
confirmed that they received significant amounts of technical training and information and adopted a series
of new techniques for their plantation establishment. According to available data, 49 research results have
been identified and disseminated and 317,000 copies of 161 technical guidelines were distributed at
provincial level, while 36 publications received a ministerial level distribution.
An area of 278 ha mid-term pilot plantations established during NAP has been followed-up under the
project and 350 ha of new experimental plantations have been established, against the target of 140 ha. In
addition, 402 ha of demonstration plantations have been established, against the project national research
target of 120 ha, and about 13,674 ha of demonstration plantations also were planted by local project
entities, combining various technological advancements. A larger than planned area of demonstration
plantations was established because the field demonstrations were found extremely useful in guiding
farmers to adopt new technologies.
(6) Institutional Capacity Building Component
Human Resource Development The implementation of training and consultant services is mixed. Project
design recognized the need for a massive training program to popularize the new approach to forest
establishment and management. The comprehensive training plan outlined in SAR has been implemented
with considerable adaptation, giving priority to intemal and local training, which was up to 150,366
person-times to project staff, 361% of the target of 41,600 person-times, and 282,561 workers and farmers
have also been trained with total of 14,461 classes offered, which reflects the fact that the project has made
an exceptional effort to ensure that the new technical prescriptions reach end users in the fields. The
successful domestic training has played a fundamental role for realizing the goal of technical transfer and
- 6 -



institutional capacity building. In project areas, it isi found that a significant amount of funds were
provided by provincial and local authorities from outside of the project budget, instead of using project
funds, to support the local training and extension.
The number of overseas study tours reached 156 person'times, 149% of the SAR target; overseas training
reached 39 person-months, 65% of the target and international consultant services reached 60 person-days,
against an SAR target of 225 and a revised Mid-term Review objective of 140. Project officials explained
that the decrease in oversea training was due to reluctance of local managers to release staff for long-term
overseas training and it was considered more worthwhile to arrange overseas tours for project staff to
experience advanced forestry practices of other countries. The limited use of international consultancy has
deprived the project of needed intemational expertise that could point out a number of deficiencies in
project design or implementation. As a result, the technical assistance allocation of the Credit was reduced
from Special Drawing Right (SDR) 1,370,000 to SDR 564,000, about 41% of the original figure.
Natural Forest Management Pilot The pilot program to strengthen management of three secondary natural
forests has followed a sound technical approach on forest management, through the establishment of
thinning and tending programs and the scientific and technical description of priority tree species. As
expected, preliminary results demonstrated the benefits of proactive technical intervention in the tree
composition and structure. However, the pilot program did not address key socio-economic issues relating
to the sustainable use of natural forests by neighboring communities and individuals, which is crucial for
the success of natural forest management. Therefore, it is considered that the technical measures taken are
only the first step towards a comprehensive approach to sustainable forest management. While this small
scale program could help identify some key issues, higher level attention is needed to obtain a sustainable
impact on natural forest management.
Informnation System To improve the collection and management of forestry data, the project supported the
expansion of the information system based on experience adopted from NAP. The system has been
established at central, provincial, prefecture and county levels, but was largely simplified. The data include
project progress, investment and material inputs, planting cost, growth of young plantations, and timber
market price, which enabled effective monitoring of project progress, implementation quality, expenditure
structure, market changes, and providing feedback to improve project management.
During the project Mid-tem review, Fujian Private Investment Promotion Center was canceled and it has
proved unnecessary because private forestry investmnent has increased more than ten times in Fujian
Province in the past 7 years, and the policy study program was dropped due to the proposed studies had
been carried out during the government's on-going policy reform.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Economic analysis was carried out for each of the 31 species models. In comparison to the SAR
projections, the analysis showed an overall improved and acceptable economic rate of return (ERR) for
species models under the MPFC (ranging from 12 percent to 22 percent) and for species models under
IMPC (ranging from 15 percent to 33 percent). For MPFC, the total number of models with negative NPV
decreased from five at appraisal to only one at ICR where the ERR was improved for 6 out of a total of 11
models. For the IMPC, an impressively improved ERR was achieved for 6 out of total 18 models. Though
the analysis showed a mixed result of economic performnance for various species models, the project as a
whole yielded an ERR of 18.5 percent and a net present value (NPV) of Y 2,900 million ($350 million
equivalent) at a discount rate of 12 percent, over a 25-year period. This result is quite robust to wide
-7 -



changes in key variables. In addition, the project generated a total of about 420,000 full time jobs as
alternative employment opportunities during the project implementation period.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial analysis using a cost and benefit analysis approach has been carried out for each species model,
for the MPFC and IMPC, and the project as a whole. For consistency and compatibility purposes, the
analysis followed the principles observed at project appraisal: (a) one rotation for all species, (b) complete
production and harvesting costs, (c) complete actual investment costs, (d) on one-hectare model basis, (e)
inclusion of residual values assumed in the final year for the protection forests, and (f) before tax and debt
service. Benefits are derived from timbers, fruits, and by-products such as fuel wood and resin but neither
investment for nor revenue from inter-cropping is considered. The analysis used a 25-year time period
though a shorter growth period is required for some species models. Financial prices are in 2001 current
prices. Actual import prices or the market prices actually paid were used for inputs. Weighted average
roadside prices and average market prices collected from all project provinces for timber products and
economic tree products. were used respectively. Yearly average daily rate for labor, provided by project
areas, was used for each project implementation year. All these prices have been converted to 1994
constant prices deflated based on the official inflation indices during the period. Both MPFC and IMPC
and the project as a whole show very marginally higher financial rates of returns (FRR) than those at
project appraisal. The project overall FRR is projected at 17.7 percent. This was attributable mainly to (a)
the increase in planted area, (b) favorable market prices for some products, (c) the decrease in
establishment cost, and (d) adjusted residual value for protection tree species. The estimated FRRs are
generally sensitive to market prices, assumptions about the stand's age at final harvest and their
productivity. Overall FRR, however, would have been dropped to 15.2 percent if forest taxes and forest
fees are included in the financial analysis.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's impact on institutional development has been substantial. The project established an efficient
administrative system within the provincial and county forestry bureaus, and the staff from thousands of
counties, township extension stations and planting entities received training in new technologies,
environmental protection and project management. This strengthened the capacity of project agencies and
planting entities in planning and management. Strong linkages between research institutes with domestic
experts and research programs with planting activities have enabled project agencies to quickly bring
research results to field operation. The requirements for checking and evaluating quality criteria for many
project operations have resulted in an appreciation of quality aspects. Environmental awareness and
understanding of management requirements on forest rehabilitation and protection has been developed by
the project, and important lessons are being extended within the forestry sector. However, the
implementation of the overseas training and intemational technical assistance activities have not reached
project targets, and this has limited the introduction of international technologies and experience from
abroad.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
The domestic prices of timber increased slightly in real terms during the project period due to increasing
timber demand and the ban on logging of natural forests. Wages increased slightly in real terrns also, but
this cost increase was offset by reduced requirement of labor and other inputs for site preparation, planting
- 8 -



and fertilizing.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(a)  Political support was mobilized from the provincial and county governnents through establishment
of Leading Groups involving local high level officials and representatives of local finance and planning
departments. It serves as a mechanism to ensure the cooperation of local officials in budgeting counterpart
funds and cross sector support, etc.
(b)   Beginning from the second half of 1998, NFPP initiatives were launched in those areas with
concentrated natural forests and strategic ecological locations. NFPP completely bans logging of the
natural forests along upper reaches of the Yangtze River and upper and middle reaches of the Yellow
River. Logging of the plantations has also been banned temporarily within the NFPP areas of Sichuan,
Chongqing, Guizhou and Yunnan while forest classification is carrying out to consider alternative
management systems.
(c)   The State Forestry Administration ( SFA) carried out an intemal restructuring in early 2001 and
PMC has been assigned responsibility for national Commercial Timber Bases Establishment Program
(CTBEP). Trying to keep the same structure, most of the project provincial forestry departments have
merged provincial Project Management Offices (PMOs) with the offices that are currently responsible for
the commercial plantation establishment. These arrangements will contribute to stability of the project
management institutions for the post management of the plantations established under the project, and
dissemination of project experience to government's programs across the China.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The existence, prior to the project, of a well staffed and trained forestry agency and well-defined
management structures provided a sound framework for project management. Weak coordination between
financial departments and implementing agencies at successive levels led to delay in credit disbursement
during the early period of the project implementation, but this problem was solved by improving
coordination and linkages between financial management and technical quality control for the related
agencies.
The centralized procurement of fertilizers and pesticides carried out by PMC, the central project agency,
was not appropriate for the project where project sites are scattered in 313 counties of 17 provinces,
autonomous regions and municipalities. Import quota restrictions and complex logistics led to fertilizer
shortfalls and prolonged delays in delivery to farmers to meet the planting season.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
To reallocate more funds for plantation and allow participating project provinces to select most adaptable
plantation models, three Bank-approved implementation adjustments were made during project
implementation period. By year 2001, implementation of both MPFC and IMPC had been completed.
Based on information provided by PMC, the total project cost was at $339.0 million, about 2 percent over
the SAR estimate of $333.3 million (excluding cost for Nature Reserves Management component financed
by GEF). This total project cost was likely underreported according to findings of the ICR mission field
visits where applied organic manure was very often not valuated. In addition, as reported by PMC, about
US$4.9 million were provided by the provincial and local authorities from the budget outside of the project
to support local training and new technology transfer. As those funds have not been audited as part of the
-9-



project cost, it was not included in the project cost mentioned in the report. While financing sources remain
unchanged from the appraisal plan, both absolute and relative contributions by each source indeed changed.
In general, contributions from all sources are reduced except beneficiary's contribution. The following table
provides a summary of these changes. Of the total cost of $339.0 million, about 57 percent ($193.6
million) was funded by the World Bank, three percentage points lower than the project appraisal plan. The
aggregated financial contributions of the government at all levels as a whole were reduced to 21 percent
($71.0 million) from the project appraisal plan, four percentage points lower. On the contrary, the
beneficiary's contribution increased by 49 percent mostly in the formn of labor, organic manure and some
limited amount of cash. A total of SDR 140.3 million was disbursed and there was an undisbursed balance
of SDR 1.45 million in the project account, which was cancelled from the credit.
Change of Contribution at ICR from Appraisal by Financing Source
Item                _____________     Financing Sources ($million)         l
IDA       Government     Beneficiaries    Total
Contribution at Appraisal by Value           200.0         83.3           50.0         333.3
Contribution at Appraisal by %              60.0%         25.0%          15.0%        100.0%
Contribution at ICR by Value                 193.6         71.0           74.4          339.0
Contribution at ICR by %                    57.1%         20.9%          21.9%        100.0%
Chang by Value                                -6.4        -12.4           24.4           5.6
Change by Percentage Point                  -3.2%        -14.8%          48.7%          1.7%
Change by Relative Contribution             -2.9%         -4.1%           6.9%          0.0%
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is likely. Most of the physical project activities have been completed and the
plantations are virtually certain to survive and generate economic and financial returns and environmental
benefits as forecast. Project offices at the county, provincial and national levels remain in place and they or
their successors are monitoring the tending, thinning, pest and fire prevention of the plantations, and the
loan repayment activities of the afforestation entities. The silvicultural and management techniques and
management experience developed during the project have been used in the Bank supported Forestry
Development in Poor Areas Project and the Sustainable Forestry Development Project, and are now being
adopted in many other plantation programs and individual plantations across the country.
Continued liberalization and economic growth in China will be favorable to timber markets and project
production. The Government's NFPP and CTBEP launched in 1998 and 2001 respectively focus on the
protection of natural forest and increase of the forest resource by establishing plantations to release the
pressure on natural forests and meet timber needs. Therefore, the Government will continue to support the
plantation management and at the same time domestic prices of timber are likely to increase. However,
107,151 hectares of intensively managed plantations and 120,564 hectares of multiple-use protection
forests established under the project, about 14.3% and 42.7% of the total separately, are located in the
areas where logging has been banned. Unless the timber plantation logging related issue is resolved, the
future management of those plantations, economic benefits and repayment by the project entities are
threatened. SFA informed that a pilot on logging and replanting plantations in a sustainable way has been
successfully carried out in Sichuan Province, and central and provincial governments have confirmed that
the pilot will likely be extended to other regions. The relevant policies and specific steps to address
-10 -



problems associated with the logging ban are currently under review and more sustainable solutions will
likely be implemented in the near future. However, close monitoring of the solutions on logging ban related
issues will be necessary during the project post-management period. The final judgement on the impacts of
logging ban could only be made after above subsequence are put in place.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Plantations have a long gestation period before delivering their final economic benefits. Suitable
arrangements for post-management of the plantations are essential if the expected project benefits are to be
achieved. The various levels of government and project agencies have made the appropriate arrangements
for this purpose:
(a) Project management offices at the county, provincial and national levels will remain and they or
their successors will continually provide the technical and management support for post-project
management.
(b)   Fire and pest prevention arrangements, and technical services for plantation post-management
have been integrated into the regular operation of the local forestry system. Significant loss due to fires
or pests is unlikely because measures are in place to monitor and control these risks, and the project
sites are in widely dispersed locations.
(c) PMC, provincial and county PMOs will strengthen information services on the dynamic status of
the timber markets to the project entities to improve the linkages between plantation management and
market needs. Project entities will develop a thinning timing and technical regime for the main species
based on the updated thinning guidelines formulated by the Sustainable Forestry Development Project.
The final harvest will be required to follow relevant regulations and timely replanting will be carried
out for sustainable management purposes. Provincial and county PMOs will develop a training plan for
post plantation management and carry out the training, mainly on thinning and pruning techniques.
(d) The need for continued support of basic research programs through public funding is strongly
emphasized. The research agenda of CAF and provincial research institutions is increasingly driven by
short-term contractual considerations. Therefore, PMC and CAF will jointly work on linking the
follow-up project research programs to the government research priorities and disseminating project
research results, so as to provide a continuous flow of new research results for further improvement of
plantation quality.
(e)   The funds for post management of project plantations will be raised largely by the planting
entities from harvesting of existing plantations and using other short-term income. SFA and provincial
forestry departments have also committed to include plantations established under the project within the
government commercial forestry development program and financial support will be provided, as a
priority, to the thinning of the plantations established under project.
(f)  Central and provincial governments have committed to resolve the logging ban related issues that
affect timber plantations in NFPP areas and the successful experience from the pilot will most likely
extend to those plantation sites and enable improved logging measures to be adopted. For some
protection forests that are located in steep areas or at high altitude, logging will not be allowed and the
local governments will offer compensation to those planting entities and provide forest management fee
for maintenance operations, as well as likely undertake repayment. It is suggested that the Bank should
support Government to carry out a policy study that will appropriately address key issues caused by
- 11 -



the logging ban and ensure sustainable forest management. Logging ban and related subsequent
policies will be monitored by the Bank and project agencies in the future. The growth rate and timely
thinning of the project plantations are also two key aspects to be monitored during the post project
management period.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is rated satisfactory.
The project objectives were consistent with the Government's development strategy for increasing timber
production, in a sustainable way, to address the issues of inadequate forest products supply and improve
the ecological environment. The Project also reflects CAS priorities of environmental improvement,
technology transfer and institutional capacity building. The Bank team appropriately appraised the capacity
of implementing agencies, government commitment, technical and economic analysis for the project
preparation. Adapting experience from the previous projects, the project widened the project scope by
including multiple-use protection forestry and nature reserves management components to take the
opportunity to broaden the introduction of new technology and management experience in those aspects.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was timely, and included a skill mix and continuity of staff and consultants. Supervision
teams recognized project constraints and issues and dealt with them effectively. During implementation, the
project management system ensured that plantation establishment, research and extension, procurement,
financial management and reporting supporting systems operated smoothly. This permitted Bank
supervision to focus consistently on technology transfer, appropriate staff training, development of models
for multiple-use protection forest. Supervision missions also paid particular attention to environmental
protection measures that were taken to enhance soil and water conservation, maintain biodiversity and
implement pest and disease prevention and control.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory due to the quality in preparation, and the flexible and
effective supervision provided.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower's performance for the project preparatory work is rated satisfactory. At the preparation and
appraisal stage, the Ministry of Finance and SFA effectively secured financial and political commitment
from the project provincial governments. PMC and the provincial PMOs delivered satisfactory technical
preparation documents that appropriately incorporated the recommendations of the Bank missions. Details
were discussed in a straightforward and professional manner and senior managers paid full attention to the
preparation related difficulties and issues and resolved them clearly and promptly.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government commitment and support for the project were consistent throughout project implementation.
The government was able to continue to adhere to sound programs of macroeconomic management and
forest resource development and protection, and provided necessary counterpart funds. The cooperation
- 12 -



between the Government and the Bank remained firm throughout the implementation period and resulted in
a positive impact on project performance.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the staff at PMC, provincial, prefecture (municipal) and county PMOs, and township
forestry stations was satisfactory during project implementation. They played constructive roles for project
implementation and monitoring, and maintained good working relations with financial, planning and other
related agencies. There were early problems affecting timely reimbursement due to lack of the coordination
between the PMOs and financial departments, but this situation was improved in the second year of the
project implementation. During implementation, the project agencies and entities complied satisfactorily
with the legal covenants in Credit Agreements and the quality of physical implementation was consistently
rated as satisfactory. PMC, provincial and county PMOs also assisted adequately the World Bank
supervision mission and provided reports and necessary information on a timely basis.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
In view of the above, the overall Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Lessons learned from the project design and implementation are summarized as follows:
(a)  Close correlation with the borrower's priorities is the foundation of the project. This project
was initiated by the government and is thus highly consistent with the government development
priorities. Therefore, it is continued to enjoy strong support from the government throughout
implementation, which has enabled the Bank's goals of environment improvement, technology transfer
and institutional capacity building to be reached.
(b) The Strong linkage of research and extension with planting activities was critical to technology
transfer. Project R&E has been closely linked with plantation activities and provided innovative and
scientific basis for plantation establishment and management which has accelerated the dissemination
of new technologies and created broad impacts throughout China. However, the project did not address
the broader requirements of future research. The project could have leveraged the component impact
more effectively by promoting the integration of sustainable breeding and selection programs in the
research agendas of partner forestry institutions.
(c)  Centralized procurement of fertilizers and pesticides is not appropriate for multi-province
forestry projects, where the project participants are widely dispersed As the project areas located in
about 300 counties, 17 provinces and municipalities, contract packaging and centralized procurement
approach led to prolonged delay in fertilizer delivery to planting entities and farmers, which meant that
fertilizers were not available for the planting season and caused huge logistical problems. In such
circumstances. freater autonomv in Drocurement must to be eiven to individual local Droiect aeencies.
(d)  Further study will be necessary to assess market condition and new policies such as logging
ban related issues. Despite China's rapid liberalization, decision-making and planning in the forestry
sector still do not fully reflect the market principles. China's entry into the World Trade Organization
will also greatly affect forest product markets. In particular, new policies, such as logging ban, have
broad impacts on plantation management and planter's benefits. Therefore, the policy studies for
- 13 -



tackling the related issues are needed.
(e)  Watershed management will be more effectively carried out as integrated land management
approach with treatments not only for forest zones, but also for agriculture lands and necessary
conservation engineering work in the watersheds areas. This project has achieved it's development
target for establishment of multiple-use protection forests which will create substantial environmental
and economic benefits for watershed management. However, the overall functions of minimizing soil
erosion and water runoff for the catchments would be increased in sustainable way by also including
appropriate treatments for agriculture lands and necessary conservation engineering work in the
catchments.
69   Bank projects have raised awareness of the potential of production forestry. Both NAP and
FRDPP have retained a simple design and a strong focus on commercial forests. This has contributed
to their successful implementation, and to greater awareness of the potential for production forestry and
its impact on economic development, while at the same time acting as a social tool for poverty
alleviation and environrnental improvement. This message could certainly be replicated in a number of
other sites, in China and abroad.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments From PMC, SFA
Thanks to the constructive cooperation between World Bank officials and the Chinese colleagues, the
implementation of FRDPP achieved the expected targets and is thus satisfactory. We regard that the ICR of
the World Bank objectively reflected the condition of the project. Since the final financial accounting of the
project has not been made, the financial data contained in the report is only used for rough evaluations. The
precise financial analysis of the project shall be made after the final accounting.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Indicators                                        Projected in SAR    Actual/Latest Estimate  ActuaVSAR
A. Total Plantation Area (ha)                                        900,000                1,031,353      114.6%
Protection Forest Program                                         280,000                 282,218       100.8%
Mourning Cypress                                               15,000                   5,823        38.8%
Mixed Conifer/Broadleaf                                        16,800                  21,601       128.6%
Masson Pine                                                    32,000                  28,557        89.2%
Chinese Fir                                                    25,000                  28,169       112.7%
Sawtooth Oak                                                   22,000                   16,237       73.8%
Chestnut                                                       29,000                  23,159        79.9%
Pear                                                           4,500                   21,690       482.0%
Eucommia 1/                                                     8,700                   9,958       114.5%
Chinese Sumac                                                   7,000                     932        13.3%
Hill Closure-Replanting                                       40,000                   39,100        97.8%
Hill Closure-No Replanting                                    80,000                   86,992       108.7%
Average Mortality Rate (%)                                                                11%
Average Acceptance Rate (%)                                                               89%
Plantation Program                                               620,000                  749,135       120.8%
Chinese Fir                                                   109,200                  125,024      114.5%
Mason Pine                                                    121,200                  75,557        62.3%
Slash Pine                                                     30,200                  38,394       127.1%
Loblolly Pine                                                  33,300                  27,536        82.7%
Larch                                                         140,500                 169,112       120.4%
Poplar                                                        47,800                   62,837       131.5%
Populus Simonii                                                19,000                  64,807       341.1%
Eucalyptus                                                     38,500                  25,755        66.9%
Black Locust                                                   13,000                   16,643      128.0%
Sichima Superba 2/                                             23,600                  37,330       158.2%
Bamboo-New                                                     11,000                  26,229       238.4%
Bamboo-Rehabilitation                                          30,700                  64,829       211.2%
Arundinaria                                                     2,000                    2,006      100.3%
Other Conifer Tree                                                                      13076
Average Mortality Rate (%)                                                                 5%
Average Acceptance Rate (%)                                                               95%
B. Research and Extension Program
Number of new clones adopted (No.)                             Not specific                   199
Number of new technologies adopted (No.)                               41                      56       136.6%
Pilot Plantation Establishment (ha)                                   140                     350       250.0%
C. Capacity Building
Overseas Study Tours (person.times)                                   105                      156      148.6%
Overseas Training ( person.month)                                      60                      39        65.0%
Local Training (person.times)                                      41600                    150366      361.5%
International Consultants (person.day)                                225                      60        26.7%
Local Consultants (person.day)                                        240                     1412      588.3%
I/ Including plantation of 618ha of Gingko and Mulberry trees.
2/ Actual plantation includes other broadleaf trees.
- 15 -



Output Indicators:
Indicators                                    Projected in SAR   ActualLatest Estimate    ActuaYSAR
A. Total Incremental Output ('000 n3) 1/                          114,378                   109,072       95.4%
Mourning Cypress                                                2,188                      713        32.6%
Mixed Conifer/Broadleaf                                         2,847                     1,654       58.1%
Masson Pine - MPF                                               6,191                    4,909        79.3%
Chinese Fir - MPF                                                5,245                    4,740       90.4%
Sawtooth Oak                                                    3,311                     2,191       66.2%
Eucommia Wood                                                      48                       66       137.5%
Chinese Sumac                                                     591                      112        19.0%/0
Hill Closure-Replanting                                         5,011                      388         7.7%
Hill Closure-No Replanting                                      6,380                      434         6.8%
Chinese Fir                                                    21,221                    19,680       92.7%
Mason Pine                                                      18,008                   12,293       68.3%
Slash Pine                                                      5,193                    7,640       147.1%
Loblolly Pine                                                   6,593                    3,105        47.1%
Larch                                                           17,013                  25,128       147.7%
Poplar                                                          5,961                    6,490       108.9%
Populus Simonii                                                  1,780                   9,941       558.5%
Eucalyptus                                                      2,965                    2,497        84.2%
Black Locust                                                      884                     1,865      211.0%
Other Broadleaf Tree 2/                                         2,948                     3,501      118.8%
Other Conifer Tree                                         Not specific                   1,725     -
B. Total Incremental Other Output ('000 ton)                        18,530                   31,481      169.9%
Chestnut                                                         1,032                     593        57.5%
Pear                                                              512                     2,004      391.4%
Eucommia 3/                                                        31                       77       248.4%
Bamboo                                                          4,885                    10,587      216.7%
Bamboo Shoots                                                     605                     1,471      243.1%
Arundinaria                                                       438                      491       112.1%
Arundinaria Shoots                                                 13                       12        92.3%
Resin                                                             262                      283       108.0%
Fuelwood                                                        10,752                   15,963      148.5%
C. Planting Material Program (million piece)
Bare-Root Seedlings Production                                   1,701                   2,189       128.7%
Seedlings Production - Clonal                                      84                      135       160.7%
Seedlings Production - Root Trainers                               60                       34        56.7%
Seedlings Production - Poly-Bags                                  294                      310       105.4%
Seedlings Production - Bare Root (%)                               81                       86       106.2%
Seedlings Production - Clonal (%)                                   5                        8       160.0%
Seedlings Production - Root Trainers (%)                   Not specific                      I
Seedlings Production - Poly-Bags (%)                               14                       12        85.7%
D. Research and Technology Transfer
Number of species studies for improved cultivation         Not specific                     12
Number of superior provenances identified                          17                       35       205.9%
Number of families selected                                       535                      630       117.8%
Number of clones/individuals selected                              86                      249       289.5%
Number of cross breeding combinations selected                    160                      444       277.5%
New/improved seed/cutting production areas (ha)                   404                      484       119.8%
Number of publications, papers and books                   Not specific                    201      -
I/ Including estimated live wood volume and value.
2/ Actual plantation includes other broadleaf trees.
3/ Including ginkgo and mulberry trees.
-16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
oect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million   US$ million
Plantation                                          238.93         242.25           101.4
Protection Forests                                   44.68          41.32           92.5
Planting Material and Nursery Management             41.00          52.44           127.9
Research and Technology Transfer 1/                   4.41           1.82           41.3
Capacity Building 2/                                  4.31           1.12             26
Total Baseline Cost                                 333.33         338.95
Total Project Costs            333.33          338.95
Total Financing Required             333.33         338.95
1. Including the additional inputs provided by the provincial and county governments from outside of the
project budget, total cost used for the Reserach and Technology Transfer activities was about US$4.22
million, about 95.6% of the appraisal estimates.
2. Using the resources outside of the project, additional US$2.4 million has been provided by the provincial
and county governments for local training. As a result, about US$3.62 million has been used for the
Institutional Capacity Building Component, accounting for 84% of the appraisal estimates.
3. Total project costs do not include the cost for activities supported by GEF.
- 17 -



Proiect Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent) '
Catego___y               Appraisal Estimate
Category                            ICB         NCB          Other'       NBF3          Total
Aforestation Establishment                                                              272.3                      272.3
(149.8)                    (149.8
Seeds                                                                                     0.6                        0.6
(0.6)                     (0.6)
Fertilizer                                                     24.8         2.3                        1.9          29.0
(24.8)        (2.3)                      0.0         (27.1
Pesticides                                                      1.7                                                  1.7
(1.7)                                                (1.7)
Vehicles and Other Equipment                                    9.7          1.2                                    10.9
(9.7)        (1.2)                                  (10.9
Office and Nursery Equipment                                    1.2          0.4           I.                        2.7
(1.2)       (0.4)          (1.1)                     (2.7
Indirect Costs 4                                                                           8.5         3.4          11.9
(4.7)        0.0          (4.7)
Research Services                                                                          0.5          1.0          1.5
(0.5)        0.0          (0.5
Training and tech. Assistance                                                              2.0         0.7           2.7
(2.0)        0.0           (2.0)
Total5                                                         37.4          3.9         285.1         7.0         333.3
(37.4)       (3.9)       (158.7)         0.0        (200.0
1. Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by the IDA credit, incluing contingencies.
2. Other procurement methods include direct recruitment of labor, force account, local and
international shopping, and direct purchase.
3. NBF: Not Bank-financed.
4. Indirect costs include costs related to extension, supervision, and information management.
5. Procurement for GEF activities are not included.
- 18-



Proiect Costs by Procurement Arranzements
(US$ million equivalent) '
ActuaVLatest Estimate
Category                          ICB         NCB         Other2       NBF3         Total
Aforestation Establishment                                                          298.0                     298.0
_____________________________________________  _ _ _ .(179.2)  (179.2)
Seeds                                                                                 0.2                       0.2
(0.2)                    (0.2)
Fertilizer                                                   3.3         1.1                       4.7          9.0
(3.3)       (.1l)                                  (4.3)
Pesticides                                                                                        0.2           0.2
0.0
Vehicles and Other Equipment              .                  6.9         1.4                                    8.3
(6.9)       (1.4)                                  (8.3
Office and Nursery Equipment                                 0:5         0.0                                    0.5
(015)       (0.0)                                  (0.5)
Indirect Costs 4                                                                                 20.0          20.0
0.0
Research Services                                                                     0.5          1.3          1.8
.__ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ __ _   ._ _  _(05)  (05)
Training and tech. Assistance                                                         0.6          0.5          I.I
(0.6)                   -(0.6)
Total                                                       10.7         2.5        299.3         26.6        339.0
(10.7)       (2.5)      (180.5)        0.0       (193I63)
1. Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by the IDA credit, incluing contingencies.
2. Other procurement methods include direct recruitment of labor, force account, local and
international shopping, and direct purchase.
3. NBF: Not Bank-financed.
4. Indirect costs include costs related to extension, supervision, and information management.
5. Procurement for GEF activities are not included.
- 19 -



Proiect Financing by Components
(in US$ million equivalent) I
Appraisal Estim-ate 2
IDA       Government   Beneficiaries    Total
Intensively Managed Plantation
Multiple-Use Protection Forest
Planting Stock Dev. and Nursery Management
Research and Technology Transfer
Institutional Capacity Building
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                 200.0          83.3         50.0         333.3
Actual/Latest Estimate
Component                       IDA      Government    Beneficiaries    Total
Intensively Managed Plantation                      159.0          56.7         26.6         242.3
Multiple-Use Protection Forest                       33.5           6.6           1.3         41.3
Planting Stock Dev. and Nursery Management           0.03           5.9         46.5          52.4
Research and Technology Transfer                      0.5           1.3          0.0           1.8
Institutional Capacity Building                       0.6           0.5          0.0           1.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                 193.6          71.0         74.4         339.0
Percentage of Appraisal 2
IDA       Government   Beneficiaries    Total
Intensively Managed Plantation
Multiple-Use Protection Forest
Planting Stock Dev. and Nursery Management
Research and Technology Transfer
Institutional Capacity Building
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                  97%           85%          149%         102%
1. Total Project Costs do not include GEF activities.
2. No breakdown of financing by component was made at project appraisal.
- 20 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Analysis                         Financial Analysis
Species Model                 Appaisal          Latest Estunates        Appraisal          Latest Estimates
NPV     000          NPV     000          NPV      000          NPV     000
ERR %I     yuan      ERR %      yuan      FRR %       yuan     FRR %       yuan
Multiple-Use Protecdon Forest          162     279,736.0   16.4     287,306.9    15.1     195,229.1   15.2     184,215
ICypress/Alder                        9.7       -559.0    14.1        703.8    10. 1       -449.6    13.3       391.3
2 Masson PineBroad-leaf Tre          10.7       -312.0    14.5        951 i    11.2        -204.0   13.7        540.1
3Masson Pine                         1171        -92.0    16.3       1,712.1   12.1         34.0     16.1      1,502.
4Chiese Fir                          13.0        386.0    163       2,080.0    13.4         529.2    16.1      1,829.
5 Sawtooth Oak                        9.4       -444.0    17.1       1,466.5    9.9        -354.6    16.1      1,053.3
6 Chestnut                           25.6      10,900.0   17.4       3,170.9   22.6       7,4612     13.9        899.1
7Pear                                23.2       8,304.0   22.51      7,516     20.8       5,8844     19.7      4,813.
8 Eucomiia                           18.4       4,045.0   166.       2,206.8   18.1       3,782.0    16.2      1,884.6
9 Chinese SumacWhite Birth           27.8       7,041.0   15.3       1,006.9   25.9       5,7749     13.9        528.8
10Hills-Closure-I                     10.9       -93.0    15.9        487.7    10.7        -1102     15.1        328.
iI Hills-Cosuc-2                      12.2        10.0    11.6        -20.4    .120          -0.7    11.5        -200
Intensvely Managed Plantation          18.0   2,132,623.0  18.9   2,615,838.5    18.1   2,152,375-1   18.2   2,069,553
I Chinese Fir (18)                   18.0      7,007.0    16.0      2,119.9    182        7,077.0   15.8       1,856.0
2 Chinese Fir (16)                   20.        7,464.0   18.4       5,052.7   20.7       7,745.0    18.2      4,472.5
3 Chinese Fir (I 4)                  18.(       4,947.0   17.0       3,539.9   18.2       5,240.0    16.7      3,100.
4 Masson Pine (14)                   17.2       2,918.    17.0       3,088.8   17.5       3,070      16.8      2,684.
5 Masson Pine (I6)                   18.3       4,191.0   17.6       3,497.4   18.5       4,306.0    17.4      3,058.1
6 Slash Pine (18)                    14.5       1,859.0   19.3      4,054.4    14.7       1,907.0    19.3      3,728.3
7 Slash Pine (16)                    18.7       4,712.0   1951      5,135.5    18.9       4,770.0    19.4      4,670.0
8 Slash Pine(14)                     18.3       3,931.0   18.5      4,353.0    18.5       4,039.0    18.       3,952.9
9 Loblouy Pine (16)                  19.5       5,558.0   15.0       1,496.6   19.7       5,677.0    14.9       1,350.
1 0Japanese Larch (16)                15.8      2,379.0                         16.1      2,60901
I  Japanese Larch (14)                16.1      2,268.0                        16.5       2,509.0   _
12 Korean Larch (16)                  154       2,040.0   16.8       3,036.2    15.8      2,264.0    16.6       2,661.6
13 Korn Lamch (14)                    15.4      1,834.0   151        1,8619.   15.9       2,066.0    15.0       1,604.1
14 Chinese White Popiar (I)          24.6       9,244.0   23.5       6,599.8   24.2       8,533.0    20.7      3,808.2
1  Populus Sionii (12)               26.8       4,690.0   33.5      10,225.8   26.9       4,684.'    31.3       7,484.
16 Eucalypts (11)                    28.1       3,410.0   25.7       4,791.    28.9       3,594.     24.2      3,695.
17Black Locust (18)                   18.6      2,803.0   21.2       4,611.3   18.7       2,851.0    19.8       3,366.6
18 Schina Superba ()                  15.8      1,881.0   14.8       1,140.9    16.3      2,091.0    14.0        741.0
19 Moso Barnboo - New (T)            25.6      14,543.0   22.9       9,881.2   23.7       11,844.0   21.2       7,401.
20 Moso Bamnboo - Rehab. (11)         21.7      6,756.0   20.6       5,296.9    21.1       5,758.0   19.6       3,982.3
21    .iiniaQI)                       23.3      6,184.0   17.91      2,964.0    22.0       5,309.0   14.8       1,233.
22 Other Conifer Tree                                     19.A  j    2,767.9                         19.2       3,342.
Totb Project                           17.7   2,412,359.0  18     2,896,279.71   17.6   2,347,604.0   17.7   2,248,034.
I/Projections were made based on before tax and debt service scenario;
- 21 -



2/ NPV for individual species models is in yuan;
3/ Projections for Japanese larch.models are included in Korean Larch models.
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
IdentificationlPreparation
03/92                       9    IFS,2EC, ISNS, IECD,
INFEC:, IMS, IRS, IIMS
11/92                       6    2FS, 2EC, I ECD, IMS
5/93                        S    IEC, IFS, IECD, IFA, ISEC
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/93                       8    2EC, IFS, IECO, IFA, IRS,
I SEC, lI BS
4/94                        4    IES, ILW, IDS, IECO
Supervision
9/94                         3   IEC, IECD, IFS                     S             S
8/95                         4   IEC, IECD, IFS, IIDS               S            S
5/96                         3   IEC, IECD, IFS                     S            S
11/96                       3    1 EC, I ECD, I FS                 S             S
5/97                         5   IEC, IECD, IFS, IECO, IIDS         S             S
5/98                         3   IFS, IRS, ISNS                     S            S
11/98                       5    IFS, lEC, IDS, ISNS, ISC          S             S
5/99                         4   IFS, IDS, ISNS,I SC                S            S
11/99                       4    IFS, IDS, ISNS, ISC               S             S
4/2000                       4   IFS, IDS, ISNS, ISC                S             S
10/2000                     5    I FS, I DS, I SNS, I SC, I EC     S             S
ICR
3/2002                      S     IFS, IEC, IRS, ISC, IECO          S             S
/a: DS: Disbursement Specialist; EC: Economist; ECO: Ecologist; FA: Financial Analyst; FS: Forestry
Specialist; IDS: Institutional Development Specialist; LW: Lawyer; IMS: Information Management
Specialist; MS: Marketing Specialist; RS: Research Specialist: SC: Silviculturist; SNS: Seed Nursery
Specialist; NFEC: Natural Resource Economist; SEC: Socio-Economist; BS: Bamboo Specialist.
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
.____________________ _ .No. Stafflweeks        US$  ('000)
Identification/Preparation              61.6                      231.38
Appraisal/Negotiation                    73.8                     280.98
Supervision                             137.8                     324.74
ICR                                       20                          50
Total                                  293.2                       887.1
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
 Macro policies                      O H OSUOM        O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                     O H OSUOM        * N O NA
O Physical                            O H   *SUOM ON        O NA
f Financial                           O H *SUOM        ON   O NA
 Institutional Development           0 H   O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                       OH    *SUOM O N       O NA
Social
* Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM O N O NA
* Gender                        O H OSUOM        *N   O /NA
O Other (Please specify)        OH OSUOM         O N * NA
F Private sector development          0 H O SU O M     0 N 0 NA
F Public sector management             0 H  * SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
OI Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM       O N * NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
F Lending                                           OHS*S'OU            OHU
s Supervision                                       OHS*S.       Ou     O HU
s Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
F Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U    O HU
E Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       0U     O HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS       O  U   O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    China FRDPP ICR by PMC, SFA, March 2002 (Final Version);
2.    China FRDPP Research and Extension Program Execution Summary by CAF, March
2002 ( Final Version);
3.    SAR for China FRDPP, May 9, 1994;
4.    Aide-Memoir for FRDPP ICR Mission, March 25, 2002;
5.    Chongqing Municipality FRDPP Completion Report, March, 2002;
6.    Shandong Province FRDPP Completion Report, March, 2002 (Chinese) and it Brief
(English);
7.    Fujian Province FRDPP Completion Report Brief, March, 2002;
8.    Details of project financial and economic analysis and inputs from the mission members.
- 26 -



Additional Annex 8. Implementation Agency ICR Brief
1. Introduction
1.1 Background
As the result of the lasting attention of Chinese Government, notable achievements were made in forest
resource protection and development of the country. However, the condition of China as a
forest-poverty country as a whole remained unchanged, which was especially obvious in the imbalance
between timber supply and demand. Since the country is mainly relying on natural forest for the need
of the timber in economic and social development, the area of natural forest tended to drop
continuously and the biodiversity remained seriously threatened. The natural environment in a lot of
areas was deteriorating. To reverse this tendency, Chinese Government approved in 1988 a vigorous
development program aimed to establish 100 million mu of fast-growing and high-yielding (FGHY)
timber plantation bases before year 2000, to develop timber plantations, add forest cover, reduce
natural forest consumption, protect biodiversity and imnprove the ecological environment.
As a part of the above FGHY program and by the use of the World Bank loan, China implemented the
National Afforestation Project (NAP) from 1990. The implementation of NAP was a huge success. It
has greatly promoted the commercial afforestation process of the project areas and the country. To
further accelerate the steps of development of forestry and FGHY plantation bases, alleviate the
contradiction of timber supply and demand, the former Ministry of Forestry (MFO) made a proposal of
the FRDPP (Phase II of NAP) to the World Bank in December 199 1.
1.2 Objectives and Components
The project is designed to enhance the productivity of forest resources, the efficiency of forest resource
use and the institutional capacity for sustainable management through investment in the timber
plantations and shelter-belt protection forest of the project provinces.
The project consists of the following five components (the completion report of the affiliated GEF
financed China Nature Reserve Management Project is prepared separately):
(1). Intensively Managed Plantation is aimed, with timber market demand as the orientation, at new
afforestation technology supported plantations establishment of 620,000 hectare in 16 project
provinces (autonomous region) for timber, pulpwood and pit props, to alleviate the imbalance between
timber supply and demand, maintain and improve the ecological environment.
(2). Multi-Function Protection Forest is, by adopting improved land use planning and advanced
technologies for mountain closure and plantation establishment, to establish 280,000 hectares of
protection timber plantation and economic tree crops at gullies and watersheds of Hubei, Sichuan and
Chongqing in the middle and upper reaches of Yangtze River to recover and enlarge vegetation, control
soil and water loss for extended environmental benefits of shelter-belt forest, and improve the living
and employment conditions of the localities through the harvest of timber, fruits and forest byproducts.
(3). Research and Technology Transfer is to strengthen the operational focus of research and
extension through provision of technical assistance and operating support for 12 priority research
programs, experimental plantations, and a field extension network.
- 27 -



(4). Planting Stock Development and Nursery Management is to raise the quality of planting
materials through introduction of superior genetic materials and nursery management technologies, and
support the production of seedlings needed in project afforestation.
(5). Institutional Capacity Building is to strengthen the capacity of public and private sector
institutions in forestry through support for training and technical assistance, improvement of
information management system, establishment of a new private sector investment promotion agency,
improvement of natural forest management, and policy research.
1.3 Project area
The project is implemented in and by 104,000 afforestation entities of 313 counties (cities) in 17
province (municipality, or autonomous region) including Hebei, Shanxi, Liaoning, Heilongjiang,
Zhejiang, Anhui, Fujian, Jiangxi, Shandong, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Guangxi, Sichuan, Chongqing,
Guizhou and Yunnan.
1.4 Project Investment
The planned investment of USD 333 million including the World Bank credit of USD200 millions (140
million SDR at the signing of Development Credit Agreement).
1.5 Implementation period
FRDPP was launched in December 1994 and the implementation completion occurred in December
2001, for seven years in total.
2. Project Execution
(1) Intensively-Managed Plantations
Afforestation. The inspected and accepted afforestation area is 749,000 hectares or 120.8% of the
acreage stipulated in The Development Credit Agreement. afforestation targets of all species were
over-completed except Loblolly pine, Eucalyptus and Black locust.
Young plantation tending, According to the afforestation models set for project species, the young
plantation tending completed reached 1,230,000 hectares tending time.
Main supplementary works under the proiect. The actual number of guard/storage sheds completed is
2,159 ones. The constructed forest road came to 2,214 kilometers.
(2) Multi-Function Protection Forest
Afforestation. The inspected and accepted afforestation area is 282,000 hectares or about 100% of the
planned 280,000 hectares of the Development Credit Agreement. The afforestation acreage targets of
all species were fulfilled except Eucommia, Chinese Sumac, Sawteeth oak and the mixed forests.
Young plantation tending. According to the project afforestation models, the young plantation tending
completed reached 370,000 hectares tending time.
- 28 -



Construction of Guard /Storage Sheds. The actual number of sheds completed is 712 ones.
(3) The Planting Stock
Planting stock development. Production promotion mreasures were taken in the seed orchard (153.3 ha.)
and seed stands (240.7 ha.) which were developed under the NAP Planting Stock Development
Program. These measures have helped improve the; quality and increase the quantity of the produced
seeds and the annual supply of superior seeds came to 2,527,000 kg. 199 superior clones were screened
for Chinese Fir, Poplar, Larch, Eucalyptus and Blac'k locust. Besides, superior families were screened
for Chinese Fir, Masson Pine, Larch, Exotic Pines, Eucalyptus and Alder with the family number
reaching 630 ones in total. Based on these clones and families, 89-hectare clonal multiplication gardens
(including the cutting orchards and the cutting planting gardens) were built for Chinese Fir, Larch,
Eucalyptus, which has aided in the increased productivity of clonal stock by 26 million plants.
Improvement of Nursery Management Technolo. The Nursery Technological Management
Guidelines, and the Seedling Criteria for Major Species were prepared and carried out. For each
county, one central nursery and several key nurseries for which the central nursery should provide
technical guidance were selected as the main planting stock supply channels of the project.
Accordingly, the stocks provided by these two kinds of nurseries were over 80% of the afforestation
stocks under the project and the important technical measures of nursery management were
appropriately carried out in the central nurseries, including reduced seed sowing rates for production of
fine quality seedlings, implementation of improved culling regulations, extension of root undercutting
of pine species, improvement of the potting media prescriptions of the root trainers.
Seedling Production. For the whole project, 2.1 billion Grade I stock should be produced. The actual
production came to 2.53 billion plants, of which the' Grade I seedlings is 2.39 billion plants or 113.8%
of the planned target. Of the stock production, the containerized seedlings represented 13.6% of the
total, the clonal stock 7.8%, in compliance with the targets determined at the project appraisal
(4) Implementation of Research and Extension Program
The Research. While continuing the observational. studies of NAP, the afforestation technology of
multi-function protection forest was added to the FRDPP research program. In the implementation of
the project, 350 ha. research experimental plantations, 14076 ha. of demonstration forest were
established. Consequently 49 research achievements were appraised and accepted, and 173 research
papers were published.
Technological Extension. In the 17 project provinces, totally 59 technological accomplishments were
disseminated and applied. These accomplishments and technologies have significantly improved the
project afforestation quality.
(5) Environmental Management and Monitoring
On absorbing NAP experiences in environmental protection, improved environmental protection
guidelines were prepared for FRDPP, which have strengthened the environmental management of the
project. The major adopted measures are as follows:,
Execution of Environmental Protection Guidelines. :The FRDPP Environmental Protection Guidelines
-29 -



was implemented vigorously, and the performance of execution of environmental protection guidelines
was taken as a major project indicator and part of the standard project inspection acceptance.
Implementation of Environmental Protection Monitoring Plan. Shanxi and Heilongjiang as new
provinces of FRDPP, in accordance with their actual conditions of the afforestation sits, set up 3
monitoring plots. For multi-function protection forest, 3 monitoring plots were established in
Chongqing Municipality, Sichuan and Hubei Provinces. The monitoring results indicate that the
ecological environment of the project afforestation site was basically improved and the soil and water
better conserved.
(6) Goods Procurement
By the end of 1999 and by various means of procurement, 49,194 tons of chemical fertilizer, 2189 kg
of superior seeds, 228 sets of forest fire control commanding vehicle, 56 pick-ups, 44 trucks, 75 field
motorcycles, 64 caterpillar tractors, 236 sets of office equipment, 6 plastic shed greenhouses, 4 sets of
sprinkling and spraying irrigation equipment were procured, with the total expenditure of 13.265
million US dollars or 100% of the planned procurement cost.
(7) Training and Technical Assistance
Domestic Training. 4,373 training courses in various types were conducted with 150,000 person times,
360% of the planned target. For the breakdown, the national level 41 courses with 3,860 person times,
the province level 454 courses with 11,965 person times, the county level 3878 courses with 134,500
person times. In addition, 282,561 workers and farmers have been trained.
Overseas Study Tour and Training. In accordance with the actual needs of project implementation,
from 1996 to 2000, PMC organized 24 study tours (15-20 days per tour team) for 156 person times to
ten counties, including USA, German, Sweden, Turkey, Canada, Japan, Finland, France, New Zealand
and Australia respectively. Besides, PMC organized 13 selected young project technical staff with
better English proficiency level to Canada for project management training and improved English
learning courses for 3 months. Compared with the targets by person times, the completed study tours
represent 149% of the plan; and the completed training makes up about 65%.
International Consultancy. During the project implementation, project consultants of natural forest
management, fertilization and feasibility studies (the International Consultancy Panel) of 60 person
days or 42.8% of the plan were procured for the project.
(8) Natural Forest Management Pilot Program
The natural forest management pilot program implemented finally completed acreage of 834.53 ha. or
104.32% of the target of 800 ha.. The implementation happened in three counties of Jiangxi, including
Xinfeng, Ninggang and Jing'an and the managed forest types are mid-term rotation young growth
thinning forest and the middle-aged, density-based management timber forest. The 3 counties totally
invested 1776,600 yuan taking up 120.9% of the planned target of 1,470,000 yuan. Of the actual
investment, 872,700 yuan is the credit fund accounting for 49.1%, and 903900 yuan, the counterpart
funding representing 50.9%.
-30 -



The acceptance inspection of the program concludes that the area verification rate is 100%, the
unwanted vegetation cutting compliance rate 95.8%o, the tending/felling compliance rate 90.9%, the
patch-up survival rate 96%, the density control compliance rate :100%. Meanwhile 50 km forest road
was built with road density of 16.7 ha/cm.
(9) Plan Adjustment
During the project implementation, six major adjustments were conducted including those of project
province participation, afforestation plan, the category of credit fund, afforestation unit price and goods
procurement.
Proiect Province. In 1996, Guangdong province withdrew from the project while Shandong took part in
the project.
The Afforestation Plan. Following the adjustment, the acreage of the component of intensively managed
plantations went up from 620,000 ha. to 702,000 ha (an increase of 102,000 ha); and the acreage of
the multi-function protection forest rose from 280,000 ha. to 288,000 ha. (an increase of 8,000
hectares).
Credit Category. Responsive to the needs of project implementation, the adjustments of August 1997,
January 1999 as well as June 2000 reduced the credit scale of goods procurement, consultancy and
training by increasing the scale of afforestation.
The Adjustment of Unit Price. The afforestation unit price were increased after the adjustment.
(10) Fund disbursement
At the completion, the total investrnent came to 2.815 billion yuan (339 million US dollars equivalent)
in total, or 101.6% of the budgeted 2.767 billion RMB yuan (333 million US dollars equivalent). The
breakdown amounts include USD194 million of credit fund (1.611 billion RMB yuan equivalent) or
57.2% of the total actual investment and 99.3% of the credit budget, 1.204 billion RMB yuan of the
domestic counterpart fund for 42.8% of the total actual investment. (Exact figures of this paragraph
shall comply with the final accounting of the project). In addition, the project provincial and county
governments have provided about US$ 4.9 million funds from the budget outside of the project to
support the local training and extension activities.
3. Project Achievements
3.1 Economic Benefits
After the project enter production, 106.31 million cubic meters of timber, 15.32 million tons of
fuelwood, 200 million kg. of resin, 2 billion kg of various fruit products, 6.298 million tons of bamboo,
and other miscellaneous forest products will be produced accumulatively with the total output value
estimated at 49.06 billion yuan. After tax, the NPV would be 2435.42 million yuan and the internal
rate of return 20%. Based on the project input-output analysis, the project output would exceed the
project input beginning from the 6th year of implementation.
3.2 Ecological Benefits
- 31 -



(1) Increase Forest Area and Coverage
During the project implementation, a total of 1.03 million ha. of plantations was established by 313
project counties (cities), leading to an increase in the forest coverage by 1-2% in the project areas with
a potential timber production of 106.31 million m3 , which has guaranteed the smooth implementation
of NFPP and promoted the sustainable development of forestry.
(2) Health of the Plantations
Compared with the plantations outside the project, the project plantations are growing more vigorously
and generally healthier, with little occurrence of pest and diseases in the young plantations.
(3) Benefits of Soil and Water Conservation
The monitoring results of the multi-function protection forest indicate that benefits of soil and water
conservation of all plantation types and site conditions were obvious, with the soil and water loss
reduction rate at 44% - 60%.
(4) Benefits of water retention
Calculated by saturation of the forest land, the 1.03 million ha. project plantation has an added water
storage of 560 million tons. At the price of 0.8 yuan per ton, the benefits of water retention of the
project is 448 million Yuan.
(5) Carbon absorption
Based on the characteristics of different tree species on the absorption of C02, the established 1.03
million ha. plantations of FRDDP shall absorb and fix carbon up to 76,827,000 ton by the year of
2018 accumulatively, equivalent to the amount of carbon released from the burning of standard coal of
118 million ton.
3.3 Social Benefits
During the implementation period, the afforestation activities created 420,000 person year employment
labor (calculated by 300 days per year), generating an poverty alleviation income of 1.98 billion Yuan
for the project implementation area. Compared with NAP, FRDPP has a wider coverage in
beneficiaries' participation. The participation of households, shareholding forest farmns and collective
forest farms accounts for 85.6% of the total, 10.6% higher than that of NAP. Moreover, of the 313
project counties, 88 were nationally-designated poverty counties. By means of project implementation,
the significant social benefits were generated in that the short-term incomes of these beneficiaries have
been improved, which is conducive to the local poverty reduction in the future.
3.4 Technical Improvement
Technical improvement include:
(1) Adoption of density control and innovative afforestation models for major project tree species,
which have resulted in favorable impacts on the general growth and quality of the project young
plantations.
(2) Extension of Updated Seedling Production Technologies. To ensure the application of fine quality
and qualified seedlings in project afforestation, the effective measures adopted under the former project
NAP were continuously employed in FRDPP including establishment of central project nurseries;
supply of seeds, and cultivation and provision of seedlings in set locations as well as issuance of three
certificates like "Superior Seeds Certificate", "Seedlings Quality Certificate" and "Stock Inspection
- 32 -



Certificate". Besides, based on the actual needs of the project provinces, the innovative seedling-raising
technologies have been popularized under FRDPP including "root-cutting technology for pine tree
seedling raising in the field", "containerized seedling raising technology for pine trees and eucalypt",
"application of mycorrhiza inoculation for pine trees and eucalyptus seedling raising" and "root
retaining technology for poplar seedling raising". The promoted area has been up to 26,800 hm2,
resulting in a greater improvement in seedling quality for project afforestation with provision of over
95% of the Class I seedlings by the project nurseries. For instance the wider application in seedling
raising and project afforestation of the cycorbial innoculum composed mainly of fungus Pt the
exomycorrhiza, the promotion of the technology has led to improved quality of seedling and
afforestation. Specifically, after implementation of the technology in pine tree seedling raising, both the
survival rate and the preserving rate have been increased by over 5% on the average, the height growth
increased by 13-56% and DBH of the young plantations by 25-60%.
(3) Dissemination of Practical Afforestation Technologies. To ensure the project afforestation quality,
a series of practical and efficient afforestation technologies were widely adopted and disseminated in
accordance with the actual needs, which include: "Fertilization Regime for Major High-Yielding Tree
Species", "Technologies of Small Hole Site Preparation and Partial Tending", "Classification and
Assessment Methods for Timber Forest Land Type', "Technologies of Planting Density Control and
Thinning for Major Tree Species", "Improvement Technologies for Inferior Bamboo Forests" and
Biological Control Methods of Aeolesthes sarta". By adopting the new technologies, there have been a
remarkable improvement in afforestation quality and young plantation growth.
(4) Technical Extension for Establishment of Multi-Function Protection Plantations In establishment
of multi-function protection plantations, a variety of effective measures have been taken in light of the
planting site conditions in the project areas, which has generated obvious impacts on ecological
environment. From the 7-year implementation practice, several optimized management models for
multiple-function protection forests have been developed.
4. Participation of the World Bank
During the 7-year project implementation period, the World Bank conducted regular reviews of the
various project documents submitted by PMC as~ required such as project annual plans, project
progress reports, the financial statements and the relevant auditing reports, the progress report on the
technical research and extension program as well.as a variety of project procurement documents.
Besides, from 1995-2001, the World Bank sent 12 supervision teams in total to implement official field
review. Based upon the supervision findings, the supervision aide-memoire was developed for each
field tour. In each aide-memoire, the supervision group confirmed the achievements made in the project
implementation and pointed out the problems and proposed recommendations, which has played very
important role in providing guidance for smooth implementation following the set objectives.In the
period of the project preparation and implementation, the Bank officials and consultants adhered to the
project management principles and regulations and they listened to the views from the Chinese side and
adopted the practical and effective ways to solve the problems emerged. This has contributed to the
adaptation of the local situation and continuous improvement of the project implementation.
5. The Post-completion Management Plan
5.1 Objectives and Responsibilities
Classified management would be conducted to the established plantations according to tree species, site
- 33 -



conditions, plantation growth, etc. by means of appropriate organizational and technical measures for
promotion of the stand increment, stocking volume and timber production value to achieve or approach
the described targets, to ensure the FIRR at no less than 12%, to ensure that the afforestation entities
shall be able to repay timely the Bank loan and to improve the economic and environmental conditions
in the project areas.
5.2 Methodologies and Measures
(1) Stabilization of the institutions
The project management institutions at different levels will be maintained or adjusted based on projects
needs and characteristics.
(2) New project operation system
It needs to be established to integrate the future project plantation management and "three prevention"
(including prevention of fire, pest and diseases and illegal harvesting and cattle damages) be
implemented into the routine forest management of forestry units at various levels. The afforestation
entities will take full responsibilities of the plantation management with the technical management work
carried out by corresponding managerial functions at county and township levels. Specifically, the
project forest fire prevention will constitute a part of the responsibility of the county fire prevention
office; the project forest pest and disease control and monitoring will be the responsibilities of the
county forest pest and disease control and monitoring stations; the thinning and management of project
young plantations will be guided by county forestry stations; and the county forestry legislation
management section will be responsible for harvesting approval and monitoring, the township forestry
stations will carry out the unified management of the afforestation entities and the county forestry
bureau will be in charge of the state forest farms.
(3). Efforts will be taken in tending/thinning management of project young plantations to promote
their rapid growth
The afforestation entities are required to prepare and implement the management work in response to
the different Categories of stands, following the management principles that Category I plantations
should be maintained, Category II plantations be promoted into Category I and rescuing measures
should be taken for Category III plantations earnestly.
In accordance with the findings of the thinning studies carried out by the project technical research and
extension group, the afforestation entities should prepare the improved regime for thinning time and
strength and the operational guidelines of major tree species.
The PMOs at all levels are required to prepare and implement a training plan for future project
plantation management, with thinning and pruning as its main components to ensure that the
afforestation entities are fully familiar with the key technologies for their future management work.
(4) Mobilization of funding for future operation and sustainability of the project.
The funds for normal stand management will be bome by each afforestation entity, the project
beneficiaries, while the funds for sectoral responsibilities will be from the corresponding functionaries
of the project county. Specifically, the forestry stations will be responsible for technical services; the
forest pest and disease control station responsible for monitoring pest and disease occurrence; the
forestry legal and administration office and forest fire prevention and control office for the their
- 34 -



respective tasks, and the state forest farms will be administered by the original authorities.
In regard to the project economic tree crops designated now inside NFPP area, income would be
generated in the later project implementation stage and the future management, with which the
sustainable project management would be conducted. Meanwhile, the timber plantations and
multi-function protection forests now located in the NFPP implementation areas, the relevant forest
maintenance cost will be covered by the forest maintenance fees, forest ecological subsidy fund
allocated by the Government, together with the funds from NFPP. For some protection forests which
planted in very steep mountains,'logging will not be allowed and the local government will likely
undertake the repayment also. In addition, an improved taxation and fee levying system will be
implemented, which means more resources can be mobilized for the sustainable management of
FRDPP plantations. A pilot on sustainable logging and replanting for the timber plantation has been
carried out in Sichuan Province and the central and provincial government have confirmed that the pilot
is successful and will be much likely to be extended to other regions.
The funding for future operation of the project may also be from the revenues generated through
cooperative operation in plantation management with the large-scaled papermaking enterprises or from
marketing of their thinned timber.
PMC, provincial and county PMOs will strengthen its information services by which data on ongoing
basis of the timber markets including its development tendencies as well as the best option for
cultivation targets of tree species would be provided to the afforestation entities, in an attempt to
maximize the economic benefits of the afforestation! entities by orienting their cultivation activities to
the needs of the market.
The government will provide financial support for development of fast-growing and high-yielding
plantations, for which the preferential loan with: subsidized interest will be implemented. The
concessive loan is also funding source for the future project operations.
- 35 -















IMAGING
Report No.:        24206
Type:    ICR                           l



