Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2623 CHA
(Forest Resource Development and Protection Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 6, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2623 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 1994, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS: (B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Global Environment Trust 
Fund ("GET") a grant (the "GET Grant") in an amount equivalent to thirteen million one 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,100,000) to assist in financing Part C 
of the Project; and
WHEREAS: (C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Afforestation Project Provinces" means all of the Project Provinces 
except Shaanxi Province.
(b)
"MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, and any successor 
thereto.
(c)
"MFO" means the Borrower's Ministry of Forestry, and any successor 
thereto.
(d)
"Project Implementation Arrangements" means the Project Implementation 
Rules and the acceptance letters provided by the Afforestation Project Provinces in 
accordance with Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
(e)
"Project Implementation Rules" means the detailed rules for the 
implementation of the Project issued by MOF and MFO in accordance with Section 3.03 
(a) of this Agreement.
(f)
"Project Provinces" means Anhui Province, Fujian Province, Guangdong 
Province, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Guizhou Province, Hebei Province, 
Heilongjiang Province, Henan Province, Hubei Province, Hunan Province, Jiangxi 
Province, Liaoning Province, Shanxi Province, Shaanxi Province, Sichuan Province, 
Yunnan Province and Zhejiang Province, and "Project Province" means any of the Project 
Provinces.
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred forty-one million seven hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 141,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
Page  3
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that  year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15 commencing  November 15, 2004 and ending May 15, 2029. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2014 shall be one and 
one-fourth per cent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the  judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through its MFO and the Project Provinces with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate forestry, environmental protection and 
management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall onlend the portion of the proceeds of the 
Credit corresponding to Part A of the Project and to those components of Parts D, E 
and F of the Project related to plantation activities under said Part A, to each of 
the Afforestation Project Provinces on the following principal terms and conditions: 
(i) repayment over a period not exceeding 20 years, including eight years of grace; 
(ii) interest at a rate of 4.5 per cent per annum; and (iii) foreign exchange risk 
between Special Drawing Rights and the Borrower's currency over the repayment period 
to be borne by such Project Province.
(b)
The Borrower shall onlend the portion of the proceeds of the Credit 
corresponding to Part B of the Project and to those components of Parts D, E and F of 
the Project related to protection forest activities under said Part B, to the Project 
Provinces of Sichuan and Hubei on the following principal terms and conditions: (i) 
repayment over a period not exceeding 25 years, including ten years of grace; (ii) 
interest at a rate of 2.5 percent per annum; and (iii) foreign exchange risk between 
Special Drawing Rights and the Borrower's currency over the repayment period to be 
borne by such Project Province.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause each of the Afforestation Project Provinces to: 
(i) further onlend the portion of the proceeds of the Credit corresponding to Project 
activities in each of the counties under its jurisdiction on the terms and conditions 
set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, and, in addition, an exchange risk fee not to 
exceed two percent per annum may be charged by such Project Province to the county for 
any funds so on-lent in the Borrower's currency;  and (ii) cause each such county to 
make the proceeds of the Credit available to the final users on said terms and 
conditions, including any such exchange risk fee.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, through MOF and MFO:
(i)
issue to the Afforestation Project Provinces, project 
implementation rules 
specifying the detailed 
arrangements for the implementation of the Project, which 
shall 
have been approved by the Association; and
(ii)
transmit these Project Implementation Rules, along with the 
onlending terms set out 
in Section 3.02 above, to each such Province 
for its written acceptance.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementation Rules include, 
inter alia, the following provisions:
(i)
each Project Province shall carry out or cause to be  carried out 
its respective 
parts of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate forestry, 
environmental protection and management practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required;
(ii)
each Project Province shall establish and maintain the provincial 
level project 
management offices and shall cause the county 
level project management offices to 
be maintained, as set out 
in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(iii)
each Project Province shall enter into agreements with each of the 
counties under 
its jurisdiction responsible for 
implementation of the Project, to ensure the 
implementation of 
the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Rules 
and to provide for the onlending of funds in accordance with Section 3.02 (c) of 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Page  5
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any party to the Project 
Implementation Arrangements shall have failed to perform its obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of  60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Project Implementation Rules shall 
have been issued and the Afforestation Project Provinces shall have provided their 
written acceptances, all in accordance with Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project 
Implementation Arrangements are legally binding upon the parties
in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                  Amount of the
                                    Credit              % of
                                   Allocated        Expenditures
                                 (Expressed in          to be
          Category              SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)       Goods                    28,980,000       100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures,
                                                    100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 75%
                                                    of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(2)       Afforestation           103,890,000       55%
          establishment under
          Parts A, B  and E.2
          of the Project
(3)       Consultants'              1,370,000       100%
          services, training
          and study tours
(4)       Research services           360,000       100%
          under Parts E.1
      and F.1(d) of
      the Project
(5)       Unallocated               7,100,000
          TOTAL                   141,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  and
(c)
the term "afforestation establishment" means the costs of labor, 
seedlings, sheds and of survey and design extension, information, management, 
Page  8
environmental management and supervision required for the establishment of a 
plantation, protection forest or experimental plantation under Parts A, B and E.2 of 
the Project as determined on a per hectare basis in accordance with a schedule of 
costs acceptable to the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR7,800,000 may be made 
in respect of Categories  (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after September 1, 1993.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts for goods 
and works not exceeding $250,000 equivalent; (b) for research services and for 
individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent and for consultants' services 
with firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (c) for afforestation establishment, 
training and study tours, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in enhancing the 
productivity and efficient use of forest resources and in strengthening the 
institutional capacity for sustainable forest management, through investments in 
plantation forest land, watershed protection forests and nature reserves in the 
Project Provinces.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Intensively Managed Plantations
 
Establishment and initial operation of about 620,000 hectares of intensively 
managed forest plantations in the Afforestation Project Provinces in conifer species 
of Chinese fir, masson pine, slash pine, loblolly pine and larch, in broadleaf species 
of poplar, eucalypt, black locust and other hardwoods and in bamboo, including site 
preparation, planting, tending, extension, environmental management, information 
management and provision of seedlings, materials and equipment, fertilizers,
pesticides and sheds.
Part B:
Multiple-Use Protection Forests
 
Establishment and initial operation of about 280,000 hectares of multiple-use 
protection forests in the Project Provinces of Sichuan and Hubei in conifer species of 
Chinese fir, masson pine, and cypress, in broadleaf species of chestnut, sawtooth oak, 
pear, eucommia, alder, sumac and birch and in hill closure planting, including site 
preparation, planting, tending, conservation work, extension,  environmental 
management, information management, and provision of seedlings, materials and 
equipment,
fertilizers, pesticides and sheds.
Part C:
Nature Reserves Management
 
1.
Strengthening the management of five nature reserve areas to introduce 
biodiversity management techniques, in Xishuangbanna in Yunnan Province, Poyang Lake 
in Jiangxi Province, Wuyishan in Fujian and Jiangxi Provinces, in the Qinling 
Mountains of Shaanxi Province and Shennongjia in Hubei Province, through: (a) 
preparation of reserve area management plans; (b) strengthening of field-level 
protection, including provision of materials and equipment and communications systems 
and introduction of incentive
schemes; and (c) expanding local participation in reserve management, including 
introduction of co-management contracts, establishment of investment funds, and 
development of information and education programs.
Page  9
2.
Undertaking a pilot program of restructured management of the natural forests in 
the Changqing Forest Area, Shaanxi Province, including development and physical 
protection of a new national-level nature reserve, development of environmentally 
sustainable employment activities, and preparation and implementation of a forest 
management plan.
3.
Strengthening the management capacity for nature reserves, by: (a) developing 
institutional capacity, through preparation and implementation of management plans, 
provision of equipment, preparation of studies and staff training; (b) development of 
nature reserves information management systems; and (c) supporting research programs 
in nature reserve areas.
Part D:
Planting Stock Development and Nursery Management
 
Developing the capacity for the production and provision of the seeds and 
seedlings required for Parts A and B of the Project, and improving the quality of 
planting materials through introduction of improved genetic materials and nursery 
management technologies, including provision of materials and equipment.
Part E:
Research and Technology Transfer
 
1.
Supporting forestry sector research programs, with a focus on planting stock 
improvement, site management and stand management, through provision of research 
services.
2.
Establishment and tending of about 140 hectares of experimental plantations to 
evaluate the impact of different silvicultural treatments on tree growth.
3.
Developing an extension program to improve information exchange among 
Project-related forestry sector institutions.
Part F:
Forestry Sector Institutional Development
 
1.
Strengthening the capacity of forestry sector institutions in the planning and 
management of, and investment in, forest resources, including: (a) human resource 
development through training of staff and provision of consultancy services; (b) 
development of a pilot forestry information system; (c) development of a pilot 
forestry investment promotion agency in Fujian Province; (d) development of natural 
forest management through introduction of a natural forest management plan and 
undertaking related research trials; and (e) undertaking a program of policy studies, 
with a focus on forestry sector reform.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
Page  10
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for 
the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Calcium magnesium phosphate and calcium super phosphate fertilizer, tractors and 
irrigation sprinklers, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association. 
2.
Items or groups of items of office equipment (except photocopiers), nursery 
materials and other equipment (except for irrigation sprinklers) estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $75,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$1,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
Contracts for provision of seeds may be awarded after direct negotiations with 
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Civil works for afforestation establishment under Parts A, B and E.2 of the 
Project shall be carried out in accordance with labor and force account procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15 % is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  11
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ or cause to be employed whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower 
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been 
agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the 
Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for research 
services and for other services for the employment of individuals estimated to  cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review 
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Overall Project Management
 
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Management Office in MFO, the 
provincial level project management office in the forestry department of each Project 
Province and the county level project management office in each country forestry 
bureau responsible for implementation of a portion of the Project shall be maintained 
with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Association, with competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that local and overseas training and study tours under 
Part F of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with a training program 
acceptable to the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) studies shall be undertaken by MFO under 
Part F.1(e) of the Project on foreign trade, pricing and state wood processing 
enterprise reform in accordance with terms of reference and timing acceptable to the 
Association, which shall include recommendations for future action; (b) such studies 
shall be provided to the Association for comments prior to completion; and (c) 
thereafter, the completed studies, revised in light of such comments, shall be 
provided to the  Responsible departments and agencies of the Borrower for 
consideration.
4.
The Borrower shall undertake a midterm review of the progress of and prospects 
for implementation of the Project with the Association by September 30, 1997.
B.
Planning, Evaluation and Reporting
 
1.
For Part A of the Project (intensively managed plantations), the Borrower shall 
ensure that:
(a)
all forestry plantations established under such Part shall be in 
accordance with models, for each species, acceptable to the Association;
(b)
MFO shall complete its review of all technical design plans for 
plantation sites in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association by 
Page  12
October 31, 1995; and
(c)
by December 31 in each year, an annual work plan and financing plan for 
Project activities for the next calendar year shall be furnished to the Association 
for review.
2.
For Part B of the Project (multiple-use protection forests), the Borrower shall 
ensure that:
(a)
all protection forests established under such Part shall be in accordance 
with models, for each species, acceptable to the Association;
(b)
MFO shall complete its review of all technical design plans for 
protection forest sites in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association by 
October 31, 1995; and
(c)
by December 31 in each year, an annual work plan and financing plan for 
Project activities for the next calendar year shall be furnished to the Association 
for review.
3.
For each of Parts D (planting stock development and nursery management), E.1 and 
E.2 (research) and E.3 (extension) of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)
by December 31 in each year, an evaluation report on Project activities 
in that year and an annual work plan for Project activities for the next calendar year 
shall be furnished to the Association for review; and
(b)
the Borrower shall ensure that a report on each of the fertilization and 
planting density research programs under Part E.1 of the Project shall be prepared and 
furnished to the Association by May 31, 1997 for review.
C.
Environmental Protection
 
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project shall be carried out in 
accordance with an environmental management plan acceptable to the Association, 
including detailed guidelines for establishment and tending of plantations and 
protection forests.
(b)
To that end, the Borrower shall, by May 31, 1997,  prepare and furnish to 
the Association for review  a report of the environmental monitoring program.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all agrochemicals used under the Project 
shall be selected from a list acceptable to the Association; and
(b)
the storage, handling, distribution and use of such agrochemicals shall 
be consistent with guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$13,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  13
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may  request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portionthereof not 
so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  14
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
