Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13439-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
JANUARY 6, 1995
Private Sector Development, Finance and
Infrastructure Operations Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office



EXCHANGE RATE
Currency Unit: Algerian Dinar (DA) = 100 Centimes
Eguivalency of I US$ in DA since 1985
1985                 5.03
1986                 4.70
1987                 4.85
1988                 5.92
1989                 7.46
1990                 8.60
1991                 17.35
1992                 22.49
1993                 22.00
1994 (DECEMBER)  43.70
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ANA          :    Agence Nationale des Autoroutes
APC          :    Assemblee Populaire Communale
APW          :    Assemblee Populaire (le Wilaya
BAD          :    Banque Algeriennc de Developpement
CC           :    Chemins Communaux
CNAN         :    Compagnie Nationale Algerienne de Navigation
CNP          :    Conseil National de Planification
CTTP         :    Organisme de Contr6le Technique des Travaux Publics
CW           :    Chemins de Wilaya
DEER        :    Direction de I'Exploitation et de l'Entretien Routiers'
DRHR         :    Direction des Ressources Humaines et de la Recherche
DPAE         :    Direction de la Planification et des Affaires Economiques
DR           :    Direction des Routes
DTP          :    Direction des Travaux Publics
EPA          :    Entreprise Publique Administrative
EPE          :    Entreprise Publique Economique
EPIC         :    Etablissement Public Industriel et Commercial
ERL          :    Economic Rehabilitation Loan
FPC          :    Fonds de Participation "Construction"
IMF          :    International Monetary Fund
MEAT        :    Ministere de l'Equipement et de l'Amenagement du Territoire
MIRP         :    (Ministry of Infrastructure and Regional Planning)
MF           :    Ministere des Finances
MICLERA    :    Ministere de l'Interieur, des Collectivites Locales, de l'Environnement, et de la
Reforme Administrative
PCD         :    Plans Communaux de Developpement
PW           :    Public Works
RN           :    Routes Nationales
SAETI        :    Societe Algerienne d'Etudes d'Infrastructures
SNTF         :    Societe Nationale de Transport Ferroviaire
WILAYA       :    Province
I/ The French word "entretien routier" connotes routine and periodic maintenance only, while the English
word "maintenance" includes road rehabilitation.



ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Loan and Project Summary  ...................  i - iv
I.  COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND  . .
A. Country Background .1
B.  Recent Economic Performance.                                           2
C.  Medium Term Economic Outlook.                                         2
D. The Transport System.                                                   3
Overview .3
Transport Institutions.                                     4
Status of Transport Deregulation.                           5
Transport Investments in Recent Years.                      5
E.  Transport Sector Issues.                                              7
F.    Previous Bank Involvement and Strategy in Transport.                8
II.    THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR .......................    11
A.     The  Road  Network   .............................   11
B. Road Administration .12
C.  Planning and Programming .13
D.  Engineering and Controls .14
E.  Human Resources Development .15
F.  Implementation Capabilities .16
G.  Road Budgeting and Financing .17
The Project was prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission in June 1994 led by Michel Ray (Pr.
Highway Engineer) and comprising Michel Loir (Senior Transport Economist) Luc Cosyn,
Mohamed Ayadi, Claude Fevre, Charles Parey. Bernard Heritier, Patrick Morissey, Jean-Luc
Delorme (Consultants). Peer Reviewer was Luis Pinilla (Senior Highway Engineer). Secretarial
assistance was provided by Amelia Williams. The processing of the project was supervised by A.
Amir Al-Khafaji, Chief, Private Sector Development, Finance and Infrastructure Operations Division
(MNIPI) and Daniel Ritchie, Director, Country Department (MN1DR).



III.    THE PROJECT  ..................................  21
A.    Background and Objectives .......               .................  21
Rationale for Bank Involvement  ....            ............  21
Project Objectives ..........  ..  ..  .        ..  ..  ..  .  ..    .  21
B.     Project Description   .............  ...  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..           .  22
Pavement Strengthening of High-Traffic Roads  ..... .           .  .  .  .    . 22
Policy  ..................  ....  ....  ....  .                 .  22
Objectives  ...............  ..  ...  ...  ...  ..               .  23
Description  ..............  ...  ...  ...  ...  ..              .  23
Rehabilitation of Medium-Traffic National Roads  ..... .          .  .  .    . 23
Rehabilitation of Priority Bridges ........  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  24
Periodic Maintenance of National Roads ...... .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  25
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Saharan Tracks
and Purchase of Equipment for Traffic Counting   ..... .          .  .  .    .  26
Pilot Program  for Municipal Roads ....... .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  27
Audit of Enterprises from  the Public Works Sector ..... .         .  .    . 29
Technical Assistance and Studies for ANA  ...... .          .  .  .  .  .  .    .  30
Modernization and Training Actions  ....... .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  31
Studies, Research and the Ministry's Access
to Foreign Technical Expertise  ........  .         .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  33
Urban Transport Study  ...........  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..           .  33
C.    Cost and Financing   .............  ...  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..             .  35
D.    Procurement ................................ . 37
E.     Disbursements  ..................  ....  ...  ....  .   .  39
F.     Reporting and Auditing  ...........  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..          .  41
G.    Environmental Impact ............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  .            .  42
IV.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION   ..............  ...  ...  ..  ...                          .  44
General  ...................................  44
Project Benefits ..............................                         .  44
Non -Quantified Benefits  .............  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..            .  45
Sustainability  ...............................   .  46
Risks ...................................    46
V.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  ....... .                            .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 47
Tables
Estimated Project Cost..                                                               iii
Financing Plan..                                                                       iii
Estimated Disbursements              ..iv
Transport Investment Expenditures over 1990-1994          ..                           6
Structure of the Algerian Highway Network in 1992    ..11
Paved Road Condition - Evolution between 1987 and 1992 .12
Evolution of Road spending in Recent Years    ..18
Cost and Financing    ..35
Procurement Method    ..38
Allocation and Disbursement of the Bank Loan   ..39



List of Annexes
1.        Detailed Project Costs           ..................................  48
2.        Project Implementation
2.1   Implementation and Procurement Time Schedule  .. ........ .           .    . 49
2.2    Preparation of Project Implementation Volume  .. ......... .         .    .  56
3.        Letter on Road Sector Policy ...........   .................  .   .  58
4.        Action Plans on "Quality", "Public Works Laboratories"
and "Acceleration of Payments and Disbursements"       .     .    .65
5.        Action Plans on "Bitumen Supply and Quality"
and  "Granular Materials"     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   67
6.        List of Studies on Road Sector Policy and Technical Guidelines . .......   . 69
7.        Coordinated Action Program for the Modernization of the
Ministry in Charge of Infrastructure  ....... .     .  .  .    ............ .    .  70
8.        Economic Evaluation  ...........  ..  .         ..    .. ...............   .  76
- and list of road sections for strengthening/rehabilitation
9.        Maintenance Strategy and Development of Network-Based Maintenance . . .  . 84
10.       Funding of Municipal Road Maintenance  ....... .  .          ........... .    .  90
11.       Technical Background on Road Strengthening
and Rehabilitation  ............  ..  ..  .    ..     ................  .  92
- Strengthening/Rehabilitation/Maintenance Handbooks
- Pavement Evaluation Measurements
11(a)     Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Unpaved Roads in Southern Algeria  . . . . 95
12.       Organization Chart of Ministry of Infrastructure and Regional Planning . . . . 104
13.       Key Performance Indicators  ......... .           ............ .     .  .. .  .  .   . 106
14.       Status of Road User Charges ............................. . 108
15.       Environment Mitigation and Monitoring Plan .................. . 114
16.       Supervision  Plan    .  . . . . . . . . .  . .  . . .  . . .  . . . .  . . .  . . . . .  . . . . . .  .  115
17.       Previous Bank Involvement in Transport .......   ............ .            .  .   . 116
18.       Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files  .. ....... .       .  .    . 119
19.       Map - IBRD 26124






ALGERIA
Staff Appraisal Report
Sixth Highway Project
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:   Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Beneficiary:  Ministry of Infrastructure and Regional Planning
Amount:    US$ 130 million equivalent
Terms:      Seventeen years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Objectives:  The objective of the Project is to enhance the capabilities of the Borrower to
manage its road sector by:
(i)   reducing the backlog of roads and bridges in need of rehabilitation and
maintenance;
(ii)  strengthening the Borrower's agencies responsible for the management
and maintenance of roads;
(iii)  providing sustainable solutions to finance road rehabilitation and
maintenance works; and
(iv)  creating an environment conducive to the efficient utilization of human
and financial resources in the Borrower's road sector, in particular
through increased competition, participation of the private sector and
implementation of a quality improvement strategy.
Project
Description:   (a)  road rehabilitation works (44% of project costs):
(i)  strengthening high-traffic basic economic network pavements
(ii) rehabilitating medium-traffic national roads with appropriate low-
cost technologies
(iii) rehabilitating priority bridges
(iv) related design and supervision
(b)  road maintenance (41% of project costs):
(i)  periodic maintenance by contract for national roads
(ii) purchasing of equipment for current and emergency maintenance
of Saharan tracks and for traffic counting



-ii-
(iii) providing technical assistance for and executing a pilot program
for maintenance of municipal roads
(iv) related supervision, general studies and training
(c)  Training. Technical Assistance and Studies (15% of project costs):
(i)  auditing road enterprises
(ii)  providing technical assistance to the National Agency for
Motorways (ANA)
(iii) launching economic, financial, environment and engineering
studies for motorways
(iv) supporting the Ministry's modernization and training of road
administration professionals
(v)  financing road related studies, research of general interest, and
urban transport rehabilitation study
(vi) facilitating the access of Ministry's Directorates to foreign
technical expertise
Proiect
Benefits:      The main benefits are the following: (a) direct benefits will accrue to road
users, as reduced vehicle operating costs, and to central and local
Governments, as avoided reconstruction costs of roads and bridges.
Economic rates of return are expected to be 18-89%, with a weighted
average of 59.5%; (b) secondary benefits are to come from the more
enabling environment created; streamlining of input supplies to work sites,
and enhancement of quality control will reduce road maintenance costs and
extend durability of pavement works; (c) moreover, better road management
will result in much more efficient uses of scarce resources. These secondary
benefits are significant albeit hard to measure.
Project Risks:  Restoration of peace in the country is an essential condition for smooth
project implementation and Bank supervision. More controllable risks are
(a) the opposition of vested interests to reforms; action plan implementation
will help overcome this risk; (b) a possible failure in the pilot municipal
roads program implementation preventing its replication nationwide, a risk
minimized through careful project supervision; and (c) insufficient
counterpart funds, a lesser risk when a road fund is established.



SCHEDULE A
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
A) Estimated Cost                                    Local             Foreign        Total
--------------US$ Million-----------
ITEM
A. Strengthening and Rehabilitation
1. Strengthening                               20.4                25.1      45.6
2. Road Rehabilitation                          8.7                10.7      19.5
3. Bridge Rehabilitation                        5.4                 8.1      13.5
4. Control of Works                             2.6                 1.7       4.4
5. Technical Studies                            0.8                 1.6       2.4
Subtotal Strengthening & Rehabilitation               38.1                47.3      85.3
B. Road Maintenance
1. Periodic Maintenance by Contract            22.9                28.1      51.0
2. Equipment for Current Maintenance and
traffic counting                             4.3                 8.1      12.4
3. Municipal Road Maintenance                   6.0                 7.3      13.3
4. Supervision, General Studies
& Training                                 0.9                 1.7       2.5
Subtotal Road Maintenance                             34.1                45.2      79.3
C. Training, TA and Studies
1. Audit of Road Enterprises                    0.7                 1.3       2.0
2. TA to ANA and training                       1.2                 2.2       3.4
3. Economic, Financial, Environment and
Detailed Engineering Studies
(Motorways)                               3.0                 5.7       8.8
4. Modernization and Training
Actions (MIRP)                             3.9                 7.4      11.3
5. General Studies and Research                 2.2                 4.1       6.3
6. Specific Technical Assistance for
MIRP                                       0.7                 1.3       2.0
Subtotal Training, TA and Studies                     11.7                22.1      33.8
Total Investment Costs                                83.8               114.6    198.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                  83.8               114.6    198.4
Physical Contingencies                              7.4                 9.3      16.7
Price Contingencies                                 6.5                 8.5      15.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   97.7               132.3    230.0
B) Financing Plan
IBRD                                                9.6              120.4    130.0
Government                                         88.1                11.9    100.0
Total Sources                                      97.7               132.3    230.0



-iv-
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
Bank FY           1995    1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    2002
Annual             0      20.8   31.0   26.4   20.0   15.6   15.6        0.6
Cumulative         0      20.8   51.8   78.2   98.2  113.8  129.4   130.0
Economic Rate of Return:  Weighted average 59.5%
Staff Appraisal Report: 13439-AL
MaD: IBRD 26124
M:\R&y\Algeria\Loanprog.sum



THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Country Background
1.01   With an area of about 2.4 million square kilometers and some 29 million inhabitants,
Algeria is by far the largest of Maghreb countries. Its geography unfolds from North to
South in a succession of three contrasted zones, namely: (a) the northern coastal area,
covering barely 4 percent of the national territory, but home to 70 percent of the population
and a base for most of Algeria's agriculture and industrial production; (b) the "High
Plateaux", comprising 7 percent of the national territory and 22 percent of the population,
which sustains small-sized economic activities; (c) the Saharan South, covering 89 percent of
the national territory and 8 percent only of the population clustered in sparse oases
surrounded by sand and stone deserts, but holding the oil and gas fields and mineral deposits
from which Algeria draws most of its export revenue. Local geography makes transport a
key condition to economic development and international competitiveness. Its GNP per
capita of US$ 1,830 in 1992 ranks Algeria second in Maghreb after Libya.
1.02   For 25 years after independence in 1962, Algeria followed a socialist model
emphasizing centralized planning and heavy industrialization. Large resources generated by
steep oil price increases in the seventies were sunk into industrial projects, which rarely
achieved their objectives. Most of the industrial plants are running at below 50 percent of
capacity. Collectivization of lands has been one factor which dampened agriculture
production and yields, raising Algeria's dependence on food imports to about two-thirds of
its needs. Sweeping policy reforms are now promoted by the Government to transform the
Algerian economy into a market economy, with the private sector to become the principal
source of growth and employment generation. Agriculture currently contributes around 11
percent of GDP, industry about 47 percent (of which 21 percent for hydrocarbons and
mining, but only 10 percent for manufacturing), and services 42 percent. Although it
declined from over 3 percent annually in the early eighties to 2.7 percent in 1992, population
growth remains high, and demographic pressures have been especially strong in urban areas
where severe housing shortages have developed. The urbanization rate of less than one-third
in 1962 has grown to over two-thirds at present.
B. Recent Economic Performance
1.03   GDP growth averaged about 0.5 percent p.a. over 1985-92. The collapse of oil
prices in 1986 caused a 50 percent drop in Algeria's terms of trade, and jolted the economy.
Borrowing was used to absorb the shock, with the result that the country's external debt
soared to US$ 25 billion in 1987. This led to the imposition of import restrictions and a
slowdown in investment triggering output stagnation and a decline in private consumption. A



-2-
far-reaching program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms toward
liberalization was initiated, and supported by the Bank which had lent about US$ 350 million
annually to Algeria over 1987-91. The falling oil prices, and efforts by the Government to
keep servicing the external debt without rescheduling brought a significant slowdown in the
pace of reforms, and trade and payment restrictions were tightened in 1992. Financial
discipline was also relaxed, translating into higher wages and subsidies to public enterprises.
The budget deficit rose to 9.2 percent of the 1993 GDP, itself falling by 2 percent from
previous year. Inflation shot up, and the unemployment rate reached nearly 25 percent.
Deterioration of the Bank's dialogue with the Government on reforms showed up in a
decreased annual lending amount of US$ 200 million during FY92-94.
1.04   In the first quarter of 1994, weak world oil prices, growing macroeconomic
imbalances, rising inflation, and accumulation of external debt arrears forced the authorities
back onto the path of reforms. A stabilization program was launched to correct economic
distortions, adjust the exchange rate, promote trade liberalization, reduce the fiscal deficit,
and move to positive real interest rates which would then play a greater role in the allocation
of credit. The Algerian dinar was devalued by some 50 percent by April 1994 and the ad-
hoc inter-ministerial committee overseeing foreign exchange allocation was abolished. At the
same time, the administered prices of essential food staples were raised in March 1994 in
order to reduce the burden of consumer price subsidies which still represented 5.8 percent of
GDP in 1993. A one-year Stand-by arrangement was approved by the IMF Board. It will
likely be followed by a three-year Extended Fund Facility covering 1995-98. The
Government also reached agreement with the Paris Club on the rescheduling of interest
payments, and has approached the London Club debt for the same purpose, which should be
a considerable relief. With other active loans, Bank disbursement in 1994 may reach US$
600 million. The other international donors provide additional financial support to the
Stabilization Program.
C. Medium-tern economic outlook
1.05   Accompanied by a deepening of structural reforms, the stabilization program will
provide a solid basis for a medium-term macroeconomic framework geared to supporting
adjustment and setting the economy on a permanent high growth path. The authorities have
developed medium-term projections for the period 1996-98, endorsed by the IMF and the
Bank, indicating continued expansion of the economy with annual GDP growth rates of about
6 percent through 1998. Foreign exchange earnings will be boosted by larger gas exports
and expected recovery of oil prices. Public expenditures will be trimmed down, and
channelled to priority projects with high economic rates of return. The income policy will
focus on restraining real wage growth as a way to contain inflationary pressures and promote
employment. A key objective is to facilitate exchange rate unification by reducing the excess
demand for domestic credit which is driving, in part, the excess demand for foreign
exchange. Further multilateral debt rescheduling will be sought to maintain the external debt
service burden at a sustainable level.



-3-
1.06   Macroeconomic stabilization will help the transition to a market economy, and the
reforms proposed will facilitate the emergence of the private sector as the engine of
sustainable growth over the medium term. The action program being implemented in the
context of the Economic Rehabilitation loan emphasizes some aspects highly relevant to the
proposed project:
(a)    development of the private sector: the dominance of public enterprises on
many sub-sectors presents a challenge to promotion of the private sector, essential to
stimulate competition among domestic firms. The strategy focuses on development of
labor-intensive small to medium-scale enterprises. This offers the best prospects for
job creation. A legal framework to support free competition has been drafted and the
pan-territorial pricing requirement has been dropped for all but a small number of
essential commodities. Actions to support small and medium-scale enterprises include
the authorization of imports of used equipment. Specialized financial institutions will
address financing needs of the nascent private sector.
(b)   Public expenditure reforms: improving the efficiency of public expenditures is
a key objective of the stabilization program. Specific measures focus on consolidating
the withdrawal of the Treasury from the financing of the public enterprises (PEs)
investments, and the completion of the financial restructuring program for PEs. The
authorities have established a transparent framework for future expenditures of the PE
Restructuring Fund, as well as a calendar for phasing it out.
(c)    Public enterprise sector reform: The action program deepens PE reform
through, inter alia: (i) the establishment of a legal and institutional framework for
privatization and (ii) the implementation of a market oriented framework for PE
restructuring.
D. The Transport System
Overview
1.07    The transport network is relatively well developed and provides good geographical
coverage of transport needs. The infrastructure at present comprises some 95,000 km of
roads, 10 major ports, 5,100 km of railroads, 28 airports of which 11 are at international
standards, and about 5,000 kilometer of oil and gas pipelines. Road transport is the
dominant mode for domestic passenger and freight transport: recent surveys estimated to 93
percent its share of total intercity passenger traffic, compared to 3.8 and 2.8 percent for
railways and air transport respectively. For international freight, most of the traffic goes by
sea, but oil and gas pipeline transport is on the rise. About 83 percent of total domestic
freight traffic is hauled by road. Rail transport specializes on bulk traffic, where it holds a
45 percent market share against 55 percent for roads. Coastal shipping takes no more than 2
percent of total domestic traffic. Road transport demand, which had grown at an annual rate
of 10 percent between 1975 and 1985, seems to have stagnated, if not receded, in recent



-4-
years as a result of deteriorating macroeconomic conditions. The transport sector as a whole
is estimated to contribute 5-7 percent of GDP.
Transport Institutions
1.08   Main responsibilities for infrastructure management and operations are split between
two ministries.
(a)   The Ministry of Infrastructure and Regional Planning (MIRP) handles
infrastructure maintenance and development, excluding railroads, through specialized
directorates for ports, roads, and airports. This Ministry is now also in charge of Regional
Planning. The investment program is coordinated by the "Direction de la Planification et des
Affaires Economiques"(DPAE). Few semi-autonomous public entities are still supervised by
MIRP, like the "Agence Nationale des Autoroutes" (ANA). Most public contracting and
consulting firms took advantage of the 1988 reform law to become autonomous as
"Entreprises Publiques Economiques" (EPEs) owned by "Fonds des Participations" (FPs).
(b)   The Ministry of Transport (MOT) is more directly involved in transport policy
matters and prepares through the "Direction de la Planification et de la Cooperation" (DPC)
the national transport plan which is approved by the Government. Five directorates for
shipping, ports, land transport, road traffic and urban transport, and civil aviation prepare
and monitor implementation of transport regulations. MOT supervises those of the some 30
transport public enterprises, such as ship-owner and the railroad company, not yet established
as EPEs.
1.09   Other institutions actively involved in the highway sector are as follows:
(a) The "Conseil National de la Planification"(CNP) provides planning guidelines to
technical ministries and local Governments, and reviews and clears their investment plans.
CNP plays a key role in transport capacity development through its infrastructure division;
(b) The Ministry of Finance (MOF), in charge of the current budget, has a say on
transport budgets, especially for periodic and routine maintenance and transport subsidies;
(c) The Ministry of Interior. Local Authorities. Environment and Administrative
Reforms (MICLERA) oversees 48 Wilayas and 1,541 municipalities most of which have little
cash available. It can influence their road budgets by setting conditions for access to
Government subsidies. MICLERA is also involved in road safety and law enforcement;
(d ) The Wilava, an intermediate tier of the deconcentrated organization, makes
decision on its road budgets, and oversees the municipalities and local transport parastatals;
and



-5-
(e) The Municipalities, currently managed by executive appointees nominated by the
Wali under transitory measures, have their own road networks and budgets, and regulate
local transport.
1.10   A Ministrv of Industrial Restructuring and Participation has been created to activate
the PE restructuring program, and will play a key role in the privatization of the contracting
and transport industry, both included in phase 1 of the Government's divestiture program.
Under the current organization, autonomous public enterprises are jointly owned by the FPs
acting as fiduciary agents for the State. One of them specializes at the sector level and exerts
leadership. The public road construction firms, for instance, are under the "Fonds de
Participation pour la Construction" (FPC). These funds are overseen by shareholder
committees which only include high-ranking Government officials, a system that allows
former line ministries to influence the corporate strategy of public enterprises and promote
non-commercial objectives.
Status of Transport Deregulation
1.11   Sweeping policy changes took place after 1987. (i) Deregulation has gone the
farthest for freight road transport; licensing as a way to control transport supply disappeared
in 1993, and truckers enjoy full operational and pricing freedom. The only restriction is on
import of second-hand vehicles more than 8-years old. (ii) For passengers, regulations
remain in place. Private operations must be authorized and adhere to prescribed services.
Fares are fixed by the Government, or enacted by the Wali after approval by the local
departments of MICLERA and the Ministry of Commerce depending on where services are
provided. (iii) Rail transport is a de-facto monopoly of SNTF, a parastatal with limited
managerial autonomy and no pricing freedom. (iv) Shipping, dominated by CNAN and the
other specialized public shipping lines that it spun off, remains a Government monopoly.
The shipping lines operate mainly within bilateral governmental agreements. Algeria ratified
the multilateral Code of Conduct of Maritime Conferences, but its application remains
limited to date. (v) Air transport is tightly regulated. Bermuda-type agreements have been
signed to share traffic rights on bilateral foreign routes. A parastatal, Air Algerie,
monopolizes these rights as well as domestic air transport with tariffs agreed by the State.
Transport Investments Strategy In Recent Years
1.12   Transport investments financed by the Government over 1990-1994 are estimated at
DA 79.6 billion, including development of the municipal road network under the "Plans
Communaux de Developpement" (PCDs). They represented about 20 percent of all
Government investments over the period, a relatively high percentage which reflects the fact
that the central budget bears the brunt of transport investments which cash-strapped transport
parastatals have difficulties financing. The National Transport Study had estimated the share
of Government financing to 70 percent of "planned investments"over 1980-89. Assuming no
significant change, that would bring transport investments by Government and parastatals to
about AD 113 billion over 1990-94, or only 8-9 percent of all public investments, compared



-6-
with 13 percent or more in Tunisia and Morocco. The country should increase the amount
and efficiency of spending for transport, as evidenced by the generally aging infrastructure
and poor service delivery. The urban transport crisis in Algiers showcases for foreign
visitors the nature of transport issues and their negative impact on travel times, operating
costs, and the environrment. Transport could be a bottleneck to economic recovery if it is not
modernized and expanded promptly.
1.13    The distribution of Government transport investments among modes is practically
unchanged from what it was during the eighties. Roads get 49 percent of investments, which
may be not enough given their share of total traffic. Construction of the Algiers-Blida
motorway was the major project implemented during the period. The proportion of
investments going to railways, namely 32 percent, is relatively high. Costly projects were
executed without economic justifications, like the Jijel-Ramdane Djamel railroad, and the
first sections of the "rocade des hauts-plateaux". This area of Government investmnent policy
calls for in-depth revision. Port investments absorbed slightly less than 10 percent of total,
consisting of rehabilitation of breakwaters and quays in major ports, development of roll on-
roll off termninals in some, and construction of a new deep sea port at Djendjen. Details on
the investment breakdown are shown in Table 1.
Table 1: Transport investment expenditures over 1990-1994  (in current DA million)
Sub-sector    1990      1991        1992        1993        1994       1990-94
(actual)   (actual)    (actual)    (actual)   (budget)    (actual)  in %
-roads       4250       4950        8000       9800         12000     39000   49.0
(PCD)*     (1500)     (1850)       (2400)     (2800)      (3000)      11300)
-ports       1020       1930        1900       2100         1650       8600   10.8
-airports    341        610         1350       2000         2200      6501    8.2
-railways    3412       4970        5200       5800         6100      25482   32.0
total:     9023       12460       16450       19700       21950      79583   100.0
Source: CNP, except for road investments under PCDs which have been tentatively estimated
as 20 percent of total PCDs.
1.14    The investment strategy recommended for transport infrastructure other than roads
(discussed in chapter 2) is designed to increase productivity, and rehabilitate and maintain the
capital stock, with a higher priority than development of new infrastructure.
(a) In railways, elimination of the track maintenance backlog is the highest priority.
Other investments should focus on increasing railway competitiveness for services to realize
potential comparative advantages over road transport. Freight transport is where the
brightest prospects exist. Expansion of suburban services to relieve traffic congestion in
main towns is badly needed. Improving reliability of basic services and enhancing
operational safety should be pursued by upgrading the telecommunications and traffic control
systems. Track doubling and new line construction projects should be put on hold until after
completion of ongoing works.



-7-
(b) In ports, the ongoing construction of container facilities in Algiers and Oran under
the Bank Third Port Project, when completed, will allow accommodation of traffic until year
2000, and expansion of these terminals outside the present limits may have to be initiated in
1997-98. Rehabilitation of breakwaters, and provision of modern grain terminals constitute
other high priorities. Newly built away from urban centers, the port of Djendjen could be
developed as a center port for grain import and redistribution by coastal ships and rail. Large
bulk carriers can be received in Djendjen, which will reduce the Algerian maritime bill.
(c) In airports, the 1993-1997 program covers construction of the new terminal
building in Algiers, strengthening and lengthening of runways, various investments by the
airport agencies (EGSAs) mainly to expand and equip southern airports, and investments for
modernization of guidance systems and other air control equipment. The updating of the
national scheme for airport development has been finalized. A study on economic and
regulatory environment has been launched to adapt it to ongoing changes.
E. Transport Sector Issues
1.15   Deficient transport investment planning is one of the most serious, long-standing
issues. Investment rationalization is much needed, requiring greater attention to sound
economic criteria and better institutional coordination. The effects of weak planning are
quite apparent. The transport sector has remained too conventional, and containerization and
intermodalism have made few inroads in Algeria to date. Insufficient maintenance has
hastened deterioration of roads and port infrastructure. The Government is aware of planning
issues, and remedial action to address them is being taken, such as commissioning by MIRP
of a road master plan study and of economic and financial studies on motorway development.
1.16    Transport remains dominated by public enterprises which, in "strategic" areas, are
de facto monopolies. Their privileges go from easier access to credit and budget support for
financial restructuring, to a tradition of doing business with major local suppliers and
customers also publicly owned. Freight forwarders and intermediaries, so essential to the
efficient functioning of the transport market, are still absent from the scene. Protection
against foreign competition is an underlying concern in decisions made by the Government.
Creating a level playing field for public and private transport operators in order to elicit a
strong supply response and cost effectiveness of transport services, constitutes the thrust of
actions needed to improve transport performance.
1.17   Inadequate cost recovery left many of the transport parastatals financially impaired.
There were few incentives for commercial dynamism, technical innovation, and cost
containment in an operating environment dominated by captive markets, and Government
interferences on matters of tariffs and employment protection did not help to solve the
situation of the sector. Large resources have been spent by the Government in recent years
to try to salvage EPEs. The railway company, SNTF, shows how a company's future can be



-8-
undermined by insufficient management autonomy, limited pricing freedom, lack of
performance, cost-accounting, and continuing investments with low immediate return.
Restructured in 1988, SNTF was again faced with severe liquidity problems in 1993. Urban
transport, especially in Algiers, is another case where cost recovery objectives have been
superseded with adverse financial consequences by social objectives. The trucking and bus
transport parastatals are unable to renew their aging fleets because they do not generate
enough cash. Cross-subsidization is another pervasive issue; denying economic distances
distorts the spatial distribution of production, as well as technological choices.
1.18   Infrastructure cost recovery is inadequate as well. Construction and maintenance
costs of port and railway infrastructure are not recovered. Some of the airport infrastructure
costs are recouped by the managing entities, but major investments and maintenance works
are on the Government budget and transferred to these entities free of charge. Of all modes,
road infrastructure is the one where cost recovery is the most satisfactory. The recent
evolution of road user charges, however, suggests that they may be set below the long-run
marginal cost (this is discussed in Annex 14). Differences in the cost recovery achieved by
each mode also indicate possible distortions in traffic allocation, especially between road and
rail.
F. Previous Bank Involvement and Strategy in Transport
1.19   The transport sector in Algeria has received ten loans from the Bank. These loans,
totalling US$ 814 million, financed five highway projects, three port projects, and two
railway projects. Generic project implementation problems have been experienced in relation
to cumbersome administrative procedures for procurement and disbursement. Projects were
generally completed behind schedule, a characteristic common to most projects in the Bank's
investment project portfolio for Algeria. Contract execution involving foreign suppliers
occasionally ran into difficulties related to slow payment and settlement of claims. The
association of local and foreign consultants to execute Bank-financed contracts has not always
led to best results with implementation delays. Going to loan negotiations before completion
of bidding documents proved to be a frequent cause of poor project performance.
1.20   Capacity building in road administration made significant progress under the ongoing
Fifth Highway Project. The Highway Network Directorate was reorganized in 1990, the
former maintenance sub-directorate being upgraded to a directorate status (the "Direction de
l'Exploitation et de l'Entretien Routiers", or DEER). This development enhanced the
maintenance function and fostered growth of current budget allocations to road maintenance
from AD 525 million in 1990 to about AD 1.6 billion in 1994. The Government awareness
of road maintenance problems has grown much sharper. DEER's internal organization is
well structured and good monitoring systems have been developed. Many interesting
initiatives were taken in the last two years by the two road directorates to improve cohesion
in the decentralized road administration and stricter adherence to national standards. Norms
on processing time of procurement and disbursement matters are being imposed on regional
directors of public works. There is a genuine desire to modernize the road administration



-9-
and to bring practical solutions to issues. The notion that substantial benefits can be derived
from competitive award of road maintenance contracts has been internalized by the public
works administration, and local competitive bidding has become standard practice for
periodic maintenance contracts, as it already was for heavier type of maintenance activities.
Annex 17 provides additional insights on previous Bank lending experience.
1.21   Bank lending strategy for transport in general and highways in particular is designed
to eliminate the maintenance backlog and modernize infrastructure. Institution building is a
paramount objective. Improving public sector management and investment rationalization are
at the core of this strategy which draws on main findings presented in the World
Development Report (1994 WDR), of which those relating to better responsiveness by the
Government to effective demand for infrastructure, development of competition and of
public-private partnerships in financing appear to fit the specific needs of Algeria well. The
1994 WDR pointed out that high levels of public spending for new infrastructure in many
developing countries failed to produce the expected development benefits, and that wasteful
investments and inefficient service delivery had yet to be tackled. It established a link
between infrastructure provision failures, poor public management, and lack of accountability
to users. Hence its recommendations to operate transport infrastructure on business
principles and to encourage private sector involvement in the sector.
1.22 The proposed project will seek adjustment in public spending for roads by increasing
the priority in favor of maintenance, and seeking greater selectivity in the road investment
policy especially for large projects. "Guidelines on economic evaluation and choices of road
investments" will be developed under the Project. The project follows on the
recommendation made in the June 1994 Country Brief that a sustainable response to
structural adjustment requires improvement of transport infrastructure. Better prioritization
of public spending for roads appears all the more needed as the Government budget will be
tightly constrained under the Stabilization Program approved in May 1994 by the IMF Board.
By supporting privatization of the public works industry, 90 percent of which is currently
controlled by parastatals, the proposed project also falls in the mainstream of reforms
pursued under the Economic Rehabilitation Loan (ERL).
1.23  The whole set of measures designed to straighten out the incentive framework in the
road maintenance industry, which ranges from streamlined bidding documents and improved
contract management by the road administration, to elimination of technical and institutional
bottlenecks for supply of bitumen and granular materials, will strongly contribute to
deepening, in the highway sector, of reforms (namely private sector promotion, enhanced
competition, development of small- and medium-scale enterprises, privatization, and public
enterprise restructuring) sought under the ERL scheduled for Board approval in January
1995.
1.24 The privatization objective has already been approved in principle by the Government
which, through the Ministry of Industrial Restructuring and Participation, is actively engaged
in working out the details of its implementation. Public works enterprises have been



-10-
included in the list of activities that could be divested by the Government in a first phase of
its privatization program. Finally, improved infrastructure cost recovery constitutes an
essential objective, and increased reliance on properly designed user charges will be sought
to alleviate funding constraints and increased accountability and responsiveness to road users.
The proposed Sixth Highway project fully fits the Bank strategy for transport in Algeria.



-11-
II. THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR
A. The road network
2.01  The transport infrastructure is well developed with a 95,500 km-long highway
network and 2,700 bridges. With an average density of 3.3 km per 1,000 inhabitant, Algeria
is ahead of Tunisia and Morocco (density of 2.3 in both cases). The classified network
comprises three categories of roads. The paved road network is about 62,500 km long or
two-thirds of the total which is high compared to Maghreb average. Municipal roads
represent nearly half of the road network. Motorways (two or three lanes each way) were the
latest addition to the network, totalling about 110 km at present along the northern east-west
corridor, plus 56 km under construction. Detailed engineering is under preparation for
another stretch of 200 km of motorways. Table 2 gives details on the composition of the
Algerian network in 1992.
Table 1. Structure of the Algerian highway network in 1992 (in km)
classification         paved            unpaved          total
Motorways              110  0.2%                          110   0.1 %
National roads (RN)  22445 35.9%        3624  11.0%     26069   27.3%
Wilaya roads (CW)     18846 30.2%       3286   9.9%     22132   23.2%
Municipal roads (CC)  21049 33.7%     26144  79.1%      47193   49.4%
total             62450  100%       33054  100%      95504   100%
2.02  Most unpaved roads are in the municipal network; those of the national network are
found in southern regions, with average daily traffic below 50 vehicles. The average daily
traffic on paved roads ranges from close to 3,000 vehicles on RNs to about 1,200 vehicles
on CWs, whereas traffic on municipal roads is estimated to be below 500 vehicles. Three
concepts are relevant for discussion of the maintenance policy. The "reseau principal"
consists of about 19,000 km of paved roads inter-connecting major towns, ports and airports,
all belonging to the RN network with average daily traffic in excess of 2,000 vehicles. The
National Transport Study delineated a larger network of 22,466 km which includes 20,472
km of RNs, 1,952 km of CWs, and 42 km of CCs. Some 5,000 km of the priority network
constitute the basic economic network which includes roads with average daily traffic above
3,500 across in northern areas where two-third of economic activities are concentrated.
2.03  About half of paved roads are 7-m wide or above (against 10% in Morocco). Road
standards as of December 31, 1991 were distributed as follows:



-12-
(a) expressways:    - 2x3 lanes (2xl0.5m)             72 km, or 0.1%  of total;
(with motorway - 2x2 lanes (2x7m)               466 km, or 0.5%       "
or semi-motorway
characteristics)
(b) highways:       - 4 lanes (from 12 to 14m)        82 km, or 0.1%       "
- 3 lanes (from 9 to 10.5m)    344 km , or 0.4%
- 2 lanes (from 5 to7m)     94,540 km, or 98.9%
2.04  The paved roads network expanded from 48,062 km in 1987 to 62,450 kms in 1992
(+30 percent). Construction of new paved roads (RN and CW) was limited to about 1,000
km over six years, less than the annual addition to the municipal network estimated between
1,500 and 2,000 km. Deconcentration of road management decisions boosted demand for
road construction in a systematic effort to integrate remote communities in the nation. Daily
traffic on trunk roads have grown in excess of 10,000 vehicles in many spots (15,000 plus on
the 2 lanes RN4 road near Oued Fodda), reducing travel speed and safety.
2.05 Road condition is generally mediocre, and has deteriorated since 1987. On average,
61 percent of paved roads were in good to fair condition in 1992, compared to 75 percent in
1985. The low priority given to maintenance in the eighties was a factor. The CW network
fared better than the RN one due to their lighter traffic: the proportion of bad roads was
unchanged at 24 percent for the former, but rose to 32 percent between 1987 and 1992 for
the latter. The condition of municipal roads, mostly found in rural areas, is the least
satisfactory. Unpaved roads are not managed in practice and are often in bad condition.
Main characteristics on the evolution and current status of road condition are given in
Table 2.
Table 2. Paved road condition. Evolution between 1987 and 1992 (in % of total)
Classification            1987                    1992
good  fair  bad            good  fair  bad
- national (RN)       49%  27%   24%             41%   27%   32%
- wilaya (CW)         49%   27%  24%             42%   34%  24%
- municipal(CC)                                  20%   20%  60%
(sources:Etude Nationale des Transports. Volume II: Transports routiers. Table 3.3
Premier Congres National de la Route. Tome II. Decembre 1992)
B. Road Administration
2.06 The road administration was deconcentrated in the mid-eighties. At the center, the
Direction des Routes (DR) is in charge of new construction and major maintenance such as
road strengthening and rehabilitation. DEER handles other maintenance operations, from
resealing to routine maintenance of roads and bridges. DEER and DR exert line



-13-
responsibilities over the director of Public Works (DTP) in each of the 48 administrative
divisions of the country. Execution of the RN budget is deconcentrated though, meaning that
the Head of the Wilaya administration, or Wali, has delegated power from the Minister of
MIRP to commit and spend most of resources earmarked for RNs except for motorways and
a few other major projects still controlled at central level. Deconcentrated road management
fully applies to CWs and CCs. The current and capital budgets, especially for CWs and
CCs, are designed by DTP and voted by local governments under conditions giving DR and
DEER limited opportunities to influence their choices of priorities.
2.07 The road administration in the DTPs and MIRP comprises about 500 staff at
management level out of about 1,300 engineers in the subdivisions, plus 7,000 laborers for
execution of works by force-account of which 3,000 are casual. The labor force is in excess
of what the current scale of operations requires, but will find redeployment opportunities
when regular maintenance is extended to the CW and CC networks. The 48 DTPs control
some 257 territorial subdivisions. The DTP reports to the Wali on matters related to
networks other than the RN's. The municipal network is "owned" by the municipalities
which are responsible for programming, funding, and executing their maintenance. The local
public works subdivisions provide technical assistance to the municipalities, especially for the
PCD projects, services which are not clearly defined by legislation, and take too much time
to go beyond rubber-stamping technical documents. In general, the deconcentration has been
accompanied by some dilution of responsibilities, less cohesive road policies, and weakening
of construction and maintenance standards.
2.08 The Agence Nationale des Autoroutes (ANA) was created as a semi-autonomous
public administration in July 1992 and operates with a core staff of about 40, gradually
taking over the motorway functions formerly vested in the Highway Network Directorate. A
three-year technical assistance program is financed under the Fifth Highway Project to help
develop ANA. Long term advisers will train local counterparts while performing specific
tasks in relation to detailed engineering of motorway infrastructure, contract management,
project economic appraisal, and quality control. They will be complemented by short-term
advisers as needs may arise.
C. Planning and Programming
2.09  The pressure of major demands at both the national and local level, and of the
absence of a reference framework such as a medium- and long-term national scheme or
master plan, have made it difficult to come up with a coordinated road plan which meets
economic criteria. In recent years, investments were therefore concentrated on priority road
connections belonging to the principal network. Projects are first studied at the local-
government level (wilaya, municipalities) then, when the Annual Plan is prepared, are
submitted to MIRP and the services of the Planning Delegate for joint approval. The last
few years have seen the development of technical analysis tools (traffic levels, road
classification, regional studies); this makes it easier to take economic criteria into account
when choosing investments, in addition to social criteria in cases dealing with accessibility to



-14-
remote areas (high plateaux, South). A better balance should be sought between these two
dimensions of analysis. Improvement is also required in the degree of project maturity, most
particularly as regards the quality of studies and the lifting of project implementation
constraints. Preparation of a master plan for roads and highways was begun in 1994 with a
view to expanding programs and giving greater emphasis to priority works on the road
network vis-a-vis construction of motorways.
2.10 The quality of costing information in the new inflationary context has decreased, and
the traffic counting system was interrupted after 1990 for lack of appropriate equipment,
depriving planning officials of key data. Furthermore, investment appraisal techniques are
rudimentary. Demand forecasting is based on overly simplistic assumptions without taking
into account the structural impacts of projects, the inter-sectoral and inter-spatial linkages,
and the influence of macroeconomic constraints on transport. There are too few transport
planners in the central administration, and they lack needed skills and experience. The
proposed project (see Annex 7, para. 2) will address main planning issues under the
modernization and training component. In a context of funding scarcity, the Bank strongly
recommends that road/motorway investments have an ERR of at least 12%.
2.11  Programming of road maintenance has been based on good engineering judgment
within tight budget constraints which, at present, only allow for taking regular care of the
priority network, or less than a fourth of Algerian roads. The strategy followed by DEER is
to catch up with the road strengthening backlog for the most trafficked RNs of the basic
economic network and carry out surface renewal as needed, namely every 10 years on
average. Road rehabilitation applies to roads with daily traffic of 1,000-3,500 vehicles. The
extent of resealing varies from year to year between 1,000 km and 1,600 km. About 80
percent of maintenance budgets including pavement strengthening and rehabilitation is spent
on the basic economic network (10,000 krm). Network-based maintenance is now being
developed under the ongoing Fifth Highway Project. The road data base will cover the basic
economic network in phase 1, and 35,000 km in phase 2 to be financed under the proposed
project. A study will be financed under the proposed project to define a strategy for
maintenance of Saharan roads. The maintenance policy is further discussed in Annex 14.
D. Engineering and Controls
2.12 MIRP is responsible for the design and supervision of RN works. It is assisted by
(mainly local) consultants. Foreign consulting firms carried out most road studies during the
first twenty years following independence, but they have been replaced by local consulting
firms which call upon them occasionally to bridge technical expertise gaps. The motorway
program paved the way to closer association of local and foreign firrns and created renewed
opportunities of technological transfers under contracts jointly won. The five local
engineering firms established as EPEs employ about 1,000 staff, 20 percent of which are
highway engineers. The local consulting industry has been overly protected to date, as
consultants were selected in the majority of cases on a sole-source basis by the road
administration. That was not conducive to good performance, as evidenced by the low



-15-
quality of detailed engineering studies of motorways carried out in the early eighties, or cases
in which the detailed engineering of road strengthening works had overlooked structural
defects, and chronically weak control of works by teams that did not always include a
qualified engineer. Competitive bidding should become the rule for Bank-financed contracts.
2.13 The Organisme de Contr6le Technique des Travaux Publics (CTTP) maintains
privileged working relations with MIRP, because of its control and supervision functions on
the whole national territory, and its experience gained during the Fifth Highway Project. It
should also continue to develop the national technical guidelines and their dissemination
during the Sixth Highway Project. It competes with the other consulting firms for more
traditional types of works, namely geotechnical surveys and project design. CTTP was
established as an EPE in 1988 with design, control, and laboratory functions. It received
extensive support under the Fifth Highway Project for the development of technical skills,
lately in the form of a 1992 convention for technical assistance in effect through 1994 and
helping CTTP in carrying out a two-year training program on road maintenance (the "Plan
Formation") for the 500 "subdivisionnaires" and line managers in the Public Works
administration encompassing a wide range of basic technical and managerial skills. CTTP is
also in charge of developing HDM III in Algeria.
2.14  There are five public-works laboratories. Four are specialized by geographic area.
The fifth, CTTP, maintains some of the functions formerly held by the central laboratory,
LNBTP. They employ about 2,500 staff for an annual turnover slightly above US$ 1 million.
The productivity per employee is low, and labor costs grow much faster than turnover,
resulting in serious financial imbalances despite the high fees charged for services. Controls
performed along the whole "quality chain", from suppliers, contractors, and laboratories, to
the client, need urgent strengthening. The laboratories do have useful in-house professional
expertise constituting the "national technical memory", but the current status of the four
regional laboratories is serious enough to justify corrective action. Annex 4 outlines the
main features of the "Laboratories" action plan annexed to the road sector policy letter.
Following a Bank financed audit, a new dynamic has emerged, in particular, towards the
creation of a PW Laboratory Network.
E. Human Resources Development
2.15  An action for continuous training is being developed to address the long-standing
issue of quality deficit of road engineers at entry in the profession, which has costly
consequences. Highway engineers are trained by the Ecole Nationale des Travaux Publics
(ENTP). Created in 1966 and placed in 1983 under the Ministry of Education pedagogic
"tutelage", ENTP works under the supervision of DRHR (MIRP). ENTP has some growth
problems which undermine its operational efficiency. Quality of the academic training given
to highway engineers is generally low in project management, procurement, economic
appraisal of road investments, and new technologies. The development of post-graduate
courses with foreign technical assistance is envisaged to enhance academic skills of ENTP



-16-
students. In addition, an engineering degree in urban techniques was introduced by MIRP in
1994.
2.16 The Direction des Ressources Humaines et de la Recherche (DRHR) is committed to
both raising the skills of newly recruited engineers, and maintaining and developing
professional skills throughout their careers. The key player in this field will be the Centre
National de Perfectionnement de I' Hydraulique (now being transformed into the "Institut
National de Perfectionnement de l'Equipement") which, after two years in operation, will no
more be limited to host seminars conducted by others. INPE will evaluate training needs in
the PW organization on a permanent basis, and design and deliver training programs tailored
to those needs. The objective under the Sixth Highway Project is to set up an organization
capable of assessing positions and job requirements and handling career development matters.
The proposed project would train managers and trainers, finance a complement of training
aids and technical documentation, and support implementation of a comprehensive training
program for DR and DEER personnel. In the current context, quality training, locally and
abroad, is an important incentive for progress.
F. Implementation Capabilities
2.17 There are 33 EPEs for execution of road works, including the former MIRP's
equipment fleet regionalized in 1984 and then transformed into autonomous public
enterprises. Competition for road contracts is not strong as these firms are all publicly-
owned and assured of getting the minimum market share to stay in business from the
Government-client concerned about social protection. The private sector is confined to
periodic and routine maintenance contracts, with one exception in 1993. LCB procedures
have yet to strike a right balance between needs to protect the administration against risks of
poor performance by newcomers, and to create opportunities for enterprises willing to take
up more complex works. Prequalification or postqualification criteria will be adapted to
meet this requirement under the proposed project. In view of recent cases of contract
execution disrupted by cash flow problems, it is no less important that more weight be given
to financial criteria to select contractors. Last, but not least, the proposed project will
finance complementary studies to the ongoing technical and financial audit of 27 large
parastatals and the road sector policy letter defined stages of the dialogue leading to an action
plan, with its progress being assessed at the project's mid-term review. The improvement of
the payment delay situation will also be addressed and have an impact on the cash flow (see
Annex 7, para. 6).
2.18 Force-account works more or less coincide with routine emergency maintenance, and
have been considerably downsized from the pre-1984 level when they covered most road
works. About 60 percent of the 1994 road current budget is contracted out. There is scope
for further reduction of force-account. Development of municipal road maintenance should be
done by small contracts as far as technically possible.



-17-
2.19 No less than 20 percent, and sometimes up to 40 percent of road work completion
delays, are linked to irregular supplies of bitumen by public quasi-monopolies. Production
of local bitumen is entrusted to Naftec, the national refiner. Import, storage, and local
distribution of bitumen is handled by Naftal. Pure bitumen (40/50 grade) widely used for
road overlays, was imported until recently. Foreign exchange scarcities led Naftec to add
production of 40/50 bitumen in Skikda to its existing production of 80/100 bitumen in Arzew
from imported reduced crude oil. The import substitution achieved is not yet satisfactory in
terms of quality, due to inadequate production processes. Naftec's storage capacity is short
of peak-demand needs. The Naftal distribution system includes port storage tanks in
Mostaganem, Algiers, Bejaia, and Skikda, an emulsion processing plant at Setif, mobile
depots for supplies across the country, and an important tanker-truck fleet, a large proportion
of which is out of service due to lack of spare parts which forces Naftal to contract part of
its transport needs to SNTR. Low quality bitumen is one of the main causes of premature
defects of road overlays. A task force on bitumen was formed in 1993 by the Government,
and made excellent progress in looking for solutions with active support from Bank-financed
technical assistance. The main content of an Action Plan on Bitumen Supply and Quality are
outlined in Annex 5. This Action Plan is annexed to the Policy Letter.
2.20 Close to 1,000 quarries are registered in Algeria. The Entreprise Nationale de
Granulat (ENG) is the largest public firm to have specialized in quarry operations. Many
public road contractors have developed quarrying as a branch of their activity. The private
sector operates smaller quarries with a combined production capacity of less than 20 percent
of total. Quarrying is subject to authorization by local authorities, generally ill-equipped to
specify and enforce the technical clauses in concession agreements. The heavy demand for
road materials in the eighties triggered complacency in granting permits to operate quarries,
to the effect that shortages of good-quality gravel and sand materials used in road works,
together with loose control of specifications by laboratories, have become a recurrent
problem in recent years, causing large completion delays, cost overruns, and early defects of
new overlays. The quarrying industry is weak and operates at less than 50 percent of its
capacity. The aging equipment used cannot be repaired easily for lack of foreign exchange
to buy spare parts. MIRP appointed a technical committee in January 1993 to review issues
and propose remedial measures; a National Conference was held in December 1993 to raise
awareness on issues, and build up a consensus on priority actions. Updating the legislation,
developing relevant training, and facilitating access to foreign exchange to renew the
equipment and purchase spare parts are important steps toward rehabilitation of the industry.
The proposed project will focus on improving the control performance of quarries by local
laboratories, and on "filialisation" of quarries. It will finance a study of national quarrying
resources and help develop better management.
G. Road Budgeting and Financing
2.21 Funding of road construction and maintenance comes under various budgets, with a
system of "Autorisations de Programmes" allowing the commitment of resources within
limits under multi-year projects, and "Credits de Paiement", fixing annual spending limits.



-18-
(a) The Government investment budget comprises four chapters: chapter 528 for
motorways, chapter 521 for RNs, chapter 522 for CWs and 591 for CCs. A variety of
functions are covered, from rehabilitation to realignment, widening, and paving, of which the
financial reporting system in use does not allow monitoring. Accounting should be improved
to isolate maintenance expenditures and facilitate the analysis of road investment budgets.
(b) The MIRP recurrent budget for RNs is under Chapter 35-12, which covers
resealing and routine maintenance. Chapter 35-13 includes funds for protection from floods
plus minor bridge repairs. Maintenance of CWs is under chapters 904 and 951, with the
latter nornally covering major repairs but more often used for reconstruction.
(c) The current municipal budget comprises "depenses de voirie" with line items
broken down along a subjective classification by basic input. The capital budget includes
chapters for road construction and rehabilitation. Funding of municipal road maintenance is
very insufficient. This issue is further discussed in Annex 10.
(d) Investment resources for municipal roads are available under the "Plans
Communaux de Developpement" (PCDs).  The PCDs are approved by CNP after discussion
at the Wilaya level where requests from municipalities are screened and credits are
distributed. The PCD funds are budgeted under chapter 591.
2.22     Table 3 gives details on road expenditures and investments between 1990 and 1993.
Table 3: Evolution of road spending in recent years (in current DA million)
type of works                                  1990             1991            1992       993 (budget)
Recurrent maintenance (RM)':
- national roads (Chapt. 35-12)                525              583              809             1589
- Wilaya roads:
Chapter 904                            172              246              331             385
Chapter 951                            160              250              315             414
sub-total                              332              496              646             799
- municipal roads                            462            450 (*)          500 (*)         500(*)
total RM                          1319             1529             1955            2888
Heavy maintenance & construction (HC):
- national roads (Chapter 521)                2504             2722            4900             5688
- wilaya roads (Chapter 522)                   246              378             700             747
- municipal roads: PCDs                     1500 (*)         1850 (*)        2400 (*)         2800 (*)
total HC                          4250             4950             8000            9235.
total spending                             5569 (*)         6479 (*)          9955(*)        12123(*)
gross national product (GDP)               536300           793100           986900        1 150000est.
road spendifl in percent of GDP                 1.04%            0.82%            1. 0%           1.05%
Note: amounts shown under Chapter 521 include spending for motorways; those marked with an
asterisk were tentatively estimated by the appraisal mission.
/ Recurrent maintenance includes routine and light periodic maintenance.



-19-
2.23  The above table contains approximations that had to be made to overcome the paucity
of financial data provided to the Bank before and during appraisal, and gives a picture which
is deemed reasonably accurate. It shows road expenditures more than doubling in nominal
terms from about DA 5.5 billion in 1990 to DA 12.1 billion between 1990 and 1993. Still,
the budget allocations to roads have been hovering around 1 percent of GDP during the
period, an indication that road budgets were following inflation without upward adjustment,
and remain low by international standards which have road budgets at about 1.5 percent of
GDP. The 1994 budget is regressive, since resources allocated to DR and DEER are
unchanged from previous year while inflation is running at an annual rate of 39 percent.
Some budget components fared better than others in the last 5 years. Periodic and routine
maintenance under chapter 35-12 received much larger allocations which made it possible to
expand the resealing program from 700 km in 1992 to 1,700 km in 1993 (it went down to
1,253 km in 1994). Allocation to bridge maintenance rose to AD 128 million in 1993, a
substantial increase over the DA 45 million budget of 1992 and a sign of increased awareness
of bridge deterioration issues across the country. Bolstered by foreign donor contributions
(the Bank and the African Development Bank essentially), the "purchasing" power of the DR
budget did not change much, allowing to, respectively, strengthen and rehabilitate 500 km of
RNs and 200 km of CWs on average per year. In contrast, the means allocated to maintain
roads in the Wilaya and municipal networks have been eroded by inflation, and are largely
inadequate. Payment procedures are slow, and processing of withdrawal applications at every
step of the local cycle, including the BAD, has been unduly long to date. Remedial action is
being taken to improve the situation.
2.24 Too much emphasis is still placed on new construction in road budgets, the balance of
which should be tilted in favor of maintenance2. About 20 percent of the DR budget during
1986-1988 went to maintenance of RNs and CWs. Reports on physical execution of projects
from 1988 to 1992 indicate a change of priorities and allow to estimate the share of road
maintenance to around 40 percent of the DR budget. Actual spending of AD 5 billion in
1993 was equally split between motorway construction and the DR maintenance program.
Given the extent of the maintenance backlog, new construction should be slowed down and
contained to within 40 percent of the DR budget. Making road spending more cost-effective
is another priority target. Maintenance unit costs are high and could be reduced by
promoting stiffer competition between contractors, improving contract management, ensuring
timely supplies to the work site, and facilitating access to foreign exchange to purchase
equipment and spare parts.
2.25 The municipal budget is too narrow to bear the cost of road maintenance. Pending
municipal finance reform in Algeria, interim solutions must be worked out to channel
additional budget support to municipal road maintenance. An agreement was reached in June
1994 by representatives of the three ministries MF, MICLERA, MIRP and of CNP. DEER
2/the terminology used is a frequent source of confusion in Algeria. The english term "maintenance" not only
covers "routine and periodic maintenance", financed under the current budget, but road rehabilitation and pavement
strengthening also, financed under the capital.



-20-
in relation with MICLERA, MF, DTPs, local PW sub-divisions and local authorities, will be
able to launch the pilot program covering road maintenance which is part of the project. An
agreement between municipalities and DTPs is an important aspect to ensure sufficient
funding of maintenance, operational efficiency at procurement and execution stages, and
good design and supervision of works.
2.26 The rationale for creating a Road Fund was discussed at appraisal. Tax earmarking
could be a valid way to safeguard the road capital stock through implementation of high-
return investments, and make it possible to target untapped road user surpluses toward
expanding the charging base while facilitating a consensus on spending more for better roads.
It could be of particular relevance for the under-funded Wilaya and municipal road networks.
The maintenance backlog is conspicuous, and road users would be able to monitor the
improvements against payment of higher user charges. Specializing the Road Fund on key
maintenance tasks with specific criteria for fund allocations, and having it operate under
strict accounting standards, would reduce risks of macroeconomic distortions in the allocation
of resources and streamline road management. The Government expressed willingness to
study the practicality of a Road Fund solution in Algeria, and will set up an inter-ministerial
commission to that effect. Technical assistance will be financed under the proposed project.
2.27  Payments of consultants and contractors are slow and have major consequences on
local firms' financial situation and the interest of foreign firms/consultants to bid; for
example, payments after six to twelve months in local currency, after two years in foreign
currency have been observed during the Fifth Highway Project. A strong and dynamic
action is needed to speed up all payments, especially in the context of privatization. DPAE
in MIRP is in charge of developing closer coordination between all parties concerned to
decide, on the specific immediate actions to expedite payments. A specific action plan has
been discussed and finalized during negotiations; it is annexed to the road sector policy
letter; (see annex 4). A special study is to be financed under the modernization component
to deepen the analysis and develop further actions.
M :\Ray\AWgeria\Chapter I sar



-21-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background and Objectives
3.1   The careful supervision of previous road projects, especially Highway V, enabled
detailed identification of the key physical and institutional bottlenecks for the road sub-sector,
transport sector and road- specific studies to analyze alternative priority actions, and means
to address issues, and a quality and in-depth dialogue with decision makers. In this context a
relatively global modernization process is being developed and this Highway VI project is an
important step to support this effort.
3.2   Rationale For Bank Involvement. Good maintenance of road infrastructure is
essential to economic development as roads carry the brunt of traffic. The current
maintenance backlog must be reduced. Road budgets are tight and extensive external
financing is needed. Bank involvement is important to: (a) maintain the priority on
maintenance during the stabilization program; (b) support modernization and training efforts
at MIRP, and (c) restore donor confidence. The wealth of experience acquired by the Bank
in similar situations bodes well for its ability to assist in addressing organizational and
financial issues. In many ways, the Bank can effectively help at this particular juncture of
time when Algeria moves toward liberalization of its economy, The road industry remains
dominated by the PEs. Much greater dynamism would be possible, were the private sector
given more opportunities to participate (see para. 1.21 on Bank Strategy).
3.3   Project Objectives. The objective of the Project is to enhance the capabilities of the
Borrower to manage its road sector by (a) reducing the backlog of roads and bridges in need
of rehabilitation and maintenance; (b) strengthening the Borrower's agencies responsible for
the management and maintenance of roads; (c) providing sustainable solutions to finance road
rehabilitation and maintenance works; and (d) creating an environment conducive to the
efficient utilization of human and financial resources in the Borrower's road sector, in
particular through increased competition, participation of the private sector and
implementation of a quality improvement strategy.



-22-
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.4   The project comprises three principal components:
(a) Road Rehabilitation Works (44% of project costs):
(i)  strengthening high-traffic basic economic network pavements;
(ii)  rehabilitating medium-traffic national roads with appropriate low-cost
technologies;
(iii) rehabilitating priority bridges; and
(iv) related design and supervision
(b)     Road Maintenance (41 % of project costs):
(i)  periodic maintenance by contract for national roads;
(ii)  purchasing of equipment for current and emergency maintenance of Saharan
tracks, and for traffic counting;
(iii) providing technical assistance for preparation and execution of a pilot
program for periodic maintenance of municipal roads; and
(iv) related supervision, general studies and training;
(c) Training, Technical Assistance and Studies (15% of project costs):
(i)  auditing road enterprises;
(ii)  providing technical assistance to the National Agency for Motorways (ANA);
(iii) launching economic, financial, environment and engineering studies for
motorways;
(iv) supporting the Ministry's modernization and continuous training of road
administration professionals;
(v)  financing road related studies and research of general interest, and an urban
transport rehabilitation study;
(vi) facilitating the access of Ministry's Directorates to foreign technical
expertise.
The description, background, and objectives of each project component are provided
below. Detailed cost tables are in Annex 1; all indicators are described in Annex 13;
procurement aspects are described in Chapter III, Part D; implementation and procurement
schedules of main components are in Annex 2. Costs given in paras. 3.6 to 3.39 by
component/sub-component are July 1, 1994 appraisal costs. They include physical but not
price contingencies. Costs are given in Tables 4, 5, 6 and Annexes 1 and 2 are December,
1994 costs (negotiation).
(a)   ROAD REHABILITATION WORKS
(a) (i) Pavement Strengthening of High-Traffic Roads
3.5   Policy. A "basic economic network" of about 5,000 km, with daily traffic ranging
from 3,500 veh/d to 20,000 veh/d, has on average a very weak pavement structure compared



-23-
to its traffic (see Annex 11 on Technical Background); an appropriate pavement
strengthening program has been launched under Highway V and needs to be continued under
Highway VI to reduce the backlog.
3.6   Objectives. This $48.8 million work component (including physical contingencies) is
the leading road activity to support several of the key transformation/modernization actions;
the main objectives are to:
(a)   restore the pavement asset and maintain an appropriate level of service;
(b)   develop local and international competition; and
(c)   mobilize all actors towards quality works, and consistency between estimated
implementation time and contract.
3.7   Description. Twelve sections between 16 and 62 km each and carrying on average
between 2,200 and 17,000 veh/day have been identified for strengthening at an average cost
of US$130,000 per km. Bidding will be invited for three tranches: one just after Board
presentation and the others at twelve-month intervals. A limited number of small road
improvements, including for example, rectifying curves and pavement leveling in flood-prone
areas, may be incorporated, subject to good economic justification within 10 percent of the
section strengthening cost; road safety audits are being launched. Funding for all road
strengthening and rehabilitation works to be implemented under the project have already been
secured through the "inscription" at CNP.
(a) (ii) Rehabilitation of Medium-Traffic National Roads
3.8   Policy. National roads that are not in the "basic economic network" have fewer than
3,000 veh/day, and represent the majority in length and replacement value. They usually
have high roughness indices and/or weak structures, but cannot be strengthened with the
same technologies as the basic economic network due to budgetary constraints. Therefore, it
is essential to develop (a) a consistent set of appropriate technologies for rehabilitating such
roads, and (b) a program of significant size for immediate implementation (see Annex 11 on
Technical Background).
3.9   Context Synthesis. Following two years of dialogue with the Bank, and in
preparation of Highway VI, comprehensive guidelines have been prepared, at the Road
Director's request, by the CTTP with the help of leading Algerian experts. It comprises six
documents: methodology, inventory of techniques, economic analysis, sample bidding
documents, road safety, and environment. Extensive comments have been provided by the
Bank and foreign experts. A pilot work program has also been carried out under Highway V
to test methodologies. Studies of six long sections have been carried out by the CTTP; the
final bidding documents have been reviewed by the Bank.
3.10 Objectives. This US$20.8 million work component (including contingencies) will
(a) launch the development of priority medium-traffic route rehabilitation at a reasonable
cost, (b) strengthen competition because large asphalt plants are not necessary for a majority



-24-
of such works (which mainly use surface dressing technology over good quality granular base
without bitumen or cement) and (c) help the modernization actions described for road
strengthening works.
3.11  Description. Six sections totalling 256 km, each between 24 and 67 km in length,
have been studied. The average cost is about $60,000 per km. Bidding will be invited for
three tranches at 12-month intervals. The track rehabilitation of 120 km of the Tamanrasset-
Ain Guezzam national road and other studies are also part of this component; see para.......
describing the Saharan track policy.
(a) (iii) Rehabilitation of Priority Bridges
3.12 Policy. The 2,699 bridges on National Roads (1,789) and Wilaya Roads (910)
represent a total bridge deck surface of 880,000 m2. Bridges have not been appropriately
repaired for a number of years; many are in bad condition, some are even dangerous for
road safety. The Road Maintenance and Operations Directorate (DEER) recently started a
consistent and comprehensive policy to progressively maintain and rehabilitate bridges. This
policy starts at the bridge management system level and covers detailed condition surveys
and specialized construction industry skill improvements. In this very favorable
environment, the proposed project supports the development of the whole process from
studies to works.
3.13 Context Synthesis. At DEER's request, CTTP is developing a comprehensive
handbook for sound bridge management under Highway V, which includes:
identification/glossary of bridge parts, deterioration identification manual, current
maintenance techniques, condition surveys, and a computerized bridge management system.
A national bridge rehabilitation committee has also been set up with all the main actors to
select and evaluate bridges to be rehabilitated, and to develop standard specifications and
bidding documents for studies and works. Studies are now being developed to prepare
detailed diagnostic reports, the rehabilitation design, and the bidding documents.
3.14 Objectives. The US$13.2 million work component, with an additional 15% for
physical contingencies, aims to (a) support the whole policy and rehabilitate first priority
bridges, (b) help in the development of a "quality chain" from the studies to works quality
control, and (c) help develop local capabilities for bridge rehabilitation studies, condition
measurement, works and control through regular works, competition, and technical
assistance.
3.15 Description. The loan will finance:
(a) 50% of bridge rehabilitation works, awarded in two tranches to facilitate the
capitalization of experience, with one first tranche (18 bridges) designed to
develop sound local competition with some foreign technical assistance where



-25-
needed; and the second tranche designed to attract foreign contractors for
advanced-technology works;
(b) rehabilitation studies of about 40 bridges for US$1.2 million, including condition
surveys, diagnosis, design, and preparation of bid documents; priority
rehabilitation works for these bridges will be implemented under the second
tranche of works;
(c) the continuation of general studies to implement the bridge management system;
(d) the corresponding training; and
(e) the control of works for US$0.7 million.
The recent development of the bridge rehabilitation policy explains the less-advanced stage of
this component compared with the well known pavement strengthening program. A
minimum ERR of 12% will be a criterion for bridge rehabilitation works to be financed
under the project. Rehabilitation works are limited to less than one third of the replacement
cost; a large majority of these bridges are on the "basic economic network" with the highest
traffic.
(a) (iv)   Design and Supervision of each sub-component are also part of the project;
control of works costs are 5% of work costs; special attention is devoted to
quality through the audit and action plan concerning the laboratories and quality
control.
(b)   ROAD MAINTENANCE
(b) (i) Periodic Maintenance of National Roads
3.16 Policy. Progressive development of competition for periodic maintenance works on
national and Wilaya roads has been one of the most significant achievements of the Fifth
Highway Project. This still needs to be expanded in terms of geographical coverage, because
20 Wilayas have had only three years of experience and in some cases, the local situation
makes true competition more difficult than elsewhere. Furthermore, four additional years of
support to this activity can also complete the work started on maintenance management and
quality control of works. As mentioned earlier, periodic maintenance of national and Wilaya
roads needs to be sustained to tackle the significant backlog of periodic maintenance, also an
urgent priority. The project only finances national roads but maintenance of Wilaya roads
will be implemented in parallel by the DEER and local DTPs. The component will support
the progressive transfer of know-how on pavement management systems from the National
Roads to Wilaya roads.
3.17 Context Synthesis. During the implementation of the Fifth Highway Project, a
national working group developed a comprehensive maintenance handbook, procedures for
prioritization of maintenance sections at the local and national level, and sample bidding
documents. Specific section identification is done in the autumn each year for the works for
the following year, with actual works starting in the spring.



-26-
3.18  Objectives. The US$50.0 million work component aims to (a) carry out priority
maintenance on National roads and indirectly help for the same at Wilaya road level, (b)
complete the development of sound competition, (c) improve quality control, and (d) enable
the development of small/private road contractors.
3.19  Description. Works to be financed are mainly surface dressing (cheap seal) on
medium traffic RNs, and in some cases bituminous mixes on heavy traffic RNs, with
corresponding preparatory works. A total of 3,500 to 5,000 km will receive such periodic
maintenance for an average cost of US$14,000 per km, during four annual programs.   All
48 Wilayas will be involved. DEER will agree on a specific action plan for each Wilaya to
improve competition, quality of works, and quality control based on the lessons learned from
Highway V pertaining to each Wilaya.
(b) (ii)   Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Saharan Tracks, and purchase of equipment for
traffic counting
3.20 Policy. Three main issues need to be addressed concerning Saharan unpaved national
roads:
(a)  maintenance and rehabilitation are not currently carried out appropriately, which
leads to about approximately 50 percent of roads being in bad condition and is a
serious concern among the local population and decision makers;
(b)  the combination of budgetary constraints and low traffic levels, from 10 to 50
vehicles per day on average, and very difficult climatic conditions, raises hard-
to-solve technical and economic issues; and
(c)  the cost of heavy equipment for large force-account rehabilitation is prohibitive
and long- term effectiveness is unproven; at the same time, attracting good
contractors for small annual contracts is impossible.
The main ideas of the proposed policy to address these issues are the following:
(a)  track maintenance and rehabilitation have to be developed on a timely and
effective basis; otherwise, accessibility would be at stake;
(b)  a global maintenance and rehabilitation policy for the 6000 km of national
Saharan roads needs to be developed in full consistency with foreseeable budget
constraints and reasonable ERR criteria, which implies identifying standards of
service adequate for low traffic, and implementing an organization adapted to
climatic and distance constraints;
(c)  large multi-annual contacts including both rehabilitation and subsequent
maintenance need to be developed by route or area to attract sustainable
competition; for routine and emergency maintenance on routes or areas without
rehabilitation and maintenance contracts, local administration maintenance units
need to have a consistent and reliable set of small equipment, trained personnel,
financial resources and appropriate incentives to perform effectively; the tasks to
be perforned have been carefully selected in accordance with the criteria of (i)



-27-
degree of difficulty to correctly program such tasks, and (ii) degree of difficulty
to quantify and supervise.
3.21  Objectives:
(a) maintain Saharan national track roads and make the best use of available scarce
budgetary resources,
(b) increase the level of service of the highest-traffic 2000 km network by ensuring
current and emergency maintenance by effective intervention units, appropriately
equipped,
(c) contract out a pilot rehabilitation-and-maintenance package for a route long
enough to attract contractors and competition, and
(d) test the above mentioned strategy and propose a global maintenance strategy.
3.22 Description: The component comprises three levels of intervention and an
independent specific action:
(a) one multi-annual civil works contract of US$5.3 million to rehabilitate and
maintain the badly deteriorated 120 km of the 800-km Tamanrasset-Ain-
Guezzam route (highest traffic track; 80 trucks/day; US$44,000/km). This
rehabilitation is already included in the national road rehabilitation component;
(b) small equipment estimated at $8 million will be purchased under ICB for use by
eleven southern maintenance units and five support units in routine and
emergency maintenance tasks (see Annex 11 bis);
(c) a US$1.2 million study sub-component will (i) evaluate the condition of all
Southern roads, optimize level of service requirements, set priorities for
rehabilitation works according to technical and economic criteria, and propose a
comprehensive strategy and a multi-annual work program, (ii) develop detailed
engineering plans for the Tamanrasset-Ain-Guezzam 120-km section, and (iii)
make a preliminary study on three routes to optimize the date to invest in
pavement. These studies are part of the rehabilitation study component;
(d) in addition, MIRP urgently needs to replace its equipment for traffic counting in
the whole territory, estimated cost - $1.3 million.
(b) (iii) & (iv) Pilot Program for Municipal Roads
3.23 Policy. The very significant issue of recurrent under-maintenance of the 47,193 km
municipal roads is described in Chapter 2 and Annex 10. DEER has initiated a
CNP/MICLERA/Ministry of Finance coordination to set up a framework to progressively
enable reasonable maintenance of municipal roads; the policy orientation aims at addressing
four main issues:
(a) institutional: it is necessary to define the respective roles of MIRP and local
governments with regard to technical assistance to the municipalities;



-28-
(b)  financial: an agreement in principle was reached to finance periodic
maintenance;
(c)  implementation: periodic maintenance is to be carried out by contract; and
(d)  quality: the local sub-divisions will be the executing agency by delegation;
special attention will be devoted to developing constructive cooperation with the
municipal level, thus avoiding demobilizing local decision-makers concerning
the management of their roads.
The main aims of the pilot program are to:
(a)  test all arrangements before expanding them to all municipal roads; and
(b) test key orientations to determine how municipal infrastructure can be
maintained in practice.
Closer cooperation is being developed: (i) at the central level by DEER (MIRP) with the
Ministry of Finance, MICLERA and CNP to facilitate the financing of municipal road
maintenance and set up a coordination committee in charge of monitoring the pilot program
and supervising the future dissemination of lessons and their implementation; and (ii) at the
local level, by DTP and their subdivisions with the municipalities concerned (see para. 5.02).
3.24  Objectives. The general objectives of this project component are to (a) support the
development and implementation of this policy towards actual municipal road maintenance,
and global and systematic policy for municipal roads "extra muros", (b) develop regulatory
documents defining the roles of APC and DTP subdivisions, (c) validate these proposals and
detail their implementation rules through a pilot works program in several tens of
volunteering municipalities in the territory of several volunteering "subdivisions", and
comprehensive technical assistance brought by the "subdivisions" of the DPW and the CTTP,
and (d) implement an information seminar for DTP and subdivision engineers to validate and
disseminate the handbook for municipal road maintenance.
3.25 Description. A three year program will develop:
(a)  US$13.0 million of periodic maintenance works on municipal roads, to be
awarded by competition and to be financed under the central budget; these
works will start in 1996 and be part of the project but will not be financed by
the loan.
(b)  US$1.5 million of studies and training will include:
- a general study to fully develop a global strategy for municipal roads with
CTTP and necessary technical assistance; the study covers: a comprehensive
proposal of the institutional setup, complementary proposals of financing
mechanisms (for instance: periodic, current maintenance), an inventory of
municipal roads, a condition survey necessary to formulate a global
maintenance policy and a three-year implementation plan;



-29-
- preparation of a handbook and its dissemination through a seminar and the
DTP "sample agreement" to provide technical assistance; and
(c) US$1.0 million for the CTTP-contracted part of the supervision and technical
assistance to the DTPs and several tens of pilot municipalities to manage
intercity municipal roads;
The above-mentioned sub-components b) and c) are together in the tables under the heading
b(iv) "Supervision of General Studies and Training"; they concern municipal roads.
(c)   TRAINING. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDIES
(c) (i) Audit of Enterprises from the Public Works Sector
3.26  Policy. Comprehensive audits of road sector EPE enterprises are being developed to
prepare and facilitate the necessary restructuring and privatization drive. The appraisal
mission discussed the issue of privatization of road sector enterprises. Following an initiative
by the "Fonds des Participations pour la Construction" (FPC), and in line with the
Government's policy led by the new Ministry of Industrial Restructuring and Participation,
MIRP requested a special component for the audit of public works enterprises. Close
collaboration with privatization actions carried out in the framework of the Economic
Rehabilitation Loan (ERL) will be maintained. The road sector policy letter describes these
aspects in more details.
3.27 Objectives:
(a) define and launch necessary actions to improve the effectiveness of national
enterprises in charge of studies or works in the public works sector,
(b) identify enterprises whose financial health and productivity potential would
predispose them for easy privatization,
(c) take the opportunity of such audits to transfer analysis methodologies to the
enterprises themselves for future development of a corporate strategy, and
(d) prepare privatization of road sector EPEs, in particular by giving a fair market
value to their assets.
3.28 Description. A series of audits has been launched and concerns (i) individual
enterprises (ii) groups of enterprises, and (iii) some horizontal aspects of a whole set of
enterprises in the sub-sector. Two million dollars will finance complementary studies
following up this first ongoing series of audits. FPC will be the implementing agency for the
sub-component in coordination with MIRP and other actors concerned until the new law on
privatization is passed. Appropriate complementarity should be ensured between
international experience, especially recent experience with Eastern Europe, and local
experience with in-depth knowledge of these local enterprises.



-30-
(c) (ii) (iii) Technical Assistance. Training and Studies for the National Motorway Agency
(ANA)
3.29 Policy. (see part II for background information). There are three main policy
aspects in the motorway progressive-development context which the project will support:
(a) ANA is in charge of motorway development; the hiring of new staff to handle
new kinds of tasks requires robust technical assistance and training for about
three years;
(b) preliminary studies have been developed for the whole East-West motorway
corridor and reviewed with all central and local administrations concerned; the
economic and financial study is essential to phase and scale down the program to
levels consistent with economic priorities and affordability; detailed engineering
studies of sound sub-projects will be developed; various alternatives for
motorway concessions and financing will be studied; and
(c) MIRP will launch the environmental assessment studies, with Bank support.
3.30 Objectives. The general aim of this US$11.9 million component is to streamline
Algeria's global approach for motorway development in this changing macroeconomic
environment. The specific aims of this component are to:
(a) support ANA's institution building, through the three-year contract for technical
assistance and training; and
(b) develop quality studies and competitive local consultants for detailed engineering
of priority sections through sound international competition, which optimizes the
use of local expertise and appropriate study supervision by ANA.
3.31  Description.
(a) the US$3.3 million component for the ANA technical assistance and training
contract started under Highway V for its first phase, and will be followed up by
the proposed project in its second and third phases;
(b) the US$8.6 million component for studies comprises: (i) the continuation of the
economic and financial study (US$0.8 million) which is essential for all future
policy orientations; (ii) the completion of detailed engineering of the Bou
Medfaa-Khemis Miliana section (US$0.5 million), (iii) the launching of the
detailed engineering of the Hamiz-Lakdaria section, whose priority is justified by
land reservation purposes, prepared under Highway V (US$1.3 million); and (iv)
the procurement of further detailed engineering studies (US$6.0 million) will
require that the sections to be studied be appropriately justified in view of the
conclusions of the economic and financial study. They will be awarded after
international competitive bidding.
(c) (iv)    Modernization and Training Actions
Modernization and training are two important but different actions of MIRP, their
coordinated description illustrates their direct complementarity:



-31-
3.32  Policy.
a) Modernization The MIRP requested the Bank in June 1993 to develop an
analysis of the current effectiveness of the Ministry to design a modernization action
plan focussed on (a) operational efficiency, (b) human resources management,
(c) relations within the structure of the ministry, and (d) relations with the private
sector.
b) Training The Directors of Roads and Maintenance drew the lessons from the
Fifth Highway Project to design the priority training activities which need to be
implemented during the proposed Sixth Highway Project, in relation with DRHR. In
addition, a training abroad of 500 managers on management is an important action of
MIRP.
3.33  Context Synthesis.
a) Modernization Several Bank missions with specialized assistance have provided
assistance to MIRP and a modernization and a priority action plan are being finalized in the
Ministry; Annex 7 gives a short description of this large undertaking and its conclusions;
coordination has been developed in the Ministry as well as within the Bank to enable
complementarity and compatibility between action recommendations resulting from this
analysis and the preparation of the Sixth Highway Project. A report entitled "Institutional
Modernization in the Infrastructure Sector in Algeria" conducted by the Public Sector
Management team of the MENA Technical Department in close coordination with MIRP has
been finalized and was instrumental in the development of an unusual degree of ownership in
this modernization process. A detailed survey has been completed in Algeria on the four
priority areas mentioned above.
b) Training The three Directorates concerned, Road Directorate (DR), Maintenance
and Operations Directorate (DEER), and the Research and Human Resources Directorate
(DRHR) have developed detailed proposals for training engineers already working in the
field and young engineers completing their initial training. Although with significant delays,
under the Fifth Highway Project, a large training component on road maintenance for more
than 400 local engineers has been successfully implemented.
3.34 Objectives. The main objectives are:
(a)   For the modernization sub-component, to: (i) foster improved operational
efficiency, including computerization at central and local levels, (ii) rationalize
investment choices, budget management and master costs and time schedule,
(iii) master human resource management at central and local levels, and (iv)
improve the relations between the Ministry and local governments, private and
public enterprises, and with local agencies;
(b)   And for the training sub-component, to: (i) implement the DR and DEER
priority training plan for adapting and improving the skills of engineers already
working in the local DTP directorates; (ii) purchase training equipment for the
main training centers; (iii) develop pedagogical engineering capabilities to
create long-term sustainability in INPE and ENTP; and (iv) significantly
change and improve management by training 500 managers abroad.



-32-
3.35 Description. This US$10.6 million component will have five main sub-components
classified below by implementation's agency:
(a)   the set of modernization actions for a total amount of US$1.6 million will
contain studies carried out by foreign and local consultants; a special task force
and a "Delegate to Modernization" have been designated by the Minister to
coordinate these activities;
(b)   training of DPW engineers for US$2.4 million will concern target group sizes
between 48 and 498 on seven priority subjects: bridge management, equipment
pool management, current-maintenance techniques, public road domain rules,
road strengthening, road rehabilitation, and road owner obligations;
(c)   institutional development of the National Institute for Continuous Training in
Infrastructure (INPE) for US$0.6 million will include technical assistance,
training of trainers and managers and training equipment; the last two actions
will be combined under one TA and training contract to facilitate coordination;
(d)   development of post-graduate courses for US$2.0 million, with: (i) three
sessions of training for specific target groups of about 100 engineers each on
three different subjects: economics applied to public works, project
management, and infrastructure owner role, (ii) related pedagogical
engineering; and (iii) related equipment needed for these sessions, technical
documents, and software. The contract for these post-graduate courses would
be procured by competition and the National University for Public Works
(ENTP) would be in the short list if the action plan following the ongoing
audit is acceptable to DRHR and the Bank;
(e)   the training abroad of 500 managzers for US$4.0 million.
(c) (v)/(vi)   Studies of National Interest and the Ministry's Access to Foreign Technical
Expertise
3.36 Policy. To prepare sectoral national policy, MIRP needs the results of studies to be
conducted under its directives by autonomous entities under specific contracts, and with a
high quality of institutional capitalization and technical information upstream. It also needs
direct and immediate access to foreign technical expertise, otherwise important subjects
cannot be discussed on time with sufficient openness to foreign experience; when local
agencies serve as intermediaries they may have a conflict of interest.
3.37 Context Synthesis. Several important national studies will be at the middle of their
implementation by the closing date for Highway V; the audit of the laboratories identified
several studies of national significance to be contracted out; recurrent circumstances during
Highway V implementation clearly showed the current difficulty for the Ministry Directorates
to obtain appropriate foreign advice on a timely basis when needed.
3.38 Objectives. The general aim of this component is to ensure that MEAT's work is
effective while limiting its staff size to a decision-making structure without large technical
teams. The main specific aims are:



-33-
(a)   for the general Studies part, to: (i) ensure appropriate capitalization of
national experience for developing national directives and technical guidelines,
(ii) ensure team work between the various technical institutions involved, and
(iii) develop studies like the road data bank and assure their effective use on
the whole territory; and
(b)   for the TA to the Ministry Directorates, to: (i) facilitate easy and quick access
to TA, and (ii) maintain the high quality and openness to foreign experience in
national studies, key research, and policy advice.
3.39 Description. A US$5.1 million program of general studies and preparation of
technical guidelines is described in annex 6 and a US$2 million contract will finance short
term missions of foreign high-level advisers on specific subjects of immediate importance for
DR, DEER, DPAE, DRHR, and DAG Directorates during the entire project implementation
period, this contract could also cover short term missions of small policy teams to assess
foreign experience.
(c) (iv) Cont. Urban Transport Study
3.40 Policy The urban population has developed at a fast rate over the last two decades.
Current estimates put it at slightly above half of the total population in Algeria. Provision of
urban transport infrastructure and services have not kept pace with the rapidly growing
demand, and the major cities are faced with serious congestion problems. This, together
with the imposition by government of low bus fares, placed a heavy burden on the public
enterprises which are still the main providers of urban transport services and are not able to
generate sufficient cash to renew their fleet in a timely manner. Services are of low quality.
The private sector participation appeared in 1987 and is sharply increasing in a significantly
deregulated market. The Government needs to formulate a new strategy to address current
transport issues so critical to sustainable urban development.
3.41  Context synthesis The government sought Bank assistance in definition and
implementation of the strategy, and the Fifth Highway Project was amended in December
1991 to allow for financing of a study for preparation of an urban transport enterprise
project. Consultant selection and contract signature occurred in October 1993 but
exceptional circumstances delayed study launching and the closing of the Fifth Highway
Project on December 31, 1994 requires financing which the Sixth Highway Project will
secure.
3.42  Objectives The study focusses on transport in six major cities: Algiers, Oran,
Constantine, Annaba, Blida and Setif. It has two phases:
(a)   the first phase will assess the demand, both satisfied and unmet, for urban bus
services, the transport supply by public and private operators, and the
operational and financial performance of the former;



-34-
(b)   the second phase will project the transport demand in 1998 and 2003, and see
its implications in terms of infrastructure requirements and transport supply;
actions designed to improve urban transport will be identified, and economic
calculations will be carried out to select the most effective ones.
3.43 Description US$1 million will be earmarked to finance completion of the Urban
Transport Rehabilitation and Development Study for the six above-mentioned cities. The
"Direction des Transports Urbains et de la Circulation Routiere" at the Ministry of Transport
will oversee implementation of the component which is expected to end by late September
1995. The amount for this study is integrated in tables under c(v).



-35-
C. Cost and Financing
3.44 Project costs are summarized in the attached table 4:
(In AD Million)                                                 (In US5 Million)
Local     Foreign          Total    % Foreign       % Total       Local      Foreign        Total            %           %
Exchange         Base                                             Foreign       Total
Costs                                           Exchange        Base
l                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Costs
A. Strengthening & Rehabilitation
1. Strengthening                     893.2      1,098.7        1,992.0            55           23        20.4         25.1        45.6             55         23
2. Road Rehabilitation                381.4       469.1          850.5             55          10          8.7         10.7        19.5            55          10
3. Bridge Rehabilitation              236.3       351.9          588.2             60           7          5.4         8.1         13.5            60           7
4. Control of Works                   115.1         76.2         191.3             40           2          2.6          1.7         4.4            40           2
5. Technical Studies' and              37.0        69.7          106 7             65           1          0.8          1.6         2.4            65
Superilsion
Subtotal Strengthening and              1,663.0     2,065.6        3,728.7            55           43        38.1         47.3        85 3             55         43
Rehb iltation
B. Road Maintenance
1. Periodic Maintenance by            999,6      1,229.6       2,229.2            55           26         22.9        28.1         51.0            55         26
Contrat
2. Equipment for Current              189.7       352.2          541.9             65           6          43          8.1         12.4            65           6
Maintenance and Traffic
Counting
3. Municipal Road Maintenance         260.9       321.0          581.9             55           7          6.0         7.3         13.3            55           7
4. Supervision, General Studies        38.5         72.7         111.1             65            1         0.9          1.7         2.5            65
At Training" (Municipal
Roads)
Subtota Road Maintenance                1,488.7     1,975.4        3,464.1            57          40         34.1         45.2        79.3            57          40
C. Trainkng, TA  nd Studies
I. Audit of Road Enterprines           30.8        58.1           88.9            65            1         0.7          1.3          2.0            65           1
2. TA to ANA & Training                50.8        95.9          146.7             65           2          1.2          2.2         3.4            65           2
3. Econonic, Financial,               132.5       249.9          382.4             65           4          3.0         5.7          8.8            65           4
Environm ent & Detailed
Enginecring Studies
(Motorways)
4. Moderrnzation & Training           171.0       322.6          4935              65           6          3.9         7.4         11.3            65           6
Actions (MIRP)
5. General Studies &Technical          95.5        180.2         275.7             65           3          2.2         4.1          6.3            65           3
guidelines
6. Specific Techmcal Assistance        30.8        58.1           88.9            65             I         0.7          1.3         2.0            65
for MIRP
Subtotal Training, TA & Studies          511.3        964.8        1,476.1            65           17        11.7         22.1        33.8            65          17
Totai Investnent Costs                  3,663.1     5,005.9        8,668.9            58          110        83.8        114.6        198.4            58        100
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                   3,663.1      5.005.9        8.668.9            58         1(3         83.8        114.6       198.4            58         100
Physical Contingencies                323.0       405.9          728.9            56            8          74          9.3         16.7            56           8
PTice Contingencies                 1,772.5     2,373.4        4,145.9            57           48          6.5         8.5         15.0            56           8
TO'TAL PROJECT COSTS                   5,758.6      7,785.1      13,543.8             57          156        97.7        132.3       230.0            58         116
I/    Nota Bene:  The Technical Assistance component categories and sub-categories in this Table are presented according to the MIRP
Directorates who will be responsible for their implementation. It is useful to note that all these components have a strong ownership
by the borrower. Another interesting split is presented below with total US$ amounts (costs at appraisal):
(i)     Policy Support: US$10.0 million
(ii)    Institutional Development and Capacity Building: US$16.6 million, of which US$9.6 million in training; and
(iii)    Project Preparation and Implementation: US$16.7 million, of which US$4.6 million in control of works, US$8.1  in detailed
engineering studies and US$4.0 in applied research linked to project implementation.



-36-
3.45 Financing will be:
(i) $130.0 million:   IBRD loan
(ii) $100.0 million:   Algerian government



-37-
D. Procurement
3.46 All contracts financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Procurement. Contracts for road strengthening and rehabilitation works larger
than US$5.0 million equivalent, contracts for bridge rehabilitation larger than US$3.0 million
equivalent, contracts for equipment larger than US$0.35 million equivalent will be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB). In addition, for the second and third
tranches of road strengthening and rehabilitation works, appropriate packages of calls for
bids launched by the various Wilayas will be coordinated in time and procured through ICB
for a minimum total amount of US$10.0 million; similarly for the bridge rehabilitation works
after the first tranche, all calls for bids will be coordinated to form package(s) of at least
US$5 million. For contracts for the supply of goods procured through ICB, a margin of
preference of 15 percent or the actual customs duties, whichever is less, would be allowed
for domestic goods.
3.47  All other work contracts will be procured under local competitive bidding with the
exception of contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent and not exceeding US$2.0
million cumulative per year (US$16.0 million in total) which are allowed to be procured
under local shopping. Developed over the last five years under the Fifth Highway Project,
the procedures for these small contracts went well; a new step in the improvements and
simplification is designed in the modernization action program. All other goods contracts
will be procured under international shopping, with the exception of contracts costing less
than US$50,000 equivalent and not exceeding US$0.5 million cumulative per year which will
be procured under local shopping.
3.48 Consultant services will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the
Use of Consultants. Some important consultant services or studies (see para. 3.31 (a) and
(b) (i) to (iii))have been launched under the Fifth Highway Project following Bank
Guidelines, have received the Bank's no-objection and will be continued under the Sixth
Highway Project. The small contracts with laboratories for quality control of works will
introduce competition for the third tranche of works; an audit of these laboratories,
developed by the Bank during project preparation is translated into an action plan to
strengthen global quality approach, institutional development, and training at their own cost.
3.49 The Bank's Sample bidding documents in French will be used for the procurement of
goods and consultant services; sample bidding documents for works, agreed with the Bank,
and already used under Highway V, will be used for bidding under ICB and LCB
procedures.
3.50  Prior review of contract documents will be carried out for: (a) procurement of
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 1.0 million or more for civil works and
US$ 300,000 or more for goods, (b) all consultant contracts for consulting firms estimated to
cost over US$100,000 or for the employment of individuals estimated to cost over US$



-38-
50,000, (c) all sole source contracts estimated to cost over US$50,000, and (d) all terms of
reference. Prior review would cover about 75 percent of the total amount of contracts.
The DTPs are responsible for carrying out the procurement for works in their Willaya
territories under the supervision of DR for road strengthening and rehabilitation and DEER
for periodic road maintenance, similar to what was done under the Fifth Highway Project.
Quarterly reports and supervision missions are important to monitor progress.
Table 5: Procurement Method
PROCUREMENT METHOD
PROJECT ELEMENT                                                              TOTAL
ICB         LCB        OTHER          N.B.F.       COST
A. Road                     40.5       13.5            -              -        54.0
Strengthening          (22.3)     (7.4)                                   (29.7)
B. Road                     17.3       5.8             -              -        23.0
Rehabilitation          (9.5)     (3.2)                                   (12.7)
C. Municipal Roads                      a/_                          16.8"'    16.8
(0)
D. Periodic                  ^        60.4             -              -        60.4
Maintenance                       (33.2)                                  (33.2)
E. Equipment                10.9        -              -             2.5       13.4
(7.1)                                              (7.1)
F. Technical                 -          -            45 5"-                    45.5
Assistance &                                     (38.0)                   (38.0)
Studies
G. Bridge                   10.1       6.7             -              -        16.8
Rehabilitation          (5.6)     (3.7)                                    (9.3)
Total                       78.8       86.4          45.5            19.3     230.0
(44.4)    (47.5)         (38.0)          (0)      (130.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan. N.B.F.: Not bank
financed.
a. Financed by the Algerian Government; procured under LCB.
b. Procured in accordance with World Bank's Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency, August 1981.



-39-
E. DISBURSEMENTS
3.51   The Bank will disburse on the basis of Table 6: Allocation and Disbursement of the
Loan. The loan is expected to become effective in May 1995, and to be fully disbursed by
the closing date of December 31, 2002. This is broadly in line with the historical seven-year
disbursement profile for transportation projects in Algeria issued in August 1993. Project
investments are designed for full execution within five years and the two extra years given by
the country profile provide safety margin against investment slippages and disbursement lags.
Large components have been designed to be ready for immediate implementation at
effectiveness: the first tranche of strengthening and rehabilitation works, the first year of
periodic maintenance, the purchase of maintenance equipment and several studies (see Annex
2.1 and time schedule charts). They have the effect of accelerating disbursement between
1996 and 1998, compared to the standard profile. Without such exceptions, which are fully
justified, the project costs and the loan would both increase by US$1 million (plus 0.4 and
0.8 percent respectively). The disbursement table and corresponding graph are in Annex 2.1
3.52  Full documentation will be required for disbursements (a) for works or goods
procured under contracts valued at more than US$ 300,000 and (b) for consultant services
studies and training, under contracts valued at more than $100,000 for contracts for the
employment of consulting firms and $50,000 for contracts for the employment of individual
consultants. All other disbursements will be made against Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). Supporting documents will be made available to the Bank's supervision missions
and to the auditor. These documents will be retained for two years after Bank receipt of the
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the loan account was made.
Streamlining payments and disbursements will be developed in phases (see para. 2.27).
Table 6: Allocation and Disbursement of the Bank Loan
Loan Amount       Disbursement Percentage
US$     In % of
Million      Total
A. Civil Works                   80.3       61.8  55% of tax-inclusive
expenditures
B. Equipment & Goods              6.8        5.2  100% of foreign expenditures
and 65% of local tax-inclusive
expenditures
C. Consultant Services,          33.8        26.0  100% of expenditures net of
Studies & Training                             tax
Subtotal                        120.9        93.0
Unallocated                       9.1         7.0
Total                           130.0       100.0



-40-
3.53 To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account will be opened and maintained in US
dollars and operated on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Special Account
will cover the Bank's share of eligible expenses in both local and foreign currencies. The
authorized allocation will be US$7 million, i.e. the Bank's share of the estimated four-month
average of project expenditures. The Borrower will submit regular monthly replenishment
applications promptly after receipt and reconciliation of monthly bank statements from the
bank holding the account. During period of heavy expenditures, applications may be
submitted at intervals of less than a month.



-41-
F. REPORTING AND AUDITING
3.54 DPAE will prepare quarterly progress reports in a format acceptable to the Bank.
Each report will give project performance indicators data2, will indicate progress made,
problems encountered, remedial steps proposed, and project activities scheduled for the next
quarter. At the end, DPAE will prepare the overall implementation completion report (ICR),
on the basis of input from other implementing departments and agencies, which will be
issued no later than six months after the physical completion of the project works. This
report will include in particular, a detailed account of final project costs and disbursements,
general characteristics of project execution and benefits, the degree to which project
objectives were achieved, and an assessment of how the Government and the Bank
implemented their respective obligations.
3.55 A computerized project accounting system will be developed by DPAE to record
project transactions from project start-up in accordance with appropriate financial and
administrative practices; expert assistance needed to that effect will be financed under the
Fifth Highway Project. The accounting records will identify all project transactions under
the various components and show their financing. They will made it possible to monitor
commitments and payment arrears. Control systems will be introduced for use of SOEs,
which will be recorded separately. All supporting documentation will be retained for audit
and review by the Bank. Quarterly accounts will be prepared in a format approved by the
Bank and incorporated in the quarterly progress reports. These accounts will summarize
actual versus planned expenditures both per fiscal year and cumulated to date. BAD will
maintain the general project accounts on an on-going basis and keep separate records of
project-related payments made out of the Special Account, and against SOEs. Implementation
of the computerized system to maintain project accounts at MIRP as a Condition of
Effectiveness.
3.56 The "Inspection des Finances" will audit the project accounts, including examination
and certification of SOEs and of transactions under the Special Account. The audit will
employ principles acceptable to the Bank, and will include sample verifications of accounts
kept by the DTPs, of the effectiveness of control procedures and adherence to Bank
guidelines for disbursement and procurement. The report, in a "Long Forn," will be
submitted to the Bank not later than nine months after the end of the fiscal year.
2/ the indicators for each major component are described in Annex 13.



-42-
G. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
3.57 The main areas in which negative, as well as positive, environment impacts of the
project are possible concern the road rehabilitation works, road safety, and the detailed
engineering of future motorway sections, even though no motorway works are part of the
project. Annex 15 gives a mitigation and monitoring plan. At the Bank's request during the
project preparation phase, a special environment handbook was developed on road pavement
strengthening works by the CTTP utilizing foreign bibliography and addressing the most
recurrent issues in the Algerian context. The handbook will raise the awareness of the
operators and users, it provides:
(a)   a list and summary of the Algerian environment legislation;
(b)   details of the most recurrent impacts of quarries (in mountains or river beds),
crushing equipment, asphalt plants, unused materials, tree cutting, and soil
erosion; and
(c)   a list of mitigation actions and more detailed bibliography on implementation.
3.58 Road Works. Road strengthening/rehabilitation, bridge rehabilitation, and pavement
maintenance, will involve no realignment (only very limited, small curve correction), only
narrow widening (50 to 80 cm) on existing right of way, drainage improvement, and mainly
bituminous or non treated base/surface courses. No sensitive area is concerned. Most
granular materials are supplied from existing quarries or quarry sites.
The handbook contains numerous photos taken on past Algerian road works, which
illustrate very well what should be avoided in practice.
In the Sample Contract for Works, a new Chapter 6 has been introduced on
Environment; its clauses cover noise, dust, replanting where necessary, waste material
disposal and requests a restoration plan for asphalt plant area after the works are completed.
The new Algerian legislation on emission thresholds (Decret 93/165 of 10/7/93) limits
dust emission to 70 to 485 mg/mi3; it has been requested that laboratory contracts be updated
to measure dust emission around asphalt plans, especially near urban areas; measures will be
developed during the first work tranche, then implementation recommendations will be
developed for the road sector and works contracts will be amended for the following
tranches;
Similarly, a short handbook has been developed on road safety in the context of road
strengthening and rehabilitation to improve road infrastructure safety. Road safety studies
per section or route start being developed to identify and correct blackspots. Special
guidelines are being strengthened concerning the safety of road users and workers during the
job under traffic.



-43-
3.59 The sample bidding document for motorway feasibility and detailed engineering
studies now incorporates the detailed terms of reference on environment assessment proposed
by the Bank. In addition, DR and ANA plan to clear the backlog of environmental
assessment for motorway sections already studied, to identify additional mitigating measures
needed. The economic and financial study on the planned motorway system will introduce
necessary and specialized environmental assessment methodologies for the future; relevant
training on "roads and environment" is also planned. A special technical assistance to ANA,
financed under the project, includes environment advice services; all these studies have been
chosen by DR to implement the new Algerian regulations on Environmental Impact
Assessment in close relation with the Environment authorities.
M:\Rny\Algeria\Chapter3



-44-
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
General
4.01  The program focusses on maintenance of heavily-trafficked roads to reduce a
substantial maintenance backlog that was allowed to accumulate for years. By nature, the
sub-projects generate high returns on investments. Details on the economic evaluation are
given in Annex 8, and the main conclusions are summarized hereafter.
Project Benefits
4.02 Main benefits from road maintenance, from light surface treatment to strengthening,
are associated to vehicle operating costs savings with reduced road roughness. Other benefits
come from not having to reconstruct a road when maintenance is deferred, or from
minimization of maintenance costs over time when comparing two maintenance strategies.
Preliminary calculations have been made. The road strengthening program covers some 410
km with traffic of 2,200 to 17,400 vehicle per day. The economic rates of return (ERRs)
range from 40 to 89 percent (weighed average of 67 percent). For the road rehabilitation
program, covering 256 km with traffic of 770 to 5,200 vehicle per day, ERRs range from 18
to 65 percent (weighed average of 44.7 percent).
4.03  For bridges, the detailed engineering studies of the first phase comprised of 18
bridges are in progress, and the component start-up is only due in year 2 of project
implementation. The second phase, covering 15 bridges necessitating more complex
engineering studies, is deferred to year 3. The economic analysis will be carried out after
completion of the detailed engineering, and programming of sub-projects will be contingent
upon verification that they achieve ERRs of at least 12 percent. The methodology to be used
for the economic evaluation was reviewed and discussed at appraisal. It consists of a
software package developed in Hungary, based on sound analytical principles and a large
data base, which will be adapted to Algerian conditions. The model was tested on a sample
of project bridges (8) and calculated ERRs were in the 22-68 percent range. The component
is strongly justified.
4.04 Periodic maintenance of paved roads will apply to the RN network which have traffic
of more than 2,000 vehicle per day and offer guarantees of high ERRs. The economic
evaluation will be preliminary step to annual programming of works. Only sub-projects with
ERRs of 12 percent or above will be eligible to financing under the project. The HDM III
model is currently being developed in Algeria, and the refined calibration of main parameters
will be completed before year end. Preliminary tests were conducted on a sample of about
2,000 km of roads and showed very high ERRs for periodic maintenance (well above 100
percent). Although they may not be accurate, since the HDM III model is not yet
operational, these results confirm the robust economic justification of the component.



-45-
4.05  The economic justification of the project financed equipment was assessed on the
basis of benefits likely to be derived from the pilot maintenance program for Saharan roads
to which it will be assigned. The equipment will be used to ensure minimum maintenance of
about 4,600 km of unpaved roads in four Wilayas with average daily traffic of 29 vehicles,
including 83 percent of trucks. Main tasks include spot maintenance to restore traffic
conditions (after floods, sand accumulation, and rocky deposits) and, to a lesser extent,
regravelling and grading. These tasks would be executed by an organization comprised of 11
intervention units endowed with a standard set of light equipment and mobile homes, and 5
reserve units equipped to provide support when heavier equipment is needed or to cope with
peak workload. The combined output of the pilot maintenance organization would be
12,000 m3 per year for spot improvements and 11,000 km per year for grading. With 80
percent of the equipment operating cost incurred in relation to spot maintenance, the model
assumes economic unit costs of US$8.3/m3 and US$33 km for the two elementary tasks,
based on an average depreciation over 6.5 years. The HDMIII model has been used to
compare two strategies: (a) stretching the maintenance capacity for modulated coverage of
the full 4,600 km network; (b) concentrating this capacity on about 1,900 km of roads with
daily traffic above 20 vehicles. Without the project, minimum routine maintenance was
assumed at a cost of US$20/km. Benefits would come from reduced roughness (from a
current IRI index of 15), elimination of days when roads are not passable (assumed as 10 at
present), and traffic creation growing to 30 percent of existing traffic. Strategy (a) was
found to maximize the net present value (NPV) of the pilot program, with an ERR of around
70 percent.
Non Ouantified Benefits
4.06  As intermediary goods, transport has a pervading influence on the economic system.
By contributing to making roads better, and through passing on of at least a portion of direct
benefits to consumers and producers, the project investment is bound to have consumption
and production effects. These secondary growth benefits may be a multiple of measured
benefits, given the large unemployment prevalent in Algeria and the low utilization rate of
the production capacity. The project is also to have a positive impact on road safety. Road
deterioration creates driving hazards, put vehicles under greater strain, and increases the
probability of accidents by loss of vehicle control and mechanical failures. Normal preventive
car maintenance is nearly impossible given the shortages of equipment and spare parts,
making the vehicle fleet more vulnerable to bad roads. The capacity building at MIRP and
ANA bears other substantial, albeit deferred, benefits which elude quantification. Road
construction techniques will be improved, leading to cheaper and more durable works.
Project preparation and road programming skills will also be developed, resulting in cost
effective uses of scarce budget resources. This is especially true for motorway development.
The Bank review of preliminary engineering studies underscores a need for a more thorough
assessment of project constraints and possible alternatives toward optimization of the
motorway design and minimization of its costs. The motorway construction will by far be the
largest road investment for the next 15-20 years, and the project will ensure better conditions
for preparation and implementation.



-46-
Sustainability
4.07  Good road management is essential to project sustainability, as is regular funding of
maintenance. The proposed capacity building is tailored to meet the first requirement,
especially through development of new curricula of advanced engineering studies to ensure
higher qualification of young recruits at entry in the profession. Generalization of the
funding mechanism tested under the pilot municipal road program, and the targeted
establishment of a Road Fund by mid-term review will strongly work toward meeting the
second requirement. In addition, Action Plans to eliminate long-standing bottlenecks in
quarry and bitumen supplies, and to improve performance of public laboratories, both part of
the Bank up-front conditionality, are at the core of the strategy to create an enabling
environment for the road industry. A healthier competition on quality and prices will allow to
make the most of resources allocated to road maintenance, a goal also pursued by
privatization of public works contractors.
Risks
4.08  A sensitivity analysis was carried out to ascertain the impact of adverse changes in the
value of main parameters on calculated ERRs. It showed that the economic justification of
the road strengthening and rehabilitation components was little affected by assumptions on
traffic growth rates, and that underestimating the investment costs and overestimating the
first year traffic are the most critical factors. Project investments, however, are expected to
generate high ERRs because they apply to highly trafficked roads for which maintenance is
generally overdue, and the sensitivity analysis indicated that it would take a lot larger
investment costs, and a small fraction of assumed traffic before ERRs would fall down to
lowest acceptable level of 12 percent. For the road maintenance equipment, the sensitivity
analysis measured the impact on NPV of doubling the working expenses (NPV reduced by 20
percent), cutting the overall capacity by 50 percent (NPV reduced by 17 percent), assuming
no induced traffic (NPV reduced by 18 percent) and no less disruptions to traffic (NPV
reduced by 4 percent). These results confirm the strong economic justification of the
equipment component.
M: \RayA IgerTw\Chapter4.sar



-47-
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01  Agreement was reached during negotiations on the following dates:
(i)   draft action plan on bridge rehabilitation available not later than June 1, 1995;
with implementation not later than December 1, 1995 (para. 3.15);
(ii)   economic, financial and environmental study of East-West motorway starting
not later than June 1, 1995 and results available not later than June 1, 1996;
with implementation of study's recommendations not later than December 1,
1996 (para. 3.31 (b));
(iii)  user charges study update available not later than December 1, 1995; with
implementation not later than June 1, 1997 (paras. 1.18, 2.26 and annex 14);
(iv)   progress reports on project implementation available not later than February 1,
May 1, August 1 and November 1 of each year until completion of the project;
and
(v)   mid-term progress report available not later than June 30, 1997 and mid-term
review to be held not later than September 30, 1997.
5.02 As condition of loan effectiveness, MIRP will send to the Bank the decisions creating
the following committees, with membership and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank:
(i)   committee to study the feasibility of establishing a road fund (para.
2.26); and
(ii)   committee to monitor the implementation of the pilot program on
municipal road maintenance (para. 3.23).
5.03 Agreements having been reached on the issues outlines in Chapter III and IV, and
subject to the condition of effectiveness set forth in para. 5.02, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of $130 million to the Government of Algeria for a term of 17 years
including 5 years of grace.
M:\Ray\A1geria\Chapter5



-48-
Annex 1
Page 1 of 1
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Detailed Project Costs
(In AD Militon)                                               (In USS Million)
Local    Foreign          Total    % Foreign      S Total       LoDsCi    Foreign       Total                       %
Exchane         Bane                                           Foreign      Total
Costs                                         Exchange       BCoe
Costs
A. Strentbening & Rebabilltatior
I. Strengthening                    893.2     1,098.7       1,992.0            55          23        20.4        25.1        45.6           55          23
2. Road Rehabilituuion              381.4       469.1         850.5            55          10         8.7        10.7        19.5            55         10
3. Bridge Rehabilitation            236.3       351 9         588.2            60           7         5.4         S.1        13.5            60          7
4. Control of Works                 115.1        76.2         191.3            40           2         2.6          1.7        4.4            40          2
5. Technical Studies and             37.0        69.7         106.7            65           1         0.t          1.6        2.4            65
Supervision                       _
Subtotal Strengtbening and            1,663.0     2,065.6       3,728.7           55          43        38.1        47.3         85.3           55         43
RebabilitatI.n
B. Rod Maina4nsne
I. Periodic Maintenance by          999,6     1,229.6       2,229.2            55          26        22.9        28.1        51.0           55         26
Contract
2. Equiprent for Current            189.7       352.2         541.9            65           6         4.3         8. l       12.4            65          6
Maintenance and Traffic
Counting
3. Municipal Road Maintenance       260.9       321.0         581.9            55           7         6.0         7.3        13.3            55          7
4. Sngervision, General Studies      38.5        72.7         111.1            65           I         0.9          1.7        2.5            65          I
& Training (MunicipaJ
Roads)III
Subtotl Road Makitenane               1,4N8.7     1,975.4      3,464.1            57          40        34.1        45.2        79.3            57         40
C. Training, TA and Studks
I. Audit of Road Enterprises         30.8        58.1          88.9            65           I         0.7         1.3         2.0           65
2. TA to ANA & Training              50.8        95.9         146.7            65           2         1.2         2.2         3.4            65          2
3. Econotnic, Financial.            132.5       249.9         382.4            65           4         3.0         5.7         8.8            65          4
Environment & Detailed
Engineering Studies
(Motoeways)
4. Modernization & Trining          171.0       322.6         493.5            65           6         3.9         7.4        11.3            65          6
Actions (MIRP)
5. General Studies &Technical        95.5       180.2         275.7            65           3         2.2         4.1         6.3            65          3
guidelines
6. Specific Techncatl Assistance     30.8        58.1          88.9            65           I         0.7         1.3         2.0            65
fnr the MEAT
SubiotalTralning, TA & Studks          511.3       964.8        1,476.1           65          17         11.7       22.1        33.8            65         17
Totl Inestmenet Casts                 3,663.1     5,005.9       8,68.9            Se         100        83.8        114.6      196.4            58       I10
TOTALBASELINECOSTS                   3,663.1     5,005.9       8,668.9            58         100        83.8       114.6       198.4            58       t10
Physical Contirngencies             323.0       405.9         728.9            56           8         7.4         9.3        16.7           56          8
Price Contingencices              1,7.5       2,373.4       4,145.9            57          48         6.5         8.5  I     150            56          8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  5,758.6     7,785. 1     13,543.8            57         156        97.7       132.3       230.0            58        116
M \Ray\Algreia&Anoex.l



-49-
Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 7
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC AF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Implementation and Procurement Schedule
The tables of pages 4,5,6 and 7 describe the implementation and procurement
schedules agreed on during appraisal for the main works and goods representing about 75%
of total project costs. Concerning the training, TA and studies component , many TORs are
finalized allowing signature of consultant service contracts at effectiveness; the
implementation time of the subcomponents is planned to be between two and three years,
depending on the specificities of the 1995-97 context, with the exception of the post-graduate
degree which will be launched after the in-depth diagnosis of the Ecole Nationale des
Travaux Publics, planned by DRHR for mid 1995.
The tables of page 2 and 3 describe expenditures and disbursements estimated on the
basis of the combination of procurement scheduled and Algeria Transport disbursement
profiles.



-50-
Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 7
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals including Contingencies
(In US$ Million)
Todals IndCuding Conlingencks
1995          1996           1997           1998           1999          2000           2001           2002         Total
A. Strengthening & Rehabilitaion
I  Strengthening                         7.6           8.8            9.0            9.3            9.5            9.8            -                          54.0
2. Road RehabiliLation                   3.2            3.8           3.9            4.0            4.1            4.2            -                          23.0
3  Bridge Rehabilitation                                1.9           4.9            4.2            28             2.1           0.9                         16.8
4. Control of Works                      0.7            0.8            0.9           0.9            0.9            0.9                   -                    5.2
5. Technical Studies &                   0.5            0.9           0.6             -             -              -                     -                    2.6
Supervision                                                                                        _                        _        ___
Subtioal Strengthening  nd                 12.1           16.2           19.3           18.9          17.2           17.0            0.9                        101.6
RehbAliltxt
B. Road Malnuensn
I  Periodic Maintenance by               8.5           9.9           10.1           10.4           10.6           10.9                                       60.4
Conbtrc
2. Equipment for Current                 1.3           11.4           0.7             .                            .              -                          13.4
Maintenance ani Traffic
Counting
3. Municipal Road Maintenance            1.7            1.6            1.6           2.8            3.2            3.0            2.9                        16.8
4. Superision, General Studies           0 5            0.9           0.7            0.6                                          -      -                    2.7
& Training (Municipal
Roads)
Subtotal Read Maintenance                  12.0           23.8           13.1          13.8           13.9           13.9            2.9                        93.3
C. Training. TA and Studes
I  Audit of Road Enterprises            0.5            0.5            0.5            0.6                   -              -              -                    2.1
2. TA to ANA & Traininrg                 0.8           0.9            0.9            0.9                                                                      3.5
3. Ecoronic, Financial,                  2.7            3.6           2.8                                                                                     9.0
Environment & Detailed
Engineering Studies
(Motorways)
4. Modernizatin & Training               3.4            4.1           4.2            .                                                                       11.7
Actions (MIRP)
5. General Studim & Research             1.6            1.6           1.7            1.7                                                                      6.6
6. Specific Technical Assistance         0.5           0.5            0.5            0.6                                                                      2.1
for (MIRP)
Subtotal Training, TA & Studies             9.5           11.2           10.6            3.7                                         -                          35,1
Total lnsstanent Camts                     33.6           51.2          43.0           36.3           31.1           30.9            3.8    _                  230.0
TOTALPROJECT COSTS                         33.6           51.2           43,0          36.3           31.1           30.9            3.8          =            230.0



-51-
Annex 2-1
Page 3 of 7
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement per Bank Fiscal Year
in US $ Million
1995     1996    1997     1998     1999    2000      2001     2002
Annual:
0       20.8   31.0      26.4     20.0      15.6   15.6       0.6
Cumulative:
0       20.8   51.8      78.2      98.2    113.8    129.4   130.0
Profile for Al2eria:.
Prof L forAle 0      23.5      33.5     49.5     70.5   101.5    127.4   130.0
Algeria Highway VI Disbursement
'400
150
E  .7        la 100- 
E
.......
0.                            
1995    1 996    1997    1998    1 999    20CC    2001    2002
Years
-      Plenned disbursements per Bank fiscal year (cumulative) .           Profile for Algeria
I    I          ~     ~I    I          I          II                                ;
Nota Bene: Explanations on estimated disbursement pace are given in para. 3.47 and in Annex 2.1 - page 1.
M:\XRyAgria\Anncx.2



II l.4Jl"A  VI IlI"IIIWAYl IRMU LT
1995                          1996                           1991                          1998                           1999                          2W
J M  M    J   S   N    J    M    M    J    S   N    J   m   M    J    s    N    J   m    m    .1   S   N    J    M    M    J    S    N    I   m    M    J               S 
_________  ________________    F  A  J~~~~                                  ~~~~~ A  0  0FA   J  A  0  0  F  A  J  A0                      F  A  J  A  0 [)             F  A J                    i            0 
ottlA,lO.
l.~tjo  ~t~I 0.ol
I I,&,,t.tt., F .j,k,oti zl   *0  0  AO  Wdpl ~Ps  I                 Io..
[tl.,t  1.1   1 lalt-tloY   Mo*del -1rt1-"                           don.
U.ad I
I..tt.... lilyttlractwatuno
.,,ttrtt bylalottatot
It.'.ttt,., ltt      d,,.   yIb,-
W.A.t                                                                                                                                                                                   30*[C
Us~~~~~~~~~
d,,tI., -ttaread



.53-                               Annex 2-1
Page 5 of 7
.,z<
4 1 
4!                                                                   _ 
2_
C  -~~~_
-1     '.i,.4',



.11.111Ak %I' IIIGllWAV PH4ULICT
1995                     1996                     1997                      1996                     1999                     2000
MM  .1 S N  J  M M  J S N  .1MM.    5  N  j  M M                                          S N  J M M   J SN  .1 M M  J  S N
______ ______ _____ ______ _____ ______ ___   F A   J  A   0    0   F   A   J   A    0       F   A   .   A    0   D   F    A   J1  A   0   D   F    A   J   A    0   D   F   A    J   A   0   [1
19916
All C-to...gtt
1991 .-pa.gn
AN ttojo..W
CAl I., 6ts I., RN 
RN C-.-9.t.
1998 -P.pg
Cd lo ldoloV  A 
I baltatllt COM,ttOi
RH Ctattpa.g.
Ctngta.g  Repot I rnoolo-tt  .Okcal-.l 
1995 and 1999 campaigns are also included in the project with the same annual time schedule.
.u t.
0 1
OQ I



I F lIA VI lIiNlIIWAI I'KIkEiHT
on tn.l M-..Op.l R.*d,
1995                         1996                          199 7                         1998                          1999                          2000
i M M     SN]J MM]i S NJ  MM  J   S N J  MM  J S N]  MM  J   SN  J M M  J S N
_______________________________   F  A  J  A  0  0  F  A]J  A  0  O) F  A]J  A  0  O F  A]   A  0  D  F  A]J  A  00D  F  A  J  A0 LI
1.  d,go,   In f,,, tl,,nle I,, 1i. srrpe-vsIOn o! lh.  -u.cp.pi rads don.
ton I.,, Ia.I-o  2 .-'! 3 ,,I I?. swroy                                    do.*
Scrvrc  -rl.lot I.,0 MiNI!
In,-- 2 -nd 3 01 fh I-,,$ln
A......,.1r..  pr...I'l.l                                                                                                                                                           U                             Ualal
m rs
I-t -
*-2



-56-
Annex 2.2
Page 1 of 2
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Preparation of Project Implementation Volume
1.    The Project Implementation Volume (PIV) is important because many actors at the
local level will be involved and because the absence of such document has had a negative
impact on Highway V implementation pace; the designing and writing of the Volume
chapters by each responsible Directorate is a key factor for success; comprehensive
handbooks/guidelines/sample bidding documents have already been developed on road
strengthening, rehabilitation, and maintenance.
2.    Examples of similar PIV have been distributed during appraisal and annex 1, 2, and 3
of its aide-memoire give the key points for all sub-components; the draft PIV is due by
March 31, 1995 and to be distributed at the project launching workshop planned for April
1995.
3.    The planned table of contents is the following:
Table of Contents
Project Implementation Volume
Executive Summary
1.   Introduction
2.    General Project Scope and Objectives
2.1   General Description
2.2   Summary of Project Components
3.    Project Organization and Management
3.1   Organization Structure
3.2   Role/Objectives/Responsibilities of
-  DPAE and the "Facilitator"
- DR
-  DEER
-  DRHR
-  Fonds de Participation
3.3   Role/Objectives/Responsibilities of other Actors (CTTP, Laboratories, CNPH-
INPE, etc).
4.    Detailed Component Description, Implementation Schedules, Indicators. For all 14



-57-
Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 2
sub-components, the same format is being used:
1. - Objectives
2. - Description
3. - Costs
4. - Organization
4.1 Financing
4.2 Implementation responsibilities
4.3 Procurement
5. - Indicators and Reporting
6. - Implementation and Procurement Schedule.
5.    General Procurement Rules
5.1   Regulations and Procedures
5.2   Procurement of Works
5.3   Procurement of Services
5.4   Procurement of Goods
6.    Accounting System and Audits
6.1   Payment Procedures
6.2   Disbursements
6.3   Financial Statements and Reports
6.4   Performance Indicators of Payment and Disbursement
6.5   Audits
7.    Monitoring and Reporting
Annexes
- All guidelines for procurement
- All TORs for studies
- Detailed references to key local documents/sample bidding documents
- Sample quarterly report formats



-58-
Annex 3
Page 1 of 7
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
LETTER OF ROAD SECTOR POLICY
The President
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. President:
On the occasion of the sixth loan granted by the World Bank for highway
development in Algeria, I should like to express my appreciation of the way in which your
institution is continuing to support our country's highway sector. Roads are indeed the most
important transport mode in Algeria, accounting for over 93% of traveler-km and
approximately 85 % of ton-km.
The highway network, which includes some 95,000 km of roadway, today represents
a heavy burden on the budget, owing to the fact that maintenance constraints are increasing
as pavements deteriorate with age and traffic volumes increase.
It has become necessary to optimize public expenditure in order to reconcile road
network development needs and preservation of the road assets. The sector therefore intends
to grant priority to preservation of the existing highway network and improvement of its
management.
The safeguarding and management of the existing network, and the motorway
construction works in progress or awarded priority will represent the focal points of highway
sector development over the next few years.
This program will center mainly on:
(a)   continuation of actions to improve road network management, operation and
maintenance;
(b)   priority treatment of the high-traffic roads included in the basic economic
network through pavement strengthening or rehabilitation;
(c)   continued implementation of road network decongestion programs, particularly
in the country's central region and around Constantine;



-59-
Annex 3
Page 2 of 7
(d)   stimulation of the road works market.
The actions identified within this framework will essentially involve:
-     installation of some 300 small emergency maintenance units [unites
d'intervention rapide - UIR] to handle small-scale emergency maintenance
needs on national roads and wilaya roads;
-     preparation and dissemination of bridge management and maintenance guides;
-     implementation of a pilot maintenance program for municipal roads, designed
to ensure better organization of the management of that part of the highway
network;
-     development of a highway network maintenance strategy designed to
optimize works programming;
-     implementation of actions geared to the development of the industry producing
aggregates and bitumen, and improvement of the quality of road works thanks
to improved laboratory perfonnance.
The physical works comprise:
strengthening and rehabilitation of over 4,000 km of roads, including Saharan
tracks;
construction or rehabilitation of approximately 100 bridges;
construction of priority sections of the East-West motorway, in accordance
with the conclusions of the economic and financial study.
Road maintenance
Many efforts have been made over the past few years in the area of maintenance of
the national roads, which alone account for over 80% of road transport volumes.
The principal pavement strengthening operations have focussed on the basic economic
network, which carries the major part of the country's highway traffic.
Road maintenance budgets have increased substantially over the past few years.
Maintenance budgets more than doubled between 1990 and 1993. Accounting for
inflation, this represents real growth on the order of 20%.



-60-
Annex 3
Page 3 of 7
The 1993 highway maintenance budget totaled DA 7 billion, while the total for 1995
will be DA 9 billion, or approximately two thirds of the overall highway budget.
This effort in the allocation of budgetary resources to road maintenance will be
continued throughout project execution.
Municipal roads
A study will be carried out within the framework of the Sixth Project to improve the
management and maintenance of municipal roads. This study will define a pilot maintenance
works program to be launched in 1996, in order to implement the institutional, financial and
technical mechanisms necessary to guarantee regular maintenance over the long term. The
necessary budgetary funding for this program will be mobilized.
Motorway program
While the motorway program responds to a basic aspect of the country's economic
development, its implementation demands financing on a scale incompatible with the
country's difficult economic circumstances.
The economic recovery strategy consists of allocating available resources to those
actions that are the most likely to solve immediate problems.
The sector will pursue the motorway works in progress and give priority to works
with the highest rate of return, this being the only way to set up financial arrangements open
to participation.
Stimulation of highway studies-and-works market
The highway industry market is presently dominated by enterprises in the public
sector. The objective is to reinvigorate this market through the continuation of a number of
actions, as well as the initiation of new measures, in liaison with the institutions concerned,
the principal goal being to gradually expand the field of competition and thereby achieve
more efficient performance. The conditions to be met for real and sustainable competition
are currently being reviewed by the Government within the framework of the draft law to
promote competition. Thus, and without waiting for formalization of this new action
framework, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Regional Planning will work to achieve its
overall objective of improved performance by:
gradually strengthening the criteria for evaluating the financial capacities of
road works contractors submitting bids;



-61-
Annex 3
Page 4 of 7
pursuing its present policy of developing the use of small local contractors
whenever appropriate;
ensuring, as far as public enterprises within its sector of activity are
concerned, that the Government's policy decision is observed, namely that it
have no part in the management of public enterprises, once their liabilities
have been definitively cleared, whenever this is justified. Within this
framework, a review of the situation of public enterprises in the highway
sector is now being carried out, chiefly for the purpose of determining which
enterprises are actively engaged in an internally generated recovery process
and identifying the necessary components for their financial restructuring,
based on validated recovery plans and performance contracts. Such
restructuring is not planned for enterprises in difficulty, which do not show
signs of an internally generated recovery process and meet the criteria for
liquidation.
In application of these principles, the treatment of public enterprises in difficulty
should no longer depend on government intervention but should be approached through the
new mechanisms set up, and in particular:
Articles 24 and 25 of the supplementary finance law for 1994, entitling public
enterprises to sell their assets and open up their capital to individuals or bodies
corporate under public or private law. These provisions also represent
significant means of improving the economic efficiency of viable public
enterprises;
the provisions of legislative decree 94-09 of May 26, 1994 allowing
enterprises to adapt their staffing to their potential level of activity;
the amendments to the Commercial Code, sanctioning the principle of
bankruptcy and liquidation of nonviable public enterprises.
Concerning public works contractors in the public sector, and in relation to the above
principles and the actions already in progress or planned for the public enterprises, the
infrastructure department has both a specific role linked to its function as owner of highways
and a general role linked to its mission as a government agency. It should be noted in this
connection that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Regional Planning has already informed the
World Bank of the establishment of a unit of economists to monitor this important aspect and
to enable our Ministry to gain a strategic vision of the available means of the sector. With
respect to actions intended to improve the economic efficiency of enterprises and to expand
the field of competition, and to sectoral actions involving public works contractors, these are
carried out, in consultation with the Ministry of Industrial Restructuring and Participation and
the Ministry of Finance, essentially through the Fonds de Participation Construction. They



-62-
Annex 3
Page 5 of 7
are implemented in accordance with the guidelines, objectives, and timing of the
Government's economic rehabilitation program, which is also under discussion with your
institution.
A first basic document entitled "Recovery of the National Economy and Restructuring
Policy" has already been prepared and adopted within this framework, and is mentioned in
the National Planning Council's letter to the Bank of November 30.
The decisions to be taken on a case by case basis, following the review of the
situation of each enterprise as mentioned above, and the changes to be made to this
component within the framework of the Government's economic rehabilitation program, will
be discussed with your institution in terms of their possible impact on the Sixth Highway
Project. This discussion will take place as soon as possible, the conclusions being taken into
account during
preparation of the action plans for those areas, and a report will be prepared within the
framework of the mid-term review of the Sixth Highway Project.
Highway development
The quality of highway management should be developed in order that the highway
budgets be utilized more efficiently.
The actions selected within this framework relate in particular to:
the study covering measures to update the highway taxation system, carried out
within the framework of the National Transport Study;
the creation of a road fund designed to protect the highway maintenance
budgets from unforeseen economic contingencies, make managers more
accountable, and develop procedures better oriented to improved performance.
Its income will come essentially from the proceeds of the user fees identified
by the highway taxation study, and its expenditure will cover all of the
recurrent costs of the highway networks, including strengthening and
rehabilitation;
the continuation of an approach launched some two years ago, focussing in
particular on:
(i)     quality of the works
(ii)    bitumen
(iii)    aggregates



-63-
Annex 3
Page 6 of 7
(iv)     laboratories
(v)     payments
This approach is part of a process whereby lessons are learned from the past, through
consultation with all of the actors concerned, as well as from international experience in this
field.
The corresponding action plans are attached.
Departmental modernization
The conditions for project preparation and monitoring will be improved within the
framework of the component of the Sixth Highway Project covering modernization of the
infrastructure department.
Particular emphasis will be placed on strengthening of the capabilities for performing
economic appraisals of investment projects.
Project selection criteria will be strengthened through the formulation of study
guidelines.
Plans are under way to expand the highway data bank and operation of the network
management systems to the entire priority network by December 31, 1996.
Special efforts will be made to disseminate sample bidding documents and study terms
of reference.
Wilaya directorate oversight mechanisms will be set up, through the development and
use of performance indicators and of rapid and reliable information systems.
Staff motivation will be achieved through better personnel management, for example
through implementation of an upgrading program for each staff category.
Training
In the area of training, the principal actions will involve development of the Institut
National de Perfectionnement de 1'Equipement and of the E~cole Nationale des Travaux
Publics de Kouba, through upgrading cycles designed to raise the technical level of engineers
employed by the wilaya directorates and public works subdivisions.
A program will be set up under the Sixth Highway Project to provide management
training abroad for 500 professionals.



-64-
Annex 3
Page 7 of 7
Assistance to municipalities
Very few municipalities have highway engineering divisions, most of them relying on
support from the public works subdivisions.
This technical assistance to the municipalities will be clarified and formalized in new
regulations to be enacted during 1995 by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Regional
Planning and the Ministry of the Interior, Local Authorities, Environment, and
Administrative Reform.
Laboratories
A technical audit of the laboratories carried out in 1994 resulted in several
recommendations designed to improve laboratory performance in the road construction area.
These recommendations related to:
-     creation of a laboratory network
-     redefinition of key skills and functions
-     regularization of the financial situation and establishment of an investment and
equipment renewal plan
-     redefinition of relations between the infrastructure department and the
laboratories.
An action plan implementing the above recommendations, prepared by the Ministry of
Infrastructure and Regional Planning, the laboratories concerned, and the Fonds de
Participation Construction, is annexed hereto.
The foregoing represents the major thrust of the highway sector development program
to be implemented by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Regional Planning over the next few
years. We trust that this program will be executed under the best possible conditions, in
close collaboration with the World Bank.
Accept, Mr. President, the assurances of my highest consideration.
The Minister of Infrastructure
and Regional Planning
M:%Rxy\Aygter\Annex.3



-65-
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Action Plans for "Ouality". "Public Works Laboratories" and "Acceleration
of Payments and Disbursements"
Ouality Chain
1.    The situation of the "quality chain" and the laboratories is described in Chapters 1
and 2. In the framework of the project objective to implement a quality improvement
strategy, and following a strategic audit of the four regional laboratories, an agreement was
reached during the appraisal mission on the following:
(a)   the laboratories represent a significant asset for Algeria but improvements are
necessary;
(b)   the audit report recommendations are endorsed and are the basis for the
detailed action plan:
(i)   create a network of laboratories, to better share technical information,
but maintaining financial and management autonomy of each
laboratory;
(ii)  redefine and update missions pertaining to the laboratories;
(iii)  rehabilitate the financial situation;
(iv)  redefine the relation between the Ministry and the laboratories;
(v)   launch a systematic quality approach;
(vi)  reorganize laboratories by competencies;
(vii)  establish a computerization plan; and
(viii) establish a selective plan for equipment.
(c)   the Director of Roads decided to:
(i)   take steps to improve the "quality chain" among local administration
engineers and in laboratory control contracts;
(ii)  set up specific and progressive criteria to qualify each laboratory for
each tranche of works, thus encouraging them to implement the short-
and medium-term audit recommendations; and
(iii)  subordinate the access of laboratories to general studies and research
financed under the project, to key-action implementation related to the
development of an effective "network" of laboratories in the field of
training, quality approach plan, computerization, and technical
information sharing.
2.    Two detailed action plans (in french) are annexed to the policy letter:



-66-
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
one on "Quality for Studies, Works, Contract Management, Control and
Competition", with 20 specific actions,
one on "Laboratories", with 23 specific actions.
Acceleration of Payments and Disbursements
3.    DPAE in MIRP, in close relation with main actors concerned, has developed a first-
step action plan to address issues described in para. 2.27; this action plan with 5 key actions
includes an analysis of issues with a sample of contracts and the preparation of a local
manual for payment and disbursement procedures. This action plan (in french) is annexed to
the policy letter.
M:\Ray\AIgeria\Annex .4



-67-
Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Action Plans for "Bitumen Supply and Ouality" and "Granular Materials"
Bitumen Supply and Quality
1.    The lessons learned from Highway V project implementation concerning bitumen
supply shortage and quality are described in Chapter 2. In the framework of the project
objective to create a more enabling environment for efficient utilization of scarce resources,
and following the audit reports on bitumen supply and quality, agreement was reached during
the appraisal mission on the following:
(a)   the diagnosis and recommendations described in the audit reports are endorsed
and the Director of Roads will inform the other decision makers, from the
bitumen supply side, Ministry of Heavy Industry, Ministry of Commerce,
Sonatrach, Naftec and Naftal, requesting them to take appropriate actions;
(b)   the Algerian national working group on bitumen developed the action plan
based on the already detailed action plan proposal developed by the audit
reports; the key points concern:
Supply side:
(i)   the technical specifications used in future contracts to produce non-
rutting, non-cracking bitumen;
(ii)  the need to concentrate at least production and distribution in one hand
(for example Naftec) for the bitumen refined in Algeria, and to create a
competitor directly importing road bitumen (for example Naftal);
(iii)  the importance of producing appropriate bitumen grades at least in the
two refineries and to charge the real transport costs;
(iv)  the development of a consistent quality control system by the producer;
(v)   the streamlining of needs assessment and the improved time scheduling
of import ordering, including foreign exchange availability for it;
Demand side:
(vi)  the strong development of a consistent quality control plan for bitumen
binder procurement and production of bituminous mixes; and
(c)   the Director of Roads decided to:
-     pay for the quality control tests to be done by the administration and
launch a data base on bitumen control results;
-     systematically demand quality conformity certificates when bitumen is
bought by contractors; and
-     launch a demonstration project on the use of bitumen emulsions.



-68-
Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
2.    A detailed action plan of 55 specific actions (in french) on bitumen supply and quality
is annexed to the policy letter.
Granular Materials for Roads
3.    Following a national seminar aimed at identifying key actions to improve the
availability and quality of granular materials for roads, an action plan has been developed by
DEER and is incorporated in the project. Eleven key actions are described (in french) in an
annex to the policy letter.
M:\Ray\AWgeria\Annex.S



-69-
Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
List of Studies on Road Sector Policy and Technical Guidelines
Road Directorate (DR)
-     Preparation of Guidelines and Recommendations on Highway and Motorway Studies
-     Preparation of Guidelines on Environment Impact Assessment of Road Projects
-     Preparation of Guidelines on Economic Evaluation and Selection of Road Projects
Outside Cities
-     Preparation of Guidelines, and Advice on Geotechnical Studies for Roads and Bridges
-     Study for the Implementation of a Quality Approach in the Laboratory Network.
Operations and Maintenance Directorate (DEER)
-     Study on Organization and Management of Municipal Roads Outside Cities (Part of b
- iv - in chapter III)
-     Road Maintenance Strategy Study with the Use of HDM III Model on National and
Wilaya Roads (35,000 kim)
-     Audit of Main Quarries; as part of the action plan on Granular Materials
-     Study to Develop at National level "Technical Certification" on New Technologies
Used for Roads and Bridges.
These studies and technical guidelines have been designed in consistency with project
priorities and corresponding actions plans. The time schedule of contract launching will
flexibly take into account the evolution of relative priorities together with the qualification
steps of concerned actors. The complementarity between local and foreign expertise will be
sought from origin to supervision with special care.
M:\RayWAIgeria\Annex.6



-70-
Annex 7
Page 1 of 6
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
COORDINATED ACTION PROGRAM FOR THE MODERNIZATION
OF THE MINISTRY IN CHARGE OF INFRASTRUCTURE
1.    Origin of the action program: This sub-component of US $1.6 million is the result
of an in-depth study of organization and regulations in the infrastructure sector conducted by
the Bank between June 1993 and April 1994. The study has aimed at enhancing the global
efficiency of the operations undertaken by the Ministry and its local offices; it has also be
designed to support the smooth implementation of Bank projects in the sector. Since this
study' has been requested by the Minister himself, it has been conducted jointly with the
Algerian counterpart from the Ministry, based on a substantial contribution from its
personnel arising from the process of internal examination and review. It has also used the
results of a large-scale survey2 of government officials and of about 150 public and private
enterprises and local communities conducted in 11 of the 48 Algerian administrative districts
(Wilayas).
A broad agreement was reached on the identification of needed reforms and a high
degree of ownership of the action program was achieved; the 27 actions included in the
action program, based on Bank's proposal has been graded by the Algerian counterpart; the
recent appointment of a senior manager as head of the modernization department has been
one of the signals showing the commitment to implementation of the action program.
2.    Strengthening the design of investment programs and projects: The analysis of
existing investment choice methods reveals serious weaknesses. The major ones relate to the
nearly complete separation of preparation of the operating budget from that of the investment
budget, the inadequacy of economic evaluation, the absence of systematic review of the costs
and benefits of major projects during their implementation, and the absence of evaluation
upon their completion. Four actions are planned to address this issue: The enhancement of
investment selection methods and the review of major investments effectiveness, the setting
up of an economic appraisal unit within the DPAE and the launching of a pilot project
designed to ensure consistency and trade-offs between operating and investment budgets.
3.    Improving the methods used for project studies: The Ministry and its deconcentrated
offices in the Wilayas (and the agencies to a lesser extent) have been analyzed as units
I "Institutional Modernization in the Infrastructure Sector of Algeria" - White Cover - July 1994, EMTPM
2 .Modernisation du Secteur de l'Equipement' - Enquete-Diagnostic realises par le CNAT. Volume I:
Entretiens effectues aupres de 5 wilayat - echantillon. Volume II: Rapport d'Enquetes aupres des DTP/DHW
des Entreprises et des Services Locaux, mars 1994.



-71-
Annex 7
Page 2 of 6
producing a variety of complementary services throughout all stages of investment projects,
from studies to supervision and maintenance. Because an institutional strengthening
component was included in the World Bank water supply and sewer rehabilitation project, the
emphasis of this study was placed on the roads sub-sector. An analysis of recent highway or
water infrastructure projects revealed very frequent cost and schedule overruns and a relative
mediocrity in the quality of work.
The poor quality of studies is apparent from the project formulation stage. Six actions
are designed to address the needs in this area: The introduction of a quality control over the
terms of reference of complex or large-scale study, the analysis of study quality impact on
project implementation, the assistance in developing partnership between national and
international consulting/ engineering firms, the experimentation of introducing critical
review of the quality of projects study, the development of a method to deal with relocation
of utility networks, and a "handbook" on Rights-of-Way, and the implementation of a cost
database.
4.    Reform of procurement and contract award procedures: Sound project management
also requires the prior existence of a "good contract" with the enterprise in charge of
performing the work. Procurement procedures are widely criticized by the field survey
respondents -- both the enterprises and the public agencies. Two large actions and a third,
smaller one, have been designed to help address this issue: The first would after detailed
analysis of the contribution of standard contracts, prepare and implement up- to- date
contract documents and develop indicators for follow up on delays in preparation of contract
documents; the second would develop "handbooks" for reviewing bids and for handling of
award procedures for projects financed by foreign institutions; the third would specify the job
description and the training needs of special correspondents to international development
institutions.
5.    Facilitation of project execution: Following the analysis of the project preparation
stage, the report scrutinizes the administrative and financial management of projects. This
analysis reveals excessive complexity, incomplete information on regulations and procedures
within the public sector, and unwillingness to accept individual responsibility. This results in
misspent time and energy and disputes with contractors, which are a source of waste and
frustration. Thus, the "enabling" measures proposed in the report should make it possible to
improve administrative efficiency. Experience worldwide has shown that competition among
contractors plays a driving role in this respect. Large competition has only recently been
allowed in Algeria, and even now there are only few deliberate actions to encourage it -- for
instance by advance publication of preliminary project timetables or identification of the most
mobile contractors so as to broaden the bidding. An action is therefore planned to develop
information of enterprises on forecasted programs and bidding;
6.    Promotion of private sector participation: An analysis of the infrastructure sector
must include consideration of the problems and possibilities of the public and private



-72-
Annex 7
Page 3 of 6
enterprises that build or maintain the infrastructure. On the basis of the field survey of
147 enterprises, a number of regulatory and material problems emerged. Relations between
enterprises and the department are not standardized and rely much too heavily on ad hoc
personal relationships. This is inimical to accountability and, indirectly, to efficiency. In
addition to the procedural simplifications previously mentioned, the enterprises manifest a
wish for standardizing relations among the various participants in the process, simplifying the
process of procurement, improving technical staff, and institutionalizing the interface with the
Ministry offices. An action is included to set up a monitoring mechanism to track private
sector participation. An opening of procurement and contract-award regulations has
contributed to reducing some of the formal discrimination against the private sector, but its
participation is still minuscule. Yet, while weak, the private sector has some basic
advantages in terms of flexible management. It is therefore recommended to exploit the
complementarity between public and private enterprises which was underlined by a number
of respondents and an action has been designed to deal with this topic. Delays in payment are
rightly criticized by all types of enterprises, national public, local public and private,
responding to the survey. Payment delays embarrass and weaken contract managers. The
situation is even worse when foreign currency payments are late -- 12 months are routinely
cited -- because this results in early disputes . An action is planned on handling delays in
foreign currency payments.
7.    Modernization of budget procedures and management tools: The analysis of the
applicable budget procedures within the Ministry and the agencies revealed that substantial
progress has already been made by discontinuing the use of the single Wilaya budget, and
that the rules and procedures have been thoroughly assimilated. However, a great deal
remains to be done in order to provide the managers with the indispensable tools they need to
support the exercise of managerial initiative. Two actions have been planned to develop
information on costs and return on services, and to enrich the content and methodology of
the budget preparation phase.
Moreover, managers are not actively encouraged to assume responsibility, and are
corseted by a plethora of controls, ex ante and ex post. Without questioning the basic intent
of the structure of controls (i.e., preventing waste, fraud and misallocations), it is possible
and essential to strike a new, much simpler balance. This simplification should go hand in
hand with the gradual introduction of management by objectives, of use of all information
needed for comparison among offices or individuals, and of explicit recognition of individual
and group achievements. An action has been designed to prepare senior management
training.
To increase operational efficiency, a plan of action for gradually extending computer
use has been included in this sub-component, starting with the simplest and cheapest
applications, and promoting their use by stepping up the pace at which computers are made
available to the offices or individuals who are the most responsive in using them well.



-73-
Annex 7
Page 4 of 6
8.    Strengthening and developing human resource management: The following key
problems in human resource management were pinpointed: responsibility for human
resources widely dispersed through the central administration; substandard initial training,
both in termns of curricular content and in terms of quality of teaching; lack of basic data on
personnel and of expeditious ways to exchange and summarize data which exist; failure to
apply merit-based performance evaluation rules, especially for the purpose of allocating
bonuses and allowances; poor mobility among higher-level staff. Three far-reaching actions
have been planned to introduce a full-fledged human resources policy, through institutional
reorganization, methodological assistance in surveying and managing staff and posts,
assistance in setting up the system of adjusted bonuses to individual performances and
development of institutional communication.
9.    Amplify the support to the Wilayas and clarify the role of local offices for assistance
to the municipalities: Because of the vast scope and delicate implications of the subject, the
report provides a limited synthesis of the main results of the deconcentration and
decentralization policy conducted in this sector. It is based on data from the field survey of
enterprises and public officials. As for the first part, deconcentration, it was found that the
technical offices did gain the needed autonomy and national policies were more closely
implemented after the system of exclusive reliance on the Wali (prefect) was abandoned. A
better balance between the technical and the political has been achieved. However, there is
still much to be done to assist, support, and guide the technical personnel within each
Wilaya. An action has been designed to consider regional arrangements in order to support
the Wilayas. On the other hand, the technical directors, and especially their subdivision
officers, provide technical assistance to the municipalities, which appreciate this service. But
there is no consistent framework for this service. This issue is the starting point for an
action included in the program. It will assess, among other questions, if standard contract or
agreement should be drawn up for each category of services provided by the technical
offices. Technical assistance should also regularly include a component for on-the-job
training of municipal personnel. Where agencies play a predominant role in projects design
and execution, the policy of delegation should be pursued; an action has been designed in
this respect to establish formalized contractual relations.
10.   Support to the process of change: The process of change involved in the institutional
modernization recommended in this study has already been launched as the report was being
written, and has seen its first concrete applications by the higher level staff at the
Ministry.This is in keeping with the original vision of the study, i.e., to make sure that
institutional modernization in all its aspects is embraced by the top management and future
"conductors" of the modernization process. It would then become possible to move to the
subsequent stages: the initial results should be highlighted in a widely circulated
communication; the different staff levels and provincial offices should be brought into the
modernization activities; an action aiming at the general support to the modernization task
force has been included in the program.



-74-
Annex 7
Page 5 of 6
11.   List of Titles of Specific Actions
On the basis of the list of 27 actions to strengthen institutional capacity, the
4 following packages of terms of reference grouping related subjects have been prepared by
MIRP, to call for tender:
(i)   financial and budgetary procedures,
(ii)   operational capacity,
(iii) external communication and partnership,
(iv)   human resource development and analysis of cost and return on services.
1.    The first package contains the following:
*     Action Al: Consistency between investment and operating budgets.
*     Action B20: Remedies to payment delays, both in foreign and domestic
currencies.
*     Action Bi1: Appointment and training of special counterparts to international
financing institutions.
*     Action B2: Strengthening of budgetary preparation.
2.    The second package contains the following:
*     Actions A2/A4: Enhancing investment selection methods and reviewing the
effectiveness of major investments.
*     Action A3: Supporting the setting up of an economic appraisal unit within the
DPAE.
*     Actions B1/B2: Quality control action on specifications (and terms of
reference) for large-scale studies. Analysis of effect of studies on project
implementation.
*     Action B5: Experimentation on "cross-comparison with the study"
(contradiction a l'etude).
*     Action 136: Study of conditions for the implementation of cost indexes.
*     Action 138: Assumption of responsibility for problems arising from rights-of-
way and from utility relocations.



-75-
Annex 7
Page 6 of 6
*     Action B9: Enhancing the quality of procurement and contract documents, and
monitoring preparation times.
*     Action B1O: Strengthening the quality of bid evaluation.
3.    The third package will include the following:
*     Action B3: Partnership between national and international consulting firms.
*     Action C3: Development of institutional communication.
*     Action El: Development of a partnership between enterprises with a different
status.
*     Action E2: Development of enterprise sector information on prospect and
planning of infrastructure operations.
*     Action D4: Establishing formal contractual relations between the ministry and
the agencies.
4.    The fourth package will include the following:
*     Action C2: Adjustment of bonuses to individual performance.
*     Actions C4/C5: Human resource management, organization and operating
methods.
*     Action B23: Analysis of cost and return on services.
N.B. Numbers refer to the Modernization Study numbering.
M \Ray\Algeria\Anncx7



-76-
Annex 8
Page 1 of 8
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Road Strengthening and Rehabilitation Component
Methodology used
1.01   Adaptation of the HDM III model to Algerian conditions is still in progress,
preventing its use in the economic evaluation of the component which, therefore, was done
by CTTP on the basis of the locally-developed EVEC (for EValuation EConomique) model.
EVEC is a computer model designed to perform a basic economic evaluation of periodic
maintenance. Its review by the Bank showed it had the right structure to handle this kind of
analysis. The methodology, similar to the one used in HDM III, compares estimates of the
road agency costs and of vehicle operating costs between two scenarios: without and with the
project. These costs are defined as a function of road characteristics and conditions. Costs
and benefits to society are apprehended by discounting them at 10 percent per year, and
eliminating taxes from the calculation. The analysis assumes free-flow conditions.
1.02  The condition of the road is assumed to deteriorate as a function of time and traffic.
Once the two key parameters are entered (namely, roughness and deflection indexes for
homogeneous sections of a particular road, measured in the course of preparation of detailed
engineering studies), the model computes the roughness progression without the project,
based on deterioration laws defined by the HDM III model. Depending on the surface
treatment selected under the project, a value is given to road roughness and deflection
indexes at the conclusion of works, and entered in the model for prediction of road
deterioration with the project. The EVEC model does present some drawbacks, the main one
from limitation of the analysis period to 10 years: it does not allow to compare maintenance
strategies, and integrate impacts deferred to after year 10. The model further lacks
flexibility in the definition of the best maintenance strategy without the project, testing the
amount of pothole patching is a preferable approach that HDM III makes possible, because it
has important bearings on the calculation of rates of return. Nevertheless, the EVEC model
provides a good approximation of the economic value of road strengthening and rehabilitation
works.
Vehicle operating costs
1.03  Thorough studies have been carried out under the National Transport Study for
deternination of main features of the Algerian vehicle fleet, its composition, age, and



-77-
Annex 8
Page 2 of 8
utilization factors. Both the analysis and results are contained in a Special Report' dated in
September 1992. These results have been updated by CTTP on the basis of mid-1994 prices.
The methods and mechanistic relationships used for prediction of vehicle operating costs are
directly derived from Bank research on the subject. The type of surface, and the horizontal
and vertical geometry of roads under study have been parameterized for 3 main categories of
the environment: (i) Ti is for low-gradient and low-curvature roads; (ii) T2 is for low-to-
average-gradient, and average-curvature roads; (iii) T3 is for average-to-high-gradient, and
high-curvature roads.
1.03  Six categories of vehicles are representative of the Algerian fleet:
- P1 is for the light vehicle, a composite of the Renault 19 (< 1,800 c.c.). It
represents around 40 percent of the vehicle fleet and travels an annual distance of 21,500 km
on average.
-P2 is for the pick-up truck, featured as the Peugeot 504 of such type,
carrying a 1-ton payload, and running an average 24,000 km annually.
- P3 is for the average bus: the locally assembled SNVI 49V8 with 50 seats
and travelling 64,000 km per year.
- P4 is for the light truck, the K66 SNVI, with a gross vehicle weight (GVW)
of slightly less than 6-ton, and annual travel distances of 64,000 km.
- P5 is for the heavy truck, a SNVI c 250, or equivalent, with a 16-ton GVW,
and annual travel distances of 74,000 km.
- P6 is for the tractor/semi-trailor is the SNVI TB 3051, with a 25-ton GVW,
and annual travel distances of 74,000 km.
1.04    The average speed is assumed to range from 60 km/h for heavy vehicles to 70 km/h
for light ones. The average useful life is between 12.5 and 15 years. The economic fuel
costs were based on ex-factory prices quoted by Naftal, which were found to be close to
border prices. The maintenance costs reflect average market conditions.
i/see: Bedat & Dar Al-Handasah: "Etude Speciale: Couts de Transport. Volume 11: Couits d'Exploitation des
Vehicles" September 1992



-78-
Annex 8
Page 3 of 8
1.05 The results of VOCs' calculations are given in table 1.
Table I Evaluation of Vehicle Overatinz Cost (in Algerian Dinar per Veh/km)
costitems                 Pi            P2           P3            P4            P5           P6
Fuel                     0.283         0.494        1.089         0.814         1.380       2.132
Tires                    0.048         0.110        1.132         0.326         1.529       2.095
Lubricants               0.043         0.041        0.065         0.072        0.065        0.108
Maintenarce              1.327         1.544        9.492         3.615        10.833       21.420
Capital Cost             2.619         2.364        8.123         2.165        5.471         8.235
Crew                     0.000         0.000        1.873         1.745        2.262        2.132
Overhead                 0.009         0.010        0.000         0.305        0.000        0.000
Total            4.329         4.563        21.774        9.042        21.540       36.122
ource: CTTP."Schtma lDirecteur Routier National. Actualisation des coufts d'exploitation des vehicule's" Otober
1994.(VOCs are computed at roughness 2.0 IRI on slightly curved roads in relatively flat terrain - Ti environment)
Investment costs
1.06   They are estimated in June 1994 prices based on the detailed engineering studies
carried out by CTTP for each road, which detail the bill of quantities per cost item'.
Average tax inclusive costs per kilometer amount to AD 5.6 million and AD 3.2 million for
strengthening and rehabilitation works respectively. Implicit and explicit taxes have been
excluded for the economic analysis; they include the value added tax which, on average,
represent 13 percent of tax-free estimates for works carried out by local contractors, and an
estimated average of 7 percent corresponding to taxes and customs duties paid on materials
and equipment purchased by contractors. Several technical options have been considered: (i)
a base-coarse gravel-asphalt layer of various thickness depending on the extent of structural
defects, to obtain a roughness index of 2,000 mm/km; (ii) a base-coarse gravel layer, to
obtain a roughness index of 2,500 mm/km; (iii) surface renewal only, with has no effect on
roughness. Physical contingencies represent 10 percent of base costs. The works are
assumed to last 18 months on average from start to finish.
Maintenance costs
1.07   Without the project, the strategy is to provide for a minimum  standard of service
through regular maintenance and spot repairs. The average maintenance costs per km and
per year are estimated around AD 200,000 in year 1, to AD 800,000 in year 10 (plus or
2/CTTP:"Preparation du Vleme Projet Routier.Estimation des Projets de Renforcement et RWhabilitation" October
1994.



-79-
Annex 8
Page 4 of 8
minus 20 percent, depending on traffic intensity and the initial condition of the road). With
the project, road maintenance costs are considered negligible during the first three years
following completion of works, and rise thereafter from about AD 20,000 in year 4, to AD
40,000 in year 10.
Traffic levels
1.08   They were estimated per homogeneous section of each road on the basis of traffic
counts dating back to 1990-1991and updated to 1994, assuming regular traffic growth at 5
percent per year. It certainly gives uncertain estimates. On the other hand, the traffic
counts that could have been made in late 1993-early 1994 would have been much affected by
the deep economic crisis that Algeria is through, and which is expected to be over by end of
the stabilization period. On balance, relying on estimates reflecting average conditions that
existed before the crisis may give a more reliable picture of the long term trend, and a better
estimate of the economic value of road projects which carry their effects over a long period.
The uncertainty inherent to the choice made can be mitigated by checking the impact of
lower first-year traffic on the economic rates of return in the sensitivity analysis.
Results of the economic calculation
1.09   As one normally expects for investments of that nature, the road strengthening and
rehabilitation program is highly justified, with rates of return ranging from 40 to 89 percent,
for strengthening (weighed average of 67 percent), and from 18 to 65 percent, for road
rehabilitation (weighed average of 44.7 percent). Table 2.1 and 2.2 summarize the results.
Table 2.1 Road Strengthening Component
PROJECT      LENGTH       INVESTMENT          AVERAGE               1994               RATE OF
(AD MILLIONI     INVESTMENT           DAILY TRAFFIC         RETURN
PER KM
ITTCI                       MAXIMUM   MINIMUM
(AD MILLION)   TRAFFIC    TRAFFIC
RN 06 MASCARA      27           190.1              7.3           7577        6049           72.2
N 08 BOUIRA        20           84.5               4.3           5585        4189           64.8
RN 23             16            96.9               5.4           9302        7505           83.3
MOSTAGANEM
RN 21 GUELMA       23           107.4              4.4           6400        6400           44.4
RN 05 BOUIRA       49           217.9              4.5           15990       9762           76.3
RN 05 MILA         37           216.8              6.0           10830       7651           56.3
RN 26 BEJAIA      62            377.2              6.4           14965       7238           60.9
RN 0S MEDEA        15           101.6              6.5           3937        3655           43.9
RN 12 BOUMERDES   46            257.6              5.6           8917        8917           79.2
RN 28 M'SILA       28           154.5              5.0           3609        3160           64.6
RN 46 BISKRA       54           320.8              5.9           4465        2204           39.5
RN OS SETIF        33           211.4              6.1           17380       13698          88.6
ToTAL GENERAL     410           2336.7             5.7                                                l



-80-
Annex 8
Page 5 of 8
Table 2.2. Road Rehabilitation Component
PROJECT         LENGTH         INVESTMENT          AVERAGE              1994             RATE OF
(AD MILLION)    INVESTMENT           DAILY TRAFFIC       RETURN
PER KM
(TTCI                         MAXIMUM  MINIMUM
lAD MILLION)   TRAFFIC   TRAFFIC
RN 06 EL-BAYADN      24               56.9              2.4          2069       2069         49.3
LOT I
RN 06 EL-BAYADH      24               56.8              2.4          2069        1336        42.8
LOT 2
RN 06 ADRAR          60               106.7             1.8           770        770         17.6
RN 06 SAIDA          32               105.9             3.3          3300       3300         34.0
RN 30 TIZI-OUZOU     49               157.5             3.2          5200       2500         64.5
RN 18 MEDEA          67               195.2             2.9          2961       2718         48.4
TOTAL GNEML          256             679.0              2.65
1.10   The sensitivity analysis was carried out to ascertain which parameters would be
critical to achieving a satisfactory return on the investment. Three factors were tested:
- investment cost estimates;
- the assumptions on daily traffic;
- the traffic growth rate;
A sample covering all rehabilitation sub-projects, except the RN6 Saida, and the
strengthening sub-projects in relation to RN6 Mascara, RN23 Mostaganem, and RN26 Bejaia
brought strong evidence that the assumptions on traffic growth rates have very little impact
on the ERRs. Should actual traffic be stagnant from year 1 onward, the ERRs would only be
reduced by 7 to 15 percent, depending on project roads. As the traffic is quite high in most
cases and maintenance is generally overdue, it comes to no surprise that main risks are
associated with errors in the investment cost estimates and the daily traffic counts. Table 2.3
shows that a quite substantial margin of error could be tolerated without impairing the
project's economic justification.



-81-
Annex 8
Page 6 of 8
Table 2.3. Road Rehabilitation Component: sensitivity analysis
Road sub-projects              time investment cost should      share of base case daily traffic
increase to bring NPV to 0      which brings NPV to 0
1. Strengthening:
RN6 Mascara                             7.1                             6%
RN8 Bouira                              6.9                             9%
RN23 Mostaganem                         9.0                             7%
RN21 Guelma                             4.4                             15%
RN5 Bouira                             13.5                             3%
RN5 Mila                                7.7                             7%
RN26 Bejaia                             7.4                             9%
RN8 Medea                               3.5                             17%
RN12 Boumerd6s                         115                              5%
RN28 M'sila                             6.5                             8%
RN46 Biskra                             3.3                             19%
RN5 Setif                              13.0                             4%
2. Rehabilitation
RN6 El Bayadh. LI                       3.7                             5%
RN6 El Bayadh. L2                       3.1                             17%
RN6 Adrar                               1.4                            68%
RN6 Saida                               2.7                            25%
RN30 Tizi Ouzou                         6.4                             12%
RN18 Medea                              4.3                             14%
B.     Rehabilitation of bridges
1.11   No detailed economic analysis is available at this stage for the bridge rehabilitation
component. The program, estimated at a total cost of some US$ 13.2 million, provides for
execution of works in two tranches. The first tranche comprises 19 bridges on heavily
trafficked roads (average daily traffic in a 3,400-25,000 vehicle-range) and presenting
relatively simple technical problems. The second tranche comprises 14 bridges requiring
complex studies and works. The detailed engineering studies for the second tranche will be
financed under the project. Ongoing studies for the first tranche are financed by the
Government, and related works are not likely to start before year 2 of project execution. The
economic evaluation will therefore be carried out on the basis of a methodology approved by
the Bank. This methodology was tested on a sample of 8 bridges, giving a broad indication
on the likely economic rate of return of investments under the component. It is understood
that no sub-project would be financed by the Bank unless it satisfies the condition of a
minimum 12 percent rate of return.
1.12 A computer model has been developed in Hungary to guide choices by the Ministry of
Transport on rehabilitation and reconstruction of bridges. It was updated several time, and
the latest version was issued in March 1994. The intrinsic quality of the model and the
complete lack of expertise on the subject in Algeria led the Bank to recommend its adaptation



-82-
Annex 8
Page 7 of 8
to local conditions. A copy of the model was given to an Algerian delegation which visited
Hungary shortly before Bank appraisal. They had brought technical data on 8 bridges of the
first tranche which were used by the Hungarian specialist to run the model for demonstration
and training purposes. Main findings are summarized hereafter.
1.13  Methodology The computer model compares the flows of costs and benefits over 30
years with, and without bridge repairs.
(a) On the infrastructure side, the model includes deterioration functions calibrated
on the basis of data on bridges that never underwent major repairs. The data base spans
several decades. The investment strategy comprises 7 standard options: (i) raising the load
capacity; (ii) widening the bridge; (iii) a combination of the two previous options; (iv)
periodic maintenance; (v) complete reconstruction; (vi) closing the bridge, and substituting it
with a pontoon or a ferry boat; (vii) reconstructing the bridge and road connections. An
option (viii) allows to consider any other possible solutions. The characteristics of the
existing bridge that are processed relate to its geometry, the type of construction, the surface
roughness along the deck, the utilization constraints to traffic in terms of speed and load
factors. The characteristics of access roads are also taken into consideration: gradient,
curvature, width, and surface cover.
(b) On the traffic side, vehicle operating costs are measured in accordance with the
the traffic composition which includes 5 categories (light vehicles, light trucks, heavy trucks,
semi-trailers, and buses). The model also allows for computation of travel time costs.
(c) The benefits come from improved traffic conditions. Without repair, the bridge
will reduce the average speed of vehicles, especially if one of the lane has to be closed, and
force diversion of an increasing share of the heavier traffic component to other itineraries,
thereby increasing operating costs and travel times. Savings on vehicle operating costs are
also computed if the bridge is resurfaced. Traffic was assumed to grow at an annual rate of 5
percent.
1.14  Notional results    Eight bridges were summarily analyzed and economic rates of
return were found ranging from 22 to 68 percent, with a weighed average of 46.8 percent.
The main characteristics of the calculation are shown in table 3.



-83-
Annex 8
Page 8 of 8
Table 3 Sample analysis of the economic dustification of the bridge component
location         capital cost      length            1994 traffic      percentage of     N.P.V.            IRR
(in AD million)   (in m)            (average/day)    light vehicles     (AD million)
Oued Ghroura
(RN8 Pk 30.5)             7.9        15              5390              81.5 %              3.6             23 %
Oued Hamidou
(RN8 Pk 39,1)             3.1         12             5390              81.5 %             1.0              38 %
Oued Barek
(RN29 Pk 46)             12.1         43             8613              74.8 %              3.3             31 %
Oued Ghraba
(RN24 PkIlO)              1.5          14            1535              50.6 %            0.3               22 %
Oued Kniss
(RN113 PkO.2)            45.1       109.5            4500               88.9 %           11.2              68 %
Boufarik ramp
(RN4 PkO.6)               8.5         40             18140             69.5 %             2.1              33 %
Oued Harrach
(RN61 Pkl3)              9.7          40              9780             67.8 %              5.5             57 %
Oued Chiffa
(RN4 Pk17.5)              35.0         49             8228             61.7 %             11.0             33 %
M :\RAY\annex8.sar



-84-
Annex 9
Page 1 of 6
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MAINTENANCE STRATEGY AND DEVELOPMENT OF NETWORK-BASED
MAINTENANCE
1.01   Tight budget constraints have long been a major determinant of the road maintenance
strategy in Algeria, and will so remain in the medium term as the Government has committed
to reducing the public deficit and reallocating resources to the productive sector under the
Stabilization Program approved by the IMF in 1994. The national road network is the only
network which receives regular maintenance within an explicit strategy. For roads of the
Wilaya and the municipal networks, technical priorities are assessed by the decentralized
public works administration, but the decision on its road budget is made by the Wilaya
assembly alone, and budget implementation remains vulnerable to severe budget scarcity; the
annual Wilaya road recurrent budget, for instance, averaged about AD 650 million during
1990-93, but actual spending was less than two-thirds of budgeted amounts partly due to late
budget opening for CW. Funding shortages are even more severe for municipal roads outside
the perimeter of cities; only 20 percent of the some 1,450 municipalities have resources
available for road maintenance; the remaining 80 percent follow the implicit and costly
strategy to use investment subsidies from the state investment budget for reconstruction of the
road when it finally collapses after years of maintenance neglect. As far as national roads are
concerned, the large disproportion between available resources and the extent of maintenance
needs somewhat facilitated decision on how to allocate funds since critical priorities were
easy to figure out based on good engineering judgment. More analytical network-based
methods will be needed, though, when the ongoing effort to catch up with the road
strengthening backlog comes to an end. They are being developed under the Fifth Highway
Project.
A. Main thrust of the current strategy for national roads
1.02   MIRP has direct responsibility to maintain some 26,000 km of national roads, or
about 27 percent of total. The budget restrictions are such that the basic economic road
network (about 10,000 km) takes a majority of resources allocated to roads. Issuance, in the
last two years of guidelines for strengthening, rehabilitation and maintenance works was an
important step toward greater cohesion in the maintenance policy followed nationwide and
definition of technical standards that had previously been weakened by the excess of road
management deconcentration. These guidelines are being disseminated through seminars
organized by CTTP.



-85-
Annex 9
Page 2 of 6
1.03   The main unpaved national roads totalling 3,600 km are found in the South; they
have not been maintained for more than 15 years, and the low standard of service offered to
users, predominantly trucks, is gaining more visibility. This, together with such equity
considerations that most Algerian natural resources originate in the South led the Government
to promote road improvement there, starting with the definition of a maintenance strategy
through a pilot program to be implemented under Highway VI.
1.04   To date, the strategy for paved roads maintenance provides for systematic
strengthening of the "basic economic network" that includes some 5,200 km of roads with
daily traffic above 3,500 vehicles and combining around 60 percent of the Algerian road
traffic. Road strengthening in Algeria is an elaborate and costly treatment designed to adjust
the pavement bearing capacity and level of service to larger and heavier traffic, and to extend
the economic life of a road for a very long period, provided periodic maintenance is done
thereafter when needed, which represents an average at regular intervals of about 12 years.
The treatment includes a 15-20 cm-thick layer of base course gravel asphalt mix ("grave
bitume") covered with a 5 cm-thick asphalt concrete overlay. Results are generally
satisfactory, but there are some cases where structural defects were not properly detected
leading to fast deterioration of the road soon after completion of strengthening works.
Overlay ("rechargement") is a cheaper alternative to road strengthening for roads of lesser
traffic, consisting of a 5 to 8 cm asphalt concrete overlay alone. Following bad experiences
and for high traffic roads with very weak pavement structures, it is seldom used, as the
pavement strengthening option is always selected when it achieves a minimum rate of return
of about 25% on the investment, even though higher rates would be obtained under the
overlay option. The portion of the basic economic network yet to be strengthened includes
about 3,000 km, and the objective is to complete the program within 10 years. At current
AD 4.5 million per kilometer, the annual budget for national road strengthening is estimated
at close to AD 1.4 billion.
1.05   Road rehabilitation in Algeria applies to roads in fair-to-poor condition with daily
traffic at intermediary level (between 1000 and 3,500 vehicles). It consists of a 15-20 cm-
thick layer of base coarse gravel ("graves concasses non traitees") covered with an asphalt
concrete overlay or, alternatively, a double or triple layer of surface dressing with stone
aggregates of a diameter of 3-8 mm at the top and 15-25 mm at the bottom. The works are
designed for a 10-year life expectancy and constitute an interim treatment pending execution
of more expensive strengthening works when traffic growth makes it economically justified.
The cost per km is around AD2.3 million at present. Whereas rehabilitation used to be
carried out selectively on the most damaged sections of a road, the policy is now to do it on
its full length but adapting the base course presence or thickness to the structural and leveling
needs; this approach enables a "route approach" more adapted to user needs and safety. The
network that would normally fall under this maintenance policy includes 4,000 km of
national roads, giving annual work programs of 400 km on average at an estimated cost of
AD 1.2 billion. The budget constraints only allowed for implementation of 50 percent of the
desirable rehabilitation program in recent years.



-86-
Annex 9
Page 3 of 6
1.06   Periodic maintenance should normally be carried out when needed, i.e. on average,
at 10-year intervals with the hypothesis that surface dressing quality/lifetime increases,
implying annual treatment of 2,200 km of national roads at an estimated cost of AD 2.5
billion. The actual length maintained decreased from 1,253 km in 1985 to 700 km in 1992.
A much larger budget in 1993 allowed to carry out periodic maintenance over 1,568 km of
national paved roads. The 1994 budget is unchanged from previous year in nominal terms,
but has been eroded by inflation and will only allow for periodic maintenance of 1,253 km as
in 1985, representing a 57 percent coverage of normal requirements. Periodic maintenance
consists in a "monocouche" or a "bicouche" surface dressing. Current techniques makes
extensive use of cut-back bitumen which is both expensive and irregularly supplied.
Development of cheaper alternatives, like emulsions, will be actively pursued under the
proposed project. A 5 cm asphalt concrete layer is the usual treatment for high traffic roads
of the basic economic network.
1.07   Routine maintenance is mostly executed by force account across the national road
network. More than 7,000 workers are employed; half of them are journeymen. The extent
of surface dressing vary between 1,500 and 2,000 km annually while patching works vary
from 1.7 to 3 million square meters per year. Other tasks, like clearing of ditches and
culverts, are performed in adequation to needs. Overall, routine maintenance is budgeted for
around AD 650 million which is satisfactory. The funding gap is essentially in relation to
periodic maintenance for which an additional AD 750 million would be required, raising the
total allocation under chapter 35-12 of the current road budget from AD 1.6 billion to AD
2.4 billion in 1994 prices.
1.08   A maintenance strategy has yet to be defined for bridges.  The national road
network comprises a total of 1,789 bridges, or two-third of all bridges in Algeria. Recent
surveys showed that as much as 271 bridges were in need of extensive repairs, calling for
substantial increases in budgetary allocations of AD 126 million in 1993, cut to AD 94
million in 1994. A pilot program will be launched under the proposed project covering
needs of 40 bridges located on roads of the basic economic network. The objective is to
proceed fast with local capacity building in the area of technical studies and preparation of
detailed engineering documents, and encourage development of specialized units in existing
enterprises for bridge repairs by increasing the scale of bridges-related public works
programs.
B. Development of network-based maintenance: local application of the HDM III model
1.09   Development of a road inventory data base ("Banque de Donnees Routieres, or
BDR) covering 5,069 km of main paved roads has been contracted out by DEER to CTTP
with financing provided under the Fifth Highway Project. Implementation has been delayed
by insecurity and slow data transmission by field units. About 60 percent of data collection
had been completed by mid-1994 (none about deflection though), and the contract is likely to
extend through 1995, well past the initial completion date of December 1993. The BDR



-87-
Annex 9
Page 4 of 6
builds on a traffic survey system established by LNTP during 1985, and relies on annual
collection and update of visual data by the regional public works department, supplemented
by roughness and deflection measurements conducted by centrally-based teams. Systematic
borings are conducted alternatively on both sides of each lane every 4 km to carry out tests
of structural soundness of the roads. The main equipment used consists of 1 bump integrator
and 1 APL 25 for determination of roughness indexes, plus 1 deflectograph. The system
repeats measurements at 4-year intervals, and covers all the information needed for
preparation of maintenance programs, combining the road inventory and traffic data. For
each link, it should register the following information:
(a)   road surface and pavement condition (roughness, depressions, texture,
potholes, rut depth, patched area, edge damage, structural condition);
(b)   traffic (daily traffic by type of vehicles, loading patterns);
(c)   inventory update (age of pavement, nature and date of works completed);
(d)   work activities (unit costs and quantities per task); and
(e)   committed programs (planned dates, technical characteristics, estimated costs).
The traffic counting system relies on a combination of fixed and mobile recorders, the
former covering about one tenth of the network. It has not been operational since 1991
because transport restrictions did not allow to keep up with the required schedule of field
surveys, and fixed recorders were increasingly malfunctioning. Renewal of the counting
equipment will be financed under the proposed project. For the time being, economic studies
have assumed constant traffic growth at an annual rate of 5 percent from the last available
traffic counts dating back to 1991 or earlier to estimate the 1994 traffic. This assumption is
very questionable, and the inherent uncertainty it creates can only be dealt with through
adequate sensitivity analysis.
1.10   Another contract to implement HDM III model and adapt it to Algerian conditions
was awarded to CTTP in 1991 and is financed under the Fifth Highway Project. The idea
was to make a first application of HDM III limited to the 5,000 km of the basic economic
network for preparation of the road strengthening program under the proposed project. By
mid-1994, the study had only reached mid point. Its current status is given hereafter.
(a)   The primary calibration of the road deterioration model is completed; the
vehicle classes have been determined and vehicle operating costs were
computed based on surveys executed in 1991. Values were assigned to the
roughness-age deterioration factor applicable to each major climatic region,
and other technical factors representative of techniques used in road
construction and repairs. Unit costs were initially estimated in 1991 prices and



-88-
Annex 9
Page 5 of 6
later updated to 1994. Changes in relative prices triggered by the devaluation
of the Algerian dinar in 1994 and uncertainties in the distribution between
local and foreign cost components makes it necessary to carry out new updates
of economic parameters which will be done before year end.
(b)   First simulations were carried out late in 1993 over 2,548 km of roads already
registered in the data base, including the roads selected for strengthening under
the proposed project. These roads were grossly divided into 130 homogeneous
sections based on 5 classes of daily traffic and 4 classes of structural numbers.
Four strategies were devised other than the base case providing for patching of
all potholes and other routine maintenance, namely:
overlays, either done irrespective of the actual road condition at regular
intervals of 5 years, with a 2.5 cm-thick bituminous layer, and 8 years
with a 5 cm-thick asphalt concrete overlay; or triggered when
deterioration thresholds are reached: deterioration over 20 percent of
the pavement surface within 9 years with addition of a surface dressing
whereas roughness indexes getting above 3,000 mm/km within 10 years
would call for implementation of the asphalt concrete option;
strengthening, with thickness of the base (coarse gravel asphalt mix)
varying from 12 cm for traffic below 4,000 vehicle per day, to 20 cm
for daily traffic of 10,000 vehicle or more; this option is selected when
road roughness reaches 4,000 mm/km within 15 years of the last
strengthening works;
periodic maintenance, then strengthening: under this option, periodic
maintenance is carried out until the above-defined conditions for
strengthening are met; the asphalt concrete option prevails for daily
traffic of 4,000 vehicle, and is substituted by a surface dressing below
that level;
strengthening, then periodic maintenance, an option that combines in
reverse order the specifications of above strategies.
1.11   Preliminary results suggest that strengthening is the most economical option for only
20 percent of the roads reviewed, a conclusion that seems at odds with the "heavy"
maintenance strategy favored by the road administration to date. Clearly, the study needs to
be refined before more definite conclusions can be reached; the pavement deterioration laws
of 5 cm overlay and thick strengthening over existing pavement with various structural
strength levels need to be calibrated in Algerian climatic and material conditions.



-89-
Annex 9
Page 6 of 6
(c)   Refined calibration of the HDM III model is essential to ensure accuracy of its
prediction, and will be carried out before December 1994 with support from
foreign consultants financed under the Fifth Highway Project. A road sample
representative of the local diversity will be selected to carry out comparisons
between the observed and the predicted deterioration rates. An ongoing study
on performance of 14 sections recently strengthened, also carried out by
CTTP, will generate a wealth of relevant data.
1.12   The proposed project will finance a second stage of the study to cover a total of
35,000 km of roads.
M:\.Armmx9ja



-90-
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
FUNDING OF MUNICIPAL ROAD MAINTENANCE
1.01   The municipal road network includes 50 percent of all roads in Algeria and a third
of paved roads. Municipalities are entrusted with management and development of this
network under supervision by MICLERA, but they have neither the internal technical
expertise nor the financial resources to manage their roads, except for an estimated 20
percent of them (300 out of some 1,540 municipalities). Municipalities receive technical
assistance from the territorial subdivisions of DTPs. Road works used to be carried out in
the past by the "entreprises communales" that municipalities had set up to cover the whole
range of their infrastructure maintenance needs. These enterprises were poorly managed and
called to execute all kind of works not always fully funded. Many have been liquidated.
Notwithstanding a high level of employment, the Municipalities have limited force-account
capabilities, and road works are generally contracted out.
1.02   Revenues raised by local Governments are small, and most municipalities heavily
rely on Government subsidies channelled through the Fonds Commun des Collectivites
Locales (FCCL) to balance their budget. Nearly 90 percent of budget resources are pre-
emptied for coverage of personnel costs (70 percent), social programs (20 percent), and the
legally-imposed minimum participation to capital expenditures (10 percent). Of the
remaining 10 percent, only half goes to road expenditures estimated around AD 500 million
at present for the entire municipal network (a paltry US$ 250 per km on average). Meager
investment resources under local budgets rarely find their way into road programs, given the
many higher priorities that exist for primary education, health care, etc.. Road capital
expenditures are mostly dependent on subsidies allocated by FCCL to priority projects
screened at the Wilaya level. The difficult situation of local finance and the pressure of
social needs give few opportunities to MICLERA to influence the local budget structure. As
a result, municipal roads are neglected, and 60 percent of them are in bad condition. The
economic consequences are severe, in terms of higher vehicle operating costs and erosion of
the road capital stock. A preliminary assessment of associated losses have them around US$
100 million per year. The study on municipal roads carried out by CTTP will generate more
precise data on economic losses from maintenance neglect.
1.03   Within the national plan, the Plan Communal de Developpement (PCD) finances
projects catering to basic socio-economic needs. Government resources are transferred to
each Wilayas for distribution among municipalities. The budget allocated to PCD in 1993
amounted to AD 15 billion which is substantial. These funds, however, are scattered among
many municipalities, barely giving each the possibility to finance 2 or 3 small projects.
About a fourth of PCD is used to rebuild roads after years of maintenance neglect. This is a
wasteful policy in many ways: (i) regular road maintenance is a much more economical



-91-
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
alternative; (ii) the municipal road works are too small to allow for economies of scale; (iii)
technical standards followed in preparing the detailed engineering documents are low, and the
execution of works by small local firms is often mediocre, reducing the economic life of
projects. The local representative of the public works administration is called to deliver a
technical visa before payment by Treasury, but real controls are not exerted. The Bank
contributed to raise the concerned-administration's awareness of the key importance of these
issues at stake, including of governance, which largely transcend road maintenance needs and
rather call for an in-depth reform of the municipal finance.
1.04   Funding maintenance of municipal roads does not seem to have other alternative than
(a) making an optimal use of scarce funds by selecting priority works with the right
pavement treatment, and supervising their execution by contract with the assistance of the
PW subdivisions; (b) transferring funds from the central budget, a largely impractical option
at present; (b) restructuring the allocation of central resources to local Governments, by
developing a better consistency between the investment level achieved and the maintenance
effort to launch. The Government has expressed willingness to launch a pilot program
covering a sample of municipalities, and comprised of studies for definition of a maintenance
strategy (targeted service standards, institutional framework for provision of technical support
by PWs, financing systems, etc..) and of a maintenance three-year campaign. One formula
could be that funds allocated to PCDs for road rehabilitation and investments and currently
shown under chapter 591 be redirected to chapter 962 ("Programmes pour Comptes de
Tiers") managed at the Wilaya level which includes resources earmarked for small
municipalities. The DTPs would use the funds for maintenance of municipal roads outside
the urban perimeter under a convention with municipalities involved. An agreement, in
principle, has been concluded between MIRP and MICLERA to decide on a detailed plan
addressing the needs of the pilot program: sufficient funding of maintenance, operational
efficiency at procurement and execution stage and good design and supervision of works.
M\RAY\ANNEXIO.SAR



-92-
Annex 11
Page 1 of 3
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Background on Road Strengthening and Rehabilitation
1.    Strengthening and Rehabilitation
The old pavements of the main national roads with high traffic generally need a heavy
strengthening because the existing structure is either weak or deeply deteriorated; typical
works consist of:
-     a widening of 50 to 80 cm to reach the standard 7,5m pavement width,
-     a new base course of 12 to 20cm of 4 to 5% bitumen mix, and
-     a 5 cm wearing course of bitumen mix.
Thinner overlays have proved to deteriorate quickly under heavy truck traffic.
For traffic levels lower than 3,000 veh/d, such design strategy would be too costly
and have a low ERR; however many national roads are often very uneven and need some
ways of structural strengthening; the "rehabilitation" strategy was developed to address these
issues; the typical features are:
(i)   defer widening where the traffic level is insufficient,
(ii)   use non-treated bases to achieve low cost and enable better leveling of existing
pavement,
(iii)  use bituminous mix wearing course only for traffic higher than about 2000
veh/day, and surface dressing (chip seal) elsewhere to reduce cost,
(iv)  put a special emphasis on drainage efficiency, treat a functional road link with
appropriate variable treatments, and analyze possibilities of improving road
safety black spots.
Such a strategy leads to ERR similar to road strengthening, and cost between 70 and
50% less per km.
2.    Technical Handbooks
In the last four years, and at the request of the Road Directorate, the CTTP has
developed the following:
-     Le guide des renforcements
-     Le guide de la rehabilitation
(and "le guide de l'entretien" for DEER)



-93-
Annex 11
Page 2 of 3
These national technical dossiers were among the first ones for the sector where all
Algerian technical organizations worked as a true network. The typical outline of these
guidelines/handbooks is as follows:
(i)    methodology and pavement condition measurement
(ii)   inventory of techniques and design method
(iii)  economic analysis
(iv)   organization of controls
(v)   road safety analysis
(vi)  environment
(vii)  bidding documents
(viii)  TOR for studies.
These handbooks are being disseminated and significant training is being organized
under the project.
3.    Road Condition Measurements
Detailed measurements have been developed for all roads to be rehabilitated or
strengthened, typical synthesis tables describe for each 100m section (see attached sample
sheet):
(i)   the road characteristics (width, profile, fill/cut, etc.)
(ii)  the last works,
(iii)  the drainage,
(iv)   the results of recent boring (courses thicknesses and soil Ip, CBR, W, etc.)
(v)   the deflexions of both sides of pavement
(vi)  severity of deteriorations (cracks, rutting, material loss, etc.)
(vi)  the evenness
(vii)  the traffic.



Co.ToTP                                                 SCHEMA  ITIN[RAIRE N'S
WILAYA  , MASCARA                             ROUTE  * RN 6                    TRONCON  *PR1O  04o   AU   PK 201+ 030
SCEM' A Ot LA'ROUTE       -                                        -
OR   S        _____2 _=__                                                    Pa8             PV19           =     =_
t-lqL _ iiiL _ _ _ _ _ _ m~~~~~ia                        _                       _-X  
TRACE EN PLAN
PROFIL EN LONG
[)tFL[10NS CitCrER5110U5  t  I   -4=: = -t-H         tLL k                        LOD_e                     I        0 
01MIFF6 TAAVAU rvrTt
El"Is'r*ijus       IT
ASSUINjSMNr               --                                                                 - w  tIII
SOL SUPPORT                                                                                         Lp
COUPE DE CHAUSSEE
tM1im'Fs DLrS - 11/9E- Xt                                                         <                        Hs
ESSAIS GEOTECCHNIQJES
SODLEXIONSC       IUS                             - A---Sm1S
RROBSEq~E   PEOI/SW     I EUIIALE 
IU~ftiSLI  I  L6O7                                                                                            
SOLU I ION                                   oEfnFOREEMEnlT[In 5Da0 Z(2                                              --               m(
PROPOSEEL                                    AVE( EPRULEMEfITS 5Y"FTRIQUES
DE LARGIEUR POEm ET D'EPRIISSEURI 3S cm



-95-
Annex ll(a)
Page 1 of 9
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION OF UNPAVED ROADS IN
SOUTHERN ALGERIA
PILOT OPERATION - EQUIPMENT COMPONENT
INTRODUCTION
The four wilayas of the "Grand Sud"--Adrar, Tamanrasset, Illizi and Tindouf-- are of huge size
(1,450,000 km2) and relatively sparsely populated (500,000 inhabitants), but possess a considerable
network of paved and unpaved roads. The classified system consists of about 10,000 km, of which 6,000
km is unpaved. This is not a grid system but consists rather of north-south penetration roads. The most
important of these are the Tamanrasset - In Guezzam, Bordj Omar Idriss - Bordj el Haoues via Amguid
and Reggane - Bordj Badji Mokhtar sections. These three sections, which carry the bulk of the traffic,
make up one third of the unpaved system, i.e. about 2,000 km. In the first stage, maintenance and
rehabilitation actions will be focused by priority on these three sections.
The following ratios are derived from the foregoing:
*      Number of km of road (paved and unpaved) per 1,000 inhabitants: 20 km/1,000 inhabitants
*      Number of km of paved road per 1,000 inhabitants: 8 km/1,000 inhabitants
*      Number of km of unpaved road per 1,000 inhabitants: 12 km/1,000 inhabitants
*      Network density per 1,000 km2: 7 km/1,000 km2
It should be noted that for longer than 15 years the unpaved roads in the "Grand Sud" have not received
any maintenance. Traffic conditions are currently difficult. Although traffic is low, it consists essentially
of trucks. The unpaved road system of the four "Grand Sud" wilayas carries heavy-vehicle traffic of
10-80 trucks/day. Although low, traffic on this scale unquestionably warrants a level of maintenance
distinctly greater than is presently being provided, and even some rehabilitation work.
TASK INVENTORY
The different elementary tasks (maintenance and rehabilitation) capable of improving traffic conditions can
be classified in three main categories.
Spot maintenance'
Improvement of specific points of the road. The main tasks of this sort are listed below. Lack of
maintenance for these points, the frequency of which cannot readily be projected, can lead to roads
becoming impassable, the economic cost of which is far from negligible even where traffic is low:
1      Different from discontinuous tasks



-96-
Annex ll(a)
Page 2 of 9
*      Fesh-fesh zones
*      Rock outcroppings
*      Rehabilitation "oued" crossings
*      Sand clearing as and when called for
*      Spot grading or reshaping as needed
*      Other critical points
These tasks are moreover often not easily quantifiable but in any case represent a relatively small volume
of work, which makes them unattractive for contractors. As things are at present, their execution by force
account would appear the only option, especially in light of the scarcity of small road works contractors in
these vast regions.
High-frequency periodic tasks
These consist essentially of grading operations (scraping of corrugated surfaces), the frequency of which
determines the average roughness (level of service) and the useful life of a travelled overlay (which also
and especially depends on the method and quality of grading).
Although the end purpose (evenness with minimum material loss) is not readily measurable, it seems
desirable that this work should be contracted out. The contract terms and organization will have to be
adapted to make this type of work attractive to contractors.
Low-frequency periodic tasks
*      Continuous overlay
*      Discontinuous overlay
*      Rehabilitation
Execution of a wearing course in suitable materials makes it possible both to improve traffic conditions
by means of a better surface and to slow the rate of deterioration of the evenness (hence reducing
reshaping frequency). These tasks may be continuous or discontinuous. Rehabilitation is distinguished
from reshaping by the scale of the ancillary works, whether improving or not, that can be included
(creation of inverts, local earthworks, etc.). These works are definitely suitable for contracting out by
calls for bids, provided the contracts are made sufficiently attractive.
ORGANIZATION OF ROLTINE MAINTENANCE
The organization envisaged for handling maintenance work that can only be done by force account is
based on two types of units.
Track Maintenance Units (TMUs)
These have to be mobile and as light as possible, but must be able to handle the essentials of point
maintenance. They are assigned a stretch of unpaved road, initially set at about 200 km (to be adjusted
during the pilot operation).



-97-
Annex lf(a)
Page 3 of 9
Support Units (SUs)
For certain specific tasks (restoration of a "oued" crossing, etc.), it will be necessary to reinforce the
TMUs with certain equipment they do not possess or to temporarily increase the numbers of certain
items available to them. It is accordingly the intention to establish one or more support units at the
DTP level. The definition and dimensioning of these support units are governed by a specific context:
1.     The end purpose is to assure minimal maintenance for the main unpaved roads in the south;
2.     while remaining consistent with a general policy designed to limit work by force account to an
indispensable strict minimum; and
3.    taking into account the low density of the network and the considerable distances involved,
which oblige adoption of options that limit logistic means to a strict minimum.
Consequently:
The objectives of the SUs will be limited to the following aspects:
(a)    Providing the TMUs with the capacity to handle certain tasks they are not otherwise equipped
for (essentially sand and gravel production, with the emphasis on mobility rather than yield).
(b)    Temporarily increasing the TMUs means with a view to increasing their production capacity
and NOT their productivitv.
(c)    Temporarily increasing the existing means for removing sands.
The SUs' equipment will accordingly comprise essentially:
(i)    a 14-t angledozer mounted on tracks equipped with a ripper;
(ii)    a loader mounted on tyres;
(iii)   a tractor and trailer to enable the moving of equipment; and
(iv)    10-t payload trucks, intended for temporary strengthening of the TMUs' haulage capacity.
PILOT OPERATION
The total needs resulting from such a policy are sizable (of the order of 79 units, see annex). It would
appear essential to begin, in an initial phase, by setting up a pilot operation designed to validate the
different options from the equipment, staffing, capacities and organization standpoints. The intention is
accordingly to establish, in each of the southern wilayas, a limited number of units that will work by
priority on the most important routes, and particularly those on which rehabilitation works are
envisaged (work which will not be fully justified unless maintenance can be can be assured.)



-98-
Annex Hl(a)
Page 4 of 9
LOCATION AND NUMBER OF UNITS IN THE PILOT OPERATION
Tamanrasset Wilaya
Location                 Number of TMUs            Priority operating area
Tamanrasset               I                        North part of Tamanrasset-In Guezzain
Tamanrasset-Bordj el Haoues stretch Road
near Tamanrasset
In Guezzam                I                        South part of Tamanrasset - In Guezzain
Amguid                   2                         Amguid to RNI (Tamanrasset)
Amguid-Bordj el Haoues
Total            4
These four TMUs are supported by two SUs from the Tamanrasset DTP: 4 TMUs, 2 SUs
Illizi Wilaya
Location                 Number of TMUs            Priority operating area
Illizi                    I                        Illizi-Bordj el Haoues section
Road near Illizi
Bordj Omar Driss          1                        Roads near Bordj Omar Driss
Bordj Omar Driss-Amguid
Bordj el Haoues           I                        Bordj el Haoues-Amguid section
Bordj el Haoues-EI Achir
Total            3
These three TMUs are supported by one SU from the Djanet DTP: 3 TMUs, I SU
Adrar Wilaya
Location                 Number of TMUs            Priority operating area
Reggane                   I                        North section of Reggane-BBM
Bidon V                   I                        Central section of Reggane-BBM
Bordj Badji Mokhtar       1                        South section of Reggane-BBM
(BBM)
Total            3
These three TMUs are supported by one SU from the Reggane DTP: 3 TMUs, I SU



-99-
Annex ll(a)
Page 5 of 9
Tindouf Wilaya
Location                  Number of TMUs             Priority operating area
Tindouf                 0 0 1                        Road near Tindouf
Total                     I                          Tindouf-Gara Djebilet
This TMU is supported by one SU from the Tindouf Wilaya
Summary: The total number of units in the pilot operation as outlined in the above tables is:
11 TMUs and 4 SUs.
MAKE-UP OF UNITS AND QUANTIFICATION OF EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL
TMUs
Type of equipment                 No. per    Total       Personnel per TMU    Total Number
TMU        No.
Agricultural tractor w/trailer    2           22         1 driver              22 drivers
1 assistant           11 assistants
Towed fuel tank (2 to 3 mn3)      1            t         -_
Towed water tank (2 to 3 m3)                  1 1
Four-wheel-drive dumptrucks (6 t   2          22         2 drivers             22 drivers
payload), with inter-changeable                          1 assistant           11 assistants
equipment (front blade, loading
bucket)
Single-bearing vibrating compactor  1         11         I operator            11 operators
and trailer
Logistic equipment                            11         2 assistants          22 assistants
*      Mobile trailer, air        4           44
conditioned and equipped
*      Generator set              1           11
*      Misc. small equipment      1           11
items



-100-
Annex ll(a)
Page 6 of 9
ESTIMATE
The estimated cost of the equipment component for the 11 TMUs is
Type of equipment                   Quantity    Unit Price   Amount       Amount
financed by
Fifth Project
Agricultural tractor wltrailer             22      400,000     8,800,000      pro mem.
Towed fuel tank (2 to 3 m3)                11      300,000     3,300,000      pro mem.
Towed water tank (2 to 3 m3)               11       80,000       880,000      pro mem.
Four-wheel-drive dumptrucks                22    6,000,000    132,000,000    132,000,000
(6 t payload), with interchangeable
equipment (front blade, loading bucket)
Single-bearing vibrating compactor and     11      320,000     3,520,000      pro mem.
trailer
Logistic equipment
*     Mobile trailer, air cond. and        44       500,00    22,000,000      pro mem.
equipped
*     Generator set                        11      200,000     2,200,000      pro mem.
*     Misc. small eqt. items               11      200,000     2,200,000      pro mem.
Total                                                         174,900,000    132,000,000
Parts (15%)                                                   26,235,000     19,800,000
Grand total                                                  201,135,000    151,800,000



-101-
Annex ll(a)
Page 7 of 9
SUs
Type of equipment                                No.   Total    Personnel per   Total No.
per    No.       SU
SU
Angle dozer mounted on tracks and ripper        1      4          1 operator        4 operators
Loader mounted on wheels                         1      4          1operator        4 operators
Tractor and trailer                              1      4          1 driver         4 drivers
1 assistant      4 assistants
10-t payload trucks                              2      8          1 driver         8 drivers
1 assistant      8 assistants
Tanks
Tanktruck, 7-10 m3 (sprinkling)                1      51         1 driver         5 drivers
I assistant      5 assistants
Tanktruck, 7-10 m3 (drinking water)            1      4          1 driver         4 drivers
I assistant      4 assistants
Towed fuel tank(4 m3)                          1      5
Single-bearing vibrating compactors with         1      4          1 operator       4 operators
trailers
Logistic equipment                                      4          2 assistants     8 assistants
*       Mobile trailer, air cond. and equipped   4       16
*       Generator set                            1      4
*       Misc. small eqt. items                   1      4
An additional truck is bound for Tindouf's SU



-102-
Annex i 1 (a)
Page 8 of 9
ESTIMATE
The estimated cost of the equipment component for the 4 SUs is
Type of equipment                   Quantity    Unit Price   Amount       Amount
financed by
Fifth Project
Angle dozer mounted on tracks               4    9,000,000    36,000,000    36,000,000
Loader mounted on wheels                    4    4,000,000    16,000,000      pro mem.
Tractor and trailer                         4    6,000,000    24,000,000    24,000,000
10-t payload trucks                        8   4,000,000      32,000,000    32,000,000
Tanks
Tanktruck, 7-10 m3 (sprinkling)           5    4,000,000    20,000,000      pro mem.
Tanktruck, 7-10 m3 (drinking water)       4    4,000,000    16,000,000      pro mem.
Towed water tank (2 to 3 m3)              4      80,000        320,000      pro mem.
Towed fuel tank (2 to 3 m3)               4     300,000      1,200,000      pro mem.
Single-bearing vibrating compactors with   4      320,000      1,280,000      pro mem.
trailers
Logistic equipment
*     Mobile trailer, air cond. and
equipped                            16     500,000      8,000,000      pro mem.
*     Generator set                        4      200,000       800,000       pro mem.
*     Misc. small eqt. items               4      200,000       800,000       pro mem.
Total                                                        156,400,000    92,000,000
Parts (15%)                                                   23,460,000     13,800,000
Grand Total                                                  179,860,000    105,800,000
Recapitulation of component costs
No.        Cost              Amount to be      Amount to be
financed         financed by loan
(65%)
TMUs                           I1       201,135,000       151,800,000      106,260,000
SUs                            4        179,860,000       105,800,000       74,060,000
Contingencies                            11,429,850         7,728,000        5,409,600
Total in DA                             392,424,850       268,328,000      185,729,600
Total in US$                             10,900,690         7,370,222        5,159,155



-103-
Annex ll(a)
Page 9 of 9
Infrastructure:
The infrastructure facilities (workshops, offices, etc.) existing in each of the wilayas.
Operating cost:
The operating costs of a TMU and a SU are estimated at DA 3 million/year/unit.
The operating budget to be allocated to the four wilayas (16 units) is DA 48 million per year.
M:\Ray\Algcria\Annexl L.a



ALGERIA
Highway VI Project
Ministry of Infrastructure and Regional Planning - Organization Chart
M inister 
|Hodernizationneleetlog aabietn  
Directorates  Planning and          Human Resources   General Services   Roads    Road Maintenance          Large
Economic Affairs    and Research        Administration      (DR)     and Operations          Hydraulic
(DPAE)                  (DRHR)            (DAG)                          (DEER)             Infrastructures
Sub-Directorates -General Studies    - Initial             - Regulations    Motorvays   -Operations             Irrigation
Training                           & Bridges,l
-Planning                                                             -Maintenancei
- Continuous       - Budget and      Road                          Water Regulation
-Economic Studie3      Training           Accounting      Progranis    _                and Protection
and Financing                                                         Equipment
- Research &       - Administration
-Information           Cooperation        and Personnel                                      Ports and
Airports
Information        General Logistics
-Technology
Public Administrative                                                 National Motorway Agency
Organizations (EPA)      National Center for    National                        (ANA)
Continuous Training    Public Works
in Infrastructure       Univrersity
(CNPH-INPE)             (ENTP)



-105-                      Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Detailed Organization of Road Directorates
At National Level:
Direction des Routes:
1.    Sous-direction des autoroutes et des ouvrages:
a)     bureau des 6tudes autoroutieres
b)     bureau des programmes autoroutiers
c)     bureau des ouvrages
d)     bureau de la reglementation des autoroutes et ouvrages
2.     Sous-direction des programmes routiers
a)     bureau des renforcements
b)     bureau des infrastructures nouvelles
c)     bureau des programmes du sud
d)     bureau de la reglementation techniques routiere
Direction de l'Exploitation et de I'Entretien Routier
1.    Sous-direction de l'exploitation de la route
a)     bureau de la securite et de la signalisation routiere
b)     bureau des donnees routieres
C)     bureau de la reglementation et de la gestion du domaine public routier
2.     Sous-direction de l'entretien routier
a)     bureau de la reglementation
b)     bureau de la programmation des travaux d'entretien
3.     Sous-direction des parcs A materiel
a)     bureau de la maintenance
b)     bureau de 1'exploitation
c)     bureau des investissements
At Wilava level
Direction de Wilaya des Travaux Publics
1.    Service de l'exploitation et de l'entretien des infrastructures de base:
a)     bureau de 1'exploitation routiere
b)     bureau de 1'entretien des infrastructures de base
c)     bureau des parcs A materiel des infrastructures de base
2.     Service du d6veloppement des infrastructures de base
a)     bureau de developpement des infrastructures de base
b)     bureau des ouvrages d'art
c)     bureau des etudes
3.     Service de I'administration et des moyens
a)     bureau de la gestion des personnels
b)     bureau du budget et de la comptabilite et des moyens generaux
c)     bureau du contentieux
Subdivision Territoriale
1.     Section de 1'exploitation et de la maintenance des infrastructures routiares
2.     Section du parc A materiel
3.     Section du developpement des infrastructures de base



-106-
Annex 13
Page 1 of 2
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Key Performance Indicators
1.    The lessons learned from the Fifth Highway Project helped identify the performance
indicators especially designed to monitor specific priority objectives per component, resulting
from past recurrent weaknesses.
2.    To the extent possible, indicators monitor physical progress, effectiveness, and
development impact. They have also been designed to enable monitoring at the job site level
and to aggregate the local results both at the Wilaya level and at the national level; ratios
have been chosen to facilitate immediate understanding by all actors and comparison to the
target.
3.    Quality indicators are chosen to monitor specific key works qualities directly linked to
short and long-term performances and enable their aggregation at site, local, and national
level;
4.    More detailed performance indicator description is being developed in the project
implementation volume. Evaluation of institutional performances of contractor, laboratory
and local administration for each large contract has been developed under Highway V and
will continue to be used.
5.    Special performance indicators are also being developed for the streamlining of
payment and disbursement procedures.



-107-
Annex 13
Page 2 of 2
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Component        Performance                     Indicator                            Target       atpbtio
____ ____ ____ ___ ____ ____ ___ _   __ ____ ___ Com pletion
Road             competition:       average number of responsive bids per call      4             5
Strengthening /                     for bids
Rehabilitation
progress:         amount of works actually paid / amount of      80%           95%
works planned to be paid at that time
final delays:     actual completion time/initial contractual     1,20          1,05
time
quality:          percentage of tests outside the contractual    15%            5%
specifications for compaction density of
bases and wearing courses
&lobal            ex-post ERR with actual evenness, traffic      90%           95%
effectiveness:    and costs, compared with before-works
ERR
Bridge           progress:          amount of works actually paid/amount of       50%           75%
Rehabilitation                      works planned to be paid at that time
design:           Final Contract Cost/Initial Contract Cost (in   1,5           1,4
constant AD)
Periodic         competition:       average number of responsive bids per call      4             5
Maintenance                        for bids
ouality:          percentage of tests outside the contractual    20%           10%
specifictions ofor granular material
cleanliness for surface dressing
final delays:     actual completion time/contractual time        1,20          1,10
progress:         surface of "surface dressing"                  80%           90%
completed/surface contractually planned
Maintenance      progress:          actual delay compared to initial planning of   1,1           n/a
Equipment                           procurement
repair            percentage of time trucks are under repair      n/a          15%
effectiveness:
Each Study       progress:          depay in month between actual and planned   2 months       I month
(Modernization)                     step for that time
implementation    time between agreement on study and first    4 months      3 months
of                formal action of conclusions implementation
recommendations
Training         quantity:          number of trainees traininged/plans (both in  80%           90%
man x month)
Ouality:          percentage of success (to end-of-training      60%           70%
tests)
M\Ray\A1gerna\Annc. 13



-108-
Annex 14
Page 1 of 6
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STATUS OF ROAD USER CHARGES
1.01   The Government has yet to develop an explicit road user taxation policy. Transport
activities are heavily taxed as is usually the case in other lower-middle income countries, but
mainly as a way to finance general Government spending. Road user charges are seldom
seen in Algeria as a pricing mechanism to capture economic benefits from better roads and
link the payment made by any user to the cost of services rendered with a view to optimize
road utilization. In truth, the practical importance of efficiency pricing for roads could well
be overlooked in a centrally planned economy where the assessment of needs was supply
driven, and pervasive regulations or the domination of public transport monopolies
constituted the strongest of incentives. Conditions changed though, as Algeria moves on the
path of structural reforms to help transition to a market economy. A stabilization program is
underway, calling for fiscal restraint to restore domestic financial balance and reallocate
resources from the Government to the productive sector. Price distortions will be corrected
to promote a more efficient allocation of resources. As general budget cuts are impending at
a time when much more should be done to maintain the deteriorating road network, increased
reliance on user charges to finance road expenditures could be one of few ways to guarantee
that enough resources will be forthcoming, especially through earmarking which makes
additional charges more politically acceptable as road users will be able to monitor
betterment of traffic conditions. The grossly underfunded Wilaya and municipal road
networks could benefit the most from development of road user taxation. On the other hand,
overcharging road users should be avoided because it reduces the mobility of goods and
people essential to market integration and growth. Hence a need for a comprehensive
assessment. This was done under the National Transport Study financed under the Fifth
Highway Project. Since most data analyzed relate to 1986-89, the study needs updating
beyond the summary interim assessment presented hereafter.
A. Main findings of the National Transport Study'
1.02   The study made an inventory of taxes raised in 1985-86 on road transport ownership
and operations and estimated their proceeds to a total of AD 17.7 billion, or about a third of
all Government tax revenue at the time. They were broken down by nature between general
taxation and user charges, with the latter accounting for AD 7.4 billion. Besides taxes
directly identifiable as user charges, the general principle applied was to credit the user
charge component with any tax and custom duty collected over and above the average tax
1/see Bedat/Dar Al Handasah: "Etude Nationale des Transports - Etude Sp6ciale: Charges aux Usagers de la Route"



-109-
Annex 14
Page 2 of 6
paid by industrial products, namely 10 percent2. Fuel charges calculated as the difference
between pump and border prices constituted the main element of road user taxation (about 77
percent of total). Import duties ranked second in importance (about 15 percent). A special
and discriminatory tax raised on private vehicles imported and financed outside the official
channels ranked third (about 6 percent). Other sources, mostly taxes raised by the Ministry
of Transport upon issuance of driver licenses and other official transport documents made for
the rather insignificant balance of 2 percent. A comparison of taxes paid by various
categories of vehicles showed private sector operators bearing much heavier taxes than those
in the public sector.
1.03    Several cost recovery objectives were discussed and assessed over 1986-88.
(a) Charging for the short-run marginal cost with a view to maximize net
benefits for society would recover the variable portion of recurrent maintenance only, road
administration expenses, plus congestion costs. Routine maintenance costs were not
considered as the wear and tear at stake was (improperly) assumed to be entirely time and
weather related. The cost coverage ratio was respectively calculated as 2.1 and 1.8 on the
basis of actual and desirable spending levels. Projected user charges and road costs over
1990-94 gave a ratio of 2.
(b) Charging for the long-run average cost, or the entire cost of operating and
maintaining the road network, implied addition of fixed periodic maintenance costs, routine
maintenance costs, and construction costs to those already computed. The cost coverage
ratio was estimated around 1 under both existing and projected conditions.
(c) Charging for the long-run marginal cost would eliminate the fixed
component of maintenance and construction costs from the calculation; the cost coverage
ratio was calculated as 1.7 which is quite satisfactory.
1.04    The report recommended adoption of strategy (b) together elimination of the "taxe
speciale" compensated by fuel price increase in order to reduce distortions, maintain the
sector's contribution to Government revenue, and allow for intensification of periodic
maintenance.
1.05    One of the main finding was that congestion costs were the dominant component of
road use costs. They were estimated in terms of travel delays (a value was assigned to time
for various categories of users) and of additional fuel consumption under condition of snarled
traffic. The share of congestion costs ranged from 91.5 percent of short-run marginal costs,
to 43 percent of long-run average costs. About two-third of vehicle-kilometers were found to
relate to intercity traffic which, therefore, would generate a similar proportion of total user
2/a simplified calculation like this one is likely to overestimate the "real" user charges



-110-
Annex 14
Page 3 of 6
charges raised nationwide. Since congestion is essentially incurred on urban road networks,
it follows that cost coverage ratios achieved on the intercity network are much higher than
the average ones given above. For instance, the cost coverage ratio under policy (b) is 1.3
in this case, instead of 1 on average.
B. Summary interim assessment
1.06   Many of the critical assumptions used in the study need updating. Since 1986-88,
prices of fuel and vehicles were greatly affected by the devaluation of the Algerian dinar and
fast running local inflation. The ongoing structural adjustment in itself brings changes in
relative prices most relevant to the analysis. The tax reforms that took place point in the
same direction. Last but not least, the utilization rate of the national vehicle fleet must have
been lowered by deepening of the economic crisis. These changes are too many, and too
large for any firm conclusion to be drawn on their global impact on road cost recovery. An
update study will therefore be carried out before year end on the basis of terms of reference
cleared by the Bank, and it will be financed under the Fifth Highway Project. Its scope is
narrowed to intercity road and traffic. In the meantime, some provisional conclusions can be
drawn from the likely impact of recent changes in key parameters. This interim assessment
is presented hereafter.
(a)   fuel based user charges lost real value: as road cost recovery is
predominantly based on fuel, the evolution of fuel taxation has a large impact on revenues
from user charges. A major producer, Algeria enjoys cheap supplies of crude oil and the
Government used to pass on part of the advantage to local producers and consumers.
Sonatrach sold its products to distributors at prices well below world market price, and
Government taxation was moderate. In March 1990, the border price of gasoline was set at
two-third of world prices. Since 1990, tighter fiscal and monetary policies have been
followed, including progressive elimination of implicit and explicit subsidies. Local fuel
prices rose swiftly: the pump price per liter of gasoline and diesel oil rose respectively from
about DA 3.5 and 0.9 in March 1990 to about DA 8 and 6. Converting these prices in
dollar at respective exchange rates of AD 7.98 and 38 to US$ 1 shows that diesel oil
consumption is no more subsidized and generate positive albeit modest user charges. On the
other hand, gasoline-based user charges have lost 70 percent of their 1990 value. Table 1
summarizes the evolution.



-111-
Annex 14
Page 4 of 6
Table I:  Comparison of Algerian and world fuel prices in March 1990 and July 1994 (US cents per liter)
Gasoline premium    gasoline regular    diesel oil
1. Pump prices:
- 1990          45.7                37.6               11.3
- 1994          22.3                20.5               15.7
2.World prices:
- 1990           15.8               14.3               12.9
- 1994          14.5                13.2               12.7
Difference (1-2)
- 1990          29.9                23.3              - 1.6
- 1994            7.8                7.3               3.0
Source: 'Etude Nationale de Transport. Etude Speciale: charges aux usagers de la route" (page 5-18)
for 1990 estimates. The 1994 estimates were obtained from "Petroleum Intelligence Weekly" for world
prices; the 1994 pump prices were communicated at appraisal
1.07     The net impact of reduced tax returns on gasoline and added returns on diesel oil
can only be approximated. It is reasonable to assume a 1994 total and structure of
vehicle/kilometer roughly identical to the one assessed in the National Transport Study, since
traffic gains of the late eighties-early nineties were likely erased in late years. User charges
raised on diesel oil consumption are therefore estimated around US$ 50 million3 which,
together with those raised on gasoline consumption, bring fuel-based user charges to a total
of US$ 195 million, a fraction of the US$ 711 million estimated in 1989 (minus 72.5
percent). The changing dinar value of world prices must be reflected in pump prices: this is
key to avoiding further erosion of implicit fuel taxation.
(b)    A shortfall of tax revenues may have developed in late years: the
national intercity road network alone would require spending some US$ 70 million annually
for strengthening and rehabilitation, plus US$ 65 million for resealing and routine
maintenance. Normal maintenance of the Wilaya network, which carries much less traffic on
about the same total road length, warrants spending no less than a third of the national road
budget, or US$ 45 million per year. The normal maintenance budget for the municipal
network, which comprises a comparable length of paved roads but nearly ten time as much
unpaved roads as the other two networks, should be around US$ 30 million. Fully funded
road maintenance would then imply spending some US$ 210 million annually. Extension and
modernization of the network must also be pursued, at a reasonable pace though which, in
first approximation, would contain related expenditures within 30 percent of the total road
budget, or US$ 100 million. Recoverable long-run marginal costs are tentatively estimated
around US$ 150 million distributed as follows:
3/it assumes 30 percent of vehicle/kilometers relate by diesel-powered vehicles (trucks and buses mostly) which, as a
group, consumes 2.5 liter of fuel for any liter consumed by the group of gasoline-powered vehicles. Based on
gasoline consumption in 1989, diesel oil consumption is estimated at 1.7 billion liter; related user charges should be
around US$ 50 million.



-112-
Annex 14
Page 5 of 6
resealing costs of US$ 90 million, reduced by 35 % for time related wear and
tear, to an estimated US$ 58.5 million;
20% of routine maintenance costs, or US$ 5 million;
65 % of road strengthening and rehabilitation, or US$ 60 million;
20% of construction costs of US$ 20 million;
the administration cost, roughly updated at US$ 7 million.
1.08    Further assuming fuel-based user charges collected for use of intercity roads to
represent about 60 percent of total, or US$ 117 million, and taking into account elimination
of the "taxe speciale" and of reduction of the "taxe compensatoire" from 30 to 10 percent of
the c. i.f. value which has the effect, other things being equal, to raise the share of fuel-based
user charges to some 85 percent of total user charge revenue, lead to conclude that the long-
run marginal cost may be marginally in excess of road user charges (namely,
US$ 150 million against US$ 137 million).
(c)    Heavy vehicles may still be under-charged:  despite the recent removal
of implicit subsidies on diesel oil, light vehicles using gasoline are still making the largest
contribution to road cost recovery. Trucks were contributing so little, according to the
National Transport Study, that recent fuel price increases seem far short of what is needed to
correct imbalances, knowing that a semi-trailer can cause as much damage to roads as 30,000
private cars4 or more. Diesel oil charges may have to be brought in line with those raised on
gasoline. The economic rationale behind the lower taxation of diesel oil appears weak,
especially when external costs from diesel oil being a much more polluting fuel are duly
acknowledged. An axle-load tax, best related to pavement damage, would be a good
complement to raising taxes on diesel oil for achieving normal cost recovery.
(d)    Current user charges discriminate against private transporters: the
National Transport Study showed trucks bearing taxes equivalent to 107 percent of the c.i.f.
compared to 59 percent for semitrailers. The gap has been narrowed as combined taxation
of trucks represent 82 percent of the c.i.f. value, but is still sizeable, and, since private
truckers have limited access to official credit and mostly operate small to medium trucks,
they end up being taxed more heavily. Foreign exchange accessibility was another source of
indirect discrimination. Whereas parastatals received foreign exchange allocations to
purchase trucks belonging to planned imports, the private sector could only import to the
extent that financing is secured on the parallel market at much higher exchange rates, which
constitute an implicit taxation of private transporters and a hidden form of discrimination in
favor of parastatals. The 1994 measures toward free convertibility of the Algerian dinar do
not seem to fully remedy the situation.
4/pavement damage is proportional to the number of equivalent standard axles per vehicle, defined as the ratio of the
load on each axle to a standard 8.2-ton axle, raised to the fourth power.



-113-
Annex 14
Page 6 of 6
(e)    Raising road user fees should go with reducing general taxation: the
transport sector is heavily taxed, and additional road user charges5 might trigger tax evasion
and/or worsen recession in the transport industry. Full streamlining of road taxation,
therefore, may call for a comprehensive reform of general taxation whereby Government
would find alternative sources of tax revenue to make up for decreased general taxes on
transport which, as evidenced in the National Transport Study, are much higher than those in
the nature of road user charges (40 percent higher at the time).
(f)    a road fund could help increase road budgets: tax earmarking would
both facilitate a consensus on spending more for better roads, and allow to target untapped
road user surpluses toward expanding the charging bases, with special relevance to the
Wilaya and municipal road networks. The Government expressed willingness to study and
discuss conditions under which a road fund could be established in Algeria.
5/taxes supported by private cars range between 150 and 425% of ex-factory (or imported) costs. The tax paid upon
purchasing an imported truck is about 70% of the c.i.f.value.



-114-
Annex 15
Page 1 of 1
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Environment Mitigation and Monitoring Plan
Issues             Mitigating Actions                        Organization Responsible for      Date
actions/monitoring
Quarries           - actions to avoid dust and noise where   quarry or contractor owning the    Before works
appropriate                              quarry (under local authority    start
supervision)
Drainage/Erosion    State of the art actions like:           Contractor under Engineer         During
- concreted ditches according to plans   Supervision                       contract
- planting
Widening (50 to    - appropriate signals for road user safety  Contractor under Engineer       During
80cm) on existing    - limited length under construction (1 km)    Supervis                   contract
right of way       - appropriate waste disposal
Asphalt plants     - measurement of dust emission            Laboratories                      First Tranche
- development of implementation
recommendations and incorporation in    DR/CTTP                          Following
contract clauses (dust filters where                                     Tranches
necessary)                                                               Before works
- restoration plan of asphalt plan area  Proposed by contractor and        are
approved by engineer             completed
Effect of works on   Special recommendations following       DR                               Before works
road user safety   previous - project experience                                               start
Effect of traffic  Blackspot analysis incorporated in study  Consultant under supervision by    During study
speed after road                                             Engineer
rehabilitation
Development of     - TA to ANA                               ANA/DR                           continuous
EIA quality        - sample TOR of EIA for motorway studies  ANA                               for 2 yrs.
agreed with the Bank                                                     done
Development of     - Utilization of recently developed       ANA/DR                            During
specific             environmental handbook for roads to                                      project
environment          develop a national handbook                                               implement-
guidelines for     - regular assessment of environmental     CTTP/DR                          ation
roads                contract clause implementation and                                       After each
improvements introduced in the road                                      tranche is
rehabilitation handbook                                                  completed



-115-
Annex 16
Page 1 of 1
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.    The Borrower's supervision activities will be coordinated/carried out by MIRP. His
supervisory functions will involve the following:
(a)   initial review, recording and forwarding of
-  all procurement orders
-  all disbursement requests and liaison with special account
expenditures/disbursements by Banque Algerienne de Developpement
(b)   review of bidding documents prepared by local DTP
(c)   preparation of quarterly reports per subcomponent
(d)   liaison with General Finance Inspection for annual audits.
2.    The Bank Supervision team would comprise:
-  a highway engineer
-  a transport economist
-  a financial analyst (especially for the audits of enterprises)
- a public sector managemeit specialist (especially for the modernization actions)
-  specialized technical experts where and when needed.
The specific characteristics of the project and the context necessitates 30 SW for the
first year after board presentation, 25 SW the following year and 20 SW each following
year. Two supervision missions per year of at least two weeks each are necessary.
Including local individual consultant in the Bank supervision team has proved to be very
effective. Technical meetings outside the country have proved to be useful. The normal
feasibility of works and the possibility to effectively supervise them is a key factor for their
cost-effectiveness, and quality; deviations from this normal situation should only be accepted
after careful analysis of (i) the region where it takes place, (ii) the specific component
concerned, (iii) the institutional strength of the DTP in charge, (iv) the possibility of effective
central supervision, and (v) the importance of the necessary TA for this task and the method
to mobilize it.
3.    The mid-term review should be developed sufficiently before the call for bids for the
second or third tranche is launched.



I 61
Annex 17
Page 1 of 3
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PREVIOUS BANK INVOLVEMENT IN TRANSPORT
1.01   The transport sector in Algeria has received ten loans from the Bank. These loans,
totalling US$ 814 million, financed five highway projects, three port projects, and two
railway projects.
A. Highway Projects
1.02   The highway projects were all characterized by delays due in large part to (i) lengthy
civil works contracting and approval procedures, and (ii) late start-up of studies and
consequent completion delays.
1.03   The First. Second. and Third Highway Projects (Loans 912-AL, 1407-AL, and
1683-AL in respective amounts of US$18.5 million, 41.5 million, and 126 million) focused
on reforms of the road maintenance organization including development of force account
capabilities to accompany decentralization, built up local expertise in International
Competitive Bidding procedures and contract supervision and management of major road
projects, in addition to financing priority road rehabilitation and strengthening and two large
road investments focussed on eliminating two severe bottlenecks: East-West link
Boudounaou-Lakhdaria and North-South link Chiffa-Berrouaghia. The project completion
reports (and the Project Performance Audit Reports No. 2552, on Loan 912-AL) all
concluded that project objectives in each case had been met, although project components had
to be revised several times to keep pace with administrative and organizational changes
taking place in Algeria. The regional equipment pools finally became autonomous public
enterprises.
1.04   The Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1892-AL, US$ 110 million) was approved in
August 1980 and closed in December 1988. It was a follow-up of the Third Highway
Project and comprised a second tranche of periodic maintenance and of a pavement
strengthening program, continuation of a program for training maintenance personnel,
assistance to improve the efficiency of public construction enterprises plus reconstruction of a
critical section of a major north-south road, including construction of three tunnels and a
viaduct through the Kherrata Gorges, and technical assistance to improve road management.
Main project objectives have been met, but implementation difficulties taught several lessons:
(a) construction of costly tunnels should not be undertaken prior to conclusion of thorough
geological explorations; (b) potential procurement issues should be brought to the Borrower's
attention before appraisal; (c) whenever safety equipment is needed to operate new civil
works, early tendering is required to ensure that it be in place on commissioning the works
to traffic; (d) the Borrower's commitment to carry out the entire project should be secured,
particularly as regards technical assistance and training which are not used as effectively as
needed; at the same time, the institution building objectives should be carefully assessed to
ensure that they are both relevant and realistic.



-117-
Annex 17
Page 2 of 3
1.05   The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 2808-AL, US$ 120 million) was approved in May
1987 and became effective in January 1988. It has been implemented during a period of
strong devaluation of Algeria Dinar. It was designed to reduce the backlog of road
maintenance (strengthening of primary roads and periodic maintenance by contract), to
improve road maintenance planning and programming and contract management, to
streamline transport sector policy formulation, and enhance skills of personnel employed by
the Ministry of Public Works, the Ministry of Transport and transport public enterprises. The
original loan closing date was postponed by three years to December 31, 1994. The project
has reached its physical objectives, in spite recurrent shortages of bitumen and of aggregates;
repeated instances of sub-standard quality works were observed due to poor incentives and a
weak chain of controls, from contractors and laboratories to the client itself. Local road
management expertise did improve, particularly through services rendered by the Technical
Quality Control Organization (CTTP) which dynamic local management and project financed
technical assistance help grow into a fairly effective consulting firm, able to capitalize on
lessons learnt through maintenance and rehabilitation projects in Algeria. Contractor
Competition for periodic maintenance was also developed. Project components based at the
Ministry of Transport largely failed for lack of commitment to objectives and inefficient
monitoring of the national transport study which, by completion time two years behind
schedule, was already outdated. Lengthy contract award procedures and lack of efficiency for
handling of disbursement by the Algerian Development Bank slowed implementation.
B. Port Projects
1.06   During the mid-seventies, the Bank participated in financing port facilities for export
of liquefied natural gas under the Bethiouia Port Project (Loan 995-AL, US$ 143 million).
From a technical standpoint, the project was a success despite late completion of works and
tense relations between the Borrower and the contractor linked to payment delays and
inadequate contract management. The project's relative failure with regards to technical
assistance stemmed from poor coordination between the respective Government agencies and
the state-owned enterprises. The PCR did not assess the economic viability of the project for
lack of relevant data. Still, it pointed out that rescinding of LNG contracts to supply the US
market prior to completion of works left the new port largely underutilized.
1.07   The implementation of the Port of Jijel Project (Loan 1427-AL) appraised in 1976
did not materialize because of the construction of the steel complex was indefinitely
postponed. The loan was cancelled in 1980. An attempt to revive the project under a revised
design led the Bank to appraise it in 1984 but procurement issues could not be resolved,
preventing further processing of the renamed Djen Djen Project.
1.08   The Third Port Project (Loan 3105-AL. US$ 63 million) is the second Bank lending
operation in the sub-sector. Approved by the Board in June 1989, the project became
effective in June 1991 after late signing in September 1990 related to procurement delays and
three postponement of the effectiveness deadline due to late submission of reimbursement
agreements between the Government and the beneficiary port enterprises. The loan finances:
(i) development of specialized container-handling facilities in the three major ports of
Algiers, Oran, and Annaba through remodelling of existing berths and provision of container-



-118-
Annex 17
Page 3 of 3
handling equipment; (ii) provision of a bulk grain handling facility in the port of Annaba;
(iii) assistance for studies on cost accounting, assets valuation, and on next phases of port
modernization; and (iv) provision of training to support the introduction of container-handling
technology, including trade facilitation, operating methods, and maintenance. Moderate
problems are experienced. Compliance with audit covenants has not been satisfactory to
date. Civil works in Algiers are running behind schedule due in part to relocation, out of
environmental concerns, of the dumping site for dredged materials. Berth strengthening in
Oran was expected to start in November 1993, nearly two years after the no-objection by the
Bank to the proposal for contract award. Progress in Annaba is satisfactory except for silo
construction, still at pre-design stage. Botched procurement, slow decision making, technical
and financial management weaknesses are the main obstacles and project completion is
expected to slip by no less than two years.
C. Railway Projects
1.09   The First Railway Project (Loan 996. US$ 49 million) was designed to support the
railway's modernization program within the 1974-77 Development Plan, and consisted
mainly of renewal of motive power, rolling stock, rehabilitation of tracks, and technical
assistance. This project dragged on for 7.5 years and one-fourth of the loan was unutilized
and cancelled. Limited implementation capabilities and disagreement between the Bank and
the Borrower on the economic justification of a track doubling project contributed to
project's failure. Little institutional improvement took place as consultants were lacking
suitable counterparts. The project was closed on December 31, 1982.
1.10   The Second Railway Project (Loan 2976-AL. US$ 143 million) was approved by the
Board in June 1988, but cross-conditions with the Japanese EXIM Bank (cofinancing loan of
US$ 47 million) delayed effectiveness until March 1990. The project had six components of
which track rehabilitation and renewal, modernization of signalling and telecommunications,
equipment for track maintenance and unloading of rock phosphate, technical assistance to
development of modern management systems including cost accounting, and training support
to the Railway Training Institute. A deadlock on procurement issues led to minor
achievements in the area of track maintenance. Disbursement by closing date of February
28, 1993 were barely above US$ 23 million, most of which relating to rolling stock. No
progress materialized on institutional aspects. Key studies were not commissioned, and the
Borrower defaulted on nearly all financial covenants. Frequent changes of general manager,
lack of management leadership, biased procurement practices, violations of the 1988
Convention fixing the financial obligations of Government to the railways, contributed to the
project's failure.



-119-
Annex 18
Page 1 of 2
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files
-  Planning and Programming Road Maintenance on the Main Network (5000 km). Use of
HDM and Results - November 1993 - done by CTTP for DEER. MI. Analysis of
Alternative Strategies.
- Modernization of Infrastructure Ministry; Proposals Report by the Committee - 5/16/94.
sent by Mr. Saadali, Directeur de Cabinet.
- Modernization of Infrastructure Sector in Algeria. Joint Study by M.I. and WB. May
1994 with Annex 1 to 5. Main Results of CNAT Survey.
- Paper on National Road Policy. December 1992 by Mr. Brahim Benchouk, Director of
Roads
Evolution Objectives to be brought by Highway VI Project Component on Road
Rehabilitation 1/04/94. Note from Road Director.
Road Maintenance Policy and Highway VI Project - 1994. Note from Director of Road
Maintenance and Operations.
-Financing Dossier on Detailed Engineering Studies for 3 Motorway Sections 1/23/94 -
Direction de Cabinet.
- Dossier on Bridge Rehabilitation - Bridge Survey; Rehabilitation Prioritization; Specific
Bridge Condition Analysis with Photos; Update on Bridge Management Study; Minutes of
National Bridge Rehabilitation Committee Meetings.
- 6/30/90 Decree Creating CNPH (National Center for Training in Hydraulics) and Draft
Decree Transforming CNPH into INPE (National Institute for Continuous Training in
Infrastructure).
- Dossier on Quarries; Letter from the Minister of Infrastructure to the Walis; Note on
Action Proposals to Improve Quarry Production; National Symposium on Granular
Materials - 126-7/93.
- Sample Bidding Documents for Pavement Strengthening and Rehabilitation. Example for
RN6. - 1993 - prepared by CTTP for DR.



-120-
Annex 18
Page 2 of 2
- Audit Report on Algerian Public Works Laboratories - May 1994. Draft version written
by Bernard Heritier, Patrick Morissey, Charles Parey for the World Bank at the Request
of the Ministry of Infrastructure.
- Audit Reports on Bitumen Supply and Quality. June 1994 - written by Philippe Fevre and
Jean-Luc Delorme for the World Bank and the Algerian Working Group on Bitumen.
- Guide for Road Strengthening - Dec 1992 Road Directorate.
- Guide for Road Rehabilitation - 1994 Road Directorate.
- Guide for Road Maintenance 1994 - Road Operations and Maintenance Directorate.
- Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Saharan Tracks - Analysis of Tasks to be Done by
Contracts or by Force-Account. Analysis of Minimum Equipment Required - 1994.



2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 |i d I t I    rr  r^ a, n.5                                                 as                                         n.T_,                  r       3cr 
8         gil robw-t -                                                                                                              SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
B. d                                                                                                                  44,M GnfGAz^3;LT                                      d.#A MW  rn1GT3    VCGt  TA   . TLEMCEN           i KIS DEILA         iTADN
p   *                                                           RE,AALO 3EHA                   TWI                  ROA     NETWORK  AN                 HIGHWAY  PROJECT  SITESC C    aTHH TWOC           ALNTEOUCHEN        ' tAVA  3AE    ~       E#EL *TAGHI
/ X 44 , } roADi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAVED NAIIONAL ROADS                                                                                                  AROSTAGANEM    ^' 80 DU 80U ARREPIDI 3r D ELFA
KILOMMO                                                                                                          30 q    '   ' 48  )  q   EkDGES        _   PAVED WILATA 3OADS                              c TCl,HAEtFA,ADIAODCaR
Fl A>,,\s  > zILlzlr3'                                                      ()FuTH1wTslC +   AIRVORS                                                                              E                    ROLW.VDES           COSTANTE U k 3 TERESSA
'  46  t   t4;T                     _._          _                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~            ~        ~        ~~~~THrDOIIAAVEEOAO  0   TOwNS AND VILLAGES            REJAIA           2c SOUR AIILAS       42 RcEOA.
s A 7 -\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEKOJDIGVEAVPRIoJCT                                                             $               NATIONAL CAPITAL                               2SKVSDA           2- SAIGAT             "OUAGL,A
\ X )   3   /   ......                                      Fril';T HvWIY rsOECT                     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -  INTERNATIONAL ROANDARIES         ELN TAR          ' S9 E*VDE           ) ADrA
5-a  _3_2J re Arr~^                                                                                                                                                                  MAracAlA          32 EMA9TNAA             TAAADE EALTET
ALE3.ST 199~



