                 Document of
              The World Bank




                                            Report No: 26089

   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
      (CPL-38390; SCL-3839A; SCPD-3839S)

                    ON A

            LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$130 MILLION

                   TO THE

DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA

                     FOR

       THE SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT




                  06/27/2003

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective May 29, 2003)

                            Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (AD)
                                78.70 AD = US$ 1.00
                                US$ 0.013 = 1.00 AD

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1     -   December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AD           Algerian Dinar
ANA          National Motorways Agency
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CTTP         Technical Control Authority for Public Works
DPD          Direction de la Planification et du Développement
EA           Executing Agency
EIRR         Economic Internal Rate of Return
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
GoA          Government of Algeria
HDM          Highways Design and Maintenance Model
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
INPE         National Institute of Continuous Training in Infrastructure
MIRP         Ministry of Infrastructure and Regional Planning
PCD          Project Concept Document
PSR          Project Status Report
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
TA           Technical Assistance



                          Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib
              Country Manager/Director:        Theodore Ahlers
               Sector Manager/Director:        Emmanuel Forestier
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Michel Loir

                                          ALGERIA
                                      DZ-HIGHWAY VI


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25

Project ID: P004907                                                      Project Name: DZ-HIGHWAYS VI
Team Leader: Michel A. Loir                                              TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: DZ-HIGHWAYS VI                                           L/C/TF Number: CPL-38390; SCL-3839A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3839S
   Country/Department: ALGERIA                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (71%); Central government administration
                            (29%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (S); Rural services and infrastructure (S);
                            Decentralization (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    04/16/1993                                        Effective:                         06/15/1995
   Appraisal:    06/20/1994                                            MTR:                           07/12/1998
    Approval:    01/31/1995                                         Closing: 12/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA/MIN. INFRASTRUCTURE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jean-Louis Sarbib                              Caio Koch-Weser
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Daniel Ritchie
Sector Manager:                 Emmanuel Forestier                             Amir Al-Khafaji
Team Leader at ICR:             Michel A. Loir                                 Michel Ray
ICR Primary Author:             Elisabetta Capannelli


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:U

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

    Background:

    The road sector in Algeria plays a key role in the economic and social development of this vast
    country. The road network, about 100,000 km long, is costly and difficult to maintain. Roads carry
    about 90 percent of passenger and freight traffic, and are hence of critical importance to the Algerian
    economy. The Government of Algeria (GoA) had embarked in the early 90s on reforms to increase
    economic efficiency and remove trade barriers. These required that existing road bottlenecks be
    eased. Funding shortages, public-sector dominance with insufficient road management capabilities,
    and a road construction industry of generally poor quality, all contributed to weak sector
    performance. Traffic congestion was looming on the Northern trunk roads. The GoA also planned to
    build the East-West motorway and foreign technical expertise was needed for both technical studies
    of sections in difficult terrain of the highway, and capacity building of the motorway agency. Within
    this context, the GoA requested the Bank's assistance for the Sixth Highway Project. Despite the
    difficult political and economic settings at the time the project was conceived (1993-1994) and
    approved (31/01/1995), the Government appeared committed to undertake major reforms in the road
    sector and to administrative reforms in its Ministry in charge of road infrastructure (MIRP, Ministry of
    Infrastructure and Regional Planning), or MEAT in French). Also, while this was the sixth operation
    in the country, it was the first where the GoA had requested the Bank to intervene on a large scale on
    the restructuring of the sector.

    Project Objectives:

    The long term goal of the Project was to enhance the capabilities of the Borrower to manage its road
    sector. The project objectives included: (i) reducing the backlog of roads and bridges in need of
    rehabilitation and maintenance; (ii) strengthening the Borrower's agencies responsible for the
    management and maintenance of roads; (iii) providing sustainable solutions to finance road
    rehabilitation and maintenance works; and (iv) creating an environment conducive to the efficient
    utilization of human and financial resources in the road sector, through increased competition and
    more private sector participation.

    Evaluation of the Objectives

    The project was ambitious, far reaching, and contained many innovative features.               Besides
    traditional elements of road upgrade and expansions, it included bold actions on maintenance of
    municipal roads and on modernization of the Executing Agency (EA). A policy letter outlining the
    process of reforms and modernization that the Ministry intended to pursue in the road sector was
    submitted by the Borrower as part of the negotiation documents. This program included: improved
    actions for management of the road network, improved maintenance, creation of a mechanism to
    ensure sustainability of investments for road rehabilitation and maintenance (the creation of a road
    fund), and actions for the dynamisation of road enterprises and privatization. The project included
    several Action Plans, spelling out how specific reform actions would be taken.

    The project internal logic seemed excellent and the objectives looked attainable at appraisal. In
    retrospect, however, what made the project's strength was also its major weakness.                 The
    development objectives were too ambitious given the political instability and the economic difficulties
    Algeria was experiencing at the time. The multiplicity of actions and actors, the complex chain of
    causes and effects that had been meticulously analysed during project preparation, would have been
    difficult to control even in a favorable environment. Given that Algeria's difficulties were already
    predominant at the time of project preparation (the project had to be negotiated in Paris for security
    reasons), and the major reforms that are envisaged to be implemented during the life of the project,
    the project seems to have been too complex and risky.




                                                     - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

    The Project objectives were not revised during the course of implementation, while it appears that
    these should have been modified and expectations on outcome scaled down (see below for more
    details).

3.3 Original Components:

    The Project had three main components: (a) road rehabilitation works (44% of total project costs):
    strengthening and rehabilitation of roads carrying high and medium traffic volumes, a repair program
    for priority bridges, and related design and supervision; (b) periodic road maintenance (41% of
    project costs) by contract for national roads, a pilot program for municipal roads, current and
    emergency maintenance by force account through purchase of equipment, and traffic counting
    equipment, and design and supervision of works; (c) training, technical assistance and studies (15%
    of project costs) for institutional development, modernization of management, studies of general
    interest, and audit of key road enterprises.

    The following table includes a snapshot of the main items under the three project categories, and
    their relative relevance with respect to the project Base Costs:

                                                                                     Relative Importance
    Part A - Road expansion and rehabilitation

   A1 Road Strengthening                                                                    23%

   A2 Road Rehabilitation                                                                   10%

   A3 Bridge Rehabilitation Program                                                         7%

   A4 Technical Studies and Supervision                                                     3%

   Part B - Road Maintenance

   B1 Periodic Maintenance by Contract                                                      26%

   B2 Equipment for Maintenance and Traffic Counting                                        6%

   B3 Municipal Road Maintenance                                                            7%

   B4 Supervision, Studies and Training                                                     1%

   Part C - Training, Studies and TAs

   C1 Audit of Road Enterprises                                                             1%

   C2 TA to ANA (National Motorways Agency)                                                 2%

   C3 Economic and Engineering Studies (Motorways)                                          4%

   C4 Action Plan for Modernization and Training (MIRP)                                     6%

   C5 General Studies and Research                                                          3%

   C6 TA to MIRP                                                                             1%


3.4 Revised Components:

   The project scope was revised more than once during the course of implementation, to allow for
   implementation difficulties and delays to take into account various changes in the Ministry, and
   revised priorities. By the end of the project, major modifications were introduced on component C,
   which was reduced to 5% of total project costs (against an estimated 15% at appraisal). Activities that



                                                     - 3 -

   were not implemented include training of MIRP staff and the audit of public contractors. Other
   activities under components A and B were substantially reduced (e.g. municipal road maintenance,
   bridge rehabilitation, detailed engineering of motorway sections) and funds utilized to finance more
   road rehabilitation or road maintenance. One sub-component, the rehabilitation of the
   Tamanrasset-Ain Guezzam road, was implemented outside the project. The project was suspended
   for 9 months in 1999-2000, mainly due to lack of actions by the Borrower in appropriating sufficient
   counterpart funds for road maintenance. The project scope was revised both during the mid-term
   review and by the supervision mission of end 1999 (which decided to lift the project suspension).
   However, in neither cases there was a revision of the project's development objectives to scale them
   down to more attainable outcomes.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

    The project predates QAG, hence there was no formal quality at entry assessment at the time of
    Board approval. The project was consistent with the Bank CAS strategy and with the Borrower's
    priorities, as indicated during project preparation and reiterated in the Policy Letter that accompanied
    the project. Project design and preparation were thorough and benefited from the fact that many
    studies and analyses could be carried out during the implementation of a previous Bank project
    (Highway V).      Safeguards policies were adequate and were adhered to during project design.
    Thorough analyses by senior experts preceded the preparation of the action plans, and the review of
    modernization needs at MIRP had been done in great detail and in a participatory way. The broad
    knowledge of Algeria and technical expertise by the Task Team Leader is reflected in the project.
    The design of the project was sophisticated and complex and attempted to meet many relevant and
    pressing needs of the road sector in Algeria.         The scope of work covered both physical and
    institutional issues. It included a series of action plans. It required broad institutional reforms to be
    carried out by several counterparts. It included studies (one of which, the transport study, to be
    carried out completely outside of the main project counterpart).          However, from the difficulties
    encountered during implementation, and the adjustments that were introduced throughout the life of
    the project (especially on component C), it appears that the project was too complex and too
    ambitious in its goals. The project had elements of a structural adjustment operation, of a traditional
    infrastructure project, and of a technical assistance project. A more modest operation would still have
    been relevant and easier to implement.         Implementation arrangements were too complex and
    required various degree of involvement of three ministries (Infrastructure, Interior and Transport) and
    of many agencies: ANA (National Motorways Agency); CTTP (organisme de Contrôle Technique des
    Travaux Publics); Laboratories, etc. This created confusion and weakened incentives of the various
   agencies and staff to perform and deliver. Coordination proved a major problem throughout
   implementation.      The importance of coordination was anticipated by the appraisal team, which
   required that a `Facilitator' be appointed to help during project implementation.            However, the
   agreements were not fully implemented during implementation, and proved insufficient to manage
   such a complex project. At project completion, the assessment drawn is that the project design did
   not strike the right balance between what would have been desirable and what could be achieved,
   within the existing institutional arrangements and political instability in Algeria.

   While the appraisal document did review lessons learned in previous operations in Algeria and the
   appraisal team was both knowledgeable of the local situation and very competent, it appears that the
   project failed to take sufficiently into account lessons learned from previous projects and country
   risks. In particular, it seems that despite the worsening security situation in the country, the project
   was prepared in a climate of over optimism, apparently from both the Bank and the Government
   teams, on what could be achieved on the ground. The appraisal team probably overrated the
   commitment and ability of the GoA and the MIRP to implement broad ranging institutional reforms
   within the project framework and timing.

   Elements that could have been included in the design are: (i) request the setting up of a project
   management unit and financial system before project implementation; (ii) better coordination
   mechanism between the MIRP and the Ministry of Interior for the implementation of the municipal




                                                     - 4 -

    road maintenance sub-component; and (iii) an economic analysis for the bridge rehabilitation and for
    the periodic maintenance (only a minimum ERR based on an agreed methodology was set as a
    condition of eligibility to Bank financing).

    In conclusion, the ICR rates the quality at entry of the project as unsatisfactory, despite some very
    good innovative features of the project and some excellent technical analyses undertaken by both
    the Bank and the Government appraisal teams.



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

   Overall the ICR rates the project's outcome as unsatisfactory. Some of the objectives of the project
   were achieved, such as reducing the backlog of physical infrastructure in need of rehabilitation and
   maintenance (objective 1 of the SAR) while others were achieved partially, such as development of
   Borrower's capabilities for management and maintenance of the road network (objective 2). Funds
   for maintenance (objective 3) have substantially increased, though not by establishing a road fund;
   and increased participation by the private sector in road construction (objective 4) was only partly
   attained.

    The Project achieved its main physical targets and objectives, and in some cases exceeded them.
    The physical components of the project have been executed nearly in full with the exception of the
    bridge rehabilitation component, which suffered delays in implementation of its second tranche, and
    of the municipal road maintenance component. (The bridge component, prepared under the project,
    is now being implemented through local funds). Weaknesses in contract management and in quality
    control remain in some cases, despite the physical achievements obtained, but they do not appear to
    be of an extent that would shorten the life expectancy of project civil works.

    Related to the long term goal of the project, i.e. modernization of the Ministry and establishment of
    conditions that would ensure sustainability of road rehabilitation and maintenance over time (creation
    of a road fund, increased utilization of the private sector, devolution of responsibilities for road
    maintenance at the municipal level, a reformed Ministry for Public Works), the outcome of the
    project remains uncertain.

    Project risks:

    All key risks identified at the time of appraisal materialized, and in some cases were more acute than
    expected: (i) deterioration of local security conditions to the point that project supervision and
    technical surveys became impossible (e.g. motorway detailed engineering), quarry operations were
    hindered with adverse consequence for supply of road work sites, and contractor's equipment was
    destroyed; (ii) high staff turnover at the executive agency (not only at Minister's level but at the level
    of Head of Departments in charge of project components) that eroded the Borrower's commitment to
    agreed reforms and action; (iii) difficulties in coordination between the MIRP and the Ministry of
    Interior, that hampered implementation of the pilot municipal road component; and (iv) acute budget
    shortages over 1996-1998 that caused slashing of road maintenance expenditures and shelving of
    much of the institution building components, especially training.         Additionally, other problems
    occurred, such as: (i) lack of Borrower's commitment to privatization of the road contracting industry
    and to the creation of a meaningful road fund; and (ii) inability to properly oversee the project in its
    early years. It hence appears that risks were not analyzed, or mitigated, to a sufficient detail during
    project preparation.

4.2 Outputs by components:

    Overall the project achieved its intended physical objectives, with the exclusions of some physical




                                                      - 5 -

works, such as, bridges, maintenance of municipal roads, and rehabilitation of the road between
Tamanrasset and Ain Guezzam, which were dropped from the project scope at the time of the
mid-term review. In particular:

Component A - Road rehabilitation (A1 and A2), aimed at physically restoring roads and introducing
mechanisms for maintaining roads, develop competition in the road industry (both local and
international) and introducing measures that would improve timing and quality of contract
implementation.     New methods and techniques were to be implemented for rehabilitation of
medium-traffic national roads on a pilot basis, with the objectives of reducing costs and introducing
greater competition. Upon completion of the project, six yearly tranches of periodic maintenance
had been financed, covering about 5,010 km at a total cost of DA 5.6 billion (with a disbursements of
US$46 million). Three tranches of road strengthening and rehabilitation works had been carried out,
though with delays, covering respectively 417 km and 256 km. The component for rehabilitation of
Saharan tracks was to cover the most damaged portions of the Tamanrasset-Ain Guezzam road, but
this component was not implemented. It should be noted that works in this road are now being
undertaken and financed through the national budget.

Part A3 - Bridge rehabilitation program aimed at supporting the national program of rehabilitation of
priority bridges, helping improve the quality of studies and implementation of the works (through
development of a bridge management system, TA, studies and training). This component was due
to be implemented in two different tranches and included 12 bridges in the first tranche and 25 in the
second tranche. Overall this component was only partly completed (substantial procurement delays
were incurred) and disbursed (around US$ 1.5 million, less than 10% of the appraisal estimate).
Works under the second tranche could not be implemented during the project life and are being
financed through the national budget. The training actions that were included in this second tranche
could not be carried out.

Component B - Road Maintenance included carrying out priority maintenance on national roads and
extending some of this help at the wilaya level, improving quality control on road maintenance and
supporting the development of small private road contractors. Good progress was made under this
component. This component also meant to test arrangements for cost effective implementation of
periodic maintenance works by the public works directorates at the wilayas level and then expand
this experiment on a nation-wide scale. The pilot component for municipal road maintenance was
not very successful, due to inadequate funds or unwillingness of the wilayas.                Four wilayas
participated and 117 km of roads received periodic maintenance in 1997 and 1998 at a cost of less
than US$ 1.5 million (against a target of some US$15 million). However, Bank-financed studies on
municipal road maintenance were effective in sensitising all parties to the issue of maintenance. A
maintenance guide is now being disseminated to some 1,530 municipalities. A total of 34 trucks, 4
semi-trailers and 4 bulldozers were purchased out of the loan proceeds (total of DA 260 million). Of
good quality, this equipment was distributed among 4 pilot support units in the south and usefully
strengthened the maintenance capacity in this remote area. Traffic counting and axle-load weighing
equipment was acquired under the project (for a total of DA 39.5 million).

Component C - Training, TA and Studies was substantial in size and ambitious in nature. It included
a variety of elements, i.e.: (i) audit of road sector enterprises to prepare them for privatization; (ii) TA
to ANA to continue the preparation of parts of highways for investment and to strengthen the agency
capabilities in implementation and supervision; (iii) preparation and implementation of an action plan
for modernization of MIRP and training for all the Directorates involved in the project, including
post-graduate courses in-country for engineers, study tours and training abroad; a large variety of
general studies (road databank, technical guidelines, etc) and an urban transport study to be
implemented by the Urban Transport Department of the Ministry of Transport. This component was
well studied and developed during project preparation and was the subject of intense discussions
with the counterparts, including at negotiations. As explained above, this component was
substantially modified during implementation and it was reduced from an initial size of $35 million at
appraisal or 15% of total project cost to $11 million (or 5%).




                                                  - 6 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

    Direct benefits accrued to road users as reduced vehicle operating costs, and to central and local
    Governments in avoided reconstruction costs of roads and bridges.              Economic rates of return
    estimated at appraisal are within 20-40 percent for rehabilitation works and higher for road
    strengthening and bridge rehabilitation. Secondary benefits at the time of appraisal were anticipated
    to come from enabling a more conducive environment for the private sector. Better road
    management was also to result from more efficient uses of scarce resources. Overall, it appears
    that economic benefits materialized. However, it is not possible to provide the economic evaluation
    of the project components at the time of completion. The recalculation of the EIRRs was to be
    produced by the Borrower and it has not been completed at the time of writing this ICR.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

    Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

   On balance, the project's institutional development impact is deemed modest. Despite the reduction
   of the TA component, many institutional actions have been taken (a number of studies for road
   management have been undertaken, action plans implemented, funding for road maintenance
   increased and the maintenance industry is more competitive and efficient). However, the fact that
   some key features of the project were not implemented, such as the modernization program of the
   public road administration and the implementation of a sustainable mechanism for financing road
   maintenance, weigh against rating the project's impact any higher.

    Increased participation by the private sector is a significant project achievement.           Competition
    greatly increased for periodic maintenance and, to a lesser extent, for road strengthening and
    rehabilitation. The road maintenance industry is more competitive and efficient. However other
    privatization actions (in particular of public contractors) are still ongoing and it is hence not possible
    to know their outcome. Project activities designed to regenerate the construction industry through
    liquidation and privatization were not implemented and the public enterprises continue to dominate
    the main road markets and remain financially weak. The privatization of public contractors is now
    envisaged by the Government and will further enlarge competition and its beneficial effects.
    Environmental aspects of road works are also more systematically handled.

    The project included the establishment of a Road Fund to improve long term sustainability of
    maintenance budgets. While a road fund has been legally established in year 2000 and modified in
    2001, this is not operational and uncertainty remains on when it will become effective. Incentives to
    launch such a fund are currently low due to good availability of road budget funds. Funding of road
    maintenance has now been raised at an appropriate level, and while future budget reductions could
    still result in reduction of road maintenance funding, this seems unlikely.           A better system for
    estimating maintenance costs is also in place and should hence help justify and secure appropriate
    funds from the Ministry of Finance.

    Network-based maintenance was partly implemented using the HDM III model for the core network
    of paved and unpaved roads. HDM III is in use and could greatly support efficient programming of
    road works. For this to happen, it would be necessary to maintain and update the road data base to
    make effective use of the model. However, limited security in some areas and late delivery of road
    counting equipment did not permit this to date.

    An Action Plan was supposed to be tackling the need for improvement in procurement and reduction
    of delays in contract award.         However, limited actions have been taken and indicators of
    performance do not seem to show major progress in this area.



                                                     - 7 -

    The Action Plan concerning Laboratories stalled early, undermining the project objective of
    improving quality control on work sites. The reform of local laboratories aborted and the Central
    Laboratory was reabsorbed by the MIRP instead of moving toward more autonomy and contributing
    to making the local consulting industry more competitive.        As a result, quality control still shows
    weaknesses.

    The Action Plan on Bitumen was supposed to address issues of both availability and of quality.
    Objectives are partially met on this component.         The action plan concerning bitumen supplies
    stopped half way through implementation and project works could not benefit from this. However,
    the recent liberalization of bitumen imports should contribute to streamlining of the supply of bitumen
    to road work sites. The elimination of Naftal's monopoly takes care of the supply side but quality
    enhancement at the work site hinges on controls both at production and storage level.               While
    competition between bitumen should progressively address the quality issue, controls on the work
    site depends on the laboratories efficiency; but there is limited progress on improved performance of
    laboratories.

    The Action Plan on Improving Supplies of Gravel Materials has been completed. This met with
    some success and there is improvement in supplies. However, control of materials on work sites
    again hinges on the quality of laboratories.

    An important institutional development program for the National Highway Agency (ANA), including
    fine tuning of the ANA organization and methods, training in management and financial engineering,
    etc., was successfully implemented.         A financial and economic feasibility study of the entire
    East-West motorway was funded by the project together with a follow-up seminar held in Paris,
    where the potential of private concessions in Algeria was presented to investors and banks. Three
    detailed engineering studies covering close to 140 km of motorways were launched: (i) for
    Hamiz-Lakhdaria, services were limited to 15 km because of security constraints (40% of planned
    services); (ii) for El Affroun Hoceima (25 km), the study was nearly completed by closing date; (iii)
    for the Oran junction (27 km), services are also completed; and (iv) for the Constantine beltway (49
    km).

    The project also financed the economic and financial feasibility study of the subway development in
    Algiers and this was completed successfully.

    The project included an ambitious plan for TA, and for training almost the entire workforce of officials
    and staff at the MIRP. Trainings should have covered management, engineering, technical, financial
    aspects etc. Only one out of the four components of this program was implemented. The others
    dealing with budgeting and financial management, relations between the Ministry and the road
    contracting industry, and human resource management were dropped. Also, several key training
    components were implemented using funds from the bilateral assistance, rather than Bank funds,
    were done in a non coordinated manner and were of limited quality. Since the large part of this
    training never materialized, it is hard to assess if at the end of the project the Ministry has higher
    quality staff and more efficient procedures. It should be noted that there is recognition in the EA that
    these modernization and training actions are needed and there are plans to undertake them.
    However, the lack of implementation of the component for modernization at the Ministry remains a
    serious failure of the project. The project objectives should have been revised and scaled down
    during implementation, as it became apparent early on that this component would not be adequately
    implemented.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The major factors outside government or implementation agency control are the security situation in the
country that made it impossible, in early years to have adequate Bank's mission or for them to visit the



                                                     - 8 -

sites. This also disrupted execution of works and slowed down implementation of several action plans.
The project was approved on January 31, 1995 and effectiveness started on June 15 of the same year.
The project closed, as planned, on December 31, 2002. The majority of the physical works were to be
completed early on during project implementation. However, right after project started, delays started to
accumulate and physical implementation of the project works was severely delayed.             The severe
economic crisis also plagued implementation of the project from its effectiveness well into 1999. High
inflation forcing to re-value budgets compounded the problem. Improvements that followed allowed to
catch up with project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

There were 3 major restructuring of the Ministry in charge of the project and 7 different Ministers during
the 7 years of project implementation. There were also important changes of the persons assigned to
coordinate the project within the Ministry. These changes did create problems. Despite the ambitious
reform plan agreed at appraisal, there was little follow up, and political commitment to implement the
modernization of the MIRP seemed to fade right after the project started. Also, the Ministry of Interior
(MoI) soon lost interest in the implementation of the pilot project for maintenance of municipal roads, in
particular in adequately financing the program. There was, however, limited reaction by the GoA to
revitalize or put pressure on the MoI to ensure the success of this component.

Problems with counterpart funds were present during a large part of the project life, and were particularly
acute in early years. This was due to the inability by the MIRP to allocate adequate funds from the
national budget, which led to the suspension of the project for 9 months. This problem could have been
partly addressed by the rapid creation and implementation of the Road Fund, which could have provided
a stable source to fund at least road maintenance.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The MIRP was the implementation agency (now called Ministry of Public Works). However, two other
Ministries (Interior and Transport) were also entrusted with implementation of project components. A
variety of Directorates and Agencies within MIRP were also involved. One of the weaknesses during
implementation was due to the poor coordination among the different ministries, but especially within the
MIRP itself. As also indicated by the Borrower in its own completion report, many problems due to lack
of coordination could have been addressed by establishing an adequately staffed project implementation
unit.   This unit should have been given the mandate to coordinate approaches and follow-up
implementation among the different Directorates. A Facilitator was appointed, upon insistence of the
Bank, but was quite ineffective. After he left in the year 2000, the DPD (Direction de la Planification et
du Développement) was requested to coordinate project disbursement and financial management, while
the technical implementation continued to be assigned to each Directorate.

Another weakness, linked with the above, is that an adequate financial management system was not
used to monitor the Project. A computerized system was developed but it was apparently of limited
quality and never utilized. There were also problems with the preparation of monitoring indicators and of
reports that could go beyond the mere physical project achievements.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project costs were estimated at US$230 million and the proposed Loan amount was $130
million, with the rest to be contributed by the Borrower. At completion, the total cost of the project had
been reduced to $203 million and the loan reduced to $113 million. This represents a reduction on
average of 12% over the original project cost. The relative importance of the various components also
changed. Changes were introduced at the time of the mid-term review and during the mission mounted
after the project suspension, but were not substantial in nature, apart from the TA component. In
particular, the institutional development component was reduced from 16% to 5% of the total project
costs, while the cost of the road rehabilitation and road maintenance components were increased by



                                                     - 9 -

about 15% each. The average cost of the various physical components did not change substantially
from the appraisal estimate and this increase was mainly due to the fact that more works were added.
No extension was given beyond the project closing date of December 31, 2002. Other components that
were only partly completed at project closing, particularly the bridge rehabilitation, are scheduled to be
completed with Government funds.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of the project as a whole is uncertain, though sustainability of the various physical
components is clearly likely. The majority of the project components have been completed and the
project objectives partially met.        Improved practices for maintenance have been introduced;
maintenance funds have been increased substantially especially since 2000, and a better mechanisms
for estimating maintenance costs and budgets is in place. Several Action Plans have met with success
and there is more competition in the road maintenance industry, which seems to indicate a more
dynamic construction industry. The long-term sustainability of the project also depends on actions from
the GoA that are still ongoing. In particular, the modernization of operations and training of staff and
pursuing actions on privatization of public contractors.         While it is difficult to provide a definite
assessment on the likelihood of success of these aspects of the project, sustainability of the large parts
of the project components appear likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Performance of the Bank during preparation is rated satisfactory. This rating is given even though the
ICR has pointed out that the preparation team was overoptimistic on what could be achieved and failed
to fully assess the risks in implementation. The reasons for this are that: (i) the identification, preparation
and appraisal teams were composed of qualified staff and consultants with the right mix of expertise
(engineering, economics, public management specialist); (ii) the team knew the situation on the ground,
having worked already in Algeria, and identified and studied in details all the key sectoral issues that
needed to be addressed; (iii) the studies produced upfront and the physical components identified were
relevant and needed, and the good preparatory work allowed the project later on to be implemented,
despite difficulties and initial delays, with only limited changes in its physical components and costs; (iv)
the appraisal team worked in very close collaboration with its government counterparts, utilized local
expertise, and developed the project in a very participatory way.

7.2 Supervision:

Performance of the Bank during supervision is rated unsatisfactory. This rating is mainly given because
the project goals and objectives were not scaled down during the mid-term review and after the mission
that took place in 1999 following the project's suspension. An unsatisfactory rating does not give full
justice of the commitment of the Bank's supervision team that continued to supervise the project at a
time when missions to Algeria were limited or restrained. The Bank team was also flexible to frequently
adjust the project due to a highly volatile environment.

There were 17 supervision missions, also including the mid-term review and the ICR missions, over the 7
years of project implementation. Missions went regularly and on average twice a year. The Bank
continued to field missions even when there were security concerns, but visits to the field could not be
carried out by Bank staff and Bank missions were limited to exchanges in Algiers with the various
counterparts. The Bank secured the services of a local consultant (a senior road engineer, who was the



                                                      - 10 -

Director of Roads at appraisal). This allowed some visits to the project sites and also ensured continuity
in supervision, at a time where many changes occurred among counterpart staff.              However, the
mismatch between the project complexity and actual supervision is apparent, particularly from 1996 to
mid-1998, as the supervision team was often limited to one Bank staff and a technical specialist.

There was continuity at the beginning between appraisal and supervision, but the team changed soon
afterwards, as the Team Leader for the project left the Bank. The transport economist that was part of
the appraisal team continued, however, to be involved at various times during the project implementation
(the restructuring, some supervision and the completion missions). The reading of the aide-memoires
and Project Status Reports reveals that there were, at times, some tensions and a feeling of limited
cooperation from the counterpart team. This may have partly hindered communications, but it does not
seem to have substantially influenced the project implementation. Project progress was adequately
reported.    Back-to-office reports were timely and competently prepared and included complete
aide-memoires and follow-up letters. Project status reports gave realistic and consistent performance
ratings throughout implementation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's performance is overall rated unsatisfactory, although marginally. The project preparation
was thorough. The Bank closely supervised the implementation of the physical components and of the
action plans, despite the persisting security problems in the country and dwindling commitment from the
MIRP to the reform objective. However, the Bank was in a way unable to provide the needed guidance
to the GoA to implement the project in the early years of project implementation. Bank's supervision
also focused on delivery of components and failed to sufficiently analyze how this would influence the
outcome of the project and hence the attainment of the project objectives.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance during project preparation is considered satisfactory. The Project was
developed in a participatory way, with close involvement of technical staff from the counterparts and
senior officials. The Borrower committed to a variety of actions and helped develop mechanisms for
their implementation. It also undertook several studies and preparation analysis on its own to facilitate
the project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government's implementation performance is overall rated as unsatisfactory. This assessment
takes into account that the project was suspended for almost one year and that many supervision
missions rated the project as unsatisfactory. Funds were not made available to the project and this
caused delays and frustration on both sides. The high level of commitment shown in the policy letter
submitted with the project did not translate into reforms on the ground. Establishing the road fund took a
long time to be approved; it was then modified and the road fund is still not implemented. Coordination
among Ministries was poor and there was limited commitment towards the success of the municipal road
component from MoI.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agencies until the end of 1999 was generally poor, but improved
afterwards.     The MIRP managed to continue implementing physical activities in an insecure
environment, completed these on time (with the exclusion of some components as descried in Section
4.2 above) and within budget. Also the MIRP did not benefit from Bank staff guidance and assistance
during the time the project was suspended and missions banned.

It should be stressed that the project exceeded its physical objectives, which is remarkable considering



                                                    - 11 -

the difficult situation in which the project was implemented. This by itself is testimony of a committed
implementing agency. It also speaks in favour of the ability and seriousness of the Bank's supervision
team that continued to supervise the project despite the security situation in the country.

An area where the agency supervision was inadequate was in reporting. It should also be recalled that
the inability to appoint a coordinating unit and utilize the computerized financial management and
reporting system hampered reporting throughout project implementation. Responses from the MIRP
were also too slow and issues and difficulties identified by the Bank's missions and brought to the
attention of senior officials, took a long time to be resolved.       Limited support was given to the
implementation of some of the Action Plans.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Based on the above the Borrower's performance is rated unsatisfactory. Performance was satisfactory
during project preparation and in the last years of implementation, but unsatisfactory during the first half
of project's implementation. The MIRP managed to achieve many of the project's targets and now
seems willing to implement several of the actions that had been agreed upon at appraisal but could not
be implemented during the life of the project. However, the Borrower failed to pursue the project's goals
and to implement many of the reform actions, which it insisted be included during project preparation.

8. Lessons Learned


Complexity of Project Design. It is necessary to be realistic and not too ambitious when projects are
developed in an uncertain country environment and with weak institutions. In these cases, consideration
should be given to a series of operations and to `unbundling' of large projects into smaller and diversified
type of operations, such as TA loans, investment projects, programmatic lending, etc. The main thrust of
this project seemed to be institutional development of the Ministry. But this was diluted in a variety of
components and agencies and in project funds that were largely allocated to physical infrastructure. This
concept of `unbundling' is probably more applicable to those countries that have limited interest/need to
borrow from the Bank and it may be a better way to try and remain engaged in a sector that needs
assistance over a long period of time and when major institutional reforms are required.

Additionally, the project should not include components when there is limited ownership by the client.
This seemed to have been the case for the component for maintenance of the municipal roads
(managed by MoI). The effective commitment to this component should have at least been tested by
including a condition of effectiveness.      Actions over which the EA has limited control, such as
privatization of public contractors, which are influenced by external and market factors, should also not
be included in a project.

Implementation Arrangements. The complexity of the project required that several ministries and many
agencies be involved during project implementation. The coordination arrangements under the project
proved to be inadequate. Clear institutional reporting and positive incentives for all those involved are
key during project implementation.       Hence efforts should be made to define and agree on these
mechanisms. The lesson to be drawn in this regard is that either the number of agencies involved (and
hence components) are reduced or strong support has to be provided to the EA, in the form of a
coordinating unit, budget, consultants, etc. for the smooth implementation of a project. Coordination
arrangements need to be defined up-front to the extent possible and made conditions of effectiveness,
for example. During implementation, the Bank needs to be firm that these mechanisms to facilitate
implementation be maintained to the extent that they prove to be working or be modified if they prove to
have weak foundations.

Monitoring Functions/Tools. The absence of an adequate financial system for the project made it difficult
to have reliable information on project disbursements and funds. This caused difficulties for the Bank,
but even more to the various agencies and departments, which had dificulty monitoring disbursements
and status of payments. The establishment of such a financial system could be made a condition of



                                                    - 12 -

effectiveness or disbursement.

Analysis of risks during appraisal. This was clearly too cursory and even though risks may have been
known by the project team, they were not properly mitigated and not adequately described in the
project's document. The lessons to be drawn is that an honest and frank evaluation of risks should be
part of any project evaluation and experiences under previous similar projects in the country taken
thoroughly into account. This honesty in presenting risks should be rewarded at the time of project
processing and encouraged by management or reviewers.

Review of long term goals and objectives. Occasions should be created during project implementation
for a revision of goals and objectives, without requiring major restructuring of the project. Management
may need to be more forceful with supervision staff to ensure that supervision missions be imaginative
and focus on long term goals in addition to short term issues and delivery of outputs. The addition of a
project framework in the appraisal report and the preparation of an implementation plan at the time of
appraisal (or during the project launch mission) would also have helped spell out goals, objectives,
activities, inputs, and implementation arrangements.

The lack of counterpart funds weighed heavily against the success of the project and created major
delays and tensions. The Bank was forceful to request that adequate budget be allocated to the sector to
ensure that the project could be carried out effectively and timely. However, this was mainly in the
hands of the Ministry of Finance, not the MIRP, which was the Bank's main interlocutor. A broader
lessons to be drawn from this relates to the need to closely coordinate between the sectoral and the
finance ministries, also during supervision.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The following is a summary and translation of the comments received from the Executing Agency, the
Ministry of Public Works (then MIRP).

The EA agrees with the ICR's evaluation that project was complex, ambitious, and included several
innovative characteristics. Its complexity was in the implementation and procedures. Each different
sub-component was handled in a different way by the Department in charge, including in financial
management.

The project design was modified during the mid-term review in July 1998, but the objectives were not
revised during implementation, which made the project outcome uncertain.                Some objectives were
achieved, some partially achieved, and some not achieved at all. Some of the components included at
appraisal were modified during the mid-term review and the funds allocated to technical assistance and
training were used for the physical components.

It is recognized that there was a lack of follow-up, monitoring, supervision and coordination. This was
due to: (i) the security situation in the country, (ii) the various ministerial reorganizations, (iii) changes in
the Bank and Implementing Agency staff, and (iv) budgetary constraints, which led to a 9-month
suspension of disbursements.          There was also no project monitoring unit, and the position of
"Coordinator" required by the Bank at appraisal did not fill that void.

The physical components of the project have attained their results and exceeded the project estimates.
The long term sustainability of the project was based mostly on the modernization and training
components, and the outcome remains uncertain. The Government has now developed a plan for
continuous and specialized training of Public Works staff so as to achieve the modernization objectives it
was aiming at.

In terms of lessons learned, the project should have established a project implementation unit, with a



                                                       - 13 -

project manager, and at least three assistants (technical, financial and administrative). This unit should
have been supported and financed by the loan.


(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

Not applicable




                                                 - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Table 1.1 - Performance Indicators

                                                                                                       Target at Project Actual at
     Component             Performance                    Indicator               Target at  Actual at   Completion      Project
                                                                                  Mid-term   Mid-term                   Completion

A1./A2. Road            Competition          Average number of acceptable bids        4       3.57            5           4.8
Strengthening and                            per call for bids
Rehabilitation          Progress             Amount of works paid / amount of       80%       68%          95%            85%
                                             works planned to be paid
                       Final delays          Actual completion time / initial        1.2        1.3       1.1              1.1
                                             contractual completion time
                       Quality               Density of bases and wearing            15%      38.3%       5%             23.9%
                                             courses not meeting contractual
                                             specifications
A3. Bridges             Design               Final Contract Cost / Initial           1.5       NA           1.4           1.2
Rehabilitation                               Contract Cost (in constant AD)
B1. Road Maintenance Competition             Average number of acceptable bids        4        9.8            5            6
                                             per call for bids
                        Final delays         Actual completion time / planned        1.2       1.0          1.1           1.0
                                             completion time
                       Progress              Surface of "surface dressing"           80%       100%      90%              100%
                                             completed / surface planned
B2. Road                Progress             Actual delay compared to initial        1.1       1.0          NA            NA
Maintenance                                  planning of procurement
Equipment               Repair               Percentage of time trucks are           NA        NA          15%           <15%
                        effectiveness        under repair
C. Studies              Progress             Delay in months in relation to       2 months  3 months     1 month        7 months
                                             initial planning
C. Training             Quantity             Percentage of trainees trained /       80%        NA          90%           100%
                                             planned (both in man x month)
                        Quality              Percentage of successful results at    60%        NA          70%            NA
                                             the end-of-training exams



Table 1.2 - Peformance Indicators

                                                                              At Mid-term   After Loan  At Project
                                                                                 (1998)     Supervision completion
                                                                                              (1999)      (2002)
Road budget
     Maintenance of roads and bridges (AD million)                               3,903        4,014        9,500
     Maintenance expenses / total road budget                                    28.2%        24.1%        25.7%
Maintenance cost
     Average cost of strengthening (AD million/km)
         National roads                                                           15.1         11.6         13.3
         Wilaya roads                                                             NA           NA           NA
     Average cost of rehabilitation (AD million/km)
         National roads                                                           5.7          3.3          13.6
         Wilaya roads                                                             NA           NA           NA
     Average cost of periodic maintenance (AD million/km)
         National roads                                                           0.99         0.9           2.4
         Wilaya roads                                                             NA           NA           NA
PSP




                                                            - 15 -

     Strengthening works
          % of total amount of contracts                                        38%           23%        47%
          % of total number of contracts                                        42%           42%        40%
     Bridges maintenance works
          % of total amount of contracts                                        21%           21%        21%
          % of total number of contracts                                        33%           33%        33%



Table 1.3 - Road budget versus maintenance budget

                                                       1995       1996     1997     1998     1999   2000    2001    2002
Total road budget (AD million)                        10,837     12777    16,319  13,855   16,692  17,172  33,643  36,993
Road maintenance budget (AD million)                    2,000    2,250     2,234    3,903   4,014   3,500   6,000   9,500
Total actual road expenditures (AD million)             9,956   12,643    16,146  13,335   16,142  16,524  30,516  34,696
Road maintenance Actual expenditures (AD million)      2,000     2,238     2,196    3,638   3,710   3,255   5,296   8,748




Table 1.4 - Periodic maintenance cost (AD TTC million/km)

Type of Works                                    1995    1996     1997    1998    1999     2000    2001    2002
One layer of surface dressing                    0.457   0.616    0.566  0.522    0.479    0.698  0.722   0.737
Double layer of surface dressing                 0.801   1.300    1.680  1.137    0.898    1.254  1.449   1.556
5 cm-thick asphalt concrete overlay              2.678   3.729    3.893  3.408    3.090    3.814  3.415   3.838



Table 1.5 - Periodic maintenance of National Roads carried out (km)

Type of works                                    1995    1996     1997     1998    1999     2000    2001    2002
One layer of surface dressing                     492     500       412     429     341      346     538      522
Double layer of surface dressing                   309    302       250     238     183      399     518      654
5 cm-thick asphalt concrete overlay                 55     26        81      69       67     208     563      924
Total                                             856     828       743     736     581      953   1,619   2,100



Table 1.6 - Investment budget National Roads and Wilaya Roads (km)

Type of works                           1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000     2001      2002
Modernization                            270       201       192       119        87        28      178       176
Strengthening                             515      579       376       356       389       424      777       813
New roads                                 303      137       152       107        96        98      244       232
Rehabilitation                            235      451       274       158       160       451      442       434
New feeder roads                            3       78        24         3         -       106                105
Total                                  1,326     1,446     1,018       743       732     1,107    1,641     1,760


Table 1.7 - Budgeted Investments (AD million)

Budget Chapter                     1995        1996    1997     1998     1999     2000     2001    2002
521- National Roads                5,437      4,495   1,484     2,117    2,487    2,582   22,938  29,435
522- Willay Roads                   2,320      2,273     455      389      445    1,435    2,905
528- Motorways                            -      515        -        -     153    5,060    5,600  10,000
Total                              7,757      7,283   1,939     2,506    3,085    9,077   31,443  39,435




                                                            - 16 -

Table 1.8 - Allocated Payment credits (AD million)

Budget Chapter                 1995     1996    1997      1998     1999      2000     2001      2002
521- National Roads           6,907    7,987   10,635     7,397    8,461    9,234    17,343   14,099
522- Wilaya Roads              1,255   1,871    2,176     1,460    1,474    1,818     3,362    9,161
528- Motorways                   675     669    1,274     1,095    2,743    2,620     6,938    4,237
Total                         8,837   10,527   14,085     9,952   12,678   13,672    27,643   27,493



Table 1.9 - Allocated Payment credits actually used (AD million)

Budget Chapter               1995    1996    1997      1998     1999      2000      2001       2002
521- National Roads          6,241    7,890  10,540    7,185     8,241     8,882    14,736    13,337
522- Wilaya Roads            1,212   1,867   2,138    1,425     1,465     1,780     2,994     5,906
528- Motorways                 503      648  1,272     1,087     2,726     2,607     6,860     6,705
Total                        7,956  10,405  13,950    9,697    12,432   13,269     24,590    25,948



Table 1.10 - Total payment credits allocated (AD million)

Year                                 1995    1996      1997    1998     1999     2000     2001     2002
Operating budget
Maintenance of National Roads        2,000   2,250    2,234    2,275    2,276   3,500     6,000    9,500
Maintenance of Wilaya Roads             NA     NA       NA     1,628    1,738      NA       NA       NA
Maintenance of Communal Roads           NA     NA       NA       NA       NA       NA       NA       NA
Sub-total                            2,000   2,250    2,234    3,903    4,014   3,500     6,000    9,500
Investment budget
521 - National Roads                 6,907   7,987   10,635    7,397    8,461   9,234    17,343   14,099
522 - Wilaya Roads                   1,255   1,871    2,176    1,460    1,474   1,818     3,362    9,161
528 - Motorways                        675     669    1,274    1,095    2,743   2,620     6,938    4,237
591 ­ Communal Roads                    NA      NA      NA       NA       NA       NA       NA       NA
Sub-total                            8,837  10,527   14,085    9,952   12,678   13,672   27,643   27,493
Total                               10,837  12,777   16,319   13,855   16,692   17,172   33,643   36,993



Table 1.11 - Total road expenditures (AD million)

 Year                                 1995     1996     1997     1998      1999     2000     2001      2002
 Operating Budget
 Maintenance of National Roads         2,000  2,238     2,196    2,258    2,233    3,255     5,926    8,748
 Maintenance of Wilaya Roads             NA     NA        NA     1,380    1,477      NA        NA       NA
 Maintenance of Communal Roads           NA     NA        NA       NA       NA       NA        NA       NA
 Sub-total                             2,000  2,238     2,196    3,638    3,710    3,255     5,926    8,748
 Investment Budget
 521 - National Roads                  6,241  7,890    10,540    7,185    8,241    8,882    14,736   13,337
 522 - Wilaya Roads                    1,212  1,867     2,138    1,425    1,465    1,780     2,994    5,906
 528 - Motorways                         503    648     1,272    1,087    2,726    2,607     6,860    6,705
 591 ­ Communal Roads                    NA      NA       NA       NA       NA       NA        NA       NA
 Sub-total                             7,956 10,405    13,950    9,697   12,432   13,269    24,590   25,948
 Total                               9,956   12,643    16,146  13,335    16,142   16,524    30,516   34,696




                                                     - 17 -

    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


    Table 2.1 Project Costs by Component

                   Components                     Appraisal   Actual/Lates Appraisal    Appraisal   Actual/Lates % of
                                                   Estimate      t (AD      Estimate    Estimate      t (US$    Appraisal
                                                     (AD         Million)     (US$      Including    Million)
                                                   Million)                  Million)  Contingencies
                                                                                       (US$ Million)
A. Road Rehabilitation Works

1.  Strengthening                                   1,992.0      5,012.1      45.6         54.0        72.4      134%
    2.        Road Rehabilitation (1)               850.5        1,501.9      19.5         23.0        21.7      94%
    3.        Bridge Rehabilitation                 588.2          90.2       13.5         16.8         1.3       8%
4.  Control of Works (2)                            191.3         191.7        4.4         5.2          2.8      36%
5.  Technical Studies and Supervision (3)           106.7                      2.4         2.6
                                                    3,728.7      6,796.0      85.3        101.6        98.1      97%
           Subtotal Road Rehabilitation

B. Road Maintenance

1.  Periodic maintenance by contract                2,229.2      6,103.3      51.0         60.4        88.1      146%
    2.        Equipment for Current Maintenance     541.9         300.7       12.4         13.4         4.3      58%
    and Traffic Counting
    3.        Municipal road Maintenance            581.9          26.1       13.3         16.8        0.38       2%
    4.        Supervision, General Studies and      111.1         118.0        2.5         2.7         1.70      63%
    Training (Municipal Roads)
                                                    3,464.1      6,548.1      79.3         93.3        94.26     101%
           Subtotal Road Maintenance

C. Training, Technical Assistance and Studies

1.  Auditing of Road Enterprises                     88.9          0.0         2.0         2.1          0.0       0%
    2.        TA to the National Agency for         146.7          74.8        3.4         3.5          1.1      31%
    Motorways (ANA)
    3.        Economic, Financial, Environment and  382.4         396.0        8.8         9.0          5.7      63%
    Detailed Engineering Studies (Motorways)
    4.        Modernization & Training Actions      493.5          46.2       11.3         11.7         0.7       6%
    (MIRP)
    5.        Financing road related studies,       275.7         212.7        6.3         6.6          3.0      45%
    research of general interest, and an urban
    transport rehabilitation study
    6.        Specific Technical Assistance for      88.9          0.0         2.0         2.1
    MEAT
         Subtotal Training, TA & Studies            1,476.1       729.7       33.8         35.1        10.5      30%
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                    8,668.9      14,073.8     198.4         -            -
Physical Contingencies                              728.9          -          16.7          -            -
Price Contingencies                                 4,145.9        -          15.0          -            -
           TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     13,543.8      14,073.8     230.0       230.0        203.0     88%


    Notes:
    (1) The rehabilitation of the Tamanrasset-Ain Guezzam was implemented outside the project.
    (2) Actual/latest estimate (based on an average exchange rate: US$ 1.00 ­ AD69.26).
    (3) Sub-components 4 and 5 were merged during project implementation.




                                                           - 18 -

Table 2.2 Loan Financing by Component

                            Components                                 Appraisal    Allocation as of 1999  Disbursed      %
                                                                       Estimate        (US $ Million)       Actual        of
                                                                    (US$ Million)            (2)          (US$ Million) Appraisal
                                                                          (1)
   A. Road Rehabilitation Works
   1.         Strengthening                                              29.7               42.0             39.3         132
   2.         Road Rehabilitation (3)                                    12.7               12.8              9.8         77
   3.         Bridge Rehabilitation                                       9.3               3.8               0.5          5
   4.         Control of Works                                            4.3               1.7               1.6         25
   5.         Technical Studies and Supervision (4)                       2.2               2.8

                   Subtotal Road Rehabilitation                          58.2               63.1             51.2         88

   B. Road Maintenance
   1.         Periodic maintenance by contract                           33.2               46.7             46.6         140
   2.         Equipment for Current Maintenance and Traffic               7.1               4.8               4.6         65
   Counting
   3.         Municipal road Maintenance                                  0.0               0.0               0.0          -
   4.         Supervision, General Studies and Training                   2.3               0.7               0.2          9
   (Municipal Roads)

                    Subtotal Road Maintenance                            42.6               52.2             51.4         121

   C. Training, Technical Assistance and Studies
   1.         Auditing of Road Enterprises                                1.8               0.0               0.0          -
   2.         TA to the National Agency for Motorways (ANA)               2.9               2.7               1.2         41
   3.         Economic, Financial, Environment and Detailed               7.5               5.0               3.0         40
   Engineering Studies (Motorways)
   4.         Modernization & Training Actions (MIRP)                     9.8               1.0               0.5          5
   5.         Financing road related studies, research of general         5.5               6.2               4.1         75
   interest, and an urban transport rehabilitation study
   6.         Specific Technical Assistance for MEAT                      1.8               0.0               0.0          -
                 Subtotal Training, TA & Studies                         29.2               14.7              8.9         30
                              TOTAL                                      130.0             130.0             113.2        87

   (1) The Staff Appraisal Report does not include allocation by components. However, project supervision documents
   refer to this allocation as appraisal allocation.

   (2) Updated allocations after the project suspension was lifted.

   (3) The rehabilitation of the Tamanrasset-Ain Guezzam was implemented outside the project.

   (4) Subcomponent A4 and A5 were merged during project implementation.

   Table 2.3 Loan Disbursement (US$ Million)
   Fiscal Year         1995        1996         1997       1998       1999      2000     2001         2002     2003     Total
   Estimated at          0         20.8         31.0        26.4      20.0      15.6      15.6        0.6      0.0      130.0
   Appraisal
       Actual            0          3.0         12.3        12.7       8.8      30.0      21.6        24.0     0.9      113.2
  % of Appraisal                   14%          40%         48%       44%       192%     138%        4000%     90%       87%




                                                                 - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic evaluation of the project is carried out by the Borrower, and results were not yet available at
the time of completion of this ICR.




                                                   - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/12/1991                4    Transport Specialist (1);
                                             Transport Economist (2);
                                             Highway Engineer (1)
              09/29/1991                3    Highway Engineer (2);
                                             Transport Economist (1)
              04/25/1992                2    Transport Economist (1);
                                             Highway Engineer (1)
              10/19/1992                2    Transport Economist (1);
                                             Highway Engineer (1)
              01/26/1993                3    Transport Economist (1);
                                             Highway Engineer (1);
                                             Consultant Highway Engineer
                                             (1)
              05/02/1993                6    Transport Economist (1);
                                             Highway Engineer (1);
                                             Consultant (3);
                                             Environment Specialist (1)
              02/21/1994                8    Transport Economist (1);
                                             Highway Engineer (1);
                                             Public Managememt Specialist
                                             (1);
                                             Consultant (5)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/20/1994                9    Highway Engineer (1);
                                             Transport Economist (1);
                                             Consultant (7)

 Supervision
              05/26/1995               12    Transport Specialist (1);
                                             Transport Economist (1);
                                             Highway Engineer (1);
                                             Consultant (9)
              01/20/1996                2    Transport Specialist (1);         S              HS
                                             Consultant (1)
              06/07/1996                6    Transport Specialist (1);         U               S
                                             HR Specialist (1);
                                             Consultant (4)
              11/17/1996                3    Transport Specialist (1);         S               S
                                             Public Management Specialist
                                             (1);
                                             Consultant (1)
              07/10/1997                2    Transport Specialist (1);         U               U
                                             Public Management Specialist
                                             (1)
              03/12/1998                2    Transport Specialist (1);         U               U



                                              - 21 -

                                                            Public Management Specialist
                                                            (1)
                  11/25/1998                            4   Transport Specialist (1);            U    U
                                                            Team Leader (1);
                                                            Portfolio Manager (1);
                                                            Consultant (1)
                  11/30/1999                            4   Principal Economist (1);             U    U
                                                            Transport Specialist (1);
                                                            Team Leader (1);
                                                            Consultant (1)
                  06/14/2000                            5   Transport Specialist (1);            S    S
                                                            Principal Economist (1);
                                                            Team Leader (1);
                                                            Procurement Analyst (1);
                                                            Consultant (1)
                  11/25/2000                            4   Transport Specialist (1);            S    S
                                                            Financial Management Specialist
                                                            (1);
                                                            Bank Representative (1);
                                                            Consultant (1)
                  10/23/2001                            4   Transport Specialist (1);            S    S
                                                            Consultant (1);
                                                            Fin.. Mgt. Specialist (1);
                                                            Bank Representative (1)
                  06/10/2002                            2   Transport Specialist (1);            S    S
                                                            Team Leader (1)


 ICR
                  01/19/2003                            3    Transport Economist (1);            S    S
                                                             Program Manager (1);
                                                             Consultant (1)



(b) Staff:

        Stage of Project Cycle                                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                  No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                              147
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                                   256
  Supervision                                                               565 (SPN + ICR)
  ICR
  Total                                                                                  968*
* : project costs include both direct and indirect costs




                                                             - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Staff Appraisal Report, Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, Sixth Highway Project. World
   Bank Report No. 13439-AL. January 6, 1995
2. Loan Agreement
3. Project Agreement
4. Project Supervision Reports
5. Back-to-Office Reports
6. Periodic Progress Reports
7. Consultant Report. Préparation du rapport d'Achèvement de Projet. Rapport et Tableaux Annexes.
   Brahim Benchouk. (February 28, 2003)
8. Project Completion Report prepared by the Borrower (May 7, 2003)




                                                - 25 -

- 26 -

