Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GjVk 3 3L/ ,'A]-/t
Report No. 9347-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
MAY 7, 1991
Industry and Finance Division
Asia Technical Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of May 1, 1991)
US$ 1.00         Rs. 20.00
US$ 0.05    -    Rs.  1.00
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BOD         -     Biological Oxygen Demand
CETP        -     Common Effluent Treatment Plant
COD         -     Chemical Oxygen Demand
CO2         -     Carbon Dioxide
CP          -     Commercial Practices
CPCB        -    Central Pollution Control Board
CSS         -     Central Sector Scheme
DEA         -     Department of Economic Affairs
DFI         -     Development Finance Institution
EAP         -     Environmental Action Plan
EDI         -     Economic Development Institute
EIA         -     Environmental Impact Assessment
FY          -     Fiscal Year
GEF         -    Global Environmental Facility
GOI         -    Government of India
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
ICICI       -    The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India, Limited
IDBI        -    The Industrial Development Bank of India, Limited
LCB         -     Local Competitive Bidding
LOU         -    Letter of Understanding
HINAS       -    Minimum National Discharge Standards
HOEF        -    Ministry of Enviroment and Forests
NOC         -    No Objection Certificate
R & D       -    Research and Development
SA          -     Special Accounts
SIDC        -     State Industrial Development Corporation
SOE         -     Statement of Expenditures
SOx         -     Sulfur Dioxides
SPCB        -     State Pollution Control Board
SSI         -     Small Scale Industry
TA          -    Technical Assistance
TPY         -    Tons Per Year
FISCAL YEAR
Government of India           -      April 1 - March 31
ICICI                         -     April 1 - March 31
IDBI                          -      April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDI
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
LOAN, CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
norroweru          India, acting by its President
Beneficlaries:     Industrial Credit and Investment Corporations of India (ICICI)
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)
Loan Amount         US$124.0 million equivalent
Credit Amount      SDR 23.4 million (US$31.6 million equivalent)
Terms              The loan would be made at the Bank's standard variable interest rate and
would be repaid over twenty years including five years of grace. The IDA
credit would be on standard terms, with a 35 year maturity.
Onlending Terms    The Government of India (GOI) would onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan
to the ICICI (US$50 million) and the IDBI (US$74 million). The GOI would
bear the foreign exchange risk, onlending to the institutions in Rupees, at an
interest rate of 2% below the long term commercial lending rate (currently
15%), with a repayment period of 15 years, including five years of grace. The
ICICI and IDBI would onlend at 15% or such rate as may be set in consultation
with the Bank.
The GOI would pass, as budgetary allocations from the proceeds of the IDA
credit i) US$14.1 million equivalent to the Ministry of Environment and
Forests (MOEF) for the institutional and technical assistance components; and
ii) US$5.5 million equivalent to IDBI which will act as a Government agent
for the demonstration projects and technical assistance schemes. The
remaining US$12 million equivalent will be used by the GOI for direct support
on a grant basis of the Common Treatment Facilities, through the IDBI which
will act as the lending agent.
Prolect
DescrlDtion        The project's objective is to support the Gors efforts to prevent and alleviate
environmental degradation caused by industrial operations and assist in the
successful attainment of the proposed short and medium-term targets of its
environmental policy. The project is designed to assist in the identification
and implementation of a cost effective program for industrial pollution
monitoring, control, and abatement within the context of institutional and
financial constraints present in India.
The proposed project comprises three components: i) an institutional
component designed to strengthen the Central and State Pollution Control
Boards in the states of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh;
ii) an investment component designed to support efforts by industry to comply
with regulations, including the support for the set up of common treatment
facilities; and iii) a technical assistance component designed to support the
Ministry of Environment and the DFI's to provide specialized technical
assistance for the evaluation of environmental problems and the assessment
of their solutions.
The Institutional ComDonent is designed to strengthen the monitoring and
enforcement ability of the GOI through the financing of a program of
improvements at the Central and the selected State Pollution Control Boards
to enable the effective development of their mandates. The component would
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
finance: a) a training program in technical and managerial skills; b) acquisition
of equipment (analytical and monitoring) required to upgrade technical
capabilities of the Boards; and c) other laboratory facilities including mobile
stations.
The Investment Comnonent would finance a) individual projects in the target
sectors dealing with waste minimization, resource recovery and pollution
abatement; b) the set up of common treatment facilities at industrial estates,
for the treatment and proper disposal of liquid and solid wastes; and c) selected
demonstration projects based on their prototype nature or novelty of
application in India, the potential environmental benefits and other eligibility
criteria.
The Technical Alsistance Comnonent would assist a) the Ministry of
Environment and Forests (MOEF) to evaluate environmental problems and
develop solutions; and b) the DFl's to assist enterprises in undertaking the
required feasibility studies for pollution control investments.
Prolect Benefits
and Rilsks          The main benefits of the project are associated with the reduction in
environmental degradation, caused by industrial sources, to be obtained from
the implementation of the activities described in the report. The institutional
component is expected to yield, in the short term, improvements in the
effectiveness and coverage of the Boards in their monitoring and enforcement
activities. With stronger Boards, the GOI will be able to promote stricter
compliance with the provisions of the environmental acts.
The sponsoring of the common treatment facilities is a pioneering effort with
potential for replication across India. Successful implementation of the
proposed facilities should result in a substantial impact in the environmental
performance of the small and medium scale industry which so far has proved
resistant to change. By providing technical and financial support for
individual enterprise efforts in waste minimization and resource recovery, the
project is expected to contribute substantially to a reduction of waste
generation in the chemical and related industries.  The support of
demonstration projects will assist in the introduction of novel techniques and
processes for the solution to pervasive environmental problems in industry.
Specific risks are associated with the response of industry to the need to
improve the environmental aspects of their operations. In the absence of
positive financial incentives, the enforcement of the law and the negative
incentives in place will determine the demand for the credit line for individual
projects. Although the project places priority on the strengthening of the
monitoring and enforcement institutions, in the final analysis it is the ability
to convey these concerns to the manufacturer that will determine the success
of the operation. Success of the activities promoted by the project, wiU in the
long run also depend on the will and commitment from the GOI to enforce the
environmental regulations and increase the costs of non-compliance as well
as to persuade industrialists of the long term benefits of pollution control.
This is a risk difficult to evaluate. However, the MOEF is strongly committed
to the objectives of the GOI policy statement on the environment and to assist
in the reduction of the conflict between industrial development and
environmental protection.



ili
Etlmabed Cost
Components                     ..................... (USS million)
Institutional                  8.9           9.1         18.0
Investment                   194.0          43.0        237.0
Technical Assistance           1.0            4.0         5.0
Io1a a/
Financing Plan:
Government of India           17.4          ---         17.4
Financial Institutions        25.0          ---         25.0
Project Sponsors              62.0          ---         62.0
IBRD                          89.5          34.5       124.0
IDA                           10.0          21.6        31.6
IT22
Estimated Loan and Credit hsbusetmemOs
DANK GROUP FISCAL YEAR
92   93      94     95     96    97     98
. ........................... (USS million).
Annual            8.0   8.0  18.0    48.0  36.0   22.0   15.6
Cumulative        8.0  16.0  34.0    82.0  118.0  140.0   155.6
Econgml Rate of Return:    Not Applicable
a/ Physical and price contingencies are already added to the total; the project cost is exclusive of
taxes and duties.



I2mA
IMSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents                              lto No
LOAN CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .. ..............................i l-iL
I.   INTRODUCTION ............................1
II.  INDUSTRIAL POLICY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION. ...                           3
A. Industrial Policy and its Effect on Industrial Pollution . ..3
B. Environmental Regulations Governing Industrial Sources .......... 4
C. The Environmental Clearance and Permit Procedures .               .        5
D. The Record of Compliance in the Chemical Industries .6
E. Incentives for Pollution Control .10
F. Priorities for Strategy Development and Implementation  .              .13
III. BANK ROLE AND LENDING STRATEGY                                               15
A. Strategy for Bank Assistance in Environment           .....       .. 15
B. Environmental Protection in Industrial Sector Lending .16
IV. TE PROJECT                        ....17
A. Project Objectives                   ....17
B. Project Description                 . . .17
C. Project Costs                              ...19
D. Project Financing    ...20
E. The Proposed Loan and Credit                ...             .22
V.  RQOJ.L.LECTTATION .. ...... . .25
A. Management                    ...25
B. Implementation Schedule                 . . .27
C. Procurement ...............................................  .... 27
D. Disbursements ...     27
E. Monitoring and Evaluation               .....                             29
VI. IMP1EMENTING AGEIES ..                                                        30
A. The Central and State Pollution Control Boards              .... 30
B. Participating Financing Institutions .                                   32
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS ....                                                      35
A. Project Benefits                ...   35
B. Project Risks .. .                                                       35
This report was prepared by Messrs. W. Vergara (ASTIF) based on the results of
an appraisal mission that included Messrs/Mme. R. Batstone, D. Williams and C.H.
Zhang (ASTEN), W. Futur (AS4IF), N. Hadjitarkhani (ASTIF), D. Kantawala, R.
Rotkar and R. Kelly (consultants). Peer reviewers were H. Daly (ENVPR); A. Khanna
(AS4IF); S. Talbot (AS4CO) and W. Angell (ASTEN). Messrs. N. Gould (AS4IF) and
H. Vergin (AS4DR) cleared the report.



VIIF^ill,  aOT  M               D* T f  ON .................................................. *37
2.1  Ninimum National Standards for Discharges into Water (NMKS) ..... 38
2.2  The Environmental Clearance Procedure    .     ................... 41
2.3  Current Incentives for Pollution Control by Industry      .     . 44
2.4  Experience of Some Developed Countries in the Control of
Industrial Pollution Using Economic Instruments       . .    46
4.1   Institutional Component. Cost of Improvements to the Control .....
Board Laboratories .     .............................................. 53
4.2  Common Effluent Treatment Plants: Preliminary List of Proposals. .66
4.3  Summary Description of Some Technical Assistance Schemes ......... 67
5.1  Organization and Staffing at the State Pollution Control Boards ..68
5.2  Common Effluent Treatment Plants (Guidelines for Evaluating
Institutional and Technical Proposals)          .. ... 78
5.3 Implementation Schedule                     . .           .     80
5.4  Anticipated Disbursements          .    .      ................... 81
6.1  Participating Financing Institutions ............................. 82
7.1  Documents in the Project Files ................................... 95



INDI
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        Since the early 1970s, but more so in the aftermath of the Bhopal
accident, India has forcefully moved to reduce the conflict between environmental
protection and industrial development. Among the actions already undertaken to
achieve this goal are: a) the enactment of laws and regulations governing the
discharge of pollutants into the air and water bodies, the generation and disposal
of toxic and hazardous residues and the development of safety codes for factory
operations; b) the creation of enforcement agencies to monitor and oversee
compliance with the environmental laws; and, c) the enactment of an umbrella
environmental act empowering Lhe state to broadly pursue environmental protection
measures. These actions have already had a significant effect by fostering a
favorable change in attitude in the industry toward environmental concerns and by
being instrumental in the adoption of environmental impact assessments for new
industrial projects and the implementation of a large number of treatment plants
and abatement measures at existing units.
1.02        Yet, pollution and environmental degradation caused by industrial
sources continue to be major concerns and a threat to the sustainability of
economic development of the country. For example, the Ministry of Environment and
Forests (MOEF) has recently estimated that industrial sources, although
comparatively smaller in volume, compared to municipal discharges, continue to
contribute over one third of the total load of pollutants into rivers and other
water bodies. About half of this load originates from large and medium scale
industries, specially from those in the chemical and related sectors. Sources of
water pollution are particularly worrisome given the periodic water shortages in
the country and the already large impact of industrial sources of pollution on the
quality of surface waters and groundwater reservoirs.
1.03        Many medium and small industries, although in clear non-compliance,
continue to violate environmental codes because of inefficient or inoperative
controls and, in the case of many small plants, out of sheer incapacity to meet
the financial costs and technical requirements associated with plant modernization
and/or control technology. Also, with closer monitoring and stricter control
being placed on airborne emissions and wastewater, chemical wastes are being
diverted to land disposal. As common pollution problems (such as suspended solids
and c'cygen demand in wastewater) become better controlled, the effects of smaller
quantities of toxic materials being discharged into alr and water media have
become more evident and the need to address them more pressing.
1.04        As industrial modernization is a key element of the development
strategy of the country, efforts continue to be mounted to control and reduce
its environmental impact.   The Government is, therefore, in the process of
implementing a comprehensive plan for the promotion of environmentally-safe
industrial growth, conservation of the natural resources, waste minimization and



2
control and abatement of pollution. The elements of this strategy can be broadly
described as: a) the internalization of environmental concerns in economic policy
making; b) the integration of environmental policy within industrial policy
particularly for the future development of the chemical industry and the small
scale sectors; and c) the adoption of a common management strategy for
environmental policy at the State and local governments with active participation
of the industry and the public. The proposed targets for this policy for the next
five years are: a) to reduce by 25% the use of water by the industrial sector, the
generation of solid residues and all emissions of pollutants from industrial
sources into water bodies; b) to promote the adoption and implementation of common
effluent treatment plants at existing clusters of small scale industries; c) to
contain the emissions of airborne pollutants, in particular C02 and SOx, at
present levels; and, d) to regulate the use of non-biodegradable products and the
disposal of toxic and hazardous waste.
1.05        The proposed project has been designed to support the key aspects of
this strategy by contributing to the achievement of all four proposed targets.
First, the project would assist in the strengthening of the enforcement of
monitoring agencies to facilitate compliance with the law and to broaden their
field of action. Second, the project would contribute to the introduction and
operation of common treatment plants at industrial estates by providing technical
and financial assistance.   Third, the project would aid the efforts of the
chemical and related sector industries for adoption of cost effective waste
minimization and resource recovery or pollution abatement measures.
1.06        Since some of the elements of the government strategy for the Eighth
Five Year Plan (1990-1995) are still being formulated, the timing of the project
provides a unique opportunity to support a major effort of the GOI to redirect
industrial policy toward a long term sustainable basis and toward a reduction of
the conflict between industrialization and environmental protection. In a wider
framework, Bank participation in industrial pollution control fits with the Bank's
intentions to promote environmentally sound development and complements the
efforts already launched in India in energy conservation and technology
development.
1.07        The appraisal report provides a review of the  industrial and
environmental policy in India in chapter 2, emphasizing recent reforms and
proposals to promote effective enforcement and adoption of control measures. In
chapter 3, the report describes the Bank role and lending strategy for
environmental assistance to industry in India. Chapter 4 describes the proposed
project, chapter 5 the implementation arrangements, chapter 6 the participating
institutions, chapter 7 the benefits and risks associated to the project and
chapter 8 the agreements reached with the government and other institutions.



3
II.  XNDVSTRIAI. POLICY AND_ENIROMENTAL PROTECTION
A.  Industrial Policy and its Effect on Industrial Pollution
2.01        The Bank, through its economic and sector work, has been analyzing the
policy framework and incentive system underlying the industrial development of
India. Until recently, however, it had not specifically focused on the potential
conflict between the pattern of industrialization and the goal of sustainable
development and on the required actions to mitigate the problem from a policy
point of view. The pricing, trade, fiscal (taxes and s0''sidies), and monetary
(interest/exchange rate) policies adopted to promote industrialization have an
impact on the nature and volumes of industrial pollution. While promoting
industrial transformation, these policies have unintoanded effects on the
environment that need to be understood and addressed.
2.02        Indian industrial policy has had an environmental impact through its
influence in the pattern and rate of industrialization, and on the recovery and
recycling of industrial residues. For example, the cost-plus pricing of output
(such as for fertilizers and refinery products), together with the protective
trade regime, influenced the pattern of industrialization in favor of capital
intensive sectors, often at sub-optimum plant size. Notwithstanding the fact that
India is a net importer of both energy and capital, its industrial policy
framework favored expansion of energy and capital intensive industries (such as
steel, refineries, chemicals/petrochemicals, and cement among others), frequently
associated with significant environmental impacts.
2.03        Trade and Pricina Policies.  Artificially low raw material prices,
usually lead to wasteful utilization of these inputs and, as in the case of low
cost water, promote high water usage and dilution rather than treatment or
recycle.   Low prices for raw materials increase demand while discouraging
conservation and recycling. When inputs are underpriced, industries that use them
intensively tend to expand beyond the level justified by their economic potential.
2.04        High product prices arising from high effective protection and/or
cost-plus pricing schemes have similar effects.   They encourage expansion of
capacities that may not be consistent with India's comparative advantages and
provide little incentive for enterprises to be efficient.   High tariff and
non-tariff barriers to trade and cost-plus-pricing of output attract resources
toward sectors that are highly protected, creating a pattern of industrialization
that is not warranted on the basis of resource endowment. Protection may also
generate increased pollution levels that could have been avoided. Producers know
that their costs'would be covered by higher prices supported by the protective
trade regime and/or cost-plus pricing scheme, therefore discouraging efficient use
of raw materials and other inputs which in turn leads to an increase in pollution.
Examples are, the high water usage by the pulp and paper industry (relative to
world standards) and the relatively low sugar yield in the sugar industry.   Such
output pricing also make penalties for violation of discharge standards affordable
as these may be factored into the cost of production. It can also favor the
adoption of end of pipe treatments, which are not necessarily the most cost
effective option to pollution control. Yields are usually lower (and residues
higher) under a protective trade regime and a cost-plus pricing scheme compared
to a free market situation.



4
2.05        Sub-optiM1a scales of groduction. The protection afforded to industry
and the 001 emphasis on decentralization of industrial development have resulted
in the adoption of sub-optimal scales of production, most notably, for some
sectors such as pulp and paper, sugar and distilleries and leather tanning, where
the median size of operating plants is below world standards. Adoption of a small
production scale frequently increases the cost of production and cost of treatment
of effluent, making it difficult for companies to meet emission standards.
2.06        Product  and  process  obsoloscence.    In  some  cases  (dyes  and
intermediates, pesticides, for example) the industries have adopted outdated, low
efficiency processes and technologies associated with higher levels of pollution.
Chemicals already banned or obsolete in other industrialized countries are still
being produced in the country (some pesticides and insecticides). In other cases,
relatively dirty industries (some dye intermediates) or processes (chemical
bleaching of pulp), which find themselves under considerable economic and
environmental pressure in developed nations, have been installed in India,
exacerbating the environmental problems associated with industrial sources.
2.07        To address these problems, the GOI has so far focused on encouraging
more competition among domestic enterprises through the deregulation of barriers
to entry and expansion.   It has also taken measures to decontrol prices and
promote exports.   To address the issue of sub-standard scales, the GOI has
instituted minimum scales of production in most sectors of the chemical industry
to be met as a condition to issuing a license.   These measures have been
successful in creating significant incentives for greater efficiency and optimum
use of raw materials.   They have also resulted in an increase in industrial
productivity which rose at an annual rate of nearly 4% between 1980 and 1986.
However, additional measures need to be taken, particularly in regard to trade
policies. More efficient use of raw materials would result from reduced levels
of effective protection accrued from tariff and pricing reform.
B. Environmental Reaulations Governing Industrisl Sources
2.08        There are four pollution control acts *with amendments that have been
enacted since 1974. The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) &Ac of 1974,
amended in 1988 is the earliest legislation. This act provided for the creation
of the Central and State Pollution Control Boards as the agencies for monitoring
and enforcement of the Act. The Boards have the authority to inspect and place
environmental conditions on the operation of industrial facilities, set water
quality and effluent standards and permit or prohibit the discharge of wastes into
water bodies. Surcharge procedures and monitoring fees payable by industry are
also established under the act to pay for the costs of implementing the Board
functions.   No facility is allowed to discharge liquid effluent without the
consent of the Boards. After consent is granted the Board is empowered to monitor
compliance and to initiate enforcement for violations to the Act. Although the
States may approve other laboratories for environmental monitoring, some have
elected to use the Boards as the only agency for consent applications; this
restriction results in workloads which are difficult to handle on a timely basis.
2.09        The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act of 1981 amended in
1987 added the responslbility for protection of air quality to the Boards,
providing authority for the set up of emission standards for airborne pollutants,



establishment of air quallty standards as well as monitorlng and enforcomont
procedures. Under the Act, relevant lndustrlal facilities are requlred to submit
an appllcatlon to operate and emit alrborne pollutants, which lncludes analysis
of the concentration of emissions from stacks. The provislons of the Act
encourage regulation of alr quality by adoption of speciflc technologies but
enables as well the settin8 up of specific discharge standards.
2.10        TRho Environent (Protection) Au  and Rules of 1986 are an umbrella
environmental Act that empowers the Central Government to take all measures deemed
necessary to protect and improve the quality of the environment and control and
reduce pollution from all sources. The rules give the Central Government the
ability to prohibit or restrict the location or operation of an industrial
facility on environmental grounds; these rules also establish comprehensive
national standards for particular industrial operations (Nlnimum Natior>sl
Discharge Standards, MINAS; see Ar..Lrx 2,  for a summary description). These
standards compare satisfactorily to standards in use in many developed countries,
Additionally, the states are allowed to tighten the standards. The Envlronment
Act also allows a citizen to bring charges against polluters and take legal action
on his own against them. In 1989, additional rules were established under the Act
to address the issues related to hazardous waste management and disposal.
2.11         Thus, the legal framework is weill in place to achieve significant
progress in environmental protection. However, despite these legal provisions,
the considerable progress achieved through the Boards' actions and an
increasingly responsive corporate attitude toward the environment, serious water
and air quality problems remain chronic and unresolved. The pace of
industriAlization and urbanization has in many cases eliminated the progress
gained through these ¢umulative efforts, with a net effect of growing
deterioration in environmental quality at specific industrial areas. Ilany of the
industries in tlon-compliance with environmental standards are tolerated partly as
.-he result of the immense workload at the Boards and the insufficiencie¢ caused
by lack of staff, equipment and facilities, but also becaulse of a reluctance to
close industries becawse of social and employment considerations. A brief summary
of the procedures adopted to control pollution from new industries, as well as to
ensure that the existing industry complies with established regulations is given
below, together with a summary of the record of compliance of the chemical and
related industries.
C. The ISmrironmental CleWarance and Permit Procedures
2.12        Procediures for Nex Industrial Sources.          The  GOI has made
environmental clearance a eondition for new project approvals for all potentially
polluting industries. There are three environmental clearance systems in place
(the clearance process is described in detail in Annx .2).  The first, is A
permit process imvolving the issuance of a "notice of consent to establish" a
plant. The second is the environmental impact assessment process involving
approvals to proceed; and, the third involves the "notice of consent to operate
a plant". These procedures are more or less demanding depending on whether the
new industry is classified as highly polluting, moderately polluting or non-
polluting. They also depend on the proposed location of the plant. Depending on
the particulars of the case, both the State Pollution Control Boards and the N013F
may be imvolved. Only after the "consent to establish" has been obtained, and



6
when required an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been completed
satisfactorily, can the industry proceed with the construction and commissioning.
After commissioning a "consent to operate" is routinely required from the State
Pollution Control Boards, that certifies compliance with regulations.
2.13        However, for these procedures to be adequately enforced, efforts must
be made to: a) strengthen the monitoring and enforcement capabilities of the
State Pollution Control Boards (SPCB) and the Central Pollution Control Board
(CPCB) in the MOEF (paras. 6.01 to 6.11), b) improve local capacity (both in
private and public sector firms) to prepare   EIA studies, and c) create an
incentive system that does not favor the unregulated discharge of pollutants but
rather promotes the adoption of cleaner processes, as well as recycling and
resource recovery. These are areas where the Bank, through its policy dialogue
and by supporting technical assistance for institutional development may assist
in bringing about substantial benefits.
2.14        Procedures for Established Industrial Sources.   All established
sources need to secure renewals of their consent to operate, every one to three
years depending on their nature and location. For known sources of untreated
wastewater discharges, the issuance of a renewal may imply satisfactory
commissioning and operation of new wastewater treatment facilities. Renewals are
issued by the Pollution Control Boards based on monitoring of samples and field
surveys.   But,  despite considerable effort and progress already achieved,
application of the environmental provisions has only been partial. Pollution from
established industrial sources continues to be a problem in many of th;s industrial
areas of the country. It is particularly severe in heavily industrialized states
such as: Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh. Remedial steps need
to be taken to achieve the desired objectives.
2.15         The following problems contribute to prevent a better record of
compliance from established sources: firstly, there are not enough trained staff
and resources at both the CPCB and the SPCBs to ensure enforcement of established
norms. Although fines and penalties for non-compliance are increasing, they are
not yet sufficient to induce positive response from industry and are not
vigorously enforced.   Even where polluters are brought to court, they are
frequently allowed to continue in operation until conviction.   Secondly, data
requirements for consent orders are generally believed to be beyond the
capabilities, or resources, of the small and medium size firms. As a result,
many firms are operating without any kind of environmental consent. Only the
larger, most visible polluters are investigated when, in fact, the small and
medium size firms are as important in terms of the overall volume of untreated
pollutants. Finally, discharge standards based on concentration of pollutants
rather than on pollution loads have encouraged some industries to dilute rather
than to reduce discharges and improve process efficiency and waste minimization.
D. The Record of Compliance in the Chemical Industries
2.16        The chemical and related industries sector is among the most important
contributors to industrial pollution in India, both in voltume and load including
the potential release of toxic and hazardous residues. As a group, this industry
has been singled out by the GOI as a target for necessary improvements in the
draft policy statement under preparation as well as in the classification of



7
potentially polluting industries. The chemical and associated industries include
the following subsectors: Dyes and Intermediates, Fertilizers, Leather Tanneries,
Pharmaceuticals, Pesticides and Insecticides, Petrochemicals, Pulp and Paper, and
Sugar and Distilleries.    The  overall compliance of the sector with  the
environmental regulations hab been estimated at about 50%. The current situation
in terms of compliance and the type of environmental problems faced by the
industry varies from sector to sector. During project preparation an effort was
made to characterize the environmental situation in each of these industries. The
major results of this analysis are briefly summarized below (a more detailed
description can be found in the project files under the title: The Environmental
Situation in the Chemical and Related Sectors in Indial,
2.17        The dyes and intermediates industry comprises about 3000 units with
a total production of 28,000 tons in 1987. Over 65% of production comes from
4% of the producers. Large scale units are financially strong and responsive to
environmental concerns. The units in the small scale sector are in a precarious
financial condition, with problems associated with obsolescence, diseconomies of
scale, and high unit production and transportation costs. Many of the small units
are located in clusters at industrial estates. The vast majority of these plants
are in non-compliance, but their location at industrial estates makes them a
likely target for common treatment facilities provided primary treatment is in
place. However, very little primary treatment of effluent is currently taking
place, and many of the installed treatment plants are inoperative or inadequate
because of insufficient monitoring and lack of commitment on the part of the
industries. Toxic waste generated by the industry is often not properly disposed.
2.18        The leather tanning industry in India is made up of a few, big,
modern, export oriented units and a large number of manual, small scale units
producing mainly for the domestic market. The small tanners lack quality control
and the means to properly treat plant effluent. Most of the production capacity
is located in Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.  Over 70% of the tanneries have
already installed some treatment facilities. However, many of these systems do
not meet the MINAS. Release of wastewater is seriously compromising the quality
of groundwater sources in both states. Problems are compounded by the discharge
of heavy metals  in the liquid effluent.   Large number of tanneries are
concentrated in clusters and are therefore candidates for common treatment
schemes, but heavy metals and sulfides will need to be pretreated prior to common
treatment. Solid residues and sludge are routinely disposed without treatment or
controlled waste disposal sites.
2.19        The pharmaceutical industry in India produces a wide variety of
products. There are an estimated 16,000 plants in operation, out of which over
96% are in the small scale sector. The main environmental problem caused by the
industry is the discharge of partially treated liquid wastes, including the
release of toxic materials, into water bodies. Organic solid wastes are in some
cases being disposed in landfills without characterization, pretreatment or
adequate control. In general, compliance from this industry is better than for
dyes and tanneries. Still, over half of the total units provide no treatment or
are in non-compliance.
2.20        The pesticides and insecticides industry has an installed capacity of
90,000 tpy, out of which 20% is in small scale units. Demand for pesticides in



8
India is in the order of 55,000 tpy. Unreliable supply of raw materials and
active ingredients combines with low capacity utilization to reduce the
profitability of the industry. Due to the wide range of products and processes
used, common technical solutions to environmental problems are impossible to
formulate. However, some common problems Include: a) the inadequacy of process
and control instrumentation to deal with the release of contaminants into plant
effluent, b) unsafe handling of toxic materials, c) fugitive emissions and d) the
technical and financial inability of small scale industries to properly handle
toxic sludge from the wastewater treatment plants.   The industry is in a
reasonably good position in terms of compliance with the provisions of the Air and
Water Acts, but will need to implement substantial changes in materials handling
to comply with the rules for toxic/hazardous waste disposal.
2.21        The pulp and paper industry has grown rapidly during the last 10 years
due to the increased demand for paper caused by higher levels of literacy and the
growth of the work force. Installed capacity in 1989 is estimated at 3 million
tons. However, capacity utilization is at a low 65% because of the proliferation
of small mills and constraints in the supply of raw materials. Less than 2% of
the mills in India can be classified as medium or large scale.   The main
environmental problems faced by the industry are: a) the lack of clearly defined
pollution abatement goals, b) technical difficulties associated with the recovery
of process chemicals at agro-based mills, c) excessive water usage, d)
diseconomies of scale that reflect on the viability of pollution control schemes,
and e) the generation of toxic compounds currently being disposed in the
wastewater. The large scope for water recycling is difficult to capture at the
current low levels of water fees or effluent cess and discharge standards that
were until recently, concentration based. To solve this problem, the MOEF has
recently decided to impose load based standards on this and other industries where
water dilution has been apparent.
2.22        The sugar and distilleries industry is partially controlled by the
Government through State ownership of a significant share of production capacity,
and by price controls on sugar and alcohol.   There are close to 600 sugar mills
and 200 ethanol distilleries in operation with an installed capacity of 632,000
tons of cane per day and 1.5 million m3 of ethanol per year respectively. The
size of the units is small by world standards. All the distilleries are based on
sugarcane molasses and all are attached to sugar mills. The main environmental
concerns are related to the disposal of the stillage from ethanol production and
liquid effluent from the manufacture of sugar. Gaseous emissions of concern are
primarily suspended particulates.   Solid wastes and sludge are comparatively
benign in nature and are being disposed as soil conditioners.
2.23        The fertilizer industry has gone through an accelerated period of
expansion during the last ten years.  Large, modern and efficient, gas based
facilities have been built, many of them with Bank assistance. Current installed
capacity in the sector is 8.2 million tons per year of nitrogen fertilizers and
2.7 million tons of phosphatic fertilizers; over half of the capacity is in the
public sector.   The new plants have incorporated satisfactory environmental
protection measures, but could still benefit from schemes to reduce water usage
and cut ammonia emissions.   Older units including those based on coal are
associated with serious environmental problems including the disposal of cyanide,
arsenic, heavy metals and the release of ammonia.   Overall, the industry has a



9
better than average record of compliance. Over 74% of nitrogen based plants and
88% of phosphorous plants were in compliance with MINAS as of the end of 1989.
2.24        The petrochemical sector is a well organized industry with generally
medium to large industries which by virtue of their size and expertise exercise
a responsible corporate attitude toward environmental issues.  Therefore, its
compliance with environmental regulations has been satisfactory and well above the
performance of other industrial sectors. There is, however considerable scope
for improvements in particular as it relates to the emission of toxic materials.
The most serious obstacle faced by the industry is the non-availability of
baseline information from sites that were established long ago. Theru is very
little information with the State Boards to do an evaluation of air and water
ambient quality. It is very important that air and water quality information be
collected in a systematic manner to enable the establishment of a basis to plan
improvements. The industry has taken the lead in the setting up of air monitoring
stations around their clusters (IPCL for example) but much needs to be done which
is beyond the ability of individual plants.
2.25        Large Versus Small Scale Operations.   As can be seen from the
paragraphs above, pollution problems affect the chemical and related industries
across the board; however, it seems to be most pervasive among small and medium
size enterprises in particular in industries such as pulp & paper,
sugar-distilleries, leather tanneries and pesticides. While most of the large
size enterprises are believed to be capable of taking measures to reduce
pollution, many small and medium firms face many constraints. Large firms have
access to a variety of financing sources, international consultants and
technologies.   They can, therefore, take the required steps to protect the
environment if monitoring and enforcement measures are implemented. On the
other hand, considering their limited resources (including the lack of qualified
operators, financial resources, and information on appropriate technologies), that
many of the small scale industries cannot easily undertake the required pollution
abatement measures. The location of many of the small industries in clusters
suggests that economies of scale for wastewater treatment can be obtained at least
partially through the construction and operation of common treatment facilities.
2.26        The Disposal of Toxic and Hazardous Vaste. Although improvements have
been obtained in the control of airborne and waterborne pollutants, little
progress has so far been achieved in the control of toxic and hazardous waste
generated by the industry. The reasons behind the poor progress in this regard
are: a) the lack of reliable field surveys on generation and disposal of
toxic/hazardous residues; b) until very recently there were no official guidelines
for its disposal; c) the heterogeneous nature of these residues; and d) the high
costs associated with the proper handling and disposal of these materials. In
order to overcome these problems, a comprehensive survey of the status of
generation, handling and disposal is required with priority assigned to industrial
estates located near urban centers.   Also, the set up of common treatment
facilities for disposal and destruction should be examined as a mechanism to
reduce costs. Efforts are needed to start the necessary surveys for toxic and
hazardous waste. Follow up activities to the project are being discussed with the
GOI that will address many of the concerns related to toxic and hazardous waste.
2.27        Uaste Minimization and the Adoption of Cleaner Technologies.  The



10
survey of the different sectors has also revealed the potentially large scope for
waste minimization and resource recovery.   This is no doubt the cheapest
alternative for solving many of the problems associated with disposal and should
be combined with a mandated effort to adopt clean technologies at the time of new
project appraisals. The potential for waste minimization needs to be realized
through a concerted effort involving: a) incentives for water and energy
efficiency and water recycle; for example, by increasing further the effluent cess
to a level comparable with the cost of treatment and by switching discharge
standards to a load basis; b) the examination of opportunities for waste recycle
beyond the individual units generating the waste; and c) promotion of process
modernization and environmental audits at established plants.  To ensure cost
effectiveness, end of pipe treatment should only be considered once the
opportunities for process modification, waste minimization and resource recovery
have been thoroughly examined.
E. Incentives for Pollution Control
2.28         India has already in place a number of incentives addressed to
promote control of industrial sources of pollution. These include a) positive
fiscal incentives; b) charges and fees; and c) enforcement provisions. Table 2.1
summarizes some of these provisions. The fiscal incentives provide a wide range
of grants and subsidies, in the form of low interest loans, tax rebates and other
fiscal measures, such as accelerated depreciation allowances and capital gains
exemptions.  Detailed measures are presented in Anex 2.3  There are also some
user and administrative charges (such as the water cess), consent fees, other
levies and fines and legal provisions imposed on offenders. However, the effect
of these incentives has been marginal so far. The relatively low profitability
of investments in waste treatment, and the inability of enforcement institutions
to impose substantial fines on offenders due to inadequate monitoring and
enforcement capabilities (including difficulties in the courts), have rendered
these incentives inadequate for inducing firms to install treatment equipment (or
if installed to operate them effectively), or invest in waste minimization and
resource recovery systems.
2.29        To improve compliance, a combination of a more effective incentives
package (a mix of positive and negative incentives) and well planned and targeted
direct state government interventions (such as directed incentives and penalties),
accompanied with enhanced monitoring and enforcement.   State intervention is
particularly essential if the small scale industry (SSI), which is at present
practically outside the reach of the CPCB and SPCBs, is to be reached.
2.30        Positive Fiscal Incentives.   Several positive fiscal incentives
(subsidies, accelerated depreciation and tax exemptions) can be used to promote
measures to control industrial pollution.  Where enforcement of standards is
vigorous and fines are high, direct subsidies for recycling, resource recovery and
installation of pollution control equipment can be very effective.   Capital
grants, interest rate subsidies, exemptions from import duties on imported
equipment (in full or part) and tax breaks (including accelerated depreciation and
tax holidays on profit) are presently being offered to encourage a) implementation
of pollution control measures, or b) displacement of industrial estates or heavy
pollutant sources away from population centers.



11
2.31        Positive fiscal incentives have a marginally negative impact on the
government  revenues.    However,  an  overall  evaluation  of  their  present
effectiveness in India, clearly shows that they have had a limited effect in
stimulating entrepreneurs to install pollution control equipment. Besides, being
costly to administer, it appears that these incentives are creating a desire by
entrepreneurs  to  maximize    government  subsidies  and  minimize  individual
responsibilities.   Asking taxpayers to subsidize the firms to clean-up their
operations is likely to become increasingly difficult to justify politically in
the long term.
2.32        However, as amply shown by the experience in many industrialized
countries (see Annex 2.4) and because of the low financial return from investments
on pollution abatement compared to the substantial social and economic benefits
of maintaining a clean environment, limited positive incentives in the form of tax
exemptions and capital grants have been used for existing industries in the
initial stages of pollution control programs. Capital grants and tax exemptions
have been justified for industries coping with the high cost of complying with
newly established standards while going through a structural adjustment. Tax
breaks and grants have also been justified where there are positive externalities,
such as when required to reduce the social costs of hazardous waste disposal. It
is, however, very important that positive fiscal incentives be designed and
targeted with specific objectives and administered efficiently to achieve them.
2.33        India  is  considering  imposing  gollution  charges  on  polluting
industries. These charges could be levied on enterprises with pollution loads
that exceed an acceptable level specified by the SPCBs. These charges may take
the form of emission charges for air pollution, effluent charges for water
pollution, and similar charges for solid/hazardous waste disposal and production.
Such charges, when set at appropriate levels, will allow industry to equate the
marginal cost of pollution abatement with the marginal benefits of cleaning-up the
environment. This may also enable the central and state governments to develop
a self-sustaining pollution control fund to finance the expansion of their
monitoring and enforcement capabilities and subsidize the cost of treatment and
disposal of pollution produced by targeted industries, specially in the small
scale sector.   Properly designed charges based on pollution loads are more
effective and transparent means of reducing industrial pollution since they allow
flexibility in the exercising of pollution control decisions and the choice of
pollution control technologies. If the charges are set at a level equivalent to
the treatment cost, they become an effective tool to promote compliance. The
Government has announced its intention to convert the existing water cess into
an effluent charge and increase its value to a level that is consistent with the
actual cost of water treatment. Adoption of a substantial increase in the current
water cess is expected to be approved by the legislature during the current year.
2.34        To allow for cost recovery in common wastewater treatment facilities
or at toxic and hazardous waste treatment and disposal sites, treatment charges
will be levied against the generators of waste. These charges are already in the
process of being implemented by the GOI. If set at reasonably high levels, they
can reflect the social and economic cost of waste treatment and disposal,
discourage emissions,   and provide a mechanism for cost recovery.   Where
monitoring and enforcement resources are scarce, however, setting too high
treatment/disposal charges may encourage illegal ways of discharging waste.



12
Table 2.. urrent Incentivgs Provided for Industrial
Pollution Control
SURSWIEP  *u 1         *$o S.ha@ qt~~
...-  ,,.,,....  .z . X .me   ............
.0~~~~~ d
23                ......... ..m I e..... I o e o bi sac.
(50% vs. 30%);~~~~..  .. . 
*inat it taes to intuc  l rgedand mediu mm sieirs to~ dtak   orciv  esrs
SSIs are generall conidre   t .oa bfiancill tand1 Lte~chncll  ea  oaeh
requied seps  o met eniromentalsadrs    ie   hesbtnileooi
suppoted ctios, i cludnggrntfes for tewvconstucnti onanopratin f omo
introductipon.. of    .....esto dli. ou.rn t
1ftQ nit ...od....... ...  ....  ..  .......   ..........*
way to  lleviate  thr sitation.    tom ofxp~vd the      e acton  (sbiines,  hre   n
2.36OwneTr.vship           and manaemen   ofi commo  trweatment fclte   r   en
withpioritygiven for fh sateswure torop2yinkin  wter ai nd , maineesoreae
bein  seiousy treatned    To reover0 teir caia*nwprtigcss(ul
or patiall), tho   fors  fare  xpete to  developt ab mehaisom for cost rcvr
. .    ........   .o.. 2 . ...00 ft
2.35         Direct Government Intervention.   In order to bring small scale
industry into compliance, the GOI is considering a range of special initiatives.
While effective incentives and vigorous enforcement of established norms may be
what it takes to induce large and medium size firms to take corrective measures,
SSIs are generally considered to be financially and technically weak to take the
required steps to meet environmental standards. Given the substantial economic
and social costs posed by pollution from small and medium firms, government
supported actions, including grants for the construction and operation of common
waste water treatment facilities (as well as for communal incinerators and the
introduction of novel techniques or processes to deal with serious environmental
problems affecting small and medium scale industry) may be the most cost effective
way to alleviate the situation.  Some of the actions (subsidies, charges and
enforcement) under consideration by the GOI are shown in table 2.2.
2.36        Ownership and management of common treatment facilities are being
arranged through cooperatives or companies made up of the participating industries
with priority given to the estates where drinking water and marine resources are
being seriously threatened. To recover their capital and operating costs (fully
or partially), the owners are expected to develop a mechanism for cost recovery
based preferentially on the share of the pollution load, but also taking into
account volumetric flows of the individual participants.  Wherever a private



13
company or a producer association can be organized to build and run a common
treatment facility, preference will be given to such an entity. When considering
options for dealing with pollution generated by SSIs, it is essential to
evaluate the economic viability of their operations. In some cases, closure of
an operation may be the least cost option of dealing with the associated
environmental problems associated. In regulated economies like India's, where
plant shut downs are rare due to social and political considerations, pollution
abatement assisted by the government may be the only viable and most Cost
effective option from society's standpoint.
Table 2.2 Incentives Under Consideration to Promote Industrial
Pollution Control Measures
-.  Prtoi?aut frorSrategyr *eeooient eand~  plalmntsto
2.37   iven hesarcity of esoreadteimotne of                  the~ge  stepsp thatt
needto b  takntoarretua  thetmu envionmetal problemns.cue   yid  ra
sources, ~  ~     a GO   asbenp epain an phoased  strategy  for enirnmnttgal roetin
A draft policy paper ha . ofe peardbMOFwihotneteojcivs
the  abintdring19n1roasheve the proosd mediu~m term forl  durngth
1.04 MOE inendstncrote as th.ree pronged a.pproach:s ± t
i) With yiQ   ards  ton toring  an  enforement,ro thevariousEvromnalAt
prvsin Proritiesutfor  abateaDeeoment  a    nd madfr   lamntexansionsone
needpocbetakesn tonarrstrthe environmenftaldprobes caused bioosy indusrial
souces cOhargs, beenpeparnd phnasted storategysa for envon-cmentlprote).ctiose.
the cabnetduiongd 1991 toe achievemano the propoead medium termgoasrdrings the



14
judged to be financially and technically able to take measures to comply
with standards.  Thus, in the short run, top priority has been given to
improving the monitoring and enforcement capabilities of the SPCBs.   To
enhance their effectiveness, efforts are being made to increase the cost of
non compliance (through higher and tougher penalties) and to expedite court
decisions against environmental offenders. The GOI has concentrated its
short term efforts to achieve these goals.   The proposed project would
support these efforts through an institutional component (para. 4.05).
ii) Simultaneous with the efforts on enforcement, the GOI intends to Rromote
the adoption of clean technologies, waste minimization and resource recovery
programs which frequently represent the cheapest alternative to treatment
by providing technical assistance and financing development of suitable
technologies.    The MOEF has also recently announced its decision to
eventually shift all discharge standards from a concentration to a load
basis. The GOI has agreed to keep the Bank informed and discuss the progress
regarding these changes in the discharge standards which will further
contribute to promote waste minimization. The proposed project would support
these efforts through a technical assistance component (para. 4.14).
iii) As in many other countries in the early stages industrial pollution
control programs, nositive Incentives are being used to complement
enforcement and promotion activities, particularly with respect to existing
small and medium industries where enforcement is most difficult and non-
compliance more pervasive.   Many of these industries are facing large
investments with negative or low financial returns, but substantial
externalities in terms of reducing the costs of pollution to the rest of
society. The GOI has decided to apply specific and limited subsidies in the
form of capital grants to this type of industries, provided that the economic
viability of the enterprise has been clearly established. In cases where
uneconomical plants are still in operation, which are serious polluters,
steps will be taken out to force closure.
2.38        India has made remarkable progress in setting up a policy framework
for the reduction of the conflict between industrial development and environmental
protection. To maximize the impact of these policies, the GOI is in the process
of enacting a Policy Statement on Pollution Abatement, in particular as it relates
to industrial pollution and, adopting modifications to the package of incentives
for pollution control, including a higher water cess. The amendment of the water
cess is expected during the current year.



15
III. BANR ROLE AND LWNDINg STRATLGY
A. StrateMy for Bank Assistance in EJjLronment
3.01        The main objectives of the Bank strategy on environmental issues in
India are linked to the country strategy with emphasis on poverty alleviation and
efficient resource allocation. The strategy on environment places a premium on
improved natural resource management with a focus on reforestation, prevention of
land and water degradation and control of industrial pollution. The role of the
Bank is to support Government efforts to achieve an improved natural resource
management through the development of economic and sector work, financial support
and technical assistance.
3.02        Although  the GOI recognizes  the need and assigns priority  to
environmental protection, effective measures to curb pollution and reduce negative
environmental impacts by industrial sources are being hampered by the difficulties
in recognizing and quantifying environmental benefits, the inadequacy of the
regulatory system and institutional arrangements for effective enforcement and
promotion of compliance and the need for specialized funding and technical
assistance. This is particularly true as it relates to the chemical industries,
the small scale sector and the treatment and disposal of hazardous waste. The
proposed project has been designed to address these concerns.
3.03        The proposed project fits within the proposed Bank strategies in the
environmental sector in India as described by the Environmental Action Plan now
being  developed  by  the  Government  with  Bank  assistance.    The  proposed
Environmental Action Plan calls for the formulation of specific action programs
for some of the most critical environmental problems confronting India. The
priorities include: a)institutional strengthening; b) industrial pollution
control; c) ensuring safe water supplies; d) reforestation; and e) energy policy.
The proposed project directly deals with the first three of these priorities
(paras. 4.02 and 4.03) and intends to address the technical assistance, financial
needs and policy advice required by environmental concerns in industry. As the
first dedicated environmental loan to India, the project plays also the role of
catalyst for further action in the environmental field and pioneers an ;.ntegrated
approach to the solution of environmental problems in industry. As discussed in
chapter one, the timing offers a unique opportunity to assist in the development
of the GOI's environmental strategy for industrial development.
3.04        This project would be the first stand alone environmental operation
in India dealing with control and abatement of industrial pollution and the first
dedicated environmental operation for industry in the Asia region. It therefore
involves an element of role definition. However, the Bank has already been
involved in the Asia region on several operations with strong environmental
components. These projects have sought to improve water supply and sanitation,
alleviate pressures of human migration, and protect and improve the use of forest
resources. By tackling induatrial pollution, the Bank intends to address one of
the most pervasive sources of pollution and causes of land and water degradation
in India.  The role of the Bank will be one of support to the agencies that
monitor and control industrial pollution and to the industries in their efforts
to comply with regulations.   Further, by providing technical assistance and
financial support, the Bank will be instrumental in the setting up and development



16
of follow up actions for the solution of environmental problems in Industry. The
Bank involvement is also expected to result in a speed up of the efforts already
under way for adoption by the GOI of a medlum and long term strategy on the issue
of industrial pollution.
B. Enironmental Protection in Industrial Sector Lending
3.05        During the last two five year plans, the Bank has approved US $229.2
million in projects with major environmental components in India. However, most
of the effort so far has been concentrated on the issues of forestry and watershed
management. Within the industrial sector itself, the Bank's environmental efforts
have included an operation in the fertilizer sector seeking to modernize
technology of production and therefore reduce emissions of pollutants (Cooperative
Fertilizer Project, Ln. 2729/2730-IN) and an operation in Cement (Cement Industry
Restructuring Project, Ln. 3196-IN) that also addresses the environmental aspects
of the industry.   Further actions being considered regarding environmental
protection include the development of a study of regional environmental
improvements involving coal mining, power generation, industry and urban
development in the Singrauli region, and a Coal sector study. The successful
implementation of the project being proposed will open the possibility of
supporting follow up actions in industrial pollution through future Bank
operations.    Future operations under planning will continue  to focus on
environmental concerns across industrial subsectors.
3.06        The implementation of most Bank financed industrial and industrial
finance projects, including thaose with significant environmental components, has
been satisfactory. The rate of disbursement under these projects has been
consistent with Bank-wide averages.



17
IV. THEOJECT
A. Project Objectines
4.01        The project's overall objective is to support the Government of
India's efforts to prevent and alleviate environmental degradation caused by
industrial operations and assist in the successful attainment of the proposed
short and medium-term targets of its environmental policy.  The project is
therefore designed to assist in identifying and implementing a cost effective
program for industrial pollution monitoring, control and abatement within the
context of institutional and financial constraints present in India.
4.02        The project specific goals are: i) to promote effective and timely
enforcement of existing legislation on environmental protection regarding
industrial sources; ii) to support efforts by industry to comply with existing
environmental regulations, including a special effort designed to reach the small
scale industry through the setting up of common treatment facilities; and, iii)
to support assessments, extension services and research in waste minimization,
resource recovery and pollution abatement in industry. By promoting improved
enforcement, while supporting compliance and providing technical assistance for
the identification and implementation of solutions to environmental problems, the
project seeks to act as a catalyst for improvements in the environmental
performance of the industrial sector in India.
B. Proiect Descrigtion
4.03        The project will focus on the chemical and related industries
including fertilizers, leather tanning, dyes, pesticides and insecticides,
pharmaceuticals, petrochemicals, pulp and paper, and sugar and distilleries, which
as a group have been identified as a major source of industrial pollution.
Because of their size and importance, as well as the nature of their operations,
all of these industrial subsectors have a substantial potential for pollution
control and monitoring investments with sizable environmental benefits. Under the
project, efforts to monitor, control and alleviate industrial pollution will be
concentrated in the states of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.
The first three states are the seat for the bulk of the chemical and related
industrial sector in India, while the fourth state is the largest and more
urbanized with a large number of small and medium size industrial plants.
4.04        The proposed project comprises three components: i) an institutional
component designed to strengthen the Central and State Pollution Control Boards
in the four selected States; ii) an investment component designed to support
efforts by industry to comply with regulations, including the support for the set
up of common treatment facilities; and iii) a technical assistance component
desiened to assist the MOEF and the DFI's to channel specialized technical
assistance for the evaluation of environmental problems and the assessment of
their solutions.
Institutional Comnent
4.05        This  component  is  designed  to  strengthen  the  monitoring  and
enforceiusi;t ability of the GOI through the financing of a program of improvements



18
at the Central and the four State Pollution Control Boards in order to ensure the
successful development of their mandates.  The component would finance: a) a
training program including consultancy services; b) acquisition of equipment
required to upgrade the technical capabilities of the Boards; and c) other
laboratory facilities. This component has been tailored to meet the perceived
immediate needs of the State Pollution Control Boards in the targeted States and
training for the Central Board. The program of improvements is available in the
project files and is summarized below:
4.06         Training.  The project will assist the Boards with the training in
four major areas: i) quality assurance and quality control to enable all
laboratory activities to be accomplished by qualified analysts with appropriate
education, experience and training; the training will include technical training
for performing work and quality control and assurance training; ii) maintenance
and operation training including safety issues for the proper handling of samples
and equipment; iii) specialized technical training on topics such as environmental
chemistry and data handling and processing; and, iv) supervisory training for
management of the laboratories work and for development and implementation of
pollution control strategies. Most of the training will take place in India.
Details are provided in Annx 4.1.
4.07        Equipmet.  The project will assist the Boards with a program of
improvements in analytical and monitoring equipment, designed to meet the minimum
workloads of the Boards. The support will be extended to the central laboratories
as well as to the smaller regional laboratories. A description of the current and
proposed equipment to be financed and the cost estimates for each Board is
included in Annex 4.1.
4.08         Facilities.    The project will also support the provision or
refurbishing of laboratory facilities.   This will include: civil works and
equipment to ensure adequate environmental control inside the laboratories
(humidity, temperature, ventilation); furbishing of specialized rooms (such as
fuming chambers, dust free rooms for trace level sample preparation, glove boxes
for handling of hazardous waste samples) and the provision of office and
laboratory space for the SPCB in Uttar Pradesh and Haharashtra; and utilities
equipment including back up power facilities, voltage regulators, and data
processing equipment. Details are included in Annex 4^.l
Investment Component
4.09        This component would finance sub-loans and sub-grants for: a) the set
up of common treatment facilities at industrial estates; b) individual projects
undertaken by enterprises in the target sectors dealing with waste minimization,
resource recovery and pollution abatement; and, c) demonstration projects selected
for targeted incentives on the basis of established eligibility criteria (para.
4.25).
4.10        Common Treatment facllities.  The project will finance the design and
implementation of common treatment facilities for the treatment of wastewater and
solid materials at industrial estates and other sites with a heavy concentration
of chemical and related industries, in particular of small size. The project will
finance the treatmert facilities and the studies required for their design.



19
4.11        Support will be provided for several common wastewater treatment
facilities. A preliminary list of 20 plants being considered for financing is
attached as Ajrgg 4.2.  All these have been selected based on the potential
effects of continuing pollution at the sites. The facilities are expected to be
owned, operated and maintained by specially constituted companies which will be
fully responsible (and liable) for the operation of the units.
4.12        Individual Plant Treatment and Control Facilities.  The project will
also finance the design and implementation of  waste minimization, resource
recovery and pollution abatement schemes by individual enterprises in the targeted
sectors. Typically, these facilities will include: process modernization with a
clear positive impact on release of pollutants; waste minimization and resource
recovery investments; and treatment plants for the abatement of pollution loads.
4.13        Demonstration projects.  These projects will be funded with the help
of direct grants for the following reasons: a) projects to be supported consist
of prototype innovative units in the field of waste minimization, resource
recovery or pollution abatement; b) involve an element of risk because of their
technological novelty and lack of commercial scale experience in India; c) address
the treatment or disposal of either toxic or hazardous materials or have a large
environmental impact on surrounding area; d) sponsoring enterprises are currently
efficient and economic but require a comparatively (related to their installed
capital cost) large investment for pollution control, which cannot be reasonably
financed on commercial terms; and e) the projects will demonstrate new approaches
or techniques which are potentially widely replicable in India.
Technical-Assistance Comonent
4.14        The project will also support a package of technical assistance
initiatives addressed to meet the needs for technical expertise, environmental
assessments, R & D efforts in environmental technology and extension services on
environmental issues to industry. Activities under this component are: a) pre-
investment studies for projects to be funded under the investment component; b)
technical studies including required equipment to assess the treatability of
residues or waste streams; c) pilot plant studies required to scale up innovative
treatment technologies; d) preparation of environmental housekeeping manuals at
different industries; e) an organizational study of the State Boards; and, f) a
training program on environmental issues at the DFI's. Annex 4.3 describes some
of the schemes to be funded under this component.
C. Pxoiect Costs
4.15        The estimated project cost is US$ 260 million equivalent, including
physical and price contingencies. Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
account for about US$ 56 million, or 22% of the total cost. The project costs are
expressed in November 1990 prices based on pre-feasibility studies and therefore
subject to revision pending detailed feasibility studies, presently under
preparation. A summary of project costs by component is presented in table 4.1.
4.16        The total cost of the Institutional Component is US$18 millior.,
including physical and price contingencies, estimated based on the anticipated



20
3.4% international annual inflation and the Bank's projected domestic inflation
rates for India (that slowly decrease from 6.6% in 1992, to 6% in 1999); and a 10%
physical contingency appropriate for laboratory and scientific equipment. The
total cost of the Investment Component is US$237 million. Of this amount, US$60
million corresponds to the cost of the common treatment facilities. The total
cost of the individual projects is estimated at US$167 million equivalent. The
total cost of the demonstration projects is estimated at US$10 million equivalent.
The cost of the technical assistance component is estimated at US$5 million.
Table 4.1 Project Costs a/
.................... ........................~ ..  ...   .  ...... ..:
_                            _.
D. Project Financing
4.17       The overall financing plan for the project is presented in table 4.2.
The proposed Bank loan for US$124 million and IDA credit for US$31.6 million
equivalent would finance about 60% of the project costs. The Bank loan would
finance all of the Bank Group contribution to the individual sub-projects and two
thirds of the contribution for Common Treatment Facilities. The IDA credit would
finance one third of the Bank Group contribution to the Common Treatment
Facilities and all of the Bank Group support to the Institutional and Technical
Assistance components.
4.18       Institutonal Compon=n. Financing of this component will be through



21
a US$12.6 million equivalent IDA allocation to cover all the costs of training,
equipment and facilities requirements at the Boards. The GOI is expected to
allocate the resources required to meet the operation and maintenance costs of the
the financed equipment and facilities.
Table 4.2 Prolect Financing Plan
(in US $ million)
. o9  onven    tet  Comonnt   ForA the V comon  resmet failtis the ID
millon)amounting up to 401ftettlcot.Poetsonoswl0rvd
1* and  he poject  sposor  125% of0 th oa ot. Frthe Deonsrto
part cipaionof5.s
4.2    )   hiciid'al    1Qsstns Copnse   2unin  4o2.0tcnca   sisA
Oumt of thes  reore,ft ilo   qivln   ol  ealctdt IDBI .



22
be managed on behalf of the Government to be used for funding of up to 60% of the
costs of pre-investment studies, with the balance being provided out of the
beneficiaries' own funds. The balance of the funds would be allocated through the
GOI to the CPCB to finance all other activities unde.. this component.
E. The Proposed Loan and Credit
4.21        The Bank loan would bear the Bank's standard variable interest rate
to be repaid over a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace. The proceeds
of the Bank loan would be passed on to IDBI and ICICI which will act as financing
intermediaries for investments by enterprises in individual plant treatment and
control facilities. The credit would be made to the GOI on standard IDA terms.
Onlending Terms and Conditions
4.22 a) For the institutional component, the GOI would pass US$12.6 million
equivalent from the proceeds from the IDA credit to the MOEF, on a grant
basis. These funds would in turn be utilized to meet the requirements for
upgrading the State Boards in the four States. It is expected that through
the appropriate budgetary allocations, funds will be made available by the
GOI to meet the counterpart requirements at the State level;
b) for the investment component, (including the loan financing of common
treatment facilities) the terms of relending will reflect the policies of
the institutions involved and the following understandings: IDBI and ICICI
will be able to draw up to US$74 million and US$50 million equivalent
respectively; the DFIs are expected to onlend in Rupees at 15%, their current
commercial long-term rate for domestic transactions, as most goods and
services will be locally procured. The GOI would onlend the proceeds of
the Bank loan to the DFIs in Rupees at a rate 2% below their commercial
rate. The GOI would thus bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The subloans would have a repayment term not exceeding 15 years inclusive of
up to four years of grace. The commercial rate paid by sub-borrowers would
be positive in real terms. The above onlending arrangements were agreed at
negotiations and will be set out in Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the
GOI and the DFI's, the signing of which will be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed loan and credit;
c) sixteen million dollars equivalent of IDA resources will be utilized for
the financing of the grant element for common treatment facilities and
demonstration projects. The IDA resources would be channeled through the
Government which in turn would make them available to the individual
investors through the lending agent (IDBI) which would administer the funds
as an agent to the GOI under a Letter of Understanding (LOU).   The use of
IDA resources and direct grants for these projects is justified because these
investments have large externalities and frequently involve new concepts in
India and because without the resulting subsidies the projects would not get
underway.   Subsidies for the Common Treatment Facilities are justified
because: i) these will assist small and medium scale enterprises to make
investments that will result in large benefits to society, including those
associated with cleaner water, soil and ambient air and their Impact on
agriculture, health and labor productivity, all substantial but difficult to



23
quantify; ii) the indirect benefits do not accrue to the relatively small
scale entrepreneur, who in many cases will need to make a large investment
compared to fixed assets which can not easily be financed on commercial
terms; iii) the target enterprises are currently profitable and facilities
were installed before the new emission standards were in place (para. 2.14);
iv) the subsidies would be partially off-set by the anticipated higher vater
cess; and v) the enforcement mechanisms alone are not expected to Improve the
situation with the urgency required.   The demonstration   projects are
designed to introduce pioneering project concepts with high risks and similar
externalities which for reasons already spelled out in para. 4.13 would be
difficult to finance on a purely commercial basis. As in the case of Common
Treatment Facilities, the costs of these subsidies will be, at least
partially, off-set by increases in pollution charges.
d) the technical assistance funds would be allocated to the IDBI (US$1.5
million equivalent), under the terms of the LOU for disbursement of the funds
on a grant basis and to the MOEF (US$1.5 million equivalent), through
procedures consistent with the funding of the institutional component.
During negotiations, it was agreed that the GOI shall obtain the LOU form
IDBI for the channeling of the grant funds for the common treatment
facilities and the demonstration projects as a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan and credit.
4.23        The Bank  is discussing in the context of the next  financial
intermediation loan the need for greater flexibility in setting interest rates.
Accordingly, the on-lending rates under this project would be adjusted to reflect
these future changes. The arrangements agreed for under the proposed project are
designed to promote the establishment of basic pollution abatement systems and an
institutional framework which will encourage the additional flow of resources into
pollution control investments without permanent reliance on directed subsidies.
The lending and on-lending terms and conditions being considered for this project
are summarized in table 4.3.
Sub-loan elizibilitX criteria
4.24        Individual SubXrojects.   All industrial projects in the targeted
sectors that seek to reduce the environmental impact of their operations would
be  eligible  for  financing.    These projects  can either consist of waste
minimization or resource recovery schemes or of pollution abatement and waste
treatment schemes. In addition, these projects will need to meet the following
conditions: a) all projects are to be appraised by the intermediary financing
institutions and fouand to have a substantial positive effect on the environment;
b) for any single sponsoring enterprise any subproject or combination of projects
should not exceed US$ 10 million; and c) the sponsoring enterprises as a whole
would have an acceptable capital structure with a resulting debt to equity ratio
not exceeding 3.0. Sub-loans would have a free limit of US$3.5 million, about 25%
of the individual projects are expected to be subject to prior review and
approval.
4.25        Common Treatment Facilities. The following conditions would apply to
funding proposals for common treatment facilities: a) a thorough survey of the
effluent situation at the site has been undertaken and provisions have been made



24
for adequate pretreatment or disposal of effluents not suitable for common
treatment; b) a feasibility study has been conducted, the economic and financial
viability has been established and operating and maintenance costs have been
estimated; c) an adequate sponsor has been constituted or identified with
institutional and technical capability to operate the facility; d) legal, and
financial responsibilities have been properly defined and the facility owner is
responsible before the enforcement institutions for the quality of the common
effluent after treatment; and e) adequate cost recovery formulae have been adopted
by the sponsoring enterprise with the associated mechanisms for cost sharing or
fees structures from the beneficiary individual enterprises. All proposals for
common treatment facilities will be subject to prior review and approval.
4.26        Demonstration Urojects.  Facilities will be eligible for funding if:
a) sponsor enterprises are of medium or small scale (below US$5 million equivalent
in fixed assets); b) subprojects will represent pioneering uses of clean
technologies in India, or consist of prototype units for dealing with
environmental problems in industry and have an anticipated widespread application;
c) sponsored enterprises are currently efficient and economic and require a
comparatively large investment for environmental protection; and d) the financial
rate of return and/or the risks involved in the required investments do not enable
it to be financed on commercial terms; and e) financing of the loan of such
enterprise will not exceed US$500,000. A survey of waste minimization measures
would need to be undertaken and priority will be assigned to those projects that
will result in the largest reduction of emissions per unit of investment. All
demonstration projects will be subject to prior review and approval.   During
negotiations, it was agreed that both IDBI and ICICI will ensure that the projects
will satisfy the corresponding eligibility criteria.
Table 4.3 Pronosed Lending and On-Lending Terms
COPNN  AKT2 GTT ~I~  O (



25
V.  PQRJECT IMPLENTATION
A. Nsnagement
5.01        The agencies that will have responsibility for implementation of the
proposed project are : a) the MOEF through the CPCB; b) ICICI; and c) IDBI.
Overall management of the project would rest with the MOEF and the CPCB acting on
its behalf. The Central Board is located within the NOEF and is entrusted with
the responsibility of overseeing compliance with environmental regulations by the
different pollution sources. Through the MOEF and the CPCB the GOI would be
committed to carry out a program of activities substantially as described in this
report as the Institutional and Technical Assistance components and cause to be
carried out the activities described as the Investment component.
Institutional Component
5.02        The MOEF will have the overall responsibility for the execution of
the institutional component. It will coordinate the activities of the beneficiary
Boards through a Central Sector Scheme (CSS). Under this arrangement, the GOI
will pass the proceeds of the IDA credit to the CPCB which will administer on
behalf of the State Boards. The HOEF has constituted an Implementation Cell to
supervise the execution of this component and directly undertake the procurement
and disbursement activities required for its implementation.   The MOEF will
nominate one official to work on a full time basis in the coordination of these
activities as head of the Implementation Cell.   The Cell would consult and
coordinate with State Governments. Each State Board though its Chairman will have
responsibility for timely and efficient execution of the enforcement component in
its State, but will coordinate with the Implementation Cell at the Central Board
for all activities that are common to other Boards. All training activities will
also be coordinated through the Cell. At negotiations assurances were obtained
that the GOI would maintain the Implementation Cell for the duration of the
project and provide requisite assistance to carry out their functions properly.
5.03        In order to improve the efficiency of their operations and ensure
effective use of the investments the Control Boards need to review their
organization.   Areas that need review are: a) planning and research functions;
b) need for environmental education and extension services; c) revenue collection
effectiveness; d) interaction with other agencies involved in environmental
management; and e) staffing. Annex 5.1 provides an analysis of the organizational
structure of the Boards and the need for the adjustments noted above.   At
negotiations the GOI agreed to conduct a review of the organization and management
of the Boards, which will assess the need for modifications and make
recommendations. Completion of the study is expected by December 31, 1991. The
GOI will discuss with the Bank the results of the study and the progress in the
implementation of the recommendations.
Investment Component.
5.04        For the Common Treatment Facilities, IDBI, would be responsible for
appraising the subprojects. While the MOEF does not have the authority to dictate
what projects IDBI should encourage or approve, it is intended that an informal
link be established between the two institutions for the execution of this



26
component through an Steering Committee (para. 5.07). The MOE? will furnish to
the IDBI a list of sponsors but ultimate responsibility for funding rests with
IDBI. IDBI will act on behalf of the GOI in the administration of grants.
5.05        The ownership, management, operation and liability issues for common
treatment facilities have been discussed with the IDBI and the potential sponsors
identified. Participation of the industries which would contribute effluents for
treatment would be encouraged. Operation and management responsibility will rest
with the sponsor or common treatment company.  The company is expected to be
responsible for the treatment of the inputs into the common treatment plant and
for the standards of the effluent. Proposed procedures for appraisal and approval
of Common Treatment Facility projects are summarized in Annx 5.2 (alternatives
for ownership and management arrangements can be found in the project files under
the title: Proposed Implementation Arrangements for Common Treatment Facilities).
5.06        For the individual subprojects, the two participating DFI's, IDBI and
the ICICI, would be responsible for identifying and appraising the subprojects.
Many of the individual projects pre-identified have a potential for replication
and this potential will also be pursued by the DFI's.   Likewise,  for the
demonstration projects, the IDBI would be responsible for verification of the
eligibility criteria, identification and appraisal. The IDBI will act as an agent
of the Government in the execution of this subcomponent.
5.07        In order to secure efficient implementation procedures, the MOEF has
formed a Steering Committee to oversee the allocation of grants under the common
treatment facilities and demonstration projects scheme and the allocation of the
technical assistance funds for the pre-investment studies (para. 5.08). The
Steering Committee is chaired by the MOEF with representatives from IDBI, and the
CPCB and will review and decide on the requests for allocation of funds. After
approval by the Steering Committee, the IDBI will continue their appraisal of the
requests as per their procedures. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that
the GOI would maintain the Steering Committee for the duration of the project and
provide requisite assistance to it to carry out its functions properly.
Technical Assistance Comoonent
5.08        For the Technical Assistance Component funds will be passed on as a
budgetary allocation to the MOEF. The MOEF in turn will delegate responsibility
to the CPCB to hire and supervise the consultants, advisors, trainers and other
professionals, foreign and local, who may be needed to carry out the program of
studies, training, and promotional activities to be undertaken under the Technical
Assistance Component. The balance will be passed on to IDBI as a grant under the
terms of the Subsidiary Agreement. IDBI, after consultation with the Steering
Committee, will act on behalf of the government to support pre-investment studies
directly tied to investment opportunities in the field of environmental protection
and assist in the training of DFI's personnel on environmental issues.
B. Implementation Schedule
5.09        The project is to be implemented from 1991 to 1997 inclusive.
Project completion is expected by December 31, 1997 with Loan Closing by June 30,
1998. The Institutional Component activities are expected to take place somewhat



27
1998. The Institutional Component activities are expected to take place somewhat
concurrent with the Fifth Eight Year Plan in a manner that recognizes the current
constraints at the Boards. Sub-loans under the Investment Component are expected
to be committed in three years and disbursed in seven years from the date of
effectiveness of the loan and Credit. Likewise, Technical Assistance Component
activities will be developed concurrent with the subproject appraisal or, in the
case of general studies, developed in a phased manner through the implementation
period.  An implementation schedule is summarized in Anex $3.
C. Procurement
5.10        Contracts  for equipment under  the  institutional  and  technical
assistance components will be procured under ICB procedures, subject to a minimum
threshold of US$200,000.  Below this amount, contracts will be procured under
established competitive bidding following local procedures (LCB) which are
acceptable to the Bank up to an aggregate value of US$4.5 million. Contracts
below US$50,000, up to an aggregate value of US$1.8 million, may be procured under
local or international shopping by requesting quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers. All civil works under this component are small and will be
procured under local competitive practices. The responsibility for procurement
under these components is with the Implementation Cell and the IDBI. Under the
investment component, for goods and works contracts exceeding US$ 8 million, the
financial institutions will require that project sponsors follow ICB procedures
in accordance with Bank guidelines. All ICB contracts under both components would
be subject to prior review by the Bank. Contracts costing US$8 million or less
each, would be awarded following the DFI's procedures which have been used in a
number of Bank projects and found acceptable to the Bank.   These procedures
reflect IDBI and ICICI internal practices and require that subproject sponsors
solicit at least three competitive and responsive quotations. Both DFI's would
maintain records of the method of procurement, summarizing offers and awards. For
all contracts under the project, where ICB for equipment is required, a 15%
preference on the cif price of imported goods, or the cost of custom duties and
import taxes, whichever is less, will be given to local suppliers.   A 7.5%
preference will be granted to local contractors competing under ICB. The Bank
would periodically review a sample of these records during supervision.
Employment of consultants will follow the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank borrowers". Table 5.1 summarizes the expected breakdown by
procurement methods of the project.
D. Disbursements
5.11        The proposed project is the first free standing environmental project
in the industrial sector in the Asia region.   Based on the experience of
development finance projects it is expected that all of the funds would be
committed in three years and disbursed in seven years, consistent with the
disbursement performance of previous Bank-financed industrial projects in India.
Disbursements will be made on the basis of the percentages shown in Table 5.2.
5.12        Under the Institutional Component, disbursements will be made against
full documentation for expenditures on equipment, civil works, consultants
services and training under contracts valued more than US$200,000. Under the
Investment Component, disbursements for expenditures under subloans and subgrants



28
for contracts valued more than US$1 million will be made against full
documentation. Under the Technical Assistance Component, disbursements will be
made against full documentation for expenditures on equipment, consultant services
and training under contracts valued more than US$200,000. All other disbursements
would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOE). Documentation
under the SOE's would be retained by the implementing agencies and be subject to
review by Bank supervision missions, and to annual audit by auditors acceptable
to the Bank.
Table 5.1 AnticiDated Procurement Methods
5.13        The project does not include any retroactive financing. To facilitate
timely payment of project expenditures, a Dollar-denominated Special Accounts
(SA) for the loan and credit amounting to US$6.0 and US$2.0 million, respectively



29
(calculated as the IBRD/IDA share of the estimated four month average of
expenditures), would be established in the Reserve Bank of India, in interest
earning accounts. The Bank would replenish the SAs whenever the resources fall
below 50% of the initial amount or quarterly whichever occurs first.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.14        Given the novelty of the project both for the G0I and for the Bank,
it will be most important to obtain early evaluation and feedback of critical
aspects of the project in order to adJust implementation and assist subsequent
operations. Areas of concern are : a) improvements in performance of the
monitoring and planning functions of the State Boards; b) progress in the
management arrangements for the common treatment facilities under implementation;
and c) the success of the demonstration projects. To address these issues,
quarterly reports will be prepared by the CPCB and the DFI's to the NOEF with
copies to the Bank which show progress achieved in implementation. The project
pipeline would also be kept under review. Compliance with eligibility criteria
will be responsibility of the DFI's and the Bank will on a routine basis, during
the course of supervision activities, review the application of criteria. The
DPI's will submit to the Bank audited financial statements in conformity with the
Bank's8 requirements within nine months of the close of each financial year. Audit
of SOE's and the special accounts would be submitted nine months after close of
each financial year. After closing of the proJect, the DFI's and the CPCB would
submit an overall operational report of the ProJect's experiences and results.
Zable .2 Allocation and Disbursement of the Loan and Credit
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~aa~
I  atA(ntttoa   opnrt



30
VI.  IPLMENTIN  AOENCIE8
A. The Central and State Pollution Control Boards
6.01        The Central and State Boards are responsible for pollution assessment
from new and established sources, identification and implementation of control and
abatement measures and the enforcement of environmental regulations. Activities
of the CPCB at the State level are delegated to the SPCBs. At a State level the
Boards are required to: i) act as advisers to the Central Government on
suitability of specific locations for the set up of industries; ii) stipulate the
State standards for treatment of effluents; iii) promote and assist in the
development of viable techniques for the treatment of effluents; iv) identify air
and water pollution control areas; and, v) under the provision of the Environment
Act (1986), undertake a continuous program for identification, and inventory of
hazardous waste disposal sites. The Boards are also expected to participate in
the development of environmental standards.
6.02        Staffing.  The CPCB consists of seventeen members nominated by the
central government. The Board has a full time chairman, and officers nominated
to represent the central government, the SPCBs, representatives from industry,
agriculture, trade and fisheries, and the public sector.   The Chairman has
responsibility over operation of the Board. The Central Board is authorized by
the government to employ 464 people. The salary levels at all the Boards are low
which makes it difficult to retain qualified personnel.
6.03        Financial  Situation.    The  Boards  depend  mostly  on  budgetary
allocations for their budget.   For example, a total of Rs 32.6 million was
sanctioned under the plan for CPCB activities in 1989. Additional funds amounting
to Rs 14.0 million were sanctioned by the government outside the plan framework.
Consent and other fees and fines generated only 0.4 million, equivalent to less
than 1% of the total budget. This level of funding is inadequate to deal with the
enforcement and coordination mandate of the Boards. The same is true at the SPCB
level. As a result of the reorganization study (para. 6.10), the GOI expects to
produce a budget plan for the Boards that is consistent with the mandate and
requirements for effective enforcement and a goal of increasing budgctary self-
reliance (revenues from fees and charges).
6.04        Current environmental legislation and supporting rules define a range
of parameters for pollution control at industrial sources. The Boards must be
equipped with the capability to measure each of these parameters on a routine
basis. This capability currently does not exist.
6.05        Several problems are faced by the State Boards that prevent efficient
execution of their mandate. First, the large number of sources and the wide areas
to be covered are not compatible with the level of funding and the limited
geographical reach of the Boards. Funding should be increased to provide for a
more thorough coverage and mobile stations should be created to increase the
coverage in areas with a lower density of sources.   Second, the analytical
capability of the Boards is deficient and not commensurate with the requirements
mandated by the legislation. Under these conditions, non-compliance cannot be
addressed. Third, the actual staffing and skills mix at the Boards needs to be
adjusted to reflect the sp'.cific needs of the States, the requirements for quality



31
control and an understanding of environmental processes.   Finally, budgetary
support from the States is below the level required for efficient operation and
the management structure is vulnerable to political pressures, and therefore,
efforts should be done to improve the self reliance of the Boards through the use
of a greater share of fees and penalties to finance their operations.
6.06        Geograuhical coverage.  Unlike the situation in developed nations,
where samples can be shipped and received in hours, cargo transportation in India
is restricted. The collection and sampling turnovers in India frequently exceed
one week. This limits the validity of the results and increases the vulnerability
of the sample to alterations.   The only feasible alternative for the Boards is
to provide for regional laboratories that can be placed closer to the main
concentrations of waste generators.   Furthermore, mobile field stations can
provide a cost effective capability to analyze samples at field locations within
hours of collection.   Thus each Board should strengthen the capability and
coverage of the regional laboratories and complement these with the flexibility
provided by mobile units. Strengthening the capability and coverage of the Boards
is one of the objectives of the Institutional component (para. 4.05).
6.07        AnalXtical capability.   Most of the work of the Boards is now
restricted to the analysis of a few common pollution indicators, not on the harder
to measure and some times more noxious organic and inorganic pollutants.   In
developed countries it has become obvious that common pollutants provide little
insight into the long term, significant environmental problems associated to toxic
materials.   There is evidence that complex organic compounds are already being
discharged in India with very little control even if regulated. The longer term
persistent toxicity effects caused by these compounds must be controlled.  The
first step to achieve this reduction is to monitor its discharge.  Therefore the
Boards ought to be equipped with the capability to detect at least some of the
most toxic chemicals in industrial emissions.  Improving and complementing the
analytical, sampling and monitoring capabilities of the Boards is one of the
objectives of the Institutional Component (paras. 4.07 and 4.08).
6.08        Scientific  Training.    Sampling  and  monitoring  planning  and
Implementation requires a level of knowledge of regulatory issues that is not
apparent at the Boards. Formal training is also required in laboratory and field
methods, primarily to ensure safety and prevent sample contamination. Accurate
and defensible analytical results need to be based on a thorough training program
for all staff involved.   Finally,  it is very important that a level of
environmental science be introduced into the sampling and analysis process.
Training of scientific, technical and managerial staff at the Boards is one of the
objectives of the Institutional Component (para. 4.06).
6.09        Financing of Board Activities.  The funding of the Boards needs to be
strengthened; most of the funding comes from state and central government
budgetary allocations.   A larger part of the funding requirements should be
provided out of increases in the level of fees and emission charges at the Central
and State levels, such as the water cess. This will allow an improved level of
operation at the Boards without taxing the States' budgets and at the same time
will increase the cost of non-compliance.
6.10        Organizational Structure of the  oards.   While the function and



32
mandates of all the State Boards are identical, their organization varies from
State to State (Annex 5.1. fg4ures 1 to 4). Clearly, differences are needed to
respond to local conditions. However, in some cases, important functions are
inadequately represented. Some of the problems related to the structure of the
Boards are: a) most SPCBs do not have a structure that promotes the coherent
assembly of ambient and point source monitoring data and their subsequent analysis
and use in the planning of future activities.   Each Board should form or
strengthen a planning unit to provide for this function; b) apart from the Tamil
Nadu Board, the Boards do not identify an environmental education function. This
function should be established to provide information to the public, media and
voluntary environmental organizations; c) the Boards are currently heavily
dependent from the budgetary allocations from the State and Central Governments.
To promote their efficiency and financial independence, the revenue collection
function should be improved and given more prominence; d) there is a general
problem of inadequate levels of staffing which Is particularly acute in the
regional offices where the functions of factory inspection and monitoring are
being carried out. The inspections should be carried out by trained personnel
with experience on the operation of the industries under inspection.   This
approach allows for accurate sampling, immediate feedback for better practices,
faster identification of non-compliances and can forestall unnecessary legal
proceedings; and e) in order to evaluate ambient air and water quality, the Boards
should be allowed to monitor municipal and other non-point sources and advise on
remedial measures. The GOI has agreed to conduct and implement a study of the
organizational structure and management of the Boards to address the issues above.
The study has already been commissioned and terms of reference have been drafted,
during negotiations, the GOI agreed to revise the terms of reference taking into
account the Bank's comments and also to discuss with the Bank the results of the
study and progress in the implementation of its recommendations.
B. Particlatinal inancina Institutions
6.11        The development finance institutions  (DFI's) which would serve as
intermediaries for the term lending component of the project are the IDBI and
the ICICI. These DFIs currently account for almost 60% of annual terms loans to
industry and have participated in all the industrial sectors being targeted by:
this project. The combined client base of the two DFIs numbers in excess of
10,000 and represents total outstandings as of March 1990 of Rs. 130 billion. In
addition, both Banks have recently constituted task forces to deal with
environmental concerns in industry or to incorporate environmental considerations
in project appraisal.       The IDBI will have responsibility to assess the
eligibility of the projects to be included according to criteria established under
the project (paras. 4.24, 4.25 and 4.26).
6.12        The Bank has a long-standing relationship with the two DFIs, having
made more than 20 loans to the two institutions. Most loans have been general
lines of credit, the Bank has pursued a sector lending strategy which calls for
specialized lines of credit. Such lines include among others, the Second Cement
Industry Loan, approved by the Board in May 1990, the Technology Development Loan
approved in September 1989 and the Electronics Industry Loan approved in June
1989. The Bank continues to play a significant role in the borrowing strategies
of these institutions. Borrowings from the Bank are small in relation to their
total borrowings, but are helpful in mobilizing foreign currency resources, in



33
maintaining credit standing in international markets, in improving institutional
performance and in lengthening the average maturities on their foreign borrowings.
Industrial Credit and Xnvestment Corporation of India.
6.13        Organization.  ICICI was established in 1955 as a private financial
institution with government support, since then it has developed into one of the
major financial institutions and it is the main provider of foreign currency
loans to the industrial sector. ICICI offers a range of financial services and
recently has diversified into merchant banking, leasing, venture capital and
credit rating services.   ICICI also advises the GOI on industrial issues and
carries out sector studies. ICICI is well managed and operates effectively under
a chairman and managing director, who are responsible to a 15 member board
representing the interests of public and private industry and the government. The
board meets periodically to set out and review ICICI's policies, and to decide on
major project proposals in which exposure would exceed US$35 million.
6.14        ICICI is organized into the following groups: operations, planning,
finance, special operations, and administration. The proposed project would be
implemented by the operations group, which is responsible for lending, appraising
of new projects, supervising and monitoring of ongoing loans and collections.
6.15        Operations.   ICICI's growth and financial performance have been
impressive. During the last five fiscal years (ending March 1990) its assets grew
at an annual compound rate of 26% to Rs. 56 billion. During the same period the
portfolio tripled to Rs. 33 billion and profits tripled to Rs. 1 billion. Return
on equity averaged 20% p.a. These impressive figures will be difficult to sustain
in the future unless problems involving increasing borrowing costs, deteriorating
collections and narrowing spreads are properly addressed. Gradual deregulation
has meant increased competition and higher risk to financial institutions. Net
spreads (before administrative exopenses) on the rupee loan portfolio have fallen
from 3.5% in 1986 to 1.6% in 1989-1990 due to increased borrowing costs in the
domestic market and fixed lending rates. In recognition of these problems, ICICI
has adopted a strategy that involves: i) more emphasis of new funding sources; ii)
increasing non-funded assets and fee income activities; iii) improved collection
of arrears; and iv) diversification to maintain overall profitability. ICICI's
audited financial statement and other financial data are summarized in  mnex 6.1.
Industrial DevelooMent Bank of India (IDBI)
6.16        0rganixation. The IDBI was estiblished in Bombay as a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India in 1964. It is now fully owned by the GOI
and is the leading financing institution for the Industrial sector. It operates
as a direct lender and refinance institution for other national level DFIs and the
term lending activities of the Life Insurance Corporation, the General Insurance
Corporation, and the Unit Trust of India. It accounts for about 38% of all
industrial sector lending in India. Its promotional role covers a wide range of
activities aiming at the development of both sound industrial development and
financial practices and includes surveys of entrepreneurship development programs,
consultancy and advisory services and development banking training programs.
6.17        IDBI's 22 member Board represents a cross-section of Government



34
officials, industrialists and commercial and development bank executives. The
Board is responsible for the internal policies of the Bank and reviews overall
operations and relations with the industrial sector. Full powers are delegated
to a 10-person executive committee, headed by the Chairman of the Board. The IDBI
has its head office in Bombay and is served by 5 regional and 21 branch offices.
The IDBI organizational structure comprises 8 units. The Project Finance
Operations group is responsible for business development and appraisal,
disbursement, supervision, collection and recovery of lending operations. The
project will be implemented by this group.
6.18        Operations.      The IDBI's financial assistance to the industrial
sector is provided through the following types of operations: a) direct finance
assistance; b) refinanced loans to State level financing institutions such as the
Industrial Investments Corporations; c) rediscounted bills covering the sales of
machinery financed by Banks on a deferred payment basis.   Direct finance is
available on projects valued at over Rs. 50 million, and accounts for 45% of
IDBI's portfolio.  The IDBI raised during the last year Rupee resources totaling
Rs. 6.4 billion.  IDBI has had a history of satisfactory profit performance and
its overall financial condition is sound, with a consistent high level of
liquidity. Its assets more than doubled during the last five fiscal years (ending
March of 1990) to Rs. 194 billion, while revenue grew at an average annual rate
of 21% to Rs. 18 billion. Return on average net worth was 18.9% during FY 1990.
6.19        IDBI's continued satisfactory profit performance is threatened in the
medium term by decreasing margins, as the cost of funds has been increasing, while
lending rates have remained fixed. The effect of the squeeze on margins has yet
to show in the profit statements as the greater portion of IDBI's portfolio is
still supported by earlier bonds issues and RBI borrowings. In August 1990, the
RBI set the long term domestic commercial rate at 15%, and proposed to set this
as a floor, rather than fixed rate, with the institutions free to vary rates
depending on risks. This will ease the squeeze on margins. Increased competition
due to policy liberalization poses a threat to IDBI's portfolio, and to collection
rates. IDBI will therefore have to move aggresively to minimize collection
problems, through a combination of stricter enforcement coupled with selective
assistance to enterprises in carrying out restructuring measures. Details of
recent audited financial statements are provided in Annex 6.1.
6.20        Capabilities of ICICI and IDBI in the Environmental Field.  ICICI has
identified pollution control as one of the priority areas, which also include:
export development, technology finance, financing services, infrastructure, and
energy conservation. A policy statement, under preparation, would essentially
target these six areas for future business strategy. Accordingly, the ICICI has
constituted a group of professionals charged with the responsibility of advancing
the involvement of the institution in the environmental field. Likewise, the IDBI
has formed a task force under the direction of a Manager to oversee the activities
of the institution in the environmental field. These groups include expertise in
financing, engineering and pollution control and represents experience gained from
the normal appraisal mechanisms in India, which currently require an Environmental
Impact Statement for all new investments.   To complement the DFIs in-house
capabilities, under the Technical Assistance Component, the project will fund a
training program for ICICI and IDBI officers on all aspects of environmental
assessment of industrial projects.



35
VII.  EMKITS AND RISKS
A. Prolect Benefits
7.01        The main benefits of the project are associated with the reduction ln
environmental degradation, caused by industrial sources, to be obtained from the
implementation of the activities described in the report.  The institutional
component is expected to yield, in the short term, improvements in the
effectiveness and coverage of the Boards for their monitoring and enforcement
mandates.    This  is  a  precondition  for  substantial  improvements  in  the
environmental Impact of industrial operations. With stronger Boards, the GOI will
be able to promote stricter compliance with the environmental acts.
7.02        The sponsoring of the common treatment facilities is a pioneering
effort very replicable across India (and in other Asian countries as well).
Successful implementation of the proposed facilities should result in a
substantial impact in the environmental performance of the small and medium scale
industry which so far have proved resistant to change. The support of these
common treatment facilities is also expected to result in the first field data
surveys for toxic and hazardous waste and therefore be the first step toward a
comprehensive solution of the problems created by these residues from the chemical
and related industries.
7.03        By providing technical and financial support for individual efforts
in waste minimization and resource recsvery, the project is expected to contribute
substantially to a reduction of waste generation in the chemical and related
industries. The recent MOEF decision to shift standards from a concentration to
a load basis will further encourage waste minimization efforts and control water
dilution of pollutants.   Furthermore, the projects sponsored through the credit
line are expected to be highly replicable among many of the plants in operation.
Therefore, the impact of the project will go beyond the scope of the specific
projects being funded.  The technical assistance (feasibility studies, waste
characterization and replicability studies) will contribute to the identification
and implementation of solutions to environmental problems in industry.
7.04        Further, Bank support to the GOI's environmental policies is expected
to assist in their prompt implementation. Future activities in the environmental
field  in  India are also expected to benefit from  this dialogue.   Bank
participation also highlights the urgency of the problems being tackled. The
involvement of DFI's under the Bank sponsored project will be instrumental in the
acquisition of skills for environmental analysis and the internalization of
environmental concerns in the appraisal of industrial projects.
B. Proloct Risks
7.05        As with all new types of lending operations, the proposed project
carries the risk associated with innovation. This project will be the first Bank-
financed dedicated environmental project in industry in the Asia region. Room for
adjustment and improvement remains in the proposed operation but the urgency of
the problems requires a prompt response from the Bank.
7.06        Specific project risks are associated with the response of industry



36
to the need to improve the environmental aspects of their operations; in the
absence of positive financial incentives, the enforcement of the law and the
negative incentives in place will determine the demand for the individual project
credit line. Although the project places priority on the strengthening of the
monitoring and enforcement institutions and supports the endorsement of the
polluter pays principle, in the final analysis it is the ability to convey these
concerns to the individual manufacturer that will determine the success of the
operation.   To reduce this risk the project pipeline under the investment
component was carefully reviewed and the size of this component adjusted to
reflect the anticipated demand.
7.07        Although common treatment facilities are thought to offer the most
cost effective and efficient approach to the problem of pollution from small
industrial sources they require institutional and technical coordination of a
large number of small processors.    Careful analysis, design of the proposed
facilities and detailed structure of the enterprise including its legal liability
and cost recovery arrangements is required and will need to be done for several
clusters. To minimize the risks involved, the project preparation activities
included the feasibility studies of four common wastewater treatment plants, the
analysis of ownership, cost recovery, operation and maintenance issues.
7.08        The  geographical  coverage  of  the  project  and  the  existing
institutional structure for the Pollution Boards require a certain degree of
participation from several State Governments. This complicates the management
structure of the project and introduces the risk of some State Governments not
being ready to implement the project in a timely fashion. To reduce this risk the
DEA and the Bank have proposed that project management and allocation of resources
be done in centralized manner (through central sector schemes and the
identification of a single financing intermediary for the management and
channeling of the funds for common treatment facilities).
7.09        The weaknesses  of the State Boards,  among these,  the current
inadequacies in training and infrastructure represent an implementation risk, in
particular as it refers to the resolve to address the issue of non-compliance.
However, the GOI commitment to review and address the organizational and
structural issues of the Boards through a comprehensive study will contribute to
improve the performance of the Boards. Also, the proposed training, equipment
and facilities to be financed under the project will greatly assist in improving
the effectiveness of the Boards.  The fulfillment of these requirements will
greatly reduce the risks associated to the current inadequacies of the Boards.
7.10        Success of the activities promoted by the project, will in the long
run depend on political will and commitment from the GOI to enforce the
environmental regulations and increase the costs of non-compliance. This is a
risk difficult to evaluate.   However, the current leadership at the MOEF is
strongly committed to the objectives of the GOI policy statement on the
environment and to assist in the reduction of the conflict between industrial
development and environmental protection.



37
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01        During negotiations the following agreements were reached with the
GOI: the GOI will a) maintain the Implementation Cell and Steering Committee and
provide requisite assistance to them to carry out their functions properly (paras.
5.02 and 5.07); b) by December 31, 1991, undertake and complete a study, based on
terms of reference developed in consultation with the Bank, on the organization
and management of the SPCBs. The GOI will upon completion of the study, discuss
the results of the study and the progress in the implementation of the
recommendations (paras. 5.03 and 6.10); and c) upon request, discuss the progress
regarding changes in discharge standards for industrial sources of pollution from
a concentration to a load basis (para 2.37);
8.02        During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with IDBI
and ICICI : a) the DFIs will onlend their loan proceeds to sub-borrowers on terms
consistent with the long term domestic lending rate currently at 15%. The loans
to sub-borrowers will be extended up to 15 years for repayment, inclusive of four
years of grace (para. 4.22-b); and b) both institutions will ensure that the
projects will satisfy the corresponding eligibility criteria as described in
paras. 4.24, 4.25 and 4.26.
8.03        During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOI on the inclusion
of the following conditions of effectiveness for the proposed project: a) the LOU
has been obtained by the borrower from IDBI for the channeling of the grant funds
for the common treatment facilities and demonstration projects under the
investment component and for the pre-investment studies under the technical
assistance component (para. 4.22-d); and b) Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been
executed on behalf of the borrower and IDBI and the borrower and ICICI,
respectively, stipulating that i) IDBI and ICICI will be able to draw up to US$
74 million and US$50 million equivalent respectively; ii) on-lending will be in
Rupees at a rate 2% below their long term domestic commercial rate, with the
foreign exchange risk being borne by the GOI; iii) repayment of the loan will be
over a period of 20 years, inclusive of five years of grace (paras. 4.21 and 4.22-
b).
Recommendation
8.04        On the basis of the above agreements, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of US$124 million equivalent to India for 20
years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate and an IDA credit for SDR 23.4 million (US$31.6 million equivalent) to India
on standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.



ANNEX 2.1
38                                       Pg  l of 8
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Miniml National Standard. for Discharems Into Water (MINAS
In Selected Industries
MINAS for Some Industrios
MINAS/Parometero of
Industry          Number of Fac ilties               Concern            Monitoring Requir ments
Complex Fertilizors      19 (including those        - pH (6 6-  *.u.)        In guard pond automatic
Industry                 under Installation)        - emoniacal              monitoring for flow, pH,
nitrogen (60 mg/1)    ammoniocal nitrogen, nitrate
- total Kl-ldahl        nitrogen (wher nitric acid
nitrogen (TKN)         Ic produed and used In
(100 mg/1)            fertilizer prodution), and
- nitrate nitrogen      hoxavelent chromium (where
(10 MG/i)             chromium-baosd Inhibitors
- cyanide (0.2 mg/1)    arm used).  Fluoride should
- vnoadium              be continuously monitored
(0.2 mg/i)            where phosphoric acid is
- arsenic (0.2 mg/i)    producd.  Until automatic
- chroi um (2.0 mg/l    monitoring In installed-grab
total and 0 1 g/1    sampling every four hours to
hexv- lent)            required.
- fluoride (10 mg/1)
- phosphate (5 mg/1)
_ oil and grease
(10 m9/1)
- TSS (100 mg/)
Straight Nitrogenous    82 straight nitrogenous   - pH (6.6-6 s.u)           Monitoring requirements
Fertilizer Industry      fertilizer                 - ammonlcal             similor to those established
28 ammonia and ureo          nitrogen (60 mg/1)    for complex fertilizers
9 ammonium salt plants    - free amoniscal          Industry
nitrogen (4 mg/1)
- total Kieldahl
nitrogen (TKM)
(100 mg/1)
- nitrate nitrogen
(10 mg/1)
- cyanide (0.2 mg/1)
- rsenic (0.2 mg/i)
- chromium (2.0 mg/i
total and 0.1
- mg/i hexavlent)
_ oil and grease
(10 mg/1)
- TSS (100 mg/1)
Sugar Industry           191 small                  - pH (6.6-8 o.u.)
88 medium                  - 800 (100 mg/i)
20 largo                   - TSS (100 mg/1)



39
ANNEX 2.1
MINAS/Parameters of
Industry          Number of Faeiltles                Concern            Monitoring Requirements
Oil Refining             8 small (1-8K tons/day)   - oil and grease          Daily monitoring of final
Industry                S medium (4-1OK               (10 mg/l, 7 kg)        effluent recomnended for *11
tons/day)                  - phenol (1 mg/1,        pollutants
2 large (1 1-20K             0.7 kg)
tons/day)                  - sulfide (0.  -/1,
0.86 kg)
- 800 (156 m/1,
10.5 kg)
- TSS (20 mg/I,
14 kg)
- pH (6-8.6 *.u.)
All mass limits are
kg/1,000 tons
Crude Produced:
Pesticide                818                        - temperature (<6 C      Composite sampling over 24
Manufacturing and        101 (manufacturing           above receiving        hours
Formulating Industry    only)                         water)                 10 Pereent dilution for
- pH (6.5-8.5 s.u.)      bioassay
- fat, oil and
grease (10 mg/1)
- oxygen absorption
(60 Mg/i
- nonposticidal
suspended solids
(30 Mg/i)
- organic solvents
and compounds'
(80 ug/1)
- raw material and
proc"e
Intermediate*%
(not presnt)
lmits for
toxicity (.50X
survival)
Optional
- hoavy metals
- Inorganic and
organic chemicals
- COD and TOC
effluent limits
should be
established based
on specific stream
Characteristics
Man-made Fibers          29                         - temperature (no        No specific monitoring
Industry (Synthetic                                   limits)                frequencies and protocols
and Semi-Synthetic                                  - pH (6.5-9 s.u.)       established
Fibers)                                             - TSS (100 mg/1)
- TDS (no limits)
- 800 (80 mg/1)
- COD (no limits)
- oil and grease (no
limits)
- zinc (1 mg/i
semi -synthetic
industry only)



4n
ANNEX 2.1
Peg 8 of a
MINAS/Parametre ot
Industry          Number of Facilltles               Concern            Monitoring Requirements
Fermentation             11 maltries                - 800 (80 mg/1           Orob samples should be
Industry (maltry,        26 breweries                 maltry/brewery         collected and analyzed over
brewery, distillery)    120 dlotillerie.              8 000 mg/1             a 24 hour period, and a
distillery)           composite ot the grab
- TSS (100 mg/i          :amples should *loo be
maltry and brewery    onalyzed
only)
Pulp Section Outlet:
Small Pulp and Paper    179                         - pH (6-9 e.u.)          Once per month, 24 hour
179                                                 - 800 (60 mg/1)          composite*
- suspended solids
(100 m/i)
-COD, linin (no
limits)
sodium (no limits)



41
ANNEX 2.2
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
The Environmental Clearance Procedure
1.          There are three environmental clearance systems. One is a permitting
procedure involving the issuance of a "notice of consent to establish" a plant.
The second is the environmental impact assessment (EIA) process involving
approvals to proceed with new projects. The third requires obtaining a 'notice
of consent to operate" a plant.
A. Consent to Establish
2.          The Consent to Establish process is basically the same in all states.
The basic procedure is as follows:
Mi)   Obtain a Letter of Intent from the Central government including
permission to make investments in the sector of interest, to
borrow funds from the financial institutions and to obtain and
use foreign exchange if imports are needed.
(ii)  Obtain approval from the local government for the planned use of the
land. If rural land is involved, state government approval is also
required. In the State of Gujarat, the PCB is to be notified for
purposes of obtaining their approval for the site.
(iii) Obtain a Consent to Establish or a No Objection Certificate from the
SPCB. In the application for Consent to Establish, the firm informs
the SPCBs of the products to be manufactured, the production process,
the input materials, the output materials, discharges and effluents,
the effluent treatment measures and the location of the proposed unit
as given by the regulations in the various environmental acts. In all
4 states, the PCBs have issued detailed application forms and/or
questionnaires to be used by industry.
3.          In special cases, the application for Consent to Establish has to be
sent to the Central Government for approval. According to the regulations in the
Environment Act, the Ministry of the Environment (MOE) has set guidelines
defining which projects that need to be approved by the Central Government and
which projects need to be approved by the State PCBs or the Department of the
Environment in the States. In some cases approval from both is necessary. The
country is divided into sensitive areas and nonsensitive areas. Sensitive areas
include areas containing archeological sites, national parks, and wildlife
sanctuaries. Industries are divided into red (highly polluting), orange
(moderately polluting) and green (non polluting). Approval agencies for each type
of area and type of industry are defined by the Environmental Act and are given
below in Table 1.



42
ANNEX 2.2
Page 2 of 3
Table 1
Responsible Authorities for Consents to Establish
Area Type
Indus=r                    6*nsitSe        Non-Sensltlv
Red                       MOE               SPCB+MOK
Orange                    MOE+SPCB          SPCB
Green                     SPCB (MOE)        SPCB
In addition there are other conditions affecting applications for
consents to establish:
(i)   No highly polluting industry (red) may be established in
sensitive areas.
(ii)  All projects in the public sector must request clearance
from the HOE.
(iii) All projects with an investment cost more than Rs 500
million require clearance from the MOE.
B. Environmental ImRact Assessments
4.          An environmental impact assessment (EIA) is required depending on the
area in which a source of pollution such as an industrial unit is to be located
and on the size of the investment. An EIA is mandatory for all projects referred
to the Central Government, that is, all red projects, all projects in the public
sector and all projects with an investment more than Rs 500 million. An EIA is
not mandatory for other projects. However the SPCB may require an EIA for larger
industries.
5.          In the four target states,  the PCBs have  somewhat different
requirements of when to make an EIA and who should do it. In Tamil Nadu, 9 out
of 10 projects that are put forward to the Board have an EIA. Also the Tamil Nadu
PCB may choose to conduct an EIA on smaller projects. In the other states, large
or public projects require an EIA but in the case of other projects the need for
an EIA is decided on a case by case basis.
6.          In the rules accompanying the Environment Act there is a list of the
factors to be included in the EIA. Included are:
- Regional carrying capacity of the site
- Volume and quality of expected effluent
- Impact on soil, water and air quality
- Socioeconomic impacts
- Impact on flora and fauna



43
ANNEX 2.2
Page 3 of 3
C. Consent to ORerate
7.          Once the Consent to Establish has been obtained, and, where required,
an EIA has been performed, the industry can then proceed with building and
commissioning the plant. Once this has been accomplished, a Consent to Operate
is required from the State PCB before production can start. This consent is given
for a period of 1 to 2 years depending on the type of industry. As part of this
process, monitoring and inspection requirements are also set. The Consent to
Operate may be conditional for an initial period of time until the pollution
control design specifications are met.



44
ANNEX 2.8
Prage 1 of 2
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Current Incentives provided for Industrial Pollution Control
Subsidie
1.   (a)  Excise oxemptions reducing oxcise taxe  from 16 to 6 percent for certain pollution control
equipment.
(b)  An depreciation allowance that Is set at SOX rather than 80X for certain pollution control
equipment.
(c)  Reduction of the maximum customs duty on pollution control equipment to 40X from 86X.
(d)  Income tax exemption for private contributions to onvironmental organizations.
(f) Soft loan *nd grant schoeme for financing pollution control equlpment and for upgrading
process  used including:
(i) IDBI/ICICI/IFCI technology upgrade loan progrom whose selection criteria include costs
of process upgrades and pollution measures. Loans are up to ReS50 illilon and aro at
a rate of 11.5.
(ii) PACT: Some of the R and D costs of innovative now products/process technologioes are
funded. Tho project cost cannot excod USS 1.0 million, and up to S0X of the cost
will be funded under PACT.
(ili)  TDICL: Risk finance at subsidized rates for comercial R and D/or implementation of a
new technology up to a total project cost of R.20 million.
(Iv)  IFCI subsidizek   tho cost of consultants hired for pollution control projects in
village and the small scale sector by providing a subsidy of B0X of the fees or
R6SOO, for consultoncy only and Ro.7600 or 75X of the fes for consultancy and
Implementation, whichover is los.
(v) Gujarat subsidizes small scale sector project by giving a soft loan of Ro.40000 or
BOX of the project cost, whichever Is less.
(vi)  Tamil Nadu subsidize  the Installation of effluent treatment plants by providing
grants of up to Re. 26,000 for the necessary civil works, grants of up to Rs.25,000
for the equlpment required, and Re.160/head/month as a grant for 2 persons for
maintenance or Ro.20,000, whichever Is loss.
(vii)  Tamil Nadu subsidizes the cost of ETPS for leather tannertes through SIPCOT by
providing a soft loan of up to 10K of the volue of assets of the industry or Re. 1.6
million, whichever Is less.
(Ix)  A proposed schome would finance comon treatmnt plants on 26:26:40:10: basis where
the proportions are as follows: contral govt grant: State govt grant: Commercial
loan: Equity of participating Industries.
Cheaw:
2.   (a)  User charge  for CETPo are levied on participating Industries.
(b)  Effluent charges (cosn) Is levied on the consumption of water for various activities at a
rate of betwen 8/4 and 2.5 paise per kiloliter for water for Industrial use.
(c)  Administrative charges for obtaining consents.  For example  In Uaharashtra  charge  of
betwen Re. 200 and Ro.10,000 depending on the size of the industry are levied.
(d)  Product charges on liquor bottles and *park plugs.



45
AMEX 2 a
PF- 9' - of 2
Intor.smt Ine nties:
8.  e()  For tailure to comply with the Water (prevention and control of pollution) Act, fines upto a
maxlum of Ro.6000 or lmprisonmnt for up to three months or both may be imposod. After
conviction, continued violation con result In a fine of Re. 1000 per day for each day of
violation.
(b) For failure to comply with the Air (prevention and control of pollution) Act, fineo up to a
maximum of Ros600  or lmprisonmnt for up to thre  months or both may be lposod.  After
convictlon, continued violation can result tn a fine of Rn.1000 per day for each day of
violation.
(c) For failure to comply with the Environment prevention and control of pollution) Act, finesup
to a maximum of Re. 100,000 or lmprisonmont for upto five yearo or both may be lmposd.
After conviction, continued violation can reult In a fine of Re. 6000 per day for each
day of violation.
(d) For failure to comply with the Water Ce.. Act, fines of upto Re. 1000 or Imprisonment for up
to sIx months may be imposed. Any arrears are ooassd at 12X inter*at per year.



46                              ANNEX 2.4
Page 1 of 7
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
The Experience of Some Developed Countries in the
Control of Industrial Pollution by Using Economic Instrumenta.
Dgnmark
SubsLdies
1.          Denmark has only a few available subsidies for industrial pollution
control.  These are available through a program to promote and develop cleaner
technology and recycling.
Charges and User Fees
2.          For each ton of waste delivered for incineration or deposition, a
charge (equivalent to about US$ 20) must be paid to the state. User charges are
levied on domestic and industrial effluents discharged into the municipal sewage
system or for solid waste generated at the plant. The user charges cover all
costs of the treatment and disposal systems.   User charges are levied on
hazardous and chemical wastes to be treated in special incinerators and cover all
associated costs.
3.           A  charge  of  $4.50/kg  is  levied  on  the  consumption  of
chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs).  The charge is paid by importers of CFCs and by
importers of products containing CFCs. Administrative charges are paid for some
administrative services like the approval of pesticides. The waste charge and
the CFC charge are considered to be effective and raise substantial revenues.
The revenue raising aspect has become increasingly important in financing of
Danish environmental programs. In total, the various charges generate revenues
accounting for 95X of all public costs for environmental protection.
Enforcement Incentives
4.            An increasing number of firms charged with violating standards are
being brought to court and given fines. However, the fines do not always match
the economic consequences of the violation in terms of the costs to society or
the profits made by violating standards.
The Netherlands
gubsidies
5.          Subsidies are provided in order to encourage compliance with
regulations and in order to promote research on and implementation of pollution
control and clean technologies.
Charges and User Fees
6.          The Netherlands has water pollution charges that are imposed on
regional water authorities, households and firms. The charge levels are high and
have been effective in abating water pollution levels. In addition, a charge
system covering chemical waste, noise and air pollution was in place until April
1988, when it was replaced by a general fuel charge. The revenues from the fuel



47
ANNEX 2.4
Page 2 of 7
charge are used to help fund Ministry of Environment programs.
Sweden
Subsidies
7.          The only financial assistance program available to industry in Sweden
is the Fuel Environment Fund, consisting of revenues from one of the charges on
oil.   Revenues are directed at underwriting flue gas desulfurization with
particular emphasis on new technologies.   Sweden formerly provided financial
assistance in the form of grants to existing industries investing in pollution
control equipment.  Also transitional subsidies were provided for installing
sewage treatment facilities.
Charges and User Fees
8.          Industries discharging effluent into municipal drainage and treatment
facilities have to pay the full cost of collection and treatment.   Industries
also pay for the collection and disposal of solid wastes. Two charges on oil are
levied. Revenues from one charge are directed toward financing environmental and
non-environmental programs. A smaller charge is directed to pay for liming of
lakes to neutralize the effects of acid rain. A charge is levied on nitrogen and
phosphorous according to the amount of active substances in pesticides. The
revenue is used for research and development. A charge is levied on some types
of  containers.    The  amount  depends  on  the  type.    Sweden has  several
administrative charges, primarily used to raise revenue and to pay for services
such as licensing. Likewise, charges must be paid when firms get waivers for
some specific rules and standards.
Market Creation Systems
9.          There exists an obligatory environmental damage insurance system,
with the aim of raising funds to cover costs for clean ups; if it proves
impossible to identify the liable firm or firms in connection with pollution and
polluting accidents.
Enforcement Incentives
10.         An environment protection charge designed to increase environmental
compliance  is  levied.    The  charge  is set at a level  that  results  in
neutralization of profits that accrue due to non-compliance. The problem with
this system is that the authorities must prove the polluter actually made a
profit by not complying and must calculate that profit.   In addition the
authorities can administratively impose a noncompliance fee on ships for
discharging oil into coastal water. In general, the different charges are too
small to give incentives to firms and consumers to change their behavior. On the
other hand, some of the charges raise considerable revenues to be used for
environmental protection.   They are therefore evaluated to have an indirect
environmental  effect.    Sweden sees the existing economic  instruments as
supplements to direct regulation, not as alternatives to direct regulation. The
insurance system is expected to solve some of the problems that occur when a



48
ANNEX 2.4
Page 3 of 7
liable party can not be identified or is unable to pay for the damages.
Franc,e
Subsidies
11.         Subsidies in the areas of air, water, and noise pollution as well as
in the area of waste disposal are provided utilizing the charges levied on
effluents through an environmental fund.
Charges and User Fees
12.         Since 1985 there is a charge on air pollution emissions with the
purpose of raising revenue for the financing of air pollution control equipment
and for research by the Air Quality Agency. The charge system was the result of
negotiation between environmental groups and the Ministry on the one hand and
industry on the other and as a result bears the characteristics of compromise in
that the charge level is too low to have any incentive impact and the charge base
is too restricted.  In the case of effluent charges for polluted water, the
charge system is purely a device for the raising of revenue to finance agencies
responsible for water quality and resource problems. The incentive impact of the
charge system is limited by the charges being set too low and by the primary
purpose of the system being the financing of envir.onmental agencies. A product
charge on lubricants was introduced in 1981 and renewed in 1986 for the purpose
of the elimination of waste oil. Its effectiveness is emphasized by the fact
that over seventy percent of used oil is collected and recycled.
Subsidies
13.         Financial aid is given at federal, state, and municipal levels and
by financial institutions.   A variety of subsidy schemes exist.   Financial
assistance (e.g. grants and soft loans), is used to assist small firms which
could experience cashflow problems and to speed up the implementation of
environmental programs. Soft loans are dominant and usually tied to special
programs and demonstration projects. Some observers find that these subsidies
only give rise to "windfall profits", others state that they are only effective
in promoting demonstration projects.
Charges and User Fees
14.         Since 1981 all discharges to open water are subject to a charge. The
charge is calculated on the basis of the amount of pollution in the effluent for
a number of different pollutants.   The parameters include settling organic
substances, oxidizing substances, and a variety of heavy metals and toxic
substances. Over time more pollutants have been added to the calculation basis.
The charge is differentiated so that reductions on the charge are given as a
function of the level of compliance with effluent standards. For instance if the
discharge is less than half of the minimum effluent standard a 100l discount of
the charge is granted. Thus the charge is not a pure economic incentive since
it is tied to effluent standards imposed through regulation. Administrative
efficiency is not great since half the revenues go toward administration of the



49
ANNUE 2. 4
Page 4 of 7
charge.   Savings of one third in the cost of pollution control have been
estimated as a result of the charge compared to equivalent reductions in
pollution through a uniform standards. A user charge is levied on domestic and
industrial sewage discharged into municipal sewage systems. It is based on the
wastewater volume and covers the collection and treatment costs. Since 1969, a
charge has been levied on lubricant oil which, in combination with direct
regulation, has been very effective in increased recycling of oil. In 1989 the
charge was approximately $100/ton of "new" lubricant oil. The water charge has
had some effect in reducing pollution, but not as large as that due to direct
regulation. Pollution abatement efforts are estimated to have benefitted from the
charge.
Degosit Refund Systems
15.         Certain industrial containers are subject to a deposit-refund system.
Market Creation System
16.         Some transferability of air pollution emission rights is possible.
The system is comparable to the offset system in the U.S. According to the
"'Plant Renewal Clause," establishment of new plants in areas where ambient air
standards have been exceeded is not allowed. However, licenses can be given if
a new plant replaces an old plant of the same kind and is established in the same
area and reduces emissions substantially. Likewise renovation of existing plants
resulting in emission reductions might yield "emission rights" to be used for new
sources. The German "offset" system is evaluated to have been economically
efficient.
Italv
Subsidies
17.         A subsidy scheme was initiated in 1987 to provide for the financing
of solid waste recycling and recuperation as well as energy source recuperation.
Until recently there was a program to provide subsidies for water pollution
abatement schemes.
Charges and User Fees
18.         Italy imposed a water effluent charge linked to direct regulations.
The charge system has two components; a user charge to finance sewer construction
and an effluent charge that is an incentive to polluters to achieve compliance
with the standards set by the Law. It has had ambiguous success as an incentive.
A product charge on lubricants has been in effect since 1985 for the purpose of
eliminating waste oil.
United States of America
Subsidies
19.         A federal construction grant program became a significant source of
funds for local governments after 1972 for the construction of wastewater



50
ANNEX 2.4
Page 5 of 7
treatment plants. EPA contributions ranged from 30X to 751 of the investment
cost. After 1984 the grants were reduced. Phased elimination of federal grants
was authorized in 1987 for completion in 1990 in favor of state revolving funds.
Until 1984 grants were available only to publicly owned treatment works. Since
then industry has been allowed to benefit, unless the plants were designed for
treatment of industrial effluents only.   State revolving funds are being
established for purposes of financing future sewage treatment facilities.
Started in 1988, all states are expected to have funds established by the end of
1990. States are expected to contribute matching funds equivalent to 20X of the
federal grant. These funds plus any additional resources dedicated to the fund
will be provided to communities in the form of loans and other non-grant
assistance. Various federal grants are provided to advance technologies for
monitoring and reducing environmental pollution.
Market Creation Systems
20.         Emissions trading is allowed under EPA rules.   A facility with
multiple emission sources may be treated as a single source for purposes of air
pollution control. Under traditional technology-oriented regulations individual
sources are not permitted to fall below emission standards and are not recognized
for performing above the standards. Under a bubble approach, the facility may
select a mixture of pollution control technologies that allows the facility in
total to meet the emission limitations. This optimization strategy can be very
effective in reducing the overall costs of compliance. Bubbles are not permitted
for interpollutant trading and are restricted to existing sources only. An
existing source within a facility that undergoes a major modification or
modernization may be excused from stringent new source performance standards.
The net result of the modification must be that smissions do not increase. This
can be achieved by controlling other sources in the facility while falling short
of applying the best available control technology as would be required under the
new source performance standards for the modified source. Bubbles apply to those
without and netting to those with modernization activity. Both bubbles and
netting allow substantial savings for individual facilities in the costs of
compliance. In some areas, all sources may be in compliance but the air quality
standards are not being met.   Rather than restrict economic development by
prohibiting location of new sources in that area, offsets may be taken by the
facility.   In such non-attainment areas,  a new source may proceed with
construction if (1) best available control technology is applied and (2) emission
reductions are secured from other facilities to more than offset the new
emissions. A source may save or bank emission reductions in excess of regulatory
requirements. Called emission reduction credits, these may be held for later use
such as facility expansion or modernization. They may also be sold to another
facility depending upon location. Emission reduction credits therefore become
the currency for emission trades involving bubbles, netting and offsets.
Charess and User Fees
21.         The South Coast Air Quality Management District in the State of
California sets fees based on tonnage of emissions from each permitted facility.
Various parameters are employed in setting the fees including methylene chloride,
carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, particulates and organic gases



51
ANNEX 2.4
Page 6 of 7
other than those mentioned. For 1988, fees ranged from $167/ton for nitrogen
dioxide to $327/ton for organic gases. The marginal control cost for organic
gases may range from $2,000 to $5,000 per ton. Wastewater treatment plants must
establish pretreatment charges when federal grants are used to assist in
financing the project.  The charges are imposed on industrial sources which
contribute waste to municipal sewage treatment systems. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) requires that charges be based on such factors as
strength, volume and delivery flow characteristics. A feedstock charge is levied
on petroleum based chemicals and chemical derivatives.   The charges were
implemented in response the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and Liability Act, commonly known as the Superfund Act. Revenues are directed
toward the cleanup of inactive or abandoned hazardous waste sites. Fees are
levied on individual sources of pollution in many jurisdictions as part of the
permitting process. This occurs for both air and water quality permits. Fees may
vary by type of industry, nature of process used within a plant and the size of
the source.   Fees are set at such a level that part or all of the cost of
administering the permit system is defrayed and may be adjusted annually in some
jurisdictions. Water permit fee are levied in many states. A good example is
the State of Colorado.   The annual fee ranges from a low of $80 for an
agricultural facility of less than 5,000 animal units to $4,330 for a petroleum
refinery or power plant using over 5 million gallons of process water per day to
$11,000 for a sewage treatment plant processing over 100 million gallons per day.
The average fee is about $900/year. The $800,000 in annual revenues accounts for
about two-thirds of the cost of administering the permit program or about one
fifth of the $4 million annual budget for the state water pollution control
agency. Air permit fees are also levied in many jurisdictions. An example of
air permit fees may be found in South Coast Air Quality Management District in
the State of California. Facilities in this region, which includes Los Angeles,
must pay both permit evaluation fees and an annual operating fee. Fee schedules
may be adjusted annually and set by the board of the district to not exceed the
costs of planning, inspection and monitoring related to the permit system. The
fees are based on types and size of equipment. Equipment categories used include
horsepower, fuel burning, electrical energy, incinerators and gasoline fueling
equipment. Federal grants have been provided for the construction of municipal
sewage treatment plants.
Enforcement Incentives
22.         Environmental  enforcement  in  the  U.S.  relies  primarily  on
administrative actions.   Administrative actions generally are quicker, less
expensive, and less resource intensive than judicial actions. The courts have
authority to impose fines, imprisonment or both as a result of noncompliance.
Penalties are applied for two general types of violations. These are violations
of the standards set under the law and violations for not reporting or providing
false information. False reporting is a particularly important violation because
under U.S. environmental law significant responsibility is placed on facilities
for monitoring pollution and filing reports that are accurate and timely. Under
the U.S. Clean Air Act violations of emission standards and new source
performance standards are subject to permanent or temporary injunction, a penalty
of up $25,000 per day of violation, or both. Any person who knowingly violates
the standards faces criminal penalties of fines up to $25,000 per day of



52
ANNEX 2.4
Page 7 of 7
violation, or by imprisonment of more than one year, or both. If the knowing
violation is the second conviction the penalties double to fines of up to $50,000
per day and up to two years imprisonment, or both. Under the Clean Water Act,
violations of standards are subject to fines of up to $25,000 per day. Criminal
violations which are found to be negligent violations are subject to penalties
including fines of at least $2,500 and up to $25,000 per day of violation, or
imprisonment for not more than one year, or both. For knowing violations, the
penalties are double those for negligent violations. These penalties include
discharges into sewers and publicly owned treatment works. Where the knowing
violation places another person in imminent danger of death or serious bodily
injury, the penalties include fines of up to $250,000 or imprisonment of not more
than 15 years or both. In this latter case if an organization is at fault, the
fine may reach $1 million.   Where any of these are second convictions, the
penalties are doubled.  Under the Solid Waste Disposal Act, which regulates
hazardous waste generation, storage, transportation, disposal, and export,
violations are subject to penalties of up to $50,000 per day in fines, or up to
two years in prison, or both.   Second convictions can double the penalties.
Knowing violations that place another person in imminent danger of death or
serious bodily injury, shall be, on conviction, subject to a fine of not more
than $250,000 or imprisonment of not more than 15 years, or both.   If the
defendant is an organization, the fine may reach $ 1 million. Any person who
knowingly makes any false statement, representation, or certification in any
application, record, report, plan or other document filed or required by the act,
or who falsifies, tampers with, or renders inaccurate any monitoring device or
record may be subject to fines of up to $10,000. In addition imprisonment may
be imposed of up to six months in the case of the air act and two years in the
case of the water act.  A second conviction doubles the penalty.  Fines are
sought on the basis of the economic value to the source in delaying compliance.
This may include capital costs, debt service, cost of operations and maintenance,
and any additional economic value which may have accrued to the source as a
result of delay. The amount may be reduced by the amount spent by the source
during the period of violation to comply where that was not otherwise taken into
account in calculating the fine.
23.         The use of economic incentives in the U.S. has been quite marginal
compared to the regulatory approach of command and control.   The one major
exception has been the EPA construction grants program for municipal sewage
treatment systems.   The U.S. has led use of market creation systems.   In
particular the use of emissions trading has grown over the years with refinements
involving bubbles, netting, and offsets. In general the U.S. has relied heavily
on financial enforcement incentives.



ANNEX 4.1
S 3                        Page 1 of 13
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Institutional Component
Cost of Improvements for the Control Board Laboratories
1.        The program of improvements at the State Boards has been designed to
address the needs related to four areas of concern. These includes (a) the
analytical capability of the Boards to undertake the mandate for monitoring
and enforcement of the rules in the environmental legislations (b) the
effective geographical coverage in India and the problems related to the
dispersal of industrial sources and the difficulties in transportation and
communication;(c) the skills available at the Boards to effectively execute
their mandate; and (d) the financing situation of the Boards.
2.        To address the need for a modern and efficient analytical
capability, the project will support the development of a modern and efficient
instrumentation infrastructure. An ideal central and an ideal local laboratory
has been designed that addresses most of the short and medium term
instrumentation requirements for sampling, analysis and monitoring. The
instrumentation requirements are described in tables one and two.
3.        To address the issue of geographical coverage the project will
support the set up of regional laboratories, integrated to a central location
but capable of performing most of the monitoring and sampling requirements at
field locations. The set up of regional laboratories will be complemented with
the set of monbile monitoring and sampling vans, therefore extending the
effective coverage of the regional laboratories. With this proposal, the
project will increase effective coverage of the Boards in all four States. The
typical instrumentation for the regional laboratories and the mobile vans are
described in tables two and three.
4.        The project will also support a training program that includes four
areas of expertise. These programs were designed to meet the needs and solve
the gaps in specific skills required for the effective execution of the
mandate at the Boards, The training programs are described in table four
below.
5.        The specific recommendations as applied to each State Board are
described in Tables five to eight. The support provided represents a
substantial financial assistance to the Boards and is expected to be
complemented with resources in staffing and operational and maintenance costs
provided by the State governments.



54
ANNEX 4.1
Page 2 of 13
Table 1
Configuration and Costs of Equipment of a Central State Laboratory designed to
meet the minimum monitoring and enforcement needs.
Item                                      Unit cost       RequLred       Cost
MA, Graphite furnace/flame                   75,000           1         75,000
TOC analyzer                                 30,000           1        30,000
GC with ECD                                  30,000           1        30,000
HPLC                                         25,000           1        25,000
Vehicle                                      11,700           2        23,400
MilliQ system with reverse osmosiss          22,000           1         22,000
Fume hoods                                    6,000           3        18,000
Xerox                                         8,800           2        17,600
Clean benches                                 8,000           2        16,000
Computer                                      3,000           4        12,000
Side loading balance                          5,900           2        11,800
UV-VIS double beam spectro (with return
sipper)                                      10,000           1        10,000
Voltage regulator                               700          10          7,000
Noise level monitor                           6,000           1         6,000
Glove box                                     3,000           2         6,000
Specific ion electrode meter                  5,500           1         5,500
Top loading electronic balance                2,350           2         4,700
Dissolved oxygen meter                        2,200           2         4,400
Spectronic 20D                                2,000           2         4,000
Laminar flow bench                            3,500           1         3,500
Refrigerator                                    700           5         3,500
Auxiliary power generator                     3,000           1          3,000
Bioassay tank                                    75          40         3,000
Continuous extractors                           500           6         3,000
Bacterial incubator                           1,200           2         2,400
Fax/Telex/Radiotelephone                      2,350           1         2,350
Muffle furnace                                1,000           2         2,000
Specific ion electrodes                         175          10         1,750
Hot air oven                                    700           2         1,400
Continuous sampler kit                          650           2         1,300
Refrigerated centrifuge                       1,200           1         1,200
Freezer                                         600           2         1,200
Kjeldahl apparatus                            1,170           1         1,170
Flow meter                                      500           2         1,000
Air compressor                                  950           1            950
pH meter                                        425           2            850
Evaporators                                     125           6            750
Autoclave                                       700           1            700
COD                                             600           1            600
Vacuum pump                                     250           2            500
Micro digesters                                  80           6            480
Van Dorn bottle                                 150           3            450
Sonicator                                       400           1           400
Glass distillation apparatus                    400           1            400
Radiation monitors                              350           1            350
Conductivity meter                              300           1            300
Color meter                                     300           1            300
Turbidity meter                                 300           1           300
Reference thermometer                           120           2            240
Ekman dredge                                    200           1            200



55                         ANNEX 4.1
Page 3 of 13
Colony counter                                  120           1            120
Subtotal:                                                             444,060
Table 2
Configuration and costs of Equipment for a Regional State Laboratory designed
to complement the geographical reach of the State Board.
Item                                      Unit Cost      Reguired        Cost
Flame AA with hydride emission               40,000           1        40,000
GC with FID/ECD                              35,000           1        35,000
Vehicle                                      11,700           2        23,400
MilliQ system with reverse osmosis           22,000           1        22,000
Xerox                                         8,800           1         8,800
Clean bench                                   8,000           1         8,000
Noise level monitor                           6,000           1         6,000
Fume hood                                     6,000           1         6,000
Computer                                      3,000           2         6,000
Air conditioner                                 600          10         6,000
Side loading balance                          5,900           1         5,900
DO meter                                      2,200           2         4,400
Laminar flow bench                            3,500           1         3,500
Glove box                                     3,000           1         3,000
Furniture                                     3,000           1         3,000
Auxiliary power generator                     3,000           1         3,000
Plumbing                                      3,000           1         3,000
Wiring                                        3,000           1         3,000
Voltage regulator                               700           4         2,800
Bacterial incubator                           1,200           2         2,400
Top loading electronic balance                2,350           1         2,350
Fax/Telex/Radiotelephones                     2,350           1         2,350
Spectronic 20D                                2,000           1         2,000
Refrigerator                                    700           2         1,400
Continuous sampling system                      650           2         1,300
Kjeldahl apparatus                            1,200           1         1,200
Muffle furnace                                1,000           1         1,000
Regional Laboratory (continued)
Item                                      Unit Cost      Required        Cost
Air compressor                                  950           1            950
Hot air oven                                    700           1            700
Autoclave                                       700           1            700
Freezer                                         600           1           600
COD                                             600           1           600
Vacuum pump                                     250           2            500
VanDorn bottle                                  150           3            450
pH meter                                        400           1            400
Glass distillation apparatus                    400           1           400
Radiation meter                                 325           1           325
Conductivity meter                              300           1           300
Turbidity meter                                 300           1           300
Ekman dredge                                    175           1           175
Telephone                                        30           5            150
Reference thermometer                           120           1            120



56                          ANNEX 4.1
Page 4 of 13
Colony counter                                  120           1            120
Subtotals                                                             213,590
Table 3
Configuration and Costs of a Mobile Laboratory
Item                                      Unlt Cost       Required       Cost
Air monitoring equipment                     37,000           1         37,000
Body fabrication                             36,000           1        36,000
Misc equipment                               32,000           1         32,000
Van                                          17,000           1         17,000
Water monitoring equipment                   16,000           1         16,000
Furniture                                     6,000           1         6.000
Subtotal:                                                             144,000
Table 4
Configuration and Costs of Air and Water Monitoring Stations.
Air Continuous Monitoring Station, each (two to be provided to each state)
Item                                      Unit Cost      Required        Cost
Analyzers and recorders                     135,000           1       135,000
Meterological station                         2,200           1          2,200
Subtotal:                                                             137,200
Water Continuous Monitoring Station, each (five to be provided to each state)
Item                                      Unit Cost   Required           Cost
Analyzers and recorders                       6,000           1          6,000
Data logger/computer                          5,000           1          5,000
Subtotal:                                                              11,000



57                         ANNEX 4.1
Page 5 of 13
Institutional Component
Training Needs at the Control Boards
Suggested Outlines of Courses and Costs
1.          The training needs for the SPCB cover four different areass
(a)   quality assurance and quality control, to enable all laboratory
activities to be accomplished by qualified analysts with the appropriate
experience and training, the training will deal with the principles of quality
assurance, procedures for handling, measuring and reporting and audits. The
suggested outline of the course is attached below;
(b)   instrument use and maintenance, including safety issues, this training
will deal with the general principles of operation of the equipment,
maintenance and routine operation and trouble shooting. The suggested outline
is attached;
(c)   environmental science, which is expected to deal with the understanding
of the fate of pollutants in the environment, air and water pollution and
issues related to environmental models, prediction, pollutants effects on
health and environment and techniques for statistical analysis;
5d)   management training, which is expected to deal with project management,
laboratory management, reporting and planning. The suggested outline is
attached.



58                       ANNEX 4.1
Page 6 of 13
Management Training Program
uuRRested Out  ne
1. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
1.1 Definlng projects
1.1.1 Unified work areas
1.1.2 Objectives/outputs
1.1.3 Work activities/tasks
1.1.4 Required resources (staff, budget, equipment)
1.1.5 Milestones/schedules
1.2 Project implementation
1.2.1 Project manager/management
1.2.2 Project admlnistration/tracking progress and resources
used
1.2.3 Review/correctlve action
1.3 Project closure
1.3.1 Final report
1.3.2 Review of objectives achieved/resources used
2. LABORATORY MANAGEMENT
2.1 Defining work areas
2.1.1 Projects
2.1.2 Maintenance (overhead)
2.1.3 Training/development (overhead)
2.1.4 QA/QC
2.2 Staff
2.2.1 Determining staff requirements
2.2.2 Tracking staff performance
2.2.3 Evaluating performance
2.2.4 Motivating/developing staff
2.3 Equipment
2.3.1 Determining equipment needs
2.3.2 Tracking equipment usage
2.3.3 Evaluating maintenance programs
2.4 Procedure management and recording
2.4.1 Estimating future workloads



59                         ANNEX 4.1
Page 7 of 13
2.4.2 Sample logging and tracking
2.4.3 Monitoring/assuring quality
2.5 Health and Safety
2.5.1 Health and safety hazards in laboratories
2.5.2 Health precautions
2.5.3 Safety precautions
2.5.4 Accidents/first aid



60                           ANNEX 4.1
Page 8 of 13
Environmental Science Program
Suggested Training Outline
1.SIGNIFICANCE OF POLLUTANTS IN THE ENVIRONMENT
1.1   Ecological effects
1.1.1 Habitat modification
1.1.2 Eutrophication
1.1.3 Toxicity (acute and chronic)
1.1.4 Bioconcentration and bioaccumulation
1.2   Human health effects
1.2.1 Water-borne diseases
1.2.2 Toxicity (metals, PCBs, others)
1*2.3 Carcinogenicity, teratogenicity, mutagenicity
2.AIR POLLUTION
2.1   Sources
2.1.1 Volatile emissions (volatilization)
2.1.2 Roadway-associated emissions
2.1.3 Fire-related emissions
2.1.4 Point sources/stack emissions
2.2   Pollutants And Effects
2.2.1 Particulates
2.2.2 S02, NOx, HC, photochemical smog, acid rain
2.2.3 Toxics
2.3   Pollutant Behavior And Models
2.3.1 Gaussian plume
2.3.2 Diffuse sources, line sources, point sources
2.3.3 Predicting ground-level concentrations
2.4   Variability And Statistical Analysis
2.4.1 Emission variability
2.4.2 Meterological (transport) variability
2.4.3 Methods of analysis of measured concentrations
2.4.3.1 Trend analysis
2.4.3.2 Spatial analysis
2.4.3.3 Relative contributions analysis



ANNEX 4.1
61                       Page 9 of 13
2.5   Selection of Sampling Locations/Frequency of Sampling
2.5.1 Ambient monitoring stations
2.5.2 Emissions monitoring stations
2.5.3 Network design
3.WATER POLLUTION
3.1 Sources
3.1.1 Surface discharges
3.1.2 Subsurface (diffuser) discharges
3.1.3 Groundwater-mediated releases
3.2 Pollutants And Effects
3.2.1 BOD and COD
3.2.2 Suspended solids
3.2.3 Nutrients (including nitrification)
3.2.4 Toxics (metals, pesticides, organics)
3.2.5 Toxicity (irrespective of causative agent)
3.3  Pollutant Behavior And Modelling
3.3.1 Dilution and dispersion
3.3.2 Decay, precipitation, transformation, volatilization
3.3.3 Streeter/Phelps   DO sag
3.3.4 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D models
3.4  Variability And Statistical Analysis
3.4.1 Discharge variability
3.4.2 Receiving water variability
3.4.3 Methods of analysis
3.4.3.1 Trend analysis
3.4.3.2 Spatial analysis
3.4.3.3 Relative contributions analysis
3.5 Selection of Sampling Locations/Frequency of Samples
3.5.1 Ambient monitoring stations
3.5.2 Discharge monitoring stations
3.5.3 Stream profiles/lake profiles



62                          ANNEX 4.1
Page 10 of 13
4.SOLID/IHAZARDOUS WASTE
4.1   Sources
4.1.1   Landfills/land spreading/waste piles
4.1.2   Spillslaccidents
4.1.3   Uncontrolled dumping
4.1.4   Septic fields
4.2   Pollutants And Effects
4.2.1   Volatile compounds (hydrocarbons)
4.2.2   Non-soluble toxic compounds (me4als, pesticides)
4.2.3   Water-soluble toxics (nitrates, some forms of metals,
some organics)
4.2.4   Pathogens
4.3   Pollutant Behavior And Models
4.3.1   Diffuse sourceslair transport
4.3.2   Leaching to ground water/ground water transport
4.4   Variability And Statistical Analysis
4.4.1   Areal variation in concentration and sensitive receptors
4.4.2   Methods of analysis of measured concentrations
4.4.2.1   Trend analysis
4.4.2.2   Spatial analysis



63                          ANNEX 4.1
Page 11 of 13
Quality Control and Quality Assurance Program
Suggested Training Outline
1. GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF QUALITY CONTROL AND QUALITY ASSURANCE
1.1   Data Quality Objectives
1.1.1 Use of data
1.1.2 Accuracy and precision
1.1.3 Sources of error
1.1.4 Relative analytical error
1.1.5 Chain of custody
1.2   Data for Assessing Data Quality
1.2.1 Blanks
1.2.1.1 Field blanks
1.2.1.2 Trip blanks
1.2.1.3 Reagent blanks
1.2.1.4 Lab blanks
1.2.2 Spiked samples/matrix effects
1.2.3 Duplicate samples
1.2.3.1 Field duplicates
1.2.3.2 Field splits
1.2.3.3 Lab splits/subsamples
1.2.4 Data validation
2.QA/QC PROCEDURES
2.1 Sample Handling, Preservation, and Holding Times
2.1.1 Defining Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)
2.1.2 Taking, storing, and shipping samples
2.1.3 Preservation methods
2.1.4 Holding times/holding time exceedances
2.1.5 Chain of custody/holding conditions
2.2 Instrument Standardization and Calibration
2.2.1 Standard Operating Procedures
2.2.2 Routine maintenance
2.2.3 Standards/spiked blanks
2.2.4 Standard curves/calibration curves



64                        ANNEX 4.1
Page 12 of 13
2.3 Measurement and Reporting
2.3.1 Blanks and spiked samples
2.3.2 Duplicate samples
2.3.3 Round robins
2.4 Reviewing Results/QA
2.4.1 Standard reporting formats
2.4.2 Peer reviews
2.4.3 QA reviews
2.4.4 Data validation
2.4.5 QA documentation
3. QA Audits
3.1 Determining Quality of Quality Control
3.1.1 Spot checks of analytical results and QC data/QA reports
3.1.2 Evaluating instrument usage records
3.1.3 Evaluating instrument standardization and calibration records
3.1.4 Evaluating staff operating instruments
3.1.5 Evaluating sample processing/preservation/holding times
3.2 Corrective Action
3.2.1 Staff training
3.2.2 Revisions to SOPs (sampling, analysis, or reporting)
3.2.3 Recommendations to laboratory management



65                         ANNEX 4.1
Page 13 of 13
Instrument Use and Maintenance
Suggested Outline Program
1. GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF OPERATION
1.1   Chemical/substances detected
1.2   Chemical forms detected/chemistry of reactions
1.3   Method of detection (light absorbance, voltage generation, etc)
1.4   Operational parameters (voltage, wavelength, temperature)
2. GENERAL CARD AND MAINTENANCE
2.1   Power requirements
2.2   Tolerances (temperature, humidity, vibration, dust)
2.3  Interferences (sample matrix, laboratory environment)
2.4   Calibration/standardization
3. USE
3.1  Sample preparation
3.1.1   Preservatives
3.1.2   Holding times and conditions
3.1.3   Reagents
3.1.4   Concentration/dilution of samples
3.2   Sample measurement
3.2.1   Typical machine response
3.2.  Reading/recording results
3.2.3   Calculating concentration
3.3   QC
3.3.1   Field, sample, reagent blanks
3.3.2   Duplicate samples
3.3.3   Detection limit calculation
4. REPORTING OF EXCEPTIONS
4.1   Non-detects
4.2   Less than/greater than
4.3   Result notes



66
AE.2
Page 1
INDIA
IND'USTRIA1, POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Common Effluent Treatment Plants
Preliminary Lint of ProDosals
STATE     LOCATION       NO. OF SSI       EFFLUENT      COST aL
UNITS          FLOW
(CM/DAY)     (Hill.Rs.)  (US$ Mill.)
Gujarat   Vapi                1600           50000           150         8.3
Gujarat   Ankleshwar          1000           50000           200         11.1
.P        Raipur                39             400            25          1.4
UP        Unnav                  9            1000            10          0.6
IN        Pammal                59            4000            50          2.8
IN        Erode                 56            4000           50           2.8
IN        Karur                128            7000            50          2.8
IN        Cuddalore             50            5000            30          1.7
PUNJAB    Ludhiana
(a) Rohan Rd          9            1000            10          0.6
(b) Gushala Rd       24             250             5          0.3
(c) Textile Colony   10             645            10          0.6
(d) Gill Road        20              150            5          0.3
AP        Jeddimetlia           68            1000            30          1.7
AP        Boolaram              16             250            25          1.4
AP        Pattancheru            -            9500            50          2.8
M         Tarapur              250            5000            80          4.4
M         Jaisingpur            57             500            10          0.6
M         Dombivili            100           16000           100          5.5
H         Thane Belapur       1200            8000           100          5.6
TOTAL                                             990          55.0
A/ Estimated capital costs by NEERI/WB team for full cost of collection and
conveyance, treatment and disposal, but excluding cost of land.
S1LL Small scale units
MP: Madhya Pradesh UP: Uttar Pradesh TN: Tamil Nadu
AP: Andhra Pradesh M: Maharashtra



INDIA
ISTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROECT
Sumary/Description  of Some Technical Assistance  Schemes
. S n ter  ;            Prj"et.                                                                              Cost
. . ... . s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~USS million)
AlA                     teo; s.caL assietce :: .. : .: gommsnt a ell at th is W                              0.20
.st%0 . te..t of  Ii'                                            00
to be osasatned tottii PO  tt                  ro
Al                       0eigaSna . :.s . ..ure s: tudy of t4e Sta~rwre Pllto  Control. ......................... .  0.40
Reseach ind Oeli;_   o<pa   fo theb recovery of ka1uabe  .0.91
>opeft. .from th   .:t. liquor of the caprolactsis plat,
. . :>apmen>t of.* revee 'osmoils 4eialins:ion pleat.. and
onth :ueof- phosphouysm and Calcite carbonate a cons,
.. '. i : : 7 R. :, .....~.......... 0 h,U*o Wezt 
:esticides    . .       .....      the dep         t Iteaafi of technology for mte                           1.00
.f .;.feoti  an. Effiient effluent treatmet systems.
Ps1                     Pea.ibililt stuy -for a comn iwineratot at Bard asd ovi0.
the petroemifcals -e:ples, the rfainery and ether organic
ch"emcAl industries.o
.ulp en  Pa p      ;: Prepratioin of a comprehens i       eaviroental strategy for                           0.05
tho sector and mended polluton control regulations.
iPp is# Pap er          Preparatin of a technical proces sianual and training pro                            0.12
:g:,:'r  for use;in aohieving increased process  fficiency.
Plp: and. Paper     ........Preparation of a desigo  study of the Lim  t t bad                               0.06
color remoal proces.
:Plp and Pi.. r           Preparatio  of  study of th  feaIbilitY of pulpg cbhmical                            0.25
recove,:r   at aro based mills.
Plp and: Paper.         preparation of.a feesbil-tt* study of liquor recovery system                         0.25
.. .; .  :    ...  at:baass  basdi mlls.
&'Su tt Ulens.      e:i n         d sec atonAnA for s     plantsr published by                          0.15
.O  inii.C1   order to iclude edequat -onsideration of Oem ns
, control: .'e : ire." e.  onts An efes.abMrj' pollution ehatent t eqipmet.
inning  Researh and densiopent of sludgedisposal alteraatives.-                              0.09
Pilot" stw6w!p6 of chro  4and sulide rovry.-                                         0.10
]  23  - t .    _         .        "        . ,                                     ozB                  j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0  0
'-



68
ANNEX 5.1
Page 1 of 10
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Organization and Staffing at the State Pollutipn Control Boards
Background
1.          The State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) were established in
response to the Water Act enacted in 1974 which deals with industrial
pollution control. Over the years, the SPCBs have been delegated the
responsibilities of other environmental related Acts namely the Air Act(1981)
and the Enviromental Act(1986). The mandates of the various Acts could be
further desegregated into about 100 distinct activities.
2.          In 1981, the Central Pollution Control Board defined functions and
model organizational structure for the State Pollution Control Boards. It was
suggested that each Board would be composed of functional cells for technical
services, scientific services, planning services, administrative services,
legal services and regional services. Further subdivisions under the main
services can occur in varying degrees because of differences of management
philosophy or simply due to historical reasons. (Diagram 1: Organization of
the SPCBs - Maharashtra, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu)
3.          The Central and the State Pollution Control Boards have planning
and research functions. However, in the last decade or so the SPCBs have
placed primary emphasis in stipulating enforcement regulations and measures in
order to bring compliance of the polluting industries. In fact, very
significant achievements have been made by the SPCBs in bringing polluting
industries into legal compliance through registration, water cess collection,
environmental impact assessment, consent requirement, the No Objection
certification process, and the NA Opinion issue for non-agricultural
activities. A fairly substantial proportion of the human resources in the
SPCBs were made available for this purpose.
Organization of the State Boards
4.          While the function of the State Boards are identical, as mandated
by the central government, their actual organizational structure is quite
diverse (see attached Boards' organizations). Clearly, differences are needed
to respond to the different conditions in each State. However in most Boards,
important functions are either inadequately represented or are completely
absent. There appear to be at least seven issues of organization which need
examination, six of which relate to the internal structure and one to the
legal form of the Boards.



69
AMEX S.1I
Page 2 of 10
5.          Internal Structure  Given the enormous problem of generalized air
and water pollution, their associated danger to public health and economic
efficiency and productivity, yet the scarce resources with which the SPCBs
must work, a strong capability to identify key problem areas, prioritized
actions and implement practical pollution control strategies is essential.
Most SPCBs do not have a structure which will allow the coherent assembly of
ambient and point source monitoring data followed by its analysis and use to
prepare a pollution control strategy in conjunction with other relevant
organizations such as the land use and infrastructure planning agencies. Such
a strategy would cover air, water and soil media and develop least-cost
options for action by decision-makers in industry and non-government
organizations. It is recommended that each SPCB should form or strengthen a
planning and research unit which could provide this function, possibly
attached as a staff function to the Chairman's office.
6.          Better environmental quality cannot be achieved only through
regulation and enforcement but must be accompanied by mobilizing support from
the public at large and from interested pressure groups. Apart from the Tamil
Nadu Board, the SPCBs do not identify or emphasize an environmental education
function. It is recommended that each SPCB establish or strengthen a function
dealing with environmental education. This could provide information to the
public and the communications media, and offer focussed activities for schools
and higher education centers, private voluntary organizations and industry and
municipal associations.
7.          As noted below, to improve their efficiency it will be important
for the Boards to become more independent from the budget of the State
Governments. To build this financial independence more effort will be needed
to collect revenues and charges, and possibly institute new incentives such as
a bounty system for verified reports on illegal discharges. It is therefore
recommended that the revenue collection function of the SPCBs be improved and
given more prominence in the organization as is the case in the Gujarat SPCB
which has the best record for revenue collection. The rate of levy and
schedule of phased increases should be studied for each Board separately.
8.          There is a universal problem of inadequate numbers of trained
staff in the SPCBs and this is especially critical in their regional offices,
where the main work of factory inspection and monitoring is carried out
(unless the central office carries out substantial inspection and monitoring
functions - a task which is not well-suited to a central location, given the
need for frequent visits and rapid feedback of sample analysis from and advice
to industry operations). Staff strengthening is discussed in more detail
below. Two issues of organization, however, deserve attention in this
context. One is the need for mobile laboratories, especially in areas where
regional offices cover large geographic and low density areas, and the danger
of deterioration of samples due to slow cargo transportation in India. The
other is the need to have the monitoring visits performed by trained
inspectors with experience in the operation of the industries they are
inspecting so they can examine the factory floor management, process practices
and the waste treatment facilities, provide useful advice to factory managers
and collect samples at relevant locations. This face to face approach, which



70
NNLEX 5.1
Page 3 of 10
is the practice in several countries, allows for more accurate samples, offers
immediate feedback for better factory practices, identify the level of
emissions charges to be imposed, and forestalls unnecessary legal proceedings.
To provide these linkages, in some SPCBs the organization of the
inspectorate. samRle collection. and analysis function would need review and
adjustment. Subsequently a training program for each Board's staff needs to
be preoared and implemented.
9.          The SPCBs at present are restricted to monitoring and enforcement
of factory emissions, but, more recently have been given authority to monitor
and evaluate ambient water and air quality. The latter are strongly
influenced by human and municipal wastes, which constitute the major portion
of BOD, COD and sediment in the water bodies. For effective pollution
management it is important that the Boards are authorized to extend their
mandate to the municipalities.  While enforcement of sewerage and solid waste
disposal facilities may not be feasible at this time, it is important for the
Boards to be able to monitor municipal discharges and advise mninciRalities on
remedial measures and ioin in the planning of these measures.
10.         In the SPCBs of Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, the office quarters
are so poor and badly maintained that efficient work is virtually impossible,
and there is a danger that new equipment such as computers will be damaged by
dirt, dust and fumes. It is essential that these State Governments relocate
the SPCBs to clean, more soacious and preferably air conditioned
accommodations before disbursements for_ office eauioent are made.
11.         Lezal form of SPCBs.  At present, efficient management and
enforcement of pollution control is severely hampered by a number of factors.
One is the inadequate level of remuneration and lack of career opportunities
to attract qualified and experienced professionals into the regulatory side of
pollution control. Another is the difficulty for the SPCBs to reward or
dismiss staff based on performance. A third is the difficulty of obtaining
sufficient budgetary allocation from the State to purchase equipment and
support facilities such as transport or minimal funds for operation and
maintenance. And last, but not least, the status of the SPCBs within the
State bureaucracy is too low to allow them to interact effectively with the
land-use and economic planning authorities, and the municipalities. Most of
these problems stem from the locus of the SPCBs as bureaus within the civil
service. These problems must be addressed if the SPCBs and their associated
laboratories are to improve their performance to a significant extent. One
possible approach is to recognize that the SPCBs are a potential source of
revenue generation through fees and charges, especially if there is enactment
of significant pollution taxes in the form of discharge or emission charges,
as proposed under the project. These would bring the SPCBs into a similar
category as water supply or electricity authorities, able to pay for their own
operations through self-generated revenues, thus, in turn, reducing their
burden on the State's budget. The legal form of a public corporation could be
appropriate for this function, allowing the SPCBs much greater flexibility in
their staffing policies and operation and, by relying on revenues from
polluters, providing both an in-built incentive to the Authority for better
monitoring and revenue collection and an incentive to private enterprises to



71
ANNEX 5.1
Page 4 of 10
reduce their pollution due to the increased charges they are required to pay.
This model is operating effectively in China and Europe.
12.         It is recommended that, during negotiations, MOEF and the State
Governments agree to implement an organizational restructuring covering both
the internal organization and legal structure of the four State Boards based
on review carried out by them and the Bank of a study to analyze each Board's
needs and propose appropriate modifications. The study would also propose
appropriate increases in the level of water cess for each Board as well as
identify other revenue sources and incentives for better enforcement, and
design a training program for the staff of each Board appropriate for the
revised structure.
Generally speaking, the Boards are under-staffed to properly
undertake their current mandates including the upcoming toxic and hazardous
activities, developing pollution control strategies and action plans, and the
research and study projects. The following issues need attention:
13.         Staffing for monitoring.  Monitoring, which is under the
Scientific Service Cell, represents about half of the enforcement program. The
effectiveness of bringing compliance largely depends on the efforts made by
monitoring and was universally recognized by the SPCBs. In terms of work
load, monitoring is perhaps the heaviest. The following outlines the required
work load vs. human resource needed for monitoring in the SPCBs.
Monitoring is required for those industries which have obtained
Consent to operate. The Consent broadly defines the types of industries in
terms of their pollution severity and categorizes them into Red, Orange and
Green. Daily monitoring work rests with the industries; however, the SPCB is
required to send spot check teams to the field at the frequency prescribed by
law; that is once every three months for industries in the Red class, once
every six months for Orange, and once every year for Green. Because of the
very large number of industries under the Consent, a typical monitoring group
comprises about 50 staff, as each individual is estimated to be capable of
making 40-50 field visits a year. On this basis, the present staff could
fulfill about 20% of the work load at best. This is the most important area
where staffing needs improvement. As noted above, special attention needs to
be paid to attracting capable inspectors.
14.         Staffing for new Rrograms.  Staff increases were achieved over the
years in each of the SPCBs in response to the demand of the new environmental
Acts that came after the establishment of the SPCBs. It is expected that in
the early 90s most states will adopt the legal provisions of the hazardous
waste management under the Environmental Act. A very different management
approach and skills will be required in this field compared to the previous
air and water programs which at present require the laboratory scientists and
engineers to equip themselves with the ability of dealing with both air
pollution and water pollution problems on the field since the responsibility
is primarily assigned on a territorial basis. More specialized skills and
trainings are required for monitoring of hazardous wastes and knowledge
concerning treatment methods and planning for improvements.



72
AtNNEX 5.,1
Page 5 of 10
15.         Staffing for new research and Rlannina projects.  In the past, the
Central Pollution Control Board was the one taking a lead role in study and
research. The SPCBs were only participating. Examples of national projects
are:
1. Control of urban pollution series (CUPS)
2. Monitoring of Indian national water aquatic resources (MINAR)
3. Program objective series (PROBES)
4. Assessment and development study of river basin
series (ADSORBS)
16.         With the strengthening of SPCBs in terms of staffing and program,
the SPCBs are preparing to set up their own planning, research and study
program.   Some of the examples are:
- identification of new industrial sites
- identification of hazardous waste disposal sites
- survey of heavy metal base line in the state for air,
water, and soil
- monitoring of coastal water
- bio-monitoring of surface water
- delineating of surface and ground water quality
profile
- bio-monitoring and toxicity test
- pesticide survey
- waste minimization, low waste and no waste technology
Staff will need to be strengthened to undertake these areas of
work and a focus provided through a stronger planning and research function
noted above.
17.         Staffing in the State laboratories.  The introduction of new
laboratory facilities, especially the more sophisticated analytical
instruments are most relevant for the new research activities and the
responsibilities for toxic and hazardous waste. Partly due to the lack of
research projects, even the existing analytical instruments are not in full
use. In some cases, only 20% utilized. New knowledge should be infused into
the present establishment either through training or recruiting new personnel.
18.         Staffing for regional offices and laboratories within the state.
In terms of environmental enforcement, most of the works are at the regional
level. It is logical to assume that the total staff at the regions of each
state should be at least equal or no less than the total at the State office.
In fact this was not the case. Most regional offices are very thin.
Strengthening the regional office and laboratory was high on the priority list
of the SPCBs.
19.         Staff training.  Other than increasing the number of staff,
improving the quality of staff through training or continuing education should
be high on the agenda. The various SPCBs indicated little emphasis in



73
ANNIEX 5.1 
Page 6 of 10
organization and staffing in environmental planning, environmental modeling.
use of management computer softwares and industrial processes.
20.         It is difficult to come up wlth an exact figure of addLtLonal
staff needed. But the Bank concurs with the estimates of the four state pCB.
that about 100 to 150 scientists and en_ineers are requLred. It is foreseen
that new staff will be brought into the present establishment according to the
urgency of the need.



Organization of GPCB
ChVrman
Member Secretary
It~~~~~~~~'
Headquarters             Central Laboratory       General            Field Offices
Environmental
It                                           Of fice
Cess  Administration   Consents/N.O.C.
Regional Offices (4)
Sub Regional Offices (2)
.
o   s



Organization of MPCB
Chairman
Member Secretary
Headquarters                                 Laboratories              Field Offices
Water pollution Air Pollution Adminstrative    Water Pollution  Air Pollution
Control Wing  Control Wing   Services       Control Lab        Control Lab
Water Pollution                         Air Pollution
C ntro)                                Cotrol
Region Offices (6)                     Regional ,fflces (6)
Sub Regional Offices (16)              Sub Regional Offices (16)
OD
o41
0



Organization of TNPCB
Ch lrman . fScientilic Adviser
Membe4 Secretary
Headqrarters                           Inspection and        Technical       Field Offices
r_       v                                     Pla nIng           Services
Approval  Administration  Environmental      Central Laboratory
Education
Regional Offices (4)
C
District Offices (17)
0 !U
*;E
vo'it
'-a
Fb



Organization of UPPCB
Chairman
Member 8.crotary
8 cr                    --ar
Headq arters                                   Central Laboratory             Field Offices
r  -             v           v -  t      I
Consent/ N.O.C   Cese Hazards  Training Administration
Regional Offices           Regional Offices (0)
(With Laboraorles to be Added)
(8)
o*



78                      AWM 5-2
Page 1 of 2
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Common Effluent Treatment Plants
Guideline for Evaluating InstLtutional and Technical Proposals
1.        Articles of Association, or Company Charter of the
company that will own and manage the CETP to be drawn up and
registered.
2.        Nanagement and organizational arrangements including the staffing
functions and level of staffing to be drawn up for this company.
3.        Legal obligations and responsibilities of the individual members
and the CETP operating company for pollution control to be
formulated.
4.        Financial obligations and responsibilities of the individual
members and the CETP operating company, regarding: cost: recovery
formula and mechanisms; payment defaults; plant closures; new
members; equity, etc. to be defined and agreed.
5.        Copy of letter of contract between the CETP operating company and
the individual members to be provided.
6.        List of members that have signed and paid their equity
contribution. Total amount of equity collected.
7.        Agreement on the equity contribution of any medium scale industries
to be included in the project.
8.        Carry out inventory of industries discharging to the CETP,
including; type of industry and classification of effluent
discharge (ie, category A, B, C, D)
9.        Describe the basis on which the industries" flow and effluent
characteristics have been made and the justification.
10.       Describe the basis of the pretreatment standards that will apply.
11.       Describe the basis on which the CETP design parameters have
been chosen and provide the results of treatability tests. If such
tests have been carried out, describe the reasons.
12.       For new collection and conveyance systems describe the design basis
and the justification for this selection. For existing systems
describe the current status and the modifications required, if any.
13.       For industries with effluent discharges in categories C and D
identify the means proposed to control pollution through;
(a) in plant source control; (b) segregation; and/or (c)
pretreatment.
14.       Carry out a prefeasibility study which includes the following:
(a) assessment of different technologies for CETP;
(b) considers reuse, recycling and resource recovery and
benefits where applicable (c) disposal options for treated effluent
and sludges, as well as disposal standards that will apply to the
treated effluent. From this analysis select optimum scheme and
justify the selection.
15.       Preliminary estimate of the capital and operating costs for the
CETP including collection, treatment and disposal, but excluding
cost of land.
16.       Identification of a suitable plot of land and a firm commitment
for the acquisition of this land for the CETP.
17.       Schedule for the design, engineering and the implementation of
the project.



79
ANNEX 5.2
Page 2 of 2
Common Effluent Treatment Plant
Proposed Processing Sequence for CETP Project Aoproval
1.      Proponent prepares submission (with or without Consultant assistance
for CETP in accordance with NEERI/MOEF/WB guidelines;
2.      Proponent submits proposal to relevant SPCB.  Following discussion
and approval of SPCB;
3.      SPCB submits proposal to NEERI with copy to MOEF
4.      NEERI reviews proposal on behalf of HIOEF in accordance with
NEERI/MOEF/WB guidelines. NEERI discusses the findings of their
review with the proponent and when satisfied that the proposal is
acceptable;
5.      NEERI advises MOEF of their review findings;
6.      MOEF advises proponent of preliminary approval, and sends copy
of approval to IDBI and SPCB;
7.      Proponent makes submission to IDBI for project financing and,
if required, requests TA funds for consultants to prepare
detailed engineering design;
8.      Proponent selects engineering design consultant according to
IDBI approved procedures;
9.      Following completion of detailed engineering design and
preparation of the bid packages according to IDBI procedures;
IO.     Review of detailed engineering package by NEERI, as required;
11.     Proponent submits packages for competitive bidding and
selects successful tenderers in accordance with IDBI procedures;
12.     IDBI appraises the proposal and sanctions the project financing
plan;
13.     IDBI advises proponent, MOEF, and SPCB of acceptance of the
proposal and the final cost of the project;
14.     Central and state grant funds are released by the IDBI to
proponent in accordance with financing plan, as well as
loan funds for project implementation;
15.     Start up and commissioning of facility by proponents;
16.     Assistance in commissioning, trouble shooting and training
by NEERI, as required.



80
INDIA                    ANNEX 5.3
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Component
Institutional
lmpl. Cell       f
Procuremen t                            !
Implement.
Org. Study
Investments
Steer. Com.      i
Appraisal
Implement.
Technical           .
Appraisal
Implement.       ,    , -                      __
92   93   94   95   96   97   98   99
Fiscal Year



INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
ANTICIPATED DISBURSEMENTS
(By Component)
Fiscal Year
90
91    7
92      ~ _
93   -     -   4                      I
94           -               g7:  
9-  ___-rn262,  
-9 5I                             0615                         c
96 -                 __129
97    _    _                                  144
98 -  _    __       __     __                    106.G_ ____
98                     iin15.6
0    20   40   60   80   100  120  140  160  180
US $ Million
Institutional           Technical Assistance
Investments
(In million dollars)



ANNEX 6.2.
82                            Page 1 of 13
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
PARTICIPATING FINANCING INSTITUTIONS
A. INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Background
1.        The Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), which was established
in 1964 as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), and is
now fully owned by the Government. It has been set up as the principal financial
institution of the country not only to provide financial assistance to industry
but also to coordinate the activities of other DFIs in the country and to
undertake promotional activities directed towards reducing regional imbalances.
It also provides specialist advice on all important policy matters concerning
industrial finance and related matters. As the lead institution for industrial
investment finance, IDBI operates as a direct lender and as an apex refinance
institution or the state financial institutions and the commercial banks in their
lending operations.  It also acts as the central coordinating agency for the
operations of the other All-India DFIs (ICCI and IFCI) and the term lending
activities of the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), the General Insurance
Corporation (GIC) and the Unit Trust of India (UTI). Its importance as a direct
lender is demonstrated by the fact that its lending accounted for over 40? of
total industrial investment lending by the All-India and the state level
financial institutions during the period 1985-90. Its promotional role covers
a wide range of activities at the national level and, through specialized
institutions, on the local level. These activities aim at the development of
both sound industrial investments and financial practices, and include industrial
potential surveys, entrepreneur development programs, consultancy and advisory
services, and expanded development banking training programs.
Management and Staff
2.        IDBI's 22 member Board, of which 21 are appointed by the Government and
1 by IBR, represents a cross section of officials of RBI, commercial banks,
financial institutions and the Government. While the Board is responsible for
internal policies and reviews the overall operations of IDBI and its interaction
with the public and private industrial sectors, full powers have been delegated
to a 10-person Executive Committee.   The management is headed by Mr. S. S.
Nadkarni as Chairman and Managing Director, an experienced and internationally
recognized development banker. Since October 1985, when he assumed his position,
Mr. Nadkarni has sought to make IDBI a more commercially oriented institution.
3.        IDBI's organizational structure comprises eight functional units, one
or more of which is under the charge of an executive director/advisor.   The
Project Finance Operations Group is responsible for business development and
appraisal, disbursement, supervision, billing, collection and recovery of all



ANNEX 6.1
83                         Page 2 of 13
direct lending operations. It also conducts product market research to support
appraisal assumptions.  The Rehabilitation Finance Operations Group draws up
rehabilitation packages for ailing units and supervises their implementation.
The Development Finance Operations Group is in charge of refinance and bills
rediscounting operations for the state financial institutions and commercial
banks, and the supervision of these activities.  The Corporate Finance Group
handles  the secretariat,  accounting and resource  raising functions.   The
Technical Department assists appraisal with technical reviews of project
proposals. It includes a new venture capital operation directed at specialized
technology projects. The Planning Department carries out research and corporate
planning activities. The Legal Department acts in an advisory capacity to the
Board and management and in an operational capacity in dealing with legal
matters. Personnel and Administration Departments handle all matters related to
personnel and administration. IDBI operates on a decentralized basis through a
nation-wide network of branches, one in each state.
4.        IDBI's professional staff, numbering 1299, is well qualified and
experienced.   IDBI is able to recruit top university graduates because its
salaries are competitive with other private and public sector institutions and
career prospects within the institution are attractive. The turnover of staff
is minimal. The Corporation has been successful in limiting staff increases to
about 152 over the last five years although loan sanctions and assets have more
than doubled. Another noteworthy feature is that IDBI has improved the staff mix
of non-professionals to professionals from 1.7 to 1.2:1 over the same period.
The aim is to reach a ratio of 1:1.
Operations
S.        IDBI's financial assistance to the industrial sector is effected
through three basic areas of operations: (a) Direct Finance, which is available
to projects costing at least Rs. 50 million (approximately US$3 million),
accounts for 43Z of IDBI's portfolio. Direct Finance takes the form of loans,
underwriting, direct capital subscriptions or guarantees.  Directly financed
projects are generally co-financed with other All-India term lending
institutions; (b) Refinanced loans accoutit for 23Z of the portfolio. These are
originated as loans to small and medium-sized businesses by state-level
institutions and banks which bear the risk on these operations; (c) Bills
Finance, constituting 33Z of the portfolio, cover the sale of machinery, financed
by banks or IDBI on a deferred payment basis.
Resource and Onlending Terms
6.        IDBI's resources include equity contributions by the Government, RBI
borrowings, bond issues, internal generation through collections and earnings and
foreign currency borrowings.   Internal generations account for over 502 of
resources. Rupee bonds and debentures constitute the largest source of external
funds, around 452 of all external resources. The rate on these bonds has been
gradually raised to 11.52 close to market rate. RBI loans, the other important
source of external funds, at around 202 of external resources mobilized, are
presently available at 82 p.a. The weighted average cost of funds for IDBI has
increased from 6.82 p.a. in 1963 to 7.73Z p.a. in 1988, and further to 8.32 in



84                           ANNEX 6.1
Page 3 of 13
1990. Foreign borrowings constitute only 132 of IDBI's total external resources,
although they have been growing rapidly in recent years.
7.         Interest rates on domestic currency loans range from 11.52 to 15Z
depending on the type of loan. Since the basic lending rate for industrial term
financing remained unchanged for a long time at 142, IDBI's gross operational
spread has diminished in recent years as the cost of funds has increased. The
full effect of the squeeze on operating margins has yet to show in the profit
statements as the greater portion of IDBI's portfolio is still supported by
earlier bond issues and RBI borrowings, some at rates as low as 72 p.a.   In
August, 1990, RBI announced a change in interest rates whereby the
non-concessional rate for rupee term loans was raised to 15Z. This will ease the
squeeze on operating margins.
8.         Interest  rates  on  foreign  currency  loans  are  fixed  through  the
provisions of the Exchange Risk Adjustment Scheme (ERAS).i/ Essentially, ERAS
permits foreign currency borrowers who find it difficult to hedge against
exchange risk to have their foreign currency loans rupee-tied through the
provisions of ERAS, against payment of an exchange risk premium. The ERAS rate
is a variable rate adjusted quarterly, and is currently 1752 with a cap of 201
and a floor of 15Z. Although the cap and floor are also varied quarterly, the
cap and floor for any given loan are fixed for that loan at the rates prevailing
at the time that loan was made.   Borrowers have the option of assuming the
exchange risk, in which case the rate charged is the weighted average cost of the
ERAS pool, thus intermediation spread of 32.
Policies
9.         IDBI has  adopted  a general  Policy  Statement which  outlines  its
institutional objectives and provides guidelines for its areas of operations.
The Policy Statement identifies stimulation of desired investment, geographical
dispersal of industry, promotion of small-scale industries, promotion of new
financial activities and development of entrepreneurs as key areas of IDBI's
activity. It also provides guidelines on risk management. It emphasizes the
~/    In summary, ERAS provides that: foreign currency borrowings of tho DFI. go Into a pool,
for which a weighted avorago borrowing cost Is calculated. The DFIc, having regard to the
ability of a cliont to hedge against exchange risk may offer a client (but are required to
do so) the exchange risk cover afforded by the following main arrangements: (1) to the
weighted average interest cost of foreign borrowings Is added a spread for tho DFIx and an
exchange risk premium; (il) clients offered access to ERAS then have the choice of having
their loan donominated In for-ign curroncy (in which coas the intero4t rate charged Is net
of the exchange risk premium calculated under (i) abovo) or having their loan *upee tied at
the exchange rates prevailing at the tim of disbursement, in which ¢ce  their rupee
obligation becomes repayable at the rate calculated under (1) above; (lii) the DFI. colloct
repayments, keeping for themselves the Interest portion and the spread, while the exchange
risk premium portion goes to the Exchange Risk Administration Fund (ERAF); (iv) DFPI claim
from ERAF the difference between repayments made to thoir londers and repayment. made to
them by thoir client.; (v) the Government extends support to ERAF when It is In deficit,
and recoups from It whon It Is in surplus; (vi) the rate calculated under (t) above is
revisod quarterly; (vii) associated with the rate io a floor and a cap; (viii) whonevor
ERAS is availed of as under (11) above, the currently prevailing rate applies along with
the currently prevaillng floor and cap--these rates are then fixed for the life of the
loan, but have no bering on any previous ERAS loans, for which the then prevaillng rates
apply.



ANNEX 6.1
Page 4 of 13
soundness of its financial condition as a main policy objective to be achieved
through high portfolio quality, adequate operating spreads, sound provisions for
moderating losses, tight expenditure control, continued reinvestment of profits
and build up of equity.   The preservation of the environment and ecological
balances receive adequate treatment in the Statement, which clearly states that
IDBI will not finance projects that may adversely affect the environment and will
actively encourage existing industries to adopt pollution-free processes and
carryout investments in environment-protection equipment.
Procedures and Standards
10.       The quality of appraisal reports is good and there is adequate staffing
to handle project appraisal work. Indicators such as internal economic rates of
return and financial rates of return are standard features of appraisal reports.
In accordance with the priority of the Government's industrial reform policies,
IDBI is increasingly giving attention to appropriate economic scale of
investment, adoption of competitive technology and investments which create
production that approaches world price and quality standards.
11.       IDBI's total commitments grew at a high rate of 20Z p.a. during FY85-
FY90, attaining a level of Rs. 81.5 billion in FY90. Cumulative disbursements
since 1964, total Rs. 302 billion. Though government owned, IDBI principally
lends to the private sector. In its direct finance operations, 812 of loans were
to private industrial enterprises, 172 to public sector corporations and 2Z to
cooperative ventures.   About 602 of its assistance is to medium and large
enterprises and about 332 is for loans to small scale enterprises channelled
through the commercial banks and state-level institutions and 72 is accounted for
by investments in shares and bonds of other financial institutions. Sector-vise,
its operations are fairly evenly distributed, with the services sector accounting
for 18X, textiles 12Z, chemicals and power generation each 12Z and electronic
products and metal products 52 each. New projects account for 322 of all IDBI
financing, modernization and rehabilitation operations 262, and expansion and
diversification projects 422.
Loan Collections and Arrears
12.       IDBI's overall collection performance is relatively satisfactory.
Principal and interest collected on total dues have averaged 932 during the last
five years, and accounts in arrears are equivalent to 4Z of total portfolio as
of FY90.   However, under these global figures there are signs of emerging
collection and arrears problems which merit close attention.  The collection
performance of refinanced loans and discounted bills payable has been 1002, as
state financial institutions and commercial banks have always met their guarantee
liability on these operations.  However, the average collection ratio of the
state level institutions themselves was only 43Z in FY88, requiring capital
infusions by the state governments to enable many of these entities to service
their debt obligations. To correct this situation, IDBI is reinforcing its
program for assistance to the state-level financial institutions to improve loan
recoveries and profitability. A program has been adopted that places emphasis on
consolidation of these lending operations and provides technical assistance to



86                          ANNEX 6.1
Page 5 of 13
the SFCs in improving collection performance. The Asian Development Bank is
selectively supporting IDBI in this effort through an ongoing project.
13.       The collection performance in IDBI's direct lending presents more
concrete difficulties, but has gradually improved in recent years from 57Z in
FY83 to 73Z in FY90 (before rescheduling). Many of IDBI's earlier investments
took place under a policy regime which was not conducive to creation of efficient
and modern facilities, which would be viable in today's increasingly competitive
environment. Under a highly protected environment, and because of pressures from
the labor sector, it has been difficult for IDBI and other DFIs to take concerted
corrective action opportunely and/or to press creditor claims successfully.
Consequently, a hard core of problem projects developed for the DFIs, and while
for IDBI this constitutes less than 1 of its total loan portfolio, it needs to
be resolved.   The Government has recognized this problem and created a new
organization, the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction, to assist
the DFIs' ability to either restructure still viable companies or to foreclose
on enterprises which cannot be salvaged.
Financial Results and Conditions
14.       IDBI has had a history of satisfactory profit performance, with a
consistently high level of liquidity and debt servicing capacity. Assets have
more than doubled over the last five years to Rs. 194 billion as of FY90, while
revenue has grown at an average rate of over 212 to Rs. 18.0 billion in FY90.
Net income over the five-year period ending FY90 grew at an average rate of 272
per annum. The growth of income has been accompanied by control over general and
administrative expense, kept at a commendably low 0.2Z of total average assets
in FY90. The net final result for operations in FY90 was an 18.92 return on
average net worth, up from 172 in FY87 and a return on average assets of 1.52
compared with 1.42 in FY87.  The debt to equity ratio (including contingent
liabilities) which was around 9.5 in FY85, has risen marginally and has been
around 10.42 in subsequent years. The debt service coverage ratios have been
strong, averaging 2.7 over the past five years.  IDBI has also maintained a high
level of liquidity with the current ratio averaging about 3.0 in the recent past.
Current assets represented almost 30Z of total resources at the end of FY90
indicative of IDBI's liquidity level. The corporation's financial results are
given in tables 1 and 2.
15.       With the setting up of Small Industries Development Bank of India
(SIDBI), as a fully owned subsidiary of IDBI, almost 252 of IDBI's loan portfolio
along with 162 of its staff have been transferred to the new institution. As a
major part of business transferred to SIDBI is concessional refinance with a low
spread, IDBI will transfer a part of its low cost funds to SIDEI. On balance,
IDBI expects its financial condition to remain strong with return on assets
maintained at 1.52 or over and a healthy debt: equity ratio of around 10.0. The
corporation is conscious of the likely impact of falling interest spreads due to
higher costs of local borrowings and is taking steps to improve its profitability
to meet this contingency. These include improved money management, control of
administrative costs and improved collection rates. It is also gearing up for
a more vigorous drive to improve its direct lending business. As a forward
looking public institution, IDBI makes constant efforts to remain relevant to



ANNEX 6.1
Page 6 of 13
emerging scenarios to which a national institution must address itself. Adopting
an innovative approach to meet specific but varied demands from time to time, and
with emphasis on building a dedicated team of professionals, IDBI has over the
years emerged as a multi-dimensional institution whose experience is specially
relevant to the developing world.



88                                                      8%i
Table 11 tFt B'ALANCE SHEEl6 ACTUAL ND FROJETED, 1988 TO 1994
(As et fisclLyars  ending March 81)
It..                          1W8       1W87      A           1989La      -9-- -99- 19 d                             14
Cash and 1l. a.sts           4,0s0.6o   8,46.60   7,118.00  14,686.46  22,68e.40  21,o00.00  20 ,08.00  19, Os.00  17 068.00
Current portion loans       14,718.00  17,758.17  20,622.48  23,004.70  26,864.78  19,915.86  28,860.42  82,678.48  89s448.16
Other current aaats          8,288.70   8,910.70   4,880.00   68e00.10   7,486.80   7,204.87   7,64.s8    7 942.8    8,89.98
Total                       22,779.80  27,180.47  82,268.48  4 8,41.26  86,514.48  48,208.22  81,818.01  89,709.80  64,871.11
Loans A Investmnts          84,664.60  85,001.20  80,878.0   94,186.60 114,782.80 189,498.1  184,988.7  211,948.8  249,948.8
Bzil. redis. & disc.        14,407.00  16,602.82  18,710.17  20,088.92  21,620.94  21,298.99  28,947.94  26,674.98  29,885.03
Other a-ot.                    849.80     480.42    482.00     518.72     688.78     719.10     791.01     870.11     9S7.18
TOTAL ASSETS                92,400.00 109,984.63 1,630.71 156W,50.70 19,3521.90 223,140.3  252,786.1  288,861.4  881,767
Current tortion debts        2,888.80   2,687.00   4,692.00    8 ,06.20  10 076.0o   8,689.90  12 902.00   8,682.70  12 006 80
Advnce ncome                 8,486.80   4,022.40   4,852.00   4698.40   5,288.20   8,222.10   8,868.70   6s,8  18   7,289.68
Other current liabilities    2,166.00   2,879.21   8,107.08   8,169.48   6,681.06   8,288.26   8,491.82   9,188.85   9,900.8
Total                        8,181.40   9,288.61  12,881.08  17,948.06  22,148.06  28,699.88  88,781.62  88,012.28  42,712.15
Long term liabilities       78,770.20  90,962.00 107,980.00 127,806.10  18,4997.91 180,451.80 201,816.09 287,824.41 271,900.87
Paid up capital              4,480.00   4,780.00   4,980.00   8,400.00   6,870.00   7,080.00    , 8o0.o00   6,080.00   9,080.0
Free reservea                8,426.80   4,287.80   5,70s.80   69,98.28   8 909.24  12,270.99  14,l6.82  17,201.6   19,668.74
Ear-marked reerves             872.00    748.40     678.80     989s.28   1,101.78   1 269.78   1,446.13   1,681.8s   1,628 .8
Total equity                 8,448.80   9,784.00  11,829.60  18,294.81  16,880.97  20,870.72  28,687.s9  26,888.24  80,719.57
TOTAL LIBILITIES          ' 92,400.40 109,984.60 181,80.07  1865,8.70 19,521.90 22S,140.3  252,786.1  26e5881.4  881,766.7
Contingent Liabilities       2,999.00   5,080.00   8,827.20   2,484.00   4,264.60   4,776.85   8,849.51   5,991.46   6,710.48
RATIOS
Debt-equity                    10.00      10.48      10.48      10.82      10.42       9.60       9.88       9.64       9.64
Net income to equity            O.1S       0.17       0.18       0.19       0.19       0.19       0.17       0.18       0.14
Debt sarvice coverage           2.72       2.88       2.35       2.07       1.98       1.39       1.87       1.45       1.84
Li Nine months.
TL_ ble2     IDBI:CE STATBMNrS  ACTUAL AND PROJETED. 1986-1994
Fiscal Years dnding March 81
(Re Ml l on.)
Stzt  ~ ~~     lssb  ~Actual                    lese       lOProi,gt«d                      ls  
it."                      1986       1987 Acul1988          MR9L      1990      1991   P 992          1993      199
ross Income             8,842.52  10,284.40  12,678.84  11,819.28  18,124.60  21,121.44  24,400.92  28,402.09  83.887.17
Expensee s Provisions
Expense
Interest                2,748.08   7,008.  s 8,899.26   8,061.64  18,806.84  18,748.64  1SS2.u84  22,008.72  26,128.48
Other fin.                 60.10      77.60      92.10     100.82     171.20    188.82     207.16     227.87     280.65
Administrative            208.19     228.24     278.60     289.17     872.49    268.97     807.02     888.07     406.08
Provisions
Int. Tax                   45.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Net Income              1,218.70   1,829.97   1,866.70   1,727.88   2,688.67   8,821.79   s,45.es90   8,646.8   8,s80.00
APPROPRIATIONS
Free resrves              728.70     878.17   1,268.89   1,068.88   1,882.87   2,887.84   2,410.88   2,820.07   2,6616.6
Earmarked rosy.           498.00     210.10     110.00     110.00     160.00    168.00     176.40     186.22     194.48
Orent to SEBI               -                     -         78.00      -                           -
Dividend                    0.00     441.70     488.81     478.80     698.80    798.28     878.7      941.28   1,008.78
L Nine monthe.



89                         ANNEX 6.1
Page 8 of 13
B.  INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA
16.       Background. ICICI was established in 1955 to provide term finance to
private sector industrial firms. Since then it has grown into one of India's
leading financial institutions and it now provides a broad range of financial
services including: term loans, equity, leasing, merchant banking, export
finance, mutual fund investments and venture capital finance.   It advises
Government on the promotion of industry and the financial markets and undertakes
other developmental activities. ICICI operates nationwide from its head office
in Bombay which is supported by three regional offices in New Delhi, Madras and
Calcutta.   ICICI has grown rapidly and is responsible for about 422 of all
foreign currency loans made by the financial institutions to Indian companies.
In keeping with its role as an important source of foreign funds, the
organization has established itself in the international financial markets. To
date, it has raised over US$2.5 billion in multicurrency foreign loans and recent
transactions have involved complex capital market techniques and instruments such
as interest and currency swaps. The Bank has made 20 loans to ICICI, the latest
one being The Industrial Technology Development Project (US$200 million) of which
ICICI would receive US$20 million by way of a loan from IBRD and would manage a
credit from IDA of SDR 44.2 million (eq. to US$55 million) on behalf of the
Government of India.
Ownership
17.       ICICI, established in 1955 under private ownership to provide long term
finance to private industry, became 81Z publicly owned as its private owners were
nationalized. Recently, however, in 1991, ICICI made a public issue of shares
which has increased its private ownership share to 43Z.
Management and Staff
18.       ICICI's day to day operations are guided by the policies laid down by
a 15 member Board of Directors. One of the Board's operating functions is to
decide on individual projects involving exposure of over Rs 35 million. The
Chairman and Managing Director, Mr. N. Vaghul, came to the institution in 1985
and has led it through a period of impressive growth and profitability.  In
recognition of the changed business climate, his current priorities involve
finding new and cheaper sources of funds, developing new projects with better
spreads, addressing portfolio quality issues and collecting overdues.
19.       ICICI has a strong management team which is consistently able to
attract, motivate and retain highly competent staff. As at March, 1990 total
staff  strength  was  about  896.    The  institution  is  divided  into  five
administrative groups: operations, planning, special operations, finance and
administration.
20.       The Operations Group is responsible for the lending function including
appraising new loans, monitoring existing ones, making collections and
rehabilitation and coordination with BIFR. Corporate Planning and Resources,
headed by a Deputy General Manager, develops and coordinates the overall strategy
and direction of the Corporation.   It is also responsible for funding the



90                            ANNEX 6.1
Page 9 of 13
insti.ution both in domestic and foreign currencies. Special Operations, under
a General Manager, has responsibility for merchant banking and leasing. Finance,
Accounts, Administration and Personnel are supervised by two separate General
Managers.
Business Strategies
21.       ICICI has continually expanded the range of financial instruments and
services it offers in response to perceived needs of the business community and
Government's industrial development priorities. The organization's last Policy
Statement, which was drawn up against the background of the Seventh Plan
projections, was adopted in 1987. It identified six priority areas for supports
modernization and technology upgradation; export promotion; emerging industries
such as electronics and communications; core industries; and energy conservation
and pollution control equipment. A new Policy Statement, taking into account the
Eighth Plan projections, is in the process of completion and would essentially
target areas which would include export development, providing technology finance
from the point of research to the stage of commercialization, development of
innovative strategies for financing services and infrastructure sector., energy
conservation, and environmental and pollution control.
Appraisal of Projects
22.       ICICI's appraisal techniques are thorough and of a high standard.  The
economic and financial rate of return norms used are usually 12? and 15?
respectively. For projects of more than Rs 25 million or for which the ICICI
loan will exceed Rs 25 million, a domestic resource cost calculation is done.
However, ICICI officers would benefit from training programs aimed at increasing
their awareness of current practices and trends in the international environment.
The technical assistance components of the Export Development Project,
Electronics Industry Development Project, and Industrial Technology Development
Project, signed last Year, would play an important part in addressing this need.
23.       In addition to its basic project financing functions ICICI also
undertakes activities to help in the overall development of Indian Industry and
financial markets. Thus the institution takes an active part in the dialogue on
topical issues affecting industry and finance, through memoranda to policy makers
and Government committees.  It regularly carries out subsectoral studies and
provides training and institutional development support to national and foreign
financial institutions. ICICI has set up a credit rating agency in conjunction
with Unit Trust of India. Such a service will provide support for any eventual
move towards the development of a lending system based on variable interest rates
which are determined by the level of risk. ICICI has provided since 1988 venture
capital-type financing through conditional loans. In order to improve and expand
its venture capital services it recently established a venture capital company--
Technology Development and Information Company of India (TDICI) which will focus
on investments in high technology ventures.   The new company would receive
support from the Bank under the Industrial Technology Development Project.



91                           ANNEX 6.1
Page 10 of 13
Financial Performance
24.       ICICI's financial performance has been impressive, as shown in Tables
1 and 2. It has achieved rapid growth and rising profits over the last five
years. Total assets increased to Rs 56 billion at the end of March 1990 from Rs
21.4 billion in 1985. This represents an annual compound growth rate of about
26X. During this period the loans and investments portfolio increased to Rs 33
billion from Rs 11.9 billion and net profits almost tripled to Rs 971 million.
Consequently return on equity averaged 202 p.a. during this period. However,
these impressive figures will be difficult to sustain in future years unless
problems of increased borrowing costs and deteriorating collections, resulting
in narrower spreads are satisfactorily resolved. Gradual deregulation has meant
increased competition in the industrial sector and higher risk to financial
institutions.   In recognition of these trends ICICI's management has already
embarked on a strategy that involves: (i) greater emphasis on finding newer
funding sources; (ii) increasing non-funded assets and fee income activities;
(ii) pursuing new and more profitable lines of business; and (iv) vigorously
pursuing collections of arrears; and (v) maintain-ing overall profitability by
diversifying its portfolio.
Funding
25.       ICICI funds its rupee assets partly through the public issue of bonds
and debentures. Like the other development banks it has historically benefitted
from access to long term funds at concessional rates. However, it has seen the
average cost of its borrowed rupee funds rise dramatically, from 8.2? in 1985 to
10.31 in 1989-90 for two main reasons. First, its lending growth rate of about
252 p.a. over the last five years far outstripped the 10? official limit on
increases in annual commercial bank purchases of ICICI bonds at concessional
rates (11.5?) and the additional requirement has been funded at the prevailing
non-concessional rates of 12.5Z-13.5Z. Second, the concessional rate for issues
by the development banks increased from 9.0? to 9.75? p.a. in 1985 (for 15 year
bonds) to the present 11.5? (for 20 year bonds).   ICICI's foreign funding
operations have become increasingly sophisticated as it has taken advantage of
increased competitiveness and innovation in financial engineering on the
international capital markets to lower foreign funding costs.   ICICI has
established itself in the Euro-commercial paper and interest ratelcurrency swap
markets. However, the spread charged on all foreign currency loans is set by GOI
and is currently 2? and thus the lower borrowing costs are passed on in full to
Indian borrowers with only indirect benefit to the institution.
26.       The Bank has been an important source of funds to ICICI and Bank loans
currently account for 42? of all foreign currency borrowings. The Bank's funds
under the currently ongoing projects will be an important source of added funding
for ICICI.  ICICI is one of the financial institutions participating in the
Exchange Risk Administration Scheme (ERAS), which has been introduced to minimize
the foreign exchange and interest rate risk of Indian firms on foreign currency
loans, obtained through the financial institutions. This will put even greater
demands on its funding officers to skillfully manage its foreign currency



ANNEX 6.1
92                           Page 11 of 13
liabilities and the Corporation is keen to maintain its current impressive
performance by strengthening its skill in this important area.
Loan Portfolio
27.       As at March 31, 1990, ICICI had disbursed loans and made investments
in equities and debentures, totalling Rs 71.81 billion largely to large and
medium scale companies, outstanding loans and investments were Rs 47.65 billion
and sub-sectoral distribution of loans was as follows:   engineering sector,
including metal products, machinery and electrical and transport equipment (23Z);
chemical and petrochemical industries (212); textiles (102); basic metal (102);
cement (7.5Z); and pulp and paper (32). For project sizes up to Rs 70 million,
ICICI would normally provide the debt finance directly. Projects greater than
Rs 70 million are funded through the inter-institutional syndicate mechanism
involving IDBI and IFCI.
28.       Portfolio quality has deteriorated in recent years as reflected in
falling collections ratios from 732 in 1985 to 712 in 1990. Total arrears stand
at 2.8Z of total loans outstanding although about 72.92 of these are accounted
for by firms in five industries: sugar, textiles, cement, pulp and paper, which
face structural problems.
Profitability
29.       As a result of the interest rate squeeze and other competitive
pressures, ICICI's spreads have deteriorated.   ICICI has used a three-point
strategy to preserve its financial profitability. Firstly, it has concentrated
on increasing volumes in its most profitable activities such as leasing and lines
of credit for equipment suppliers.   Secondly, it has successfully held down
administrative costs in the face of rapid growth from 0.34Z of total assets in
1985 to 0.33Z in 1989-90.   Thirdly,  it has placed increased emphasis on
collections, through the adoption of a comprehensive collection strategy.
Future Prospects
30.       Loans are expected to grow at an average rate of 252 over the next five
years, compared to about 272 for the 1985-90 period. As the projections in Table
2 show, following five years of steadily rising profits, ICICI is expected to
experience a slowdown in profit growth. Over the next five years, with a decline
in spreads, ROE is expected to decline to about 14.02 from an average of 20% in
the past five years. Profit performance will also be influenced by the extent
to which ICICI succeeds in its plans to diversify its funding sources, increase
fee income and successfully launch new higher yielding products and services.
The debt:equity ratio is expected to stay mostly below lOl and minimum debt
service coverage is projected to be 1.3. The key underlying assumptions behind
the projections are that: (i) there will be continued rapid growth in high profit
areas and non-funded business; and (ii) the new debt collection stLategy should
improve the collection ratio, presently 71.22.   The declining interest rate
margins have been engaging the attention of the Government of India and ICICI.



ANNEX 6.1
93                                             Page 12 of 13
Table 3: lbCI: ACTUAL AND PROJECTED INCOQME STATEMENTS, 165-195
(Rs. Millions)
ACTUAL                                   PROJECTED
item                             1965      1966      1967J6lB 196189   196990   1990191   1991/92   1999    1M3/4
REVENUE
Prolect Finanoo
inters on rupee loan           1.1372    1,405.5     22712    2,367.1  3.2262    3,67.4    6146.7    6,609    862612
intees on FC loans               701.4    909.1      1.27.4   1.1522   1,399.    1,601.8   1,7S27     2033.0    23.a1
Refinanoing
Other (list)
Financial Serices
Lelng                             43.8     63.0       2296      352.6    4937      66o.0     920.0    1.100.0   1.330o
Supplleuyes crdit                1235      194.1      324.5     3W7      82Z4      946.    1,3.4    1,8172    2,4199
Aa crodit                                                         3.6    431       1935      415.1      7268    1,1063
Merchant banking                  17.0      22.6       33.2      34.8    69.0       62.       60o       100.0    125.O
Invsment Income                   30.9     42.3        67.9      66.1     63       120.3     142.6      146.4    1465
Capital galns                     40.4    170.1       126.0    134.7    1326       3040      120.0      120.0     120D0
Other lncom                      110.0    122.1       261.0      67.1    6700      523.      217.4      2360     26M
Total Renue                    22062    2.949.4      4,613&4    4,6409   6,633.6   6320.1  10,187    12.6911   1e61568
Le ExpendRure
Inte  paid long tm)
* Rupee loa                      16.       168.0      0173      663.     909s     1,426.7   2,481     3,09*2   5,6118
- F.C. lon                       494.6     6664      1,09.0   1,0O.?  1,62?    11          2,1208    2,4132    2,6AM
-Debentures                      760.8   1,0002      1,660.1  1i64.6  1,667    2,306.7   27356        3,2064    3,7172
*Short termn kb
Adminstbeh expens                 41.7      602        66.6      65.8    66.1      100.3     121.3      16.      1608
Depreciation                      33.9    110.3       177.0    167.3    274.3    375.        507.0     619.0    7400
Bad debtloan                      66.0    146.9       26"       2330    4968.      3048      4142       461.7    0812
Bad dbnuWre t                      -         -           4        0.4      2.
Mlso wl/h and prow                                      1.1       0.7      Q1
Other expn s                      40.1      704        64.      107.0    la"       1797A     1462       163.6    215.1
Total exendi                   1.647.7   2,219*      3,6e8u    3,90o    ,482      ,674W    6,5431    10,97    13,96.
Prm before tax                 6,567      7290           .      967.1  1,161.4   1,645.    1,044.8    1,99.0   2,02
Les: tatbn                       1867      117.7      160W      1800    210.0      326.4     3650      473.        8
Pro bftme tax                    4000     011.0       n7.       787.1    071.4   1,3172    1,2i9X     1,450I     1,0A2
l 11        0 onthpwkodL
Intere dmd not to he aoned (OWA ha ben exeubd frm 1 fe66  196M0 (aus) asW   a frorn 1941 fo 19064
eolon).



94                                               ANNEX 6.1
Page 13 of 13
!   4   10K: ACTUAL AND PR*EJe=  UNOE *O             15@O  1 il49
ACUL                                             PRO£CS=
NhM                                     un          lss         1Uq         194           1mw       101         19149       1j2j        i=44
ATO
Coh Ned  u* IsUin                       1.7A         1510         am"        mu         89          21            .60        2Mo          26
CUMAUsr    ndW A*puom                   1*6          1.W?         R1         go"        MS          31,70        4,420        470         SAM
weAtA Ants                              841e          O3.6        557        59.1       7.0.5         0          6M0          MM          06
NaPt
Lons Qupe)                             11*271       14.110       19.41      1.1    8,5             430          am           7Ti        10014A
Loan (F                                 $041         uS          10.9       1.7J       12,773      15.56e4      16073       211940       270
Oebtm                                    am10         460 l        a"         413*      1.017       2.113        $.7          .09         B5
Tolt LOW   ee 1A17                                  136561       10MS    8 T7.1    476             51*69*        oS0       104.66       137.46A4
Equity                                   66           8           15141      1.57       83           10   1U.60              3.074        3.631
Les Atbl4                                1061         349*         711       106.       107           51          217        3207         a3'7
Ndt FMMd Asst                             490           0.         110        167Ilya.7              1e           306         82D          3002
TOWl AZt                               2,410 J      2.1332       1.064    47.65         9172       72,0t19      98,721&4    119,0109    184.4U
ULUaUES AND NEr WORTH
Peymble                                 1517         1o1nia       1.61.7   28063    28,40.          341          4,ax        5.101        SA4C0
Cunnd laidWe                            1,67         1.231.3      1.661.?    206        2840.       3 .5         4A05        5.1010       A0
Rupee Dot                              13.01102 53               18,9       240        00230792    40a5         57.05       75.704      1082
Foip Cwu oy   s                          .511        9.155       1317       174213     20617       226          24.300      =,215        34.740
Nd Lang TWm 0Od                        19e77        24A252      318         41.4182    51,1        632          G1=        10509        137.322
Shaw C&4Pk                               495          6702         6O04       mu         0116       1.1415       1e376       1,691.1      1*21.1
Meow                                    1 a4         103          8,4011     U          36.         48.6        5B4l1a       7*13.1       5.6812
Tom 6Equty                              1,740.8      Z47A7       3S          34W17      4.7701      54           7s337o n,032            1W36
TOTAL  SllESLMBAND NET WORTH           22.41        25133*2      30A4    47.0           007*       78,151        8,7264    119.019.9    15444
Ouerantae.OuWmm                          2101         374J         421.9      405*       am9         809                     1.210        1,510
RPA
Deequlty                                  I04          90.5          0          Q7         e7          &1           8.1         8.1          1s
RPAm an equity                            204          20.0         1I1        18.6       105         11           15.7        143          13.9
DebtseEvIowam   (fiIo)                     I4 IA        1.5          IA         IA         1.6        1S           1.8         1.           IA
La 15mM; A,,'



95                           ANNEX 7.1
Page 1 of 1
INUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILES
1.    Draft GOI Policy Statement on the Environment
2.    A Compendium of Environmental Legislation in India
3.    The Environmental Situation in the Chemical and Related Sectors in India
4.    A Summary of the Diagnosis of Environmental Problems in the Chemical and
Related Sectors in the States of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and
Uttar Pradesh.
5.    Budgets, Annual Reports and Organization Charts of the State Pollution
Control Boards of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh.
6.    Prefeasibility  Assessment  of  Common  Effluent  Treatment  Plants  by
Chemcontrol A.S.
7.    Development of India State Environmental Laboratories Final Report by
Science Applications International Corporation.
8.    Final Report of the Appraisal Mission to the Indian State Environmental
Laboratories by Science Applications International Corporation
9.    Sector Profile of the Dye and Dye Intermediates Sector by Paramount
Pollution Control.
10.   Project Profiles of the Dye and Dye Intermediates Sector by Paramount
Pollution Control.
11.   The Dye and Dye Intermediate Sector in India by Dr. D. Bannister.
12.   Background Report on Incentives for Pollution Control  in India by
Kirloskar Inc.
13.   Incentives  for  Pollution  Control  in  India  by  Barrett  Consulting
Associates.
14.   Sector Profile of the Leather Tanning Sector by Enviro Engineers.
15.   Project Profiles in the Leather Tanning Sector by Dr. Thorstensen.
16.   Sector Profile of the Fertilizer Sector by Dr. S. Venkataraman
17.   Project Profiles in the Fertilizer Sector by Haskoning Royal dutch
Consultants.
18.   Report on the Environmental Situation in the Pesticides Sector by Dr. L.
Frost, Dr. J. Magner and Environmental Engineering Consultants.
19.   Petrochemicals Sector Profile by Microcon.
20.   Pharmaceuticals Sector and Project Profiles by AIC Inc.
21.   Pulp and Paper Sector and Project Profiles by Hindustan Paper Inc.
22.   Sugar and Distilleries Sector Profile by Envirotech Consultants.
23.   Project Profiles in the Sugar/Distilleries Sector by Andreoni Service de
Engheneria Inc.
24.   Sector and Project Profiles of the Toxic and Hazardous Waste Sector by
Gujarat State Fertilizer Corp.
25.   Report on Incinerators as a Method of Toxic/Hazardous Waste Disposal by
Four Nines Inc.



