Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19678
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 3334-IN and Credit 2252 -IN)
November 30, 1999
Environment Sector Unit (SASEN)
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =    Rupee (Rs)
US$I               Rs 42 (as of April 1999)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND LIST OF ACRONYMS
ASCI               Administrative Staff College of India
BOD                Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CETP               Common Effluent Treatment Plant
COD                Chemical Oxygen Demand
CPCB               Central Pollution Control Board
DEA                Department of Economic Affairs
DFI                Development Finance Institution
EIA                Environment Impact Assessment
GOI                Government of India
IC                 Implementation Cell
ICICI              The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India, Limited
IDBI               The Industrial Development Bank of India, Limited
IPP                Industrial Pollution Prevention
MoEF               Ministry of Environment and Forests
NEERI              National Environmental Engineering Research Institute
R&D                Research and Development
SDR                Special Drawing Right
SIDC               State Industrial Development Corporation
SPCB               State Pollution Control Board
SSI                Small-Scale Industry
TDS                Total Dissolved Solids
TSS                Total Suspended Solids
Vice President :   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:  Edwin Lim
Sector Director:   Richard Ackermann
Staff Member:      Naimeh Hadjitarkhani



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 3334-IN and Credit 2252-IN)
Preface
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Evaluation Summary                                                          i
Part I Project Implementation Assessment -1
Project Objectives.                                                   1
Achievement of Objectives                    -2
Main Factors Affecting the Project -22
Project Sustainability                                                26
Bank Performance                                                      27
Borrower Performance                                                  28
Assessment of Outcome                                                 29
Future Operation -30
Key Lessons Learned -31
Part II Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments -33
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits                               34
Table 3:  Project Timetable -35
Table 4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual      36
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation                37
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation -56
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project                              85
Table 8:     Project Costs and Financing                              90
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits                             102
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants                               103
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements -105
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                            106
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions                                107
Part III Annexes
Annex A      Mission's Aide Memoire                                  110
Annex B      Borrower's Contribution - MoEF                          135
Annex C      Borrower's Contribution - IDBI                          137
Annex D      Borrower's Contribution - ICICI                         141
Annex E      The Policy Framework                                    143
Annex F      Implementation of Recommendations of the Staffing and
Organization Study                                     147
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 3334-IN and Credit 2252-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Industrial Pollution Control
Project in India, for which Loan 3334-IN, in the amount of US$124 million equivalent, and
Credit 2252-IN, in the amount of US$31.6 million equivalent, were. approved on May 30, 1991,
and made effective on November 6, 1991.
Loan 3334-IN and Credit 2252-IN were closed on March 31, 1999, about eight years
after approval and nine months after the original closing date. The project closing date was
extended once. An aggregated amount of US$7.5 million equivalent was canceled from the Loan
and SDR (Special Drawing Right) 6.6 million was canceled from the Credit as of September 23,
1999.
The ICR was prepared by Charles Dahan and Dominique Babelon, consultants, under the
supervision of Naimeh Hadjitarkhani, Task Manager,' from the Environment Sector Unit
(SASEN) of the South Asia Region. The consultants had no earlier affiliation with the project
Richard Ackermann, Sector Director, SASEN reviewed the ICR prepared by the
consultants and built into the ICR some of the recent findings of the Bank team, especially with
reference to the lack of integration of the Project with the Policy Statement for Abatement of
Pollution.2 The Borrower provided their version of the ICR that is on file. Their comments on
this ICR are included in Annexes B, C and D to the report. These comments were considered
while finalizing the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in April 1999. It is based on ex-post evaluation
reports prepared by the Borrower and the Development Finance Institutions; materials in the
Bank project files; field visits to State Pollution Control Boards and project beneficiaries,
beneficiaries' replies to questionnaires, and discussions with project management and Bank staff
involved in the project.
l This project was prepared, managed and supervised by Walter Vergara, Principal Chemical Engineer,
LCSES, until January 1998.
2 INDIA Policy Statement for Abatement of Pollution, Government of India, 1992.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(LOAN 3334-IN AND CREDIT 2252-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
1. The project's overall objective was to support the Government of India's efforts to prevent
and alleviate environmental degradation caused by industrial operations and assist in the
successful attainment of the proposed short and medium-targets of its environmental policy. The
project was therefore designed to assist in identifying and implementing a cost-effective program
for industrial pollution monitoring, control and abatement.
2. The project's specific goals were: (i) to promote effective and timely enforcement of existing
legislation on environmental protection regarding industrial sources; (ii) to support efforts by
industry to comply with existing environmental regulations, including a special effort designed to
reach the small scale industry through the setting up of common treatment facilities and (iii) to
support assessments, extension services and research in waste minimization, resource recovery
and pollution abatement in industry.
3. The project comprised: (a) an institutional component designed to strengthen the Central and
State Pollution Control Boards in four states (Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Uttar
Pradesh); (b) an investment component, through two Development Financial Institutions (DFIs),
designed to support efforts by industry to comply with regulations, including support for the set-
up of common effluent treatment plants (CETPs); and (c) a technical assistance component for
the assessment of environmental problems and the development of suitable responses. The
investment component was to finance sub-loans and sub-grants for: (a) the establishment of
CETPs, mainly for Small Scale Industries (SSIs) at sites with a heavy concentration of chemical
industries3, (b) individual projects undertaken by polluting enterprises in the chemical and related
sub-sectors for waste minimization, resource recovery and pollution abatement; and (c)
demonstration projects.
4. The objectives were consistent with the Bank's country strategy at that time. Bank lending
to industry, and IDA grants for CETPs - mainly for SSIs - were viewed as important in
accelerating the resolution of critical pollution problems at a time when the regulatory system and
institutional arrangements for effective enforcement and compliance were inadequate in India. In
parallel, the institutional capacity of State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) would also be built-
up under the project. In line with its objectives, the project supported the enforcement strategy of
GOI and the state governments.
3 The concept of CETP was originally promulgated in 1984 by the MOEF via the Central Loan Scheme
(CLS). The CETP of Jedimetala in Andhra Pradesh was one of the first CETPs to access the CLS in 1985.
The IPC Project essentially continued the CLS scheme with a ceiling on the extent of subsidy and
increasing the promoter's contribution.



ii
Achievement of Objectives
5. The project's focus was more on physical outputs rather than on outcomes and
impacts. Over the years the Bank has shifted its own emphasis in monitoring projects from
inputs and outputs4 to outcome and impacts. In the present case however, the project design and
much of its implementation and supervision focused more on inputs and outputs and less on
outcome. The measurement of impact was not considered at any stage of the project. In fact, the
project did not have any environmental performance indicators as well as supportive management
information system developed as part of its design.
6. Hence, although the progress on achievement of objectives in terms of physical outputs has
been satisfactory, the project outcomes and impacts that are critical for project sustainability, are
difficult to assess. This has been one of the major impediments in assessing the achievement of
project objectives.
7. Progress of the policy objectives not solely attributable to the Project. While the project did
not include covenants related to policy changes, several important policy issues were discussed
and recorded as GOI commitments at negotiations. They related to: (a) issuing of a Policy
Statement for the Abatement of Pollution; (b) increases in the levels of water cess; and (c)
initiation of a switch from concentration to load based pollution standards. These specific policy
objectives were substantially achieved and some progress has been made in the implementation
of the Policy Statement for Abatement of Pollution. It would be inappropriate however to
attribute much of the above progress solely to this project. Many of the major policy decisions
were taken in fact as a response to public pressure and court mandates and in some cases,
implemented as a part of an independent updating exercise. Somehow the project design was not
conducive for effective implementation of the proposed short and medium-targets of GOI's Policy
Statement for Abatement of Pollution, although this was the principal objective of the project.
8. The project's institutional strengthening objectives were only partially achieved. The
project aimed at strengthening four State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) through the provision
of equipment, facilities and training. The project also called for GOI to undertake a study on the
organization and staffing of the SPCBs by December, 1991. The study on the organization and
management of the four State Boards was completed in April 1994 and was subsequently
discussed in a workshop, but no specific action plan evolved from it, perhaps because of frequent
management changes in MoEF and SPCBs. Nevertheless, indicators of changes in geographical
coverage, staffing, regulatory activity, productivity and budget between 1990/91 and 1998/99
show that all four state boards increased their regulatory activity, expanded their geographical
coverage, and increased productivity through a combination of regionalization, delegation of
functions, simplification of consent procedures, and computerization of operations. It must be
noted however that most of these changes were in response to court rulings/interventions and not
directly attributable to this Project.' Finally, total revenues of the Boards in real terms increased
3 to 7 times, without increases in budgetary appropriations, partly as a result of water cess
4The Input-Output-Outcome-Impact framework defines these terms as follows: Input (resources provided
or actually used under the project); Output (the immediate goods or services provided by the project);
Outcome (the immediate results of the project); Impact (the longer term results) (Ref Pollution
Prevention andAbatement Handbook 1998, Toward Cleaner Production, The World Bank in collaboration
with UNEP, UNIDO)
5For example, the Gujarat Board was forced to recruit a significant number of scientists because of the
High Court orders.



iii
increases promoted under the project. In fact, three out the four states have become financially
self-sufficient (Part I, paras 20-26).
9. In several important areas, however, implementation of proposed changes has been limited:
they include strengthening of the planning function, sub-contracting more routine monitoring
activities, and technical assistance to small-scale industry. Furthermore, with the exception of
Gujarat PCB, the other three SPCBs have made limited progress towards changing staff skills
mix to a greater share of technical and scientific staff. None of the boards has increased
compensation levels adequately to attract a cadre of competent environmental specialists.
Finally, none have been transformed into autonomous agencies or other legal forms permitting
increased administrative and budgetary autonomy.
10. With respect to the Institutional Strengthening Component, the training program and facility
upgrades were implemented but procurement of the equipment was considerably delayed and
most equipment was only received during the first quarter of CY 1999. In line with the Appraisal
estimates, 27 CETPs were actually appraised and implemented under the project, processing
effluent from close to 4,000 mostly SSIs. IDA funds were also channeled to 26 additional
CETPs, which did not use the line of credit through IDBI under the project. IDA funds for
carrying out feasibility studies were extended to another 25 CETPs. Sixty-nine individual
investment subprojects were implemented by enterprises, which borrowed project funds through
the two DFIs, committing all the funds to medium and large-scale industries, mostly in the
chemical and related sectors and in the four states, which were considered priority states in the
Appraisal Report. Nine demonstration subprojects were implemented. Besides the state boards
staffing and organization study, twelve other studies were financed under the project, including
pre-investment studies, multi-client environmental and risk and hazard analysis studies,
epidemiological studies, and one study to develop environmental performance indicators and to
carry out an ex-post evaluation of the project. (Part I, paras 30-46).
Benefits and Outcome
1 1. Compliance rates by large industries in 17 categories of highly polluting industries have
increased significantly in all of India, including in the four project states. With respect to small-
scale industry, SPCBs, in response to pressures from Courts, have made major advances in the
establishment of CETPs in industrial estates. When the project started, there were some CETPs
being planned but none were under construction. By the project closing date, a total of 53 CETPs
had been constructed or were under implementation in India, including 44 in the four targeted
project states (Part I, paras 55-57). These are indicators of increased enforcement actions by
project-supported SPCBs.
12. Except in a few cases, most CETPs are only in partial compliance with the SPCBs' standards,
are not operating according to the design specifications, and may have a much shorter life than
planned. They generally have been successful in addressing the issue of pH Chemical and
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (COD and BOD), but have yet to address concerns related to Total
Dissolved Solids (TDS), effluent sludge, heavy metals and organic chemical parameters. CETPs
face a number of difficult issues associated with member compliance with pre-treatment
requirements, design criteria, ownership model and institutional structure, and setting of equitable
cost recovery systems. However, it is possible, in light of experiences gained thus far to develop
appropriate models and correct these deficiencies. This aspect should be addressed by the
ongoing IPP project. (Part I, paras 58-69).
13. With respect to individual investments, many individual subprojects appear to have generated
their intended benefits, whether in respect of legal compliance, resources and/or energy savings,



iv
waste minimization through recycling of wastes, or cleaner technology. There was a significant
investment in the chemical-allied industrial sectors such as cement, caustic soda, distillery,
manmade fibre and paper and pulp, across a wide range of installed capacities. It is questionable,
however, whether these investments were made mainly due to the availability of subsidized funds
(in terms of interest rate and repayment period) or due to rising regulatory pressures or due to
both.6 The individual investments included a wide variety of projects focussing on conventional
end of pipe pollution control, waste utilization and/or energy recovery and pollution prevention.
Besides, there were more than 40% of individual investment projects where foreign technology
was deployed. In this sense, the project was useful in introducing newer pollution abatement
technologies in India. The impact of the project would have been far-reaching and sustainable if
efforts had been made at outreaching these technologies. Fact sheets or some form of sector-
specific simple guidance manuals may have been useful in documenting and disseminating the
lessons learned.
14. The demonstration projects failed to address the needs of small and medium scale industries.
Most of the beneficiaries of the grant assistance were large companies. Further, there were
significant procedural delays. With respect to most demonstration projects, there are no
reasonable prospects of replication. Moreover, five out of the nine sub-projects were already
under advanced implementation when they were approved, casting doubt about the addition of
benefits brought by including them under the project. In almost all cases, there are no clear plans
for the dissemination of results (Part I, para 73).
Main Factors Affecting Project Implementation
15. Serious delays in implementation of the Institutional Strengthening Component led to a nine-
month extension of the closing date. There were extraordinary delays in the procurement of
equipment for the institutional strengthening component, and most of the monitoring and
scientific equipment was still only being received by the closing date. A large number of these
instruments have not yet been put to any use as these are still held up with Customs. The
procurement process was deeply flawed throughout implementation, due to poor management by
MoEF, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the procurement agents (Part I, paras 77-78).
16. CETPs were affected by a number of factors which slowed down their implementation and
led to cost overruns: difficulties in getting groups of small companies to form companies and
collecting equity, lengthy approval procedures, and, mainly, delays in obtaining the release of
state and central subsidies. Implementation was further complicated by a requirement that all
CETPs could be appraised technically only by NEERI, and financially by IDBI even though
many industries chose to seek alternate sources of finance for obtaining loans due to copiousness
of the procedural requirements being sought by IDBI. Considerable confusion was also created by
MoEF's unilateral decision to allocate IDA funds to about 60 CETPs that were not appraised by
IDBI. (Part I, paras 80-81). As a result, the financial appraisal of these additional CETPs was not
done in accordance with Bank's requirements. This also led to incomplete informnation collection.
17. Commitment of the lines of credits through DFIs for individual investments was very fast: by
mid-1994, or two and a half years after effectiveness, all IBRD funds were committed. The main
6 It must be clarified here that due to the fixed rate of interest, there were situations where a preference was
shown by the individual industries to seeking loans under IPC, when the market rate of lending was higher
than 15.5%. Conversely, when the market rate of lending was lower than 15.5%, industries effected
cancellation of the loans with the DFIs. The interest rate on the sub-loan (15.5%) under IPC was originally
conceived to be an attractive rate. However, the effective interest rates spiraled to 19-21% during certain
periods. This was because there were delayed reimbursements by GOI / World Bank to the DFIs.



v
reason for such fast commitments was the interest rate differential which, developed between the
project on-lending rates and commercial rates. This differential was not intended in project
design. The on-lending rate of 15% (or 15.5%?)specified in the Loan Agreement was the
commercial rate for domestic transactions at the time of Appraisal and was subject to revisions at
the request of the Borrower. However, the project on-lending rate was not revised when
commercial rates increased (Part 1, paras 82-84). The DFIs appear to have extended loans mostly
to their regular clients or blue-chip companies to ensure lower credit risks.
18. Approval of demonstration subprojects suffered considerable delays, and the first subprojects
were approved over four years after effectiveness. This was due to cumbersome approval
procedures and the inability of IDBI to identiffy eligible sponsors, since its client base consists of
medium and large-scale enterprises with assets above the specified limit. After the limit on
industrial size, measured by fixed assets was removed, 12 subprojects were finally approved
between 1996 and 1998. Three were subsequently withdrawn; five were existing subprojects
which were already well under implementation - for these, the project merely substituted grants
for other existing sources of funds (Part I, para 85).
19. Except for the SPCBs Staffing and Organization Study, which was completed about two and
a half years behind schedule, no progress was made to contract the other studies until the
beginning of 1997. This component appears to have suffered from a general lack of attention by
the Implementation Cell (IC) in MoEF, lack of coordination between MoEF and CPCB, and low
priority given by IDBI and ICICI to utilize the project funds to strengthen their environmental
capabilities (Part I, para 86).
Project Sustainability
20. Sustainability of the investment components would largely depend on the ability of SPCBs to
maintain pressure for compliance through regular monitoring activities, agreed self-compliance
programs and enforcement actions. Large and medium-scale industries have significantly
improved compliance since 1991 mainly under pressure from Courts. Thus the improvement has
come about more out of a reaction to judicial pressure, rather than as a result of, a strategy that is
backed by appropriate policy instruments. Sustainability of CETPs is uncertain despite the
emphasis which Courts and SPCBs are placing on their establishment and satisfactory operation
as a solution to pollution created by small-scale industries. The CETPs' long-termn environmental
and financial sustainability is critically dependent on programs to resolve outstanding problems,
including:
* sludge disposal7,
*  deficiencies in management and institutional responsibilities,
*  changes in cost recovery mechanisms to ensure that members are paying the full
equitable cost of treatment based on their pollution load and to provide incentives to
pollution prevention.
7 It may be noted here that (i) the project was designed to finance the design and implementation of CETPs
for the treatment of wastewater and solid materials at industrial estates. (Refer SAR, 1991). Thus the issue
of solid wastes was addressed in project design. (ii) the Hazardous Waste (Management ) and Handling
Rules of GOI that require sound disposal of effluent sludge as well was in place since 1989. The lack of
consideration of sludge management in the design and financing of CETPs is therefore clearly an oversight
in project implementation.



vi
The large variety of experiences now available in India could permit resolution of the above
problems. If the IPP projeci undertakes a consolidation of CETP experience and introduces a
retrofitting activity to this effect, then in the long run, the CETPs could potentially become
sustainable. The IPP project may also consider consolidating the experiences from the IPC and
develop fact sheets / manuals so as to institutionalize CETPs. This will contribute greatly to
ensuring the sustainability of CETPs. Finally, sustainability of achievements of most
demonstration subprojects is unlikely, as many have not stabilized and have not organized
dissemination efforts to ensure replicability (Part I, paras 87-88).
21. Sustainability of the institutional strengthening component is also unlikely. In general, not
enough technically qualified and trained staff have been brought in, and critical enforcement and
regulatory requirements remain unmet. Despite long delays, the equipment received should
improve the monitoring and analytical capabilities of participating boards - though again,
assuming that adequate staffing and budget for Operation & Maintenance are assured. The
SPCBs made substantial progress towards financial self-sufficiency, but it will be imperative that
these funds be used wisely. Specifically, effectiveness of the boards needs to be enhanced in the
area of strategic planning and management. Their administrative autonomy needs to be
increased. Changes in national policies allowing boards to impose heavy financial penalties on
defaulters and a functioning system of effluent charges based on pollution load would
considerably enhance their effectiveness (Part I, para 89).
22. For the institution building aspect of this project to be truly sustainable, the project would
have had to not just strengthen the relevant authorities to design strategies to implement court
orders. It should have gone beyond this by building the capacity to anticipate challenges and
avoid the need for court orders by designing improved regulations and enforcing them. The
capacity building would have been more effective had the guidelines provided under the section
"Sector and Financial Intermediary, Lending" in OD 4.01 been followed. It may be noted here that
IDBI actually trained 400 of its staff with the assistance of IIT, Mumbai using the project funds.
ICICI also trained some of its staff but on a lower scale. However the thrust of the training
programs was not in line with the guidelines provided in OD 4.01. Even today the environmental
and social appraisal process has not been institutionalized at both the DFIs.
Bank Performance
23. Overall, Bank performance was not at its best. During preparation, the Bank failed to
anticipate implementation difficulties that could have been foreseen and avoided by suitable
project redesign. The Appraisal report did not define specific performance indicators. and hence
there was no program that ensured adequate generation and evaluation of data that could be used
to assess the true project performance. The project was categorized as C that underplayed the
level of environmental appraisal it deserved. During implementation, most major issues were
identified in the course of supervision, but the Bank did not always pursue their speedy and
complete resolution. These include problems associated with procurement of equipment for
SPCBs. The Bank used financing intermediaries such as IDBI and ICICI as DFIs for the
investment component. It did not however follow the guidelines provided under the section
"Sector and Financial Intermediary Lending" in OD 4.01 to the fullest extent to ensure
sustainable performance in environmental appraisal of investment projects.
24. With respect to the investment component there was an absence of a programmatic approach.
The Bank spent considerable staff and consultant time in supervising and evaluating experience.
For instance in the case of CETPs, Despite having identified lack of proper sludge disposal as one
of the problems, the Bank did not press for the incorporation of sludge disposal investments in
subproject designs. With respect to individual investments, Bank missions never reported that



vii
subloan interest rates had become de-facto substantially subsidized (Part I, paras 82-84). The
demonstration project sub-component suffered several design flaws (Part I, para 74). In addition,
the decision to remove the cap on fixed asset value was not supported by adequate efforts to
ensure replication.
25. Though a large number of training programs were organized at SPCBs, there was no
comprehensive evaluation of the usefulness of training delivered so as to influence need based
design of training programs during the course of project. (Part I, para 31). The technical
assistance component suffered considerable delays and was greatly underutilized, although a
number of prospective studies had been identified at appraisal (Part I, para 46).
Borrower Performance
26. Performance of MoEF was inadequate. Failure by MoEF to provide adequate project
coordination and monitoring structures is largely responsible for the delays and poor reporting
and communications. MoEF did not develop adequate project management system, including
proper systems of approval, compilation and reporting. Also MoEF did not develop performance
indicators until shortly before loan closing. MoEF did not comply with the Loan Agreement
when it committed and in some cases disbursed IDA grants for CETPs that were not appraised by
IDBI, and without requesting the Bank's formal approval. Inter-agency coordination mechanisms
were cumbersome, and the disbursement process was slow. Performance of the two DFIs was
satisfactory to the extent that they committed and disbursed funds within the specified time frame
to subprojects complying with the established eligibility criteria, and met their obligations under
the Loan and Project Agreements. While they promoted environmental training of their staff,
sometimes out of their own resources, neither DFI substantially strengthened their environmental
capabilities and they do not yet have dedicated environmental group. IDBI's perfornance on
CETPs and demonstration subprojects was less than satisfactory. Finally, frequent shuffling
among senior officials in MoEF as well as at the State-level did not provide the continuity in
dialogue and action which was needed for more thorough implementation of recommendations of
the SPCB Staffing and Organization Study (Part I, paras 92-94).
Assessment of Outcome and Impact
27. The picture that emerges from the project is mixed: overall, in terms of its original objectives,
the outcome of the project is generally satisfactory with respect to physical outputs (Table 1)
Because of the flaws in the project design, supervision and coordination, however, these physical
outputs may not lead to intended environmental gains or impacts in the long run. There is a need
for several retrofitting actions, which may perhaps be taken up in the ongoing IPP project. These
actions would need to utilize the experience evolved out of the CETPs, address barriers identified
in institutional strengthening and take up needed implementation of enabling policy measures. In
their absence, the Project's sustainability is unlikely and much of the outputs will remain only as
a learning experience to all project participants and stakeholders. Bank performance was marginal
in light of a number of serious lapses: excessively broad investment eligibility criteria, poorly
designed interest rate covenant, non-reporting of interest rate subsidies during implementation,
and failure to press for incorporation of sludge disposal in subproject designs. In addition,
Demonstration projects are not replicable and there has been no follow-up on technical assistance
studies. The Borrower's (GOI) performance was satisfactory in terms of securing counterpart
funds from the state governments, but deficient with respect to procurement and project
coordination and management. Performance of the DFIs was satisfactory with respect to their
commitments under the Project Agreement, but was unsatisfactory with respect to building-up
their own environmental capabilities under the project. Performance of SPCBs was satisfactory,
to the extent that they provided all the required counterpart funds for the Institutional



viii
Strengthening component (not difficult in light of the increased funds available from the water
cess) and showed institutional improvements during the project implementation period (Part I,
para 97). Most of this was in response to court orders, however, and three out of four SPCBs did
not, in fact, increase their technical capacity enough to significantly improve their policy making
and enforcement capacity. As mentioned, the incremental benefits from demonstration
subprojects are questionable, as well.
Future Operation
28. Unfortunately, the design of the follow-up project (the Industrial Pollution Prevention
Project) followed the same pattern as this project, and it will be difficult to turn it around. In light
of the many difficulties with this project, the follow-up project was approved prematurely.
Without subsidies, the credit lines under the follow-up project are predictably not moving,
confirming the observations made above with respect to this project.
29. To ensure the sustainability of the IPC project and consolidate its achievements, a number of
actions are recommended, some of which have been included as part of the follow-up Industrial
Pollution Prevention (IPP) Project:
(a) GOI should consider the enactment of legislation to create emission charges based on
pollution load and allow SPCBs to impose high financial penalties on defaulters;
(b) Increased decentralization of priority setting, and planning and decision-making to the state
level should be promoted;
(c) Each of the state governments and SPCBs should prepare and carry out a specific action plan
to further implement the recommendations of the State Board Staffing and Organization Study;
(d) Guidelines for CETP design (including sludge management), operation and
management(including cost recovery); should be developed. Standards for CETP (both influent
and effluent) should be reviewed in terms of relevance and practicability. (e) CETPs that have
design (e.g. sludge management) and operational deficiency (including cost recovery) should be
examined for technical assistance.
(f) For individual investments, emphasis should turn to medium and small-scale industry.
whether or not they are part of CETPs. From this perspective, the choice of DFI may be re-
visited. Under the IPP project, technical assistance funds are available for extension services and
Waste Minimization Circles focusing on small-scale industries, but individual investments
continue to focus on large-scale industry (Part 1, para 98). For medium to large industries, efforts
should be made towards promotion of voluntary initiatives rather than providing direct financial
assistance. It may also be useful to review the eligibility criteria for the investment component to
stress the need for a multimedia approach.
(g) Operation of facilities is as important as investment if real environmental benefits are to be
achieved as a result of installation of pollution abatement measures. It is recommended that
efforts be made to establish training and certification of pollution abatement plant operators.
(h) To facilitate effective dissemination of the experiences of the IPC Project particularly with
respect to the investment component, fact - sheets or guidance manuals maybe developed for
technologies introduced through individual industry projects, demonstration projects and CETPs.
(i) One of the high priorities should be to build the environmental capacity in the financial
intermediary institutions, especially at the two DFIs viz. IDBI and ICICI.
(j) It is important that IPP project sets quantifiable environmental performance indicators and
initiates collection and analyses of data to this effect. This will allow more effective evaluation



ix
of IPP unlike IPC. The performance indicators developed towards the end of IPC project may be
useful for such an exercise.
Key Lessons Learned
30. A number of lessons may be drawn from this project. The institutional strengthening and
technical assistance components should be complementary to - or better, be built around - the
investment component, and concrete implementation programs should be agreed with the
borrower at the time of project preparation. In the design of institutional strengthening
components, organizational studies should be followed by the preparation and implementation of
specific action plans within a specified time frame; and procurement of equipment should be
decentralized to beneficiaries (Part I, para 99).
31. With respect to CETPs, before new CETPs are established, a model should be developed
addressing issues of design, scope, management, ownership and cost charging systems to ensure
their sustainable and equitable operation in the particular circumstances. Project design should
include all investments necessary to contain pollution, including for sludge management. CETP
management should have sufficient powers to act against firms not complying with their pre-
treatment obligations or in default on their payments. All CETPs should have a professional
management team with responsibility for their establishment and operation, and private efforts to
organize, own and manage CETPs for profit should be encouraged, as long as their clients are
well represented in the company's board of directors to avoid risks of monopolistic behavior.
Subsidies, if any, should be limited to investment and accrue only to SSIs. On the other hand,
medium- and large-scale enterprises should not be forced to participate merely to get financial
equity participation. The cost recovery system should be equitable, take into account pollution
load, and provide incentives to members for water recycling and waste minimization. Technical
and financial clearances to the extent possible should be delegated to more than one institution in
order to reduce delays and facilitate access to funding through DFIs (Part I, para 100). A
prerequisite to such a decentralization is however establishment of a clear process guidance
framework and training.
32. Environmental lines of credit have been shown to rarely contribute to improved
environmental outcomes in the long run unless, the policies responsible are modernized, well
supported with regulatory, economic and market-based instruments, public awareness and
education efforts and appropriately communicated. Large, well-run industries can afford to make
the necessary investments, drawing on well-established lines of credit. Small industries typically
do not avail themselves of environmental credit lines unless they are subsidized, in which case
they often only take the money in order to comply with court orders. Poor operation and
maintenance on the part of the small industry, combined with lax enforcement by the
environmental authorities, often undermines the benefits of these subsidies. All of this points to
the fact that it is the quality of management and other "intangible" factors that influence the
environmental performance of industries, not the availability of ear-marked credit lines. This
places all the more pressure on well-designed technical assistance and institution-building
activities, which harness the ingenuity of industries to improve their management - and indirectly
improve their environmental performance (Part I, para 101).
33. At a minimum, credit line eligibility criteria should specifically exclude pollution control
facilities of new plants or capacity expansion units, and subprojects which have already secured
financing from other sources and are under implementation should be excluded. Sub-project
appraisal should ensure that investments are addressing the entire pollution issue and are not
resolving a pollution problem just by shifting it to a different medium (i.e., from liquid effluents
to solid waste). Early during project implementation, financial intermediaries should be required



x
to develop an in-house environmental group capable of appraising the environmental soundness
of projects, supervise implementation, and monitor the environmental performance of their
clients. Access to World Bank financing - if at all - should be confined to financial
intermediaries capable of reaching small- and medium-scale clients, as large scale industry has
access to alternative sources of funds. With respect to overall management of the project physical
and financial reporting systems should be agreed upon at appraisal, and financial criteria and
monitoring indicators and the frequency of the reporting should be agreed before project
implemenation starts. During implementation, Bank missions should include a financial
management specialist to review the adequacy of financial reporting systems (Part I, para 102).
34. For Demonstration Projects, agencies responsible for promoting demonstration projects
should not be financial intermediaries, but agencies capable of administering a competitive grant
program. Eligibility criteria for demonstration projects should include provisions for Intellectual
Property Rights over results and should require a commercialization and dissemination program.
Conclusion
35. In many ways, the sum of these observations confirm the Bank's findings in other sectors:
without an adequate policy environment and appropriate incentives, investment projects (with
incidental technical assistance components) are not likely to achieve their intended objectives -
certainly not in a sustainable manner. To the extent this was known in the early days of the
project, a systematic restructuring effort (above all a downsizing of the project) would have been
beneficial. As a pilot, this project would likely have been useful to experiment with, and identify,
the most suitable environmental policy measures for the longer term. This approach appears not
to have been chosen, in part because of a preoccupation - both inside the Bank and with the
Borrower - with project size and the need for disbursements.



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
INDIA - INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 3334-IN and Credit 2252-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives
Original Objectives and Changes During Implementation
1. The project's overall objective was to support the Government of India's efforts to prevent
and alleviate environmental degradation caused by industrial operations and assist in the
successful attainment of the proposed short and medium-targets of its environmental policy. The
project was therefore designed to assist in identifying and implementing a cost-effective program
for industrial pollution monitoring, control and abatement.
2. The project's specific goals were: (i) to promote effective and timely enforcement of existing
legislation on environmental protection regarding industrial sources; (ii) to support efforts by
industry to comply with existing environmental regulations, including a special effort designed to
reach the small scale industry through the setting up of common treatment facilities and (iii) to
support assessments, extension services and research in waste minimization, resource recovery
and pollution abatement in industry.
3. The project comprised: (a) an institutional. component designed to strengthen the Central and
State Pollution Control Boards in four states (Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Uttar
Pradesh); (b) an investment component, through two Development Financial Institutions (DFIs),
designed to support efforts by industry to comply with regulations, including support for the set-
up of common effluent treatment plants (CETPs); and (c) a technical assistance component for
the assessment of environmental problems and the development of suitable responses. The
investment component was to finance sub-loans and sub-grants for: (a) the establishment of
CETPs, mainly for small scale industries (SSIs) at sites with a heavy concentration of chemical
industries,(b) individual projects undertaken by polluting enterprises in the chemical and related
sub-sectors for waste minimization, resource recovery and pollution abatement; and (c)
demonstration projects.
4. The objectives were consistent with the Bank's country strategy at that time. Bank lending
to industry, and IDA grants for CETPs - mainly for SSIs - were viewed as important in
accelerating the resolution of critical pollution problems at a time when the regulatory system and
institutional arrangements for effective enforcement and compliance were inadequate in India. In
parallel, the institutional capacity of State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) would also be built-
up under the project. In line with its objectives, the project supported the enforcement strategy of
GOI and the state governments
5. Through extensive discussions during project preparation, the project also supported several
policy objectives, which were recorded as Government commitments in the Minutes of
Negotiations. These included: (a) issuing a Policy Statement for the Abatement of Pollution; (b)
increases in the level of water cess; and (c) initiation of a switch from concentration-based to
load-based pollution standards.



2
6. There was only one change in project objectives during implementation, which required
amendment of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA): in November 1995, a component was
added to strengthen external portfolio management by providing computer and communication
systems to the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) and an amount of US$2 million of IDA
funds was reallocated from the investment components to this activity.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
7. The objectives were clear and important in the Bank's country strategy at the time. Bank
lending to industry and IDA grants for CETPs for the small-scale sector were viewed as
important in accelerating the resolution of critical pollution problems, given the inadequacy of the
regulatory system and of institutional arrangements for effective enforcement and promotion of
compliance. The project's focus was on the chemical and related industries, identified as a group,
as a major source of industrial pollution in the four project states. In parallel, the institutional
capacity of these four State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) would be built up. In line with its
objectives, the project supported the enforcement strategy of Government of India (GOI) and the
state governments, and, after 1994/95, the execution of important Court decisions concerning the
establishment of CETPs for small and medium industries. However, today, the policy and
institutional objectives of the project appear to have been too modest, as, although the most
important issues in the institutional and policy framework were identified, the project did not
include instruments to ensure that they are addressed during implementation. Furthermore, Bank
lending to large industries is not justified because when it is unsubsidized (as it should be), and
requests for subloan funding are carefully scrutinized, Bank funds are not attractive to industry,
which has access to other more flexible sources of funds. The impact of Bank lending under the
project on accelerating compliance by large and medium-scale industry was clouded by the issue
of subsidized interest rates which crept into the project during implementation, and is likely to
have led to susbtitution of funds. In particular, the fact that: (i) a number of these sub-projects
utilised the Bank line of credit to re-finance their commercial loans; and (ii) sub-loans were used
to finance pollution control facilities of new investments and/or capacity expansions - activities
which should have been included in the overall scope and financing plan of the project - raises
doubts about the need for at least part of this lending operation.
B. Achievement of Objectives
8. Over the years the Bank has shifted its own emphasis in monitoring projects from inputs and
outputs- to outcome and impacts. In the present case however, the project design and much of its
implementation and supervision focused more on inputs and outputs and less on outcome. The
measurement of impact was not considered at any stage of the project. In fact, the project did not
have any environmental performance indicators as well as supportive management information
system developed as part of its design. Hence, although the progress on achievement of objectives
in terms of physical outputs has been satisfactory, the project outcomes and impacts that ensure
the project sustainability, are difficult to assess. This has been one of the major impediments in
assessing the achievement of project objectives.
8 The Input-Output-Outcome-Impact framework defines these terms as follows: Input (resources provided
or actually used under the project); Output (the immediate goods or services provided by the project);
Outcome (the immediate results of the project); Impact (the longer term results) (Ref: Pollution
Prevention and Abatement Handbook 1998, Toward Cleaner Production, The World Bank in collaboration
with UNEP, UNIDO.



3
9. While the project did not include covenants related to policy changes, several important
policy issues were discussed and recorded as GOI commitments at negotiations. They related to:
(a) issuing of a Policy Statement for the Abatement of Pollution; (b) increases in the levels of
water cess; and (c) initiation of a switch from concentration to load based pollution standards and
were reflected in the draft Loan Agreement either as covenants or as conditions of Board
presentation. However, they were dropped from the Legal Agreements at negotiations and were
recorded in the minutes of negotiations as activities that the Government had the intention to
implement. These policy objectives were substantially achieved and progress has been made in
the implementation of the Policy Statement. It would be-inappropriate however to attribute much
of the above progress solely to this project. Many of the major policy decisions were taken in
fact as a response to public pressure and court mandates and in some cases, implemented as a
part of an independent updating exercise. Somehow the project design was not tuned for effective
implementation of the proposed short and medium-targets of GOI's Policy Statement for
Abatement of Pollution, although this was the principal objective of the project.
(a) Policy Statementfor Abatement of Pollution.
10. The framework of incentives for compliance was reviewed by a mission in February 1990,
which identified a number of gaps and weaknesses in it, in particular with respect to lack of
financial incentives for compliance. The GOI prepared a draft Policy Statement which was
discussed at a workshop in August/September 1990 in India, and at negotiations in Washington
(April 1991). During negotiations, GOI informed the Bank of its intention to issue the policy
Statement in that same year. However, a revised draft Policy Statement was given to the Bank
prior to the Board presentation and was officially released in July 1992.
1 1. Besides clearly reaffirming the Polluter-Pays Principle, the Statement outlined a number of
steps to prevent pollution; encourage the adoption of best available practical solutions, in
particular by providing assistance to the small-scale industry; focus protection on heavily polluted
areas and rivers; revise standards to introduce load-based standards and economic incentives for
compliance (effluent charges); increase self regulation through environmental audits; promote
public partnership; improve public awareness and information; and improve inter-agency
coordination.
12. Annex 1, Table I presents the main policies in the Statement and progress made so far
towards achieving them. There have been significant advances in identifying and developing
programs in critical industries, areas and rivers; in assisting small-scale industry for adoption of
clean technologies and pollution abatement; in developing load-based national standards and
public liability regulation; in improving policies and regulation for siting of industry through a
better EIA review process and the preparation of zoning Atlases; in increasing self-regulation by
making environmental audits compulsory for 17 categories of industries; and in improving the
release of information to the public.
13. However, there remain some important areas where progress has been slow. Two areas,
especially, deserve priority attention: (a) integration of environmental concerns in development
projects by local administrations, in particular municipalities, which is still weak, and much
remains to be done to develop programs to curb growing pollution from domestic sewers and
solid waste; and (b) economic incentives for better compliance have yet to be developed and
applied. The lack of progress in the development and testing of economic incentives for better
compliance, which were identified since 1990 as lacking in the policy framework and were an
objective in the Policy Statement, continues to seriously undermine the effectiveness of
environmental regulatory agencies actions.



4
14. Regarding the development of economic instruments, so far, there appears to have been no
progress in developing a system of effluent or emission charges based on pollution load, high
enough to encourage pollution prevention and abatement, starting in critically polluted and
sensitive areas. Following a study which was carried out in the framework of preparation of the
Industrial Pollution Prevention Project, a Government Task Force was formed in March 1995 to
examine the feasibility of different types of economic instruments for industrial pollution
abatement and to develop a plan of action for their selective introduction. Although the task force
completed its work in March 1997, its report was only issued in March 1999. The Task Force
recommended: (i) a substantial increase in the price of clean water to industry; (ii) detailed
industry-specific studies to be carried out to set-up pollution charges; (iii) the introduction of
tradable permits on a pilot basis; and (iv) changes to the legal framework to give power of
enforcement to SPCBs. However, the report does not include a timetable for these actions.
15. Furthermore, the effectiveness of SPCBs continues to be hindered by the low levels of fines
and penalties. Fines need to become high enough that the cost of non-compliance becomes
higher than the cost of compliance. Currently, the only effective administrative sanction that
SPCBs can impose is to order suspension of utility (power and water) supply to defaulters in
industrial estates. Low levels of financial penalties is also resulting in heavy reliance being
placed on criminal (as opposed to civil or administrative) law as the primary enforcement vehicle.
This raises both the time and cost of enforcing the law and reaching negotiated settlements, due to
associated lengthy court proceedings and exacting requirements. Raising fines and financial
penalties would help "decriminalize"violations and rely more heavily on civil and administrative
legal procedures for enforcement. This would also help expanding the role of NGOs in
monitoring and enforcement and increasing delegation of monitoring functions to third parties.
16. Enactment of regulations permitting effluent/emission charges based on pollution load and
high administrative fines would also reduce dependence of SPCBs on resources such as fees
charged for analysis, which create incentives for them to expand their own laboratory
infrastructure rather than implementing a system of accreditation of private or other institutional
laboratories.
(b) Water Cess
17. Water cess is a charge levied by SPCBs on water consumption from municipal water and
sewerage companies and 16 categories of industry and other large users of water. Eighty percent
of the proceeds of water cess collected is returned to SPCBs as a source of funds for their
operation. The low levels of cess was identified during project preparation as a major obstacle to
the Boards becoming financially more self-supporting. A substantial increase in water cess rates
was proposed as a condition of Board presentation, but, at negotiations, this condition was
eliminated as the Government informed the Bank that the increase could only take place after
elections, as part of the 1991/92 Budget Statement, which had been deferred. Water cess rates
were increased, effective February 1992. The increase was substantial: while the standard rate
doubled, the effective increase was higher, up to six times for those not complying with the
provisions of the Water Act and GOI's standards. Changes in cess rates are presented in Annex
E, Table 2. Changes in amounts of water cess collected and returned to SPCBs in India and in
the four project states are presented in Annex E, Tables 3 and 4.
18. The impact of this increase on SPCB's finances was significant: for the four beneficiary
SPCBs -- which account for about half of total cess collected in India -- funding from cess
reimbursement increased 4 times in real terms between the average of the three years preceding
the increase (1988/89 to 1990/91) and 1997/98. This was the result of the rate increase but also



5
of stepped-up efforts at improving collection, which has doubled since 1992/93; increases in the
share of cess transferred to SPCBs and reduction in delays in refunding the Boards for their share
by the Central Govemment. Cess has become one of the major sources of funding for them, and
has significantly contributed to their progress towards self-sufficiency and, for many, to the
virtual elimination of direct budget allocation by the central and state governments. The GOI is
currently considering a three-fold increase in cess rates to allow SPCBs to step up their activities
significantly. However, cess remains considerably below the opportunity cost of water treatment
and should be significantly increased and differentiated to provide effective incentives to reduce
water consumption (through recycling) and liquid effluents.
(c) Load-based Standards
19. Reliance on concentration-based standards was identified during preparation as insufficient to
ensure a decline of pollution in a fast growing economy and a gradual shift to load-based
standards was advocated. The draft Loan Agreement at the time of negotiations included a
covenant calling for the commissioning of a study to review discharge standards and eventually
shift them to a load basis, when adequate. At negotiations, GOI informed the Bank that MoEF
had decided to shift towards load-based standards and had issued the first set of such standards
(for the pulp and paper industry). Since that time, national pollutant-specific load-based
standards have been issued for eleven categories of industries, and wastewater maximum volume
discharge standards have been issued for 12 categories of industries. A list of these industries is
provided in Annex E, Table 5.
Institutional Objectives
Strengthening of State Pollution Control Boards
20. As commented later in this report, due to delays in procuring most of the needed equipment,
the project has not so far fully achieved its objective of strengthening SPCB's analytical and
monitoring capabilities. The project also aimed at contributing to their overall strengthening
through a comprehensive training program as well as carrying out an organization and staffing
study, which were implemented.
21. During preparation, a number of deficiencies were identified in the organization, staffing and
funding mechanism of the four SPCBs. Important functions, such as planning, research, and
environmental education, were either inadequately represented or were completely absent. The
overall staffing was insufficient; staff were unevenly distributed between states and regional
offices and they did not have adequate skills mix and training. The remuneration for staff was
low which resulted in lack of incentives to perform well and there were limited career
opportunities. Furthermore, SPCBs, as bureaus within the civil service, had low status and lacked
autonomy. Finally, it was viewed that SPCBs need to become financially more independent and
also increase their efforts at collecting revenues and charges.
22. A study of the organization and management of the four State Boards according to the terms
of reference agreed upon at negotiations was to be completed by December 1991. GOI formed a
committee to carry out the study, which was completed in November 1992. However, the Bank
judged that the report did not adequately fulfil the terms of reference, hence a second study was
contracted to the Administration Staff College of India (ASCI), which submitted its report in
April 1994. A workshop was organized in Hyderabad in February 1995, and representatives of
MoEF, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), and the four SPCBs, ASCI and the Bank (as
observer) participated to discuss the recommendations of the study and prepare an action plan.
While the workshop generally endorsed the recommendations of the study and produced



6
recommendations for endorsement of senior officials of state governments and MoEF/CPCB, it
was not followed up by the development of concrete plans specific to each board. MoEF had
agreed to follow-up on implementation of the workshop recommendations, but did not report any
further on it. It is thus difficult to assess the extent to which the study itself motivated the
changes in SPCBs which took place subsequently. It is likely to have been one of the
contributing factors, however, because chairmen of SPCBs met every quarter either regionally or
nationally to discuss policies, standards and experiences. Annex F lists the main
recommendations of the study and presents the corresponding implementation status for each one
of the four boards.
23. Indicators of changes in geographical coverage, staffing, regulatory activity, productivity and
budget, from 1990/91 to 1998/99, are presented in Table 6A. All four boards have significantly
increased their regulatory activity and expanded their geographical coverage. While total staff as
well as technical and scientific staff have increased moderately (10% to 36% for total staff, and
17% to 35% for technical and scientific staff, except Gujarat where the increase was 97%),
productivity seems to have increased substantially. Samples per staff have increased by 75% to
230% and inspections per staff by 48% to 242%. Increased productivity is attributed to a
combination of regionalization (all boards have increased the number of regional offices and
laboratories), delegation of functions to the regional and sub-regional levels, simplification of
consent procedures, and computerization of operations. Total revenues in real terms has
increased by 2.9 times (Maharashtra), 3.2 times (Gujarat), 4.7 times (Uttar Pradesh), and 6.4
times (Tamil Nadu) between 1989/90 and 1997/99. At the same time, dependence on state and
central governments budget appropriations has been reduced, since state boards have maintained
(Gujarat, at about 55%), or increased (Maharashtra, from 59% to 92%, Uttar Pradesh, from 77%
to 100%, and Tamil Nadu from 48% to 100%) their share of resources raised from water cess,
analysis charges, consent fees and interest on financial investments.
24. Increased delegation of functions to regional and subregional levels, simplification of consent
procedures, and increased financial self-sufficiency, were all part of recommendations of the
study. Other recommendations which all boards to some extents implemented are: (a) increased
emphasis on self-regulation through time-bound agreements for compliance with industries
(associated with provision of Bank guarantees); (b) establishment of environmental and public
awareness and research and development units; (c) computerization of functions; and (d)
promotion of CETPs in industrial estates. Moreover, some boards have also created planning
units and established better procedures for EIAs.
25. However, in a number of important areas, implementation of proposed changes has been
limited: (a) generally, boards did not substantially strengthen their planning function, and their
priorities continue to be dictated by national programs or by the Courts (for example, the Gujarat
Board was forced to recruit a significant number of scientists because of court orders). They have
yet to develop a strong capacity to establish their own priorities and design and carry out
corresponding programs in heavily polluted and sensitive areas; (b) boards did not significantly
improve their productivity by outsourcing more of the routine monitoring activities (at least for
good performers) and require more self-reporting, while focusing their own monitoring activities
more on defaulters by suplementing their staff with consultants --none of the boards has
established a system of laboratory accreditation except Maharashtra, which abolished it in 1997--;
(c) besides promoting CETPs, board have not built up capabilities to provide technical assistance
to small scale industries within or outside CETPs to inform them about options available to them
and guide them on technological choices for cleaner technologies or pollution abatement; and (d)
reporting on environmental quality also remains limited to mostly monitoring results produced
under national programs.



7
26. With respect to staffing and organization, only one state (Gujarat) has substantially increased
the number of technical and scientific staff (ref. para 25). The three other boards have made
limited progress towards changing their staff skill mix to increase the shares of technical and
scientific staff--at Appraisal, boards had estimated that they would require between 100 and 150
additional technical and scientific staff each to perform their functions. Only Gujarat has met this
target (1 10), because of the Court order, while the other boards increased their staff only by 34,
62 and 87, respectively in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Furthermore, none of the
boards carried out the comprehensive manpower studies which should have followed the staffing
and organization study, nor have they increased compensation levels to build a cadre of
competent environmental specialists. Finally, none of the boards adopted corporate structure or
other legal forms which could permit increased administrative and budgetary autonomy.
Strengthening of Environmental Capabilities of DFIs
27. ICICI and IDBI had expertise in finance and engineering through their normal operations in
India, but very little environmental expertise, despite the fact that all new investments are
required to have Environmental Impact Assessments to receive financing from these institutions.
The project sought to complement the DFIs'capabilities by funding a training program for ICICI
and IDBI officers on all aspects of environmental assessment of industrial projects, which they
did not use partly due to poor coordination with MoEF. However, IDBI managed to organize
one training program and used US$50,000 of IDA funding.
28. In both IDBI and ICICI, technical appraisal is decentralized to branch offices. Overall
project coordination at headquarters is the responsibility of departments which do not deal with
technical matters. Project follow up is done by regional loan officers, but they have no expertise
to assess environmental performance. Essentially, IDBI and ICICI rely on clearances by SPCBs
to assess wether the investments they finance are environmentally justified, and, de-facto, all
supervision in terms of pollution control is left to SPCBs. Both institutions have informed that
they have carried out environmental training programs for their lending officers out of their own
resources, and ICICI has stated that it is in the process of formulating an environmental and social
policy. However, neither DFI has yet a specialized environmental group capable of outlining the
institution's policies with respect to environmental requirements of lending, and of analyzing and
monitoring the environmental justification of their projects and the environmental performance of
their borrowers. The project failed to build up such capacity.
Physical Objectives
29. Physical achievements of the project are summarized in Table 5A and further detailed in
Tables 5B through SD. The Project's physical objectives were substantially achieved.
(a) Institutional Component
30. The project was to finance a program of improvements at the CPCB and the four SPCB's
through a training program, acquisition of equipment, and laboratory facilities. The objectives of
this component were partially met.
31. Training. Training was to be provided to staff of CPCB and SPCBs to upgrade their skills in
four major areas: laboratory quality assurance and control; instruments use and maintenance;
environmental science, and management training (in particular project management, laboratory
management, reporting and planning). Most of the training was to take place in India. Overall,
the training programs were substantially completed. Although funding allocation for training
was not fully used, a total of 145 training programs were organized through 30 reputed training



8
institutions in India, between 1992/93 and 1998/99, for about 2,000 participants from CPCB and
all India's SPCBs. In addition, MoEF organized three training programs abroad. The distribution
of programs offered by topics is shown in Table SB. The actual program was rather broader in
scope than originally planned, but covered all the subjects in the original program and other
subjects relevant to SPCBs activities. There were, however, a large number of computer
applications courses (close to 30% of all courses offered) which might have been better offered
locally by each board, while MoEF/CPCB should have concentrated on organizing more
specialized and managerial training. There is no evaluation of the usefulness of training
delivered, but SPCB officials interviewed during the completion mission generally expressed
their overall satisfaction with the range and content of training programs.
32. Equipment. The project was to assist the Boards with a program of improvements in
analytical and monitoring equipment at the central and regional laboratories of the four SPCBs.
The program included analytical and monitoring instruments, air conditioning and humidity
control equipment for laboratories, some office equipment as well as vehicles. Equipment
totalling about US$9.5 million, or about 1 10% of Appraisal estimates, were purchased under the
project (the list of equipment is provided in Table 5B). However, for reasons further explained in
Section C, procurement of the bulk of equipment was considerably delayed. Most equipment
were received during the first quarter of 1998/99, including most of the sophisticated analytical
equipment. By the closing date, this sub-component had substantially reached its physical
objectives, but had made marginal impact on the strengthening capability of SPCBs.
33. Facilities. The project supported the provision or refurbishing of laboratory facilities in the
four states. This sub-component has generally met its objectives. 22 central and regional
laboratories were improved or expanded and fitted with equipment (ref para 32) to provide
adequate environmental control. In Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, the project was also to
provide adequate office space for SPCB headquarters. Such space was provided in Uttar
Pradesh; however, in Maharahtra, SPCB continues to operate in its original facility which is
totally unsuitable. Total spending on this activity amounted to US$0.9 million, or about 56% of
the Appraisal estimates (appraisal estimates, however, included environmental control and office
equipment which are included in equipment costs).
34. A summary of costs of the Institutional Strengthening Component, by categories, is provided
in Table 8B.
(b) Investment Component
35. This component was to finance sub-loans and sub-grants for: (a) set-up of CETPs at industrial
estates and other sites with a heavy concentration of chemical industries mainly of small size; (b)
individual projects undertaken by enterprises in the target sectors dealing with waste
minimization, resource recovery and pollution abatement; and (c) demonstration projects to be
selected on the basis of established eligibility criteria. The investment component targeted
sectors comprising the chemical and related industries, including fertilizers, leather tanning, dyes,
pesticides and insecticides, pharmaceuticals, petrochemicals, pulp and paper, and sugar and
distilleries, which as a group had been identified as a major source of industrial pollution. For
individual investments, these sub-sectors were not explicitly listed in the eligibility criteria,
however, at negotiations, it was recorded in the minutes that the project would target the chemical
and related industries as priority but other industries would not be excluded. Large and medium-
scale industries were to be targeted under the individual projects (implicit in the choice of two
financial intermediaries dealing only with these types of projects) while small-scale industry
would be targeted in setting up CETPs.



9
(i) Common Effluent Treatment Facilities (CETPs)
36. The concept of CETP was originally promulgated in 1984 by the MOEF via the Central Loan
Scheme (CLS). The CETP of Jedimetala in Andhra Pradesh was one of the first CETPs to access
the CLS in 1985. The IPC Project essentially continued the CLS scheme with a ceiling on the
extent of subsidy and increasing the promoter's contribution. The objective of the sub-component
was to support a special effort to reach mostly the small - scale industries in the chemical sector
through the setting up of CETPs to help them comply with environmental regulations. At
Appraisal, it was estimated that about 20 CETPs for a total of 4,700 small - scale enterprises,
processing a total of about 163,700 m3 /day of effluent would be implemented under the project.
Twenty-seven CETPs were actually appraised by IDBI and implemented under the project,
processing about 143,000 m3 /day of effluent from 3,926 enterprises. The project had allocated a
total of US$12 million equivalent of IDA funds and US$24 million of IBRD funds to respectively
finance grants (up to 20%) and subloans (up to 40%) towards the costs of these plants' Total
IBRD and IDA funds disbursed for CETPs appraised by IDBI amount to about US$13.8 million
and US$4.9 million receptively. The list of subprojects together with their costs and financing is
provided in Table 8C. These 27 CETPs account for about 50% of all CETPs (53) funded under
the project countrywide.
37. Beginning in early 1997, MoEF started to commit IDA funds to a large number of CETPs
that were not accessing the IBRD loan component through IDBI and were therefore not appraised
by IDBI. This was done without consultation with the Bank, and was apparently in response to a
Supreme Court order which obligated MoEF to extend the central govemment subsidy to
polluting industries nation-wide. The subsequent developments were as follows:
(a) the Bank appears to have been informed about these CETPs in 1997, as the Aide Memoire of
the supervision mission of February 1997 includes the following observation: "The MoEF
informed that it has allocated resources of about Rs.225 million for financing of 15 CETPs in the
Delhi area as a direct result of instruction from the Supreme Court. However, specific proposals
for these projects have yet to be received by IDBI and the Bank. Proposals meeting agreed
eligibility criteria will have to be prepared by a sponsor and appraisedfinancially and
technically by IDBI before the Bank issues its approval ";,l
(b) during the supervision mission of September/October 1998 the issue of additional 60 CETPs,
for which MoEF had already committed funds, in cluding 15 CETPs in New Delhi, was raised.
However, it was not clear whether the Bank in 1997 had already agreed to take a flexible position
on these CETPs. In order to help MoEF resolve this issue (which MoEF had indicated was
imposed on them by the Supreme Court order), the project team requested MoEF to inform the
Bank about the status of these CETPs by November 1998, with the understanding that the Bank
would favorably review the situation on case by case basis for CETPs that have been completed;
9IBRD allocation was reduced to US$16 million through an amendment to the Development Credit Agreement on July
9, 1993.
10 Based on discussions with MoEF, the proponents of setting up CETPs for small-scale industries found the
established procedures for approval of CETPs and eligibility criteria specified by IDBI to access the IDA and IBRD
funds too cumbersome and impossible to fully comply with. Some of the constraints were: (i) long delays in inspection
and approvals by IDBI, (ii) requirements for personal guarantees, (iii) high interest rates on IBRD loan, and (iv)
requirement for projected financial statements and balance sheets, which many of them could not produce. Therefore,
they requested MoEF to allow them to by pass IDBI, which MoEF apparently agreed to. In the meantime State
governments under pressure from the Courts, contributed their share of subsidy for setting up CETPs for small-scale
industries, which in turn obligated MoEF to release the central subsidy under IDA funds. MoEF has indicated that
somewhere around this time they informed the Task Manager about the actions they were taking, and there was no
objection from the Bank. However, MoEF did not produce any correspondence to this effect.



10
(c) Early in 1999, just before the closing date of the project, MoEF requested the Bank to
reallocate savings under the Technical Assistance Component to be utilized for (i) granting
supplementary funds to the CETPs that had received central grants at the time that the ceiling of
Rs. 5 million was in effect, and (ii) enabling MoEF to fulfill its commitment to release the central
subsidy - funded through the IDA component - to these 60 CETPs. The Bank informed MoEF
that formal reallocation of funds right before project closing date was not warranted, but in order
to free MoEF from the substantial fiancial liability they had created for themselves under the
project, the Bank agreed to accord post-facto approval to those CETPs. However, this approval
was subject to CETPs having substantially met the agreed eligibility criteria that was stipulated in
the Project Agreement. During the wrap-up meeting of the final supervision mission and
preparation for the ICR in April 1999, the Bank agreed on a timetable for review and post-facto
approval of these CETPs to be completed before end June 1999;
(d) subsequently, the Bank engaged a local consultant to: (i) review compliance with the
eligibility criteria and (ii) visit a sample of the CETPs to verify status of their completion and also
to determine the order of magnitude of the eligible expenses that had been incurred. In the end,
the Bank agreed to reimburse a total of about Rs. 184 million (equivalent to about US$4.3
million). This covered a total of 52 out of these 60 CETPs, of which 26 were reported to have
been commissioned or were about to be commissioned and 25 (including 15 in New Delhi, where
cost of compound wall were also covered) were funded for carrying out feasibility studies. 1 A
list of these CETPs and IDA allocation is provided in table 8D.
38. Table 5C provides breakdowns of the 27 CETPs, which were appraised by IDBI by size of
investment, categories of industries, states, effluent treatment capacity, and member industries.
An analysis of this data shows the following:
*  A comparison of average CETP capacity in each sub-sector (2,400, 3,800, and 14,000 m3
/day respectively) and the average number of members (53, 114 and 355, respectively) shows
that the mixed chemical industry is much more concentrated in large industrial estates and
thus require larger CETPs with a larger numbers of participants. However, the volume of
effluent per participant in the mixed chemical sub-sector is about 39 m3 /day, in line with
those of the two other two sub-sectors.
*  All 27 CETPs are located in the four states targeted under the project, with about 60% in
Tamil Nadu (accounting respectively for 38% and 30% of credit and loan funds and 40% of
subproject total costs). In comparison, only 15% of the subprojects were implemented in
Gujarat, but they accounted for 42% and 58% of credit and loan funds and 47% of subproject
total costs. This reflects the concentration of chemical industries in Gujarat. Also, out of the
additional 26 CETPs approved by MoEF which were implemented or under implementation
in the country, 15 are located in Tamil Nadu. The high concentration of CETPs in Tamil
Nadu is the result of the high number of judicial verdicts by the Madras High Court in 1997,
adaptation of the CETP concept, and the high concentration of small dyeing and leather/
tannery industries in the state.
*  Allocation of funds was relatively concentrated in the larger CETPs: about 59% of the CETPs
appraised by IDBI had a total cost of less than US$1million each, and accounted for only
38% of IDA and 8% of IBRD funds. In contrast, 7.5% (two subprojects) had a cost higher
IiIt should be mentioned that MoEF had already advanced about Rs. 225 million to New Delhi government for
construction of 15 CETPs, and had already claimed the amount from the IDA under SOE procedures. Although,
MoEF had advanced the funds in 1997, the Bank became aware of this transaction only in December 1998.



11
than US$5 million and accounted for 32% of IDA and 50% of IBRD funds. In the first
category, the average treatment capacity per participant was 35.4 m3/day (with a total
treatment capacity of about 30,000 m3/day effluent from 848 participants), while in the
second category, the average treatment capacity per participant was 63.1 m3/day (with a total
treatment capacity of 71,000 m3/day from more than 1,125 participants).
*  Most CETPs are relatively small: out of the 27 CETPs approved by IDBI, 19 have less than
100 participants and their average capacity is less than 2,200 m3 /day of effluent. There has
been a general increase in CETP membership over time. Total number of participants in all
27 CETPs as of April 1999 was 3,926, about 20% higher than in IDBI estimates at the time of
subproject appraisal. Over 85% of members are small and medium-scale industries,
identified as priority targets for CETPs at Appraisal (out of 3,926 participants, at least 3,350
are small to medium scale industries, the balance of 576 are mainly medium to large scale
industries).
*  There are substantial economies of scale: 26% of CETPs have a treatment capacity of less
than 1,000 m3 /day and were implemented at a very high average cost of about US$1,000 per
m3 /day of effluent treated. Comparatively, CETPs with more than 10,000 m3 /day capacity
were implemented at a much lower average cost of about US$210 per m3 /day of effluent
treated. The economy of scale is less for treatment capacities between 1,000 and 10,000 m3
/day, for which the average cost was in the range US$325 to US$460 per mi3
39. The objective of reaching the small - scale industry through the setting up of CETPs to
comply with existing environmental regulations has therefore been partially met in the four
targeted project states and in 17 priority industries, but there are a number of important issues yet
to be resolved which are further discussed in Paras 58 through 69.
(ii) Individual Investments
40. The project had allocated a total of US$100 million of IBRD funds to be on-lent to individual
enterprises by IDBI (US$60 million) and ICICI (US$40 million), to finance 80% of subloans to
be approved under the project (there was a cap of US$10 million on each subloan). IBRD funds
was increased to US$108 million in July 1993 through a US$8 million reallocation of funds from
the Demonstration and CETP subcomponents. Both IDBI and ICICI actually approved a total of
76 subloans, 69 of which were implemented and fully disbursed ( as of May 1999, seven were
either canceled or still pending disbursements). Total IBRD funds actually disbursed for subloans
amounted to US$102.7 million. IDBI on-lent US$57.6 million (96% of the Appraisal estimates)
and ICICI US$45.1 million (113% of the Appraisal estimates). The list of subprojects together
with their costs and financing plans is provided in Table 8E.
41. Table SD provides breakdowns of subprojects by size, categories of industries, states, types
of project and types of pollution. A review of these data shows that the objective of this sub-
component of reaching large and medium-scale industries in the chemical and related sectors of
the four most industrialized states of India has been met:
* About 74% of subprojects approved, accounting for 75% of IBRD funds disbursed, were in
enterprises in the chemical and related sectors identified as priority targets at Appraisal-- all
sub-projects belonged to the 17 categories of highly polluting industries targeted by GOI as
priority. Among these, 11 subprojects, accounting for one third of IBRD funds, were for the
replacement of mercury cells with cleaner membrane cells in the caustic soda industry;



12
*  62% of projects approved, accounting for 69% of IBRD loan disbursed, were located in the
four project states;
*  58% of subprojects (accounting for 42% of IBRD funds), were investments for pollution
abatement and resource recovery; 22% of subprojects (accounting for 36% of IBRD funds)
were investments in cleaner technologies; 12% of subprojects (accounting for 13% of IBRD
funds) were investments in pollution control facilities for new plants or the expansion of
existing plants; and 8% of subprojects (accounting for 9% of IBRD funds) were new plants to
recycle wastes;
*  43% of subprojects addressed problems related with liquid effluents, 25% with dust and
gaseous emissions, 5% with solid waste, and 26% (accounting for 40% of IBRD funds
disbursed) with a combination of at least two of the three (subprojects for replacement of
mercury cells are included under this category). The small share of subprojects dealing with
solid waste reflects SPCBs' lack of emphasis on proper solid waste handling and disposal at
the time;
*  44 sub-loans implemented pollution abatement technologies with foreign collaborations.
Foreign collaborations in the Chlor-Alkali industry sector were the highest.'2
*  The average subloan amount was about US$1.7 million. However, the distribution of
subloans by size was highly skewed: almost half of subloans were less than US$1 million, but
they accounted for only 13% of total amounts approved. On the other hand, 22% of subloans
were over US$3 million and accounted for close to 60% of amounts approved.
42. There is, however, an unexpected number of subprojects (10), accounting for 17% of sub-
loan amounts approved, which financed the pollution control facilities of larger projects for new
plants or capacity expansion units in existing plants. Although funding for large subloans (new or
expansion of capacity) was not excluded from the eligibility criteria" one may question the
rationale for including this type of investments under the project for the following reasons. First,
because they are not contributing to reducing total pollution, and second because pollution control
facilities should be an integral part of new plants or expansion units and its funding should be part
of the project financing package, for which commercial sources of funding are available. These
subprojects have merely financed industrial capacity expansions (subprojects aiming at improving
existing pollution control facilities together with expansions are not included in this category).
43. There are also indications that at least 17 subprojects, totalling about US$24 million of IBRD
funds, were re-financed, or IBRD funds were substituted for other financing, as they were
completed or were nearing completion (all within four months of approval) when sub-loans were
approved.
(iii) Demonstration Projects
44. The project provided direct grants for projects demonstrating new approaches or techniques
potentially widely replicable in India, as prototype innovative units in the field of waste
minimization, resource recovery, or pollution abatement. Grants would be justified on the
following grounds: (i) risk due to technological novelty and lack of commercial scale experience
12 Lessons Learnt from the Bank-assisted Industrial Pollution Control and Industrial Pollution Prevention
Projects in India- Environmental Management Center- April 1998.
13 Minutes of negotiations recorded that "both new plants and modifications to existing plants are
considered eligible under the new investment component".



13
in India, (ii) large environmental impact in surrounding areas (treatment and disposal of
hazardous or toxic material), and (iii) comparatively large investments requirement from
otherwise economic and efficient sponsors. The maximum grant amount was US$500,000.
However, to be eligible, sponsors' fixed assets had to be equivalent to US$5 million or less.
45. After experiencing long delays in implementation of this subcomponent, which was
associated with the fixed asset limit and IDBI's difficulties in identifying suitable candidates
(Section C), the limit of US$5 million in fixed assets was waived in 1994. However, waiver of
this limit was recorded infromally through the Aide Memoire and follow-up letter of the
supervision mission that took place in August/September 1994. 12 subprojects were eventually
approved between 1996 and 1998, of which nine were implemented and three were subsequently
cancelled. Grants totalling US$2.8 million were provided to the nine subprojects which were
implemented, or 70% of the Appraisal allocation. There are clear indications however, that five
out of the nine implemented subprojects were re-financed, in the sense that the sponsors had
already secured the necessary funding from other sources (including loans from IDBI's own
sources) and in some cases had started implementating their project when IDBI directed them to
apply for grant under this project. A list of the subprojects and their cost is presented in Table
8F. A description of the subprojects and an assessment of their results are presented in Table 6E.
(c) TechnicalAssistance Component
46. As commented later in para 86, this component suffered from considerable delays and was
greatly under utilized, although a number of prospective studies had been identified at appraisal
(Annex 4.3 of the Staff Appraisal Report). Most of these studies were not carried out, at least not
under the project. A list of studies carried out under the TA component and their cost is provided
in Table 8G. A summary of their content and outcome is provided in Table 7. The project
financed the following studies and technical assistance:
*  Preinvestment, Treatability, and Pilot plant studies and Manuals. The project financed
three pre-investment and three pilot plant studies, focused on central incineration and
hazardous waste treatment and disposal, municipal solid waste processing, sewage treatment
a,nd treatment of polluted waters.
*  Organizational Study of the State Boards. This study was prepared by the Administrative
Staff College of India. The impact of this study is covered in earlier sections.
*  Training Program on Environmental Issues at the DFIs. IDBI conducted more than 10
training programs for its staff in technologies for pollution abatement and environmental
assessment. Around 400 staff were trained. ICICI trained some of their staff, albeit at a much
lower scale at existing training institutions Neither DFIs contracted technical assistance to
assist in the organization of an environmental cell for promotion of environmental projects
and institutionalized environmenal and social appraisal in the assessment of loans.
*  Other Studies. A study was carried out to develop environmental performance indicators for
the project and to carry out an ex-post evaluation of the project (this study was completed in
March 1999). Two studies were carried out to address pollution control problems and
environmental assessments of groups of industries (cement industry); two
area/epidemiological studies adressed area-specific environmental problems; and one study
sought to develop a software for hazardous analysis.



14
(d) External Portfolio Management
47. In November 1995, at the request of the GOI, the Bank agreed to strengthen the Minisrty of
Finance's capacity for management of external assistance by making provision for purchase of
equipment for Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) --including the office of the Controller of
Aid Accounts and Audit (CAA&A)-- and the Project Management unit. The Development Credit
Agreement was amended on November 8, 1995 to incorporate an allocation of about US$2
million for this purpose. In March 1999, the Bank also agreed to additional allocation of about
US$108,000 out of IDA funds to finance works in the office of the CAA&A related to site
preparation, such as minor civil works and electrical wiring, required for optimum functioning of
the purchased hardware, which was left out from the original package.
Costs and Financing
48. Total project costs and financing plan, actual compared to the Appraisal estimates, by
components and sub-components, are presented in Tables 8A and 8B. Actual costs are estimated
at US$685 million, compared to US$260 million at Appraisal. Of these costs, IBRD financed
US$1 16.5million (versus US$124 million expected at Appraisal), IDA contributed US$23.3
million (versus US$31.6 million at Appraisal), DFIs US$57.3 million (versus US$25 million at
appraisal), State Governments US$5.9 million (versus nothing at Appraisal), and sponsors
US$481 million (versus US$62 million). The Government of India, which was expected to
contribute US$17.4 million to CETPs and SPCBs operations, did not actually contribute funds
from its own resources, except for about US$0.9 million for facilities.
49. The very large increase in total costs is attributed entirely to the inclusion in individual
investments of the total cost of a number of very large projects, of which the project only
financed a small fraction. These consist of three subprojects which financed the pollution control
facilities of new plants or of capacity expansions (IDBI-BQ04, IDBI-B045 and ICICI-B026,
totalling US$148.7 million), and of investments in cleaner technology by the caustic soda
industry, one of which also with capacity expansion, which totalled US$244.9 million. Together,
these investments totaled U$4 17.1 million, or 70% of total costs of individual investments.
Since sponsors fnanced most of these costs from their own resources or borrowing from sources
other than those provided under the project, this resulted in total sponsor contributions much
above the Appraisal estimates for individual investments (73% of total costs, compared with 25%
at Appraisal).
50. Costs of the institutional development component in USDollars are comparable to appraisal
estimates, when excluding costs of SPCB operations, which were to be paid by GOI but were
actually paid by SPCBs. These costs were not provided and are not part of revised cost estimates.
Other costs were financed from IDA, as planned. Costs of the Technical Assistance component
are substantially below estimated costs in Rupees as well as in US Dollars, due to the low average
cost of the studies which were financed. As planned, they were financed on a grant basis under
IDA.
51. Total costs of CETPs appraised by IDBI are comparable in Rupees to the Appraisal estimates,
but, due to the devaluation of the currency which took place over the period (the exchange rate
depeciated from Rs. 20 in 1990/91 to Rs. 40 per US$ at the end of 1998), actual costs in
USDollars are only two thirds of the Appraisal estimates (US$40 million, compared to US$60
million at Appraisal). At Appraisal, CETPs funding formula was: grants up to 40% of total costs
(20% from IDA, through GOI, and 20% matching grant from GOI), IBRD loans up to 40% of
total costs, and sponsors' contribution was a minimum of 20%. Subsequently, the matching grant
of 20% became the responsibility of the state government and the percentages of both the IDA



15
and state grants were raised to 25%. Furthermore, the original ceiling of Rs. 5 million in grants
from both centeral and state governments was lifted in 1996. Nevertheless, the actual financing
plan shows that on average, sponsors financed a much larger share of total costs than originally
envisaged, 44% instead of 20%. IBRD (through IDBI subloans) financed 29% of total costs
(versus 40% at Appraisal) and IDA grants 12% (versus 20% at Appraisal). State governments,
financed the remaining 15% through grants. The total grant element of these CETPs thus
amounted to only 27%, compared to 40% at Appraisal and in the subloan applications. The
difference between the actual and originally envisaged formula is due to cost overruns, which
were covered by the sponsors, the absolute ceiling on subsidies until 1996; and delays in the
receipt of grants (some were still pending by the closing date). Furthermore, as of the closing
date, six out of 27 CETPs appraised by IDBI had not used their approved sub-loans.
52. In addition, the Bank accorded post-facto approval to eligible expenditures for 51 CETPs
which were not appraised by IDBI (ref para 37), for a total of about Rs. 184 million, which were
financed out of IDA funds.
53. Total cost of demonstration projects were, in US Dollars, 70% higher than estimated at
Appraisal. This reflects higher average subproject costs, in turn due to sponsors being larger
clients than originally planned. Since the grant amount was limited to US$500,000 per
subproject, sponsors have also contributed significantly more than expected, 84% versus 60%
estimated at Appraisal.
Benefits and Impact
54. No Performance Indicators were defined in the Staff Appraisal Report by which to judge the
success of the project, and no such indicators were developed during implementation. In 1998,
the Bank commissioned a study to conduct a brief review of this project as well as the follow-up
Industrial Pollution Prevention Project and draw on the lessons learnt14 Another study was
commissioned by MoEF to propose environmental performance indicators for the project and
carry out an ex-post evaluation Table 7, but it was completed only in March 1999. Various
studies were carried out to evaluate the results of CETPs5. The following paragraphs build upon
these studies and beneficiaries'responses to questionnaires sent out by the DFIs at the request of
the Bank.
(a) Institutional Strengthening
55. The results and impact of the Institutional Strengthening component need to be assessed in
conjunction with the impacts of the SPCBs reorganization study and other policy and institutional
changes which occurred within the boards since 1990. These aspects were covered in preceding
paragraphs. Quantitative indicators of SPCBs performance are presented in Table 6A.
56. CPCB has compiled data since 1992/93 on compliance by 17 categories of highly polluting
industries (Table 6B), which were the target of the project. Compliance rates have increased
significantly, in all of India as well as in the four states. In Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu,
compliance has improved from 60-70% in 1991/92 to 88%-96% in 1997/98. In Uttar Pradesh,
14 Lessons Learnt from the Bank-assisted Industrial Pollution Control and Industrial Pollution Prevention
Projects in India- Environmental Management Center- April 1998.
'5They are: (a) Performance of CETPs: A Review of Twelve CETPs in India-EPTRI, Hyderabad, March
1996; (b) CETPs and Pollution Abatement in SSIs-National Institute of Public Finance and Policy-New
Delhi, March 1999; (c) CETP Evaluation; Deepak Kantawala; (d) Common Effluent Treatment Plants
Evaluation; Kirsten Oleson; World Bank, August 1997.



16
compliance has improved from 20% in 1991/92 to 84% in 1997/98. When excluding closed
plants (these may have closed permanently), compliance rates improves even further. Interviews
of project beneficiaries by the completion mission during field visits have confirmed that boards
have substantially increased their pressure and controls, although sometimes they fail to provide
feedback on analysis results. The project may have contributed in part to these achievements by
supporting the strengthening of the Boards and providing financing to large and medium-scale
enterprises in the 17 categories of highly polluting industries, but the main reason for the
improvements are pressures from Courts. SPCBs have focused their action principally on liquid
effluent and, to a much lesser degree, air emissions, and only recently have they started to address
issues of hazardous waste management. Furthermore, little consolidated information exists with
long enough time series to draw conclusions on the effectiveness of the Board's actions on the
environmental status of their states. Under CPCB national programs, SPCBs have been
monitoring the quality of water and, more recently, ambient air in a number of critical areas.
However, although monitoring results are published in SPCBs'annual reports, no analysis of
trends over time and main factors for changes are presented in these reports.
57. With respect to small-scale industry, SPCBs, in response to pressures from Courts, have
made major advances in the establishment of CETPs in industrial estates. When the project
started, there were some CETPs under planning, but none were under construction. By the
project closing date, a total of 53 CETPs had been constructed or were under implementation in
India, including 44 in the four project states.
(b) Investment Component
(i) Common Effluent Treatment Facilities (CETPs)
58. Based on information obtained form Bank files, IDBI, MoEF, plant visits during the ICR
mission, information obtained from a sample of beneficiaries contacted with questionnaires
through IDBI, the study on "Environmental Performance Indicators" and studies carried out by
consultants on evaluation of CETPs ,16 it was possible to assess the main characteristics of the 27
CETPs appraised by IDBI and the preliminary results obtained by a sample of 13 CETPs. A
description of all subprojects together with their main characteristics, and results obtained by the
above 13 subprojects, are provided in Table 6C. A review of this data shows that some of
subprojects appear to have partially generated their intended benefit of reducing pollution from
small-scale industries. The effluent of more than 3,900 small- to medium- scale industries are
now being treated, furthermore, these CETPs have enabled them to resume and/or continue
operations. The limited environmental impact of CETPs is illustrated on Page 6 of Table 6C,
which shows the result of 8 CETPs in operation in Gujarat on the quality of receiving water
bodies, in terms of reductions of Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) and Chemical Oxygen
Demand (COD) levels and increased levels of Dissolved Oxygen (DO). CETPs, if working well
are cost effective mechanisms to contain pollution generated by SSIs as well as to reduce SPCB's
surveillance effort on them. However, a number of important technical, management and
financial issues need to be addressed to ensure the environmental and financial sustainability of
the CETP scheme and make it more effective. These issues are thoroughly commented in the
above mentioned studies and are summarized hereafter:
59. Environmental Compliance - Except for a few, most CETPs are only in partial compliance
with SPCB's standards -- they have generally been successful in addressing the issue of acidity,
16 Including by the Environment Protection Training and Research Institute (EPTRI) in 1996 and by the National
Institute of Public Finance and Policy in March 1999.



17
COD and BOD, but have yet to address concerns related to Total Dissolved Solids (TDS), sludge
management, and effluent color, heavy metals and organic chemical parameters. Deficiencies in
compliance are often the result of deficiencies in design and/or large fluctuations in quality and
quantity of raw effluent.
60. Pre-treatmentfacilities - Except for Enviro Technology Ltd., which does not require
preliminary treatment from its members and has treatment charges based on effluent acidity and
COD values, most agreements between CETPs and their member units provide pre-treatment of
effluent to specific standards prior to primary treatment. In addition to screening out girt and
other gross suspended material on site, pre-treatment may include de-toxication and precipitation
of metals such as chromium when necessary'7. In a few cases, such as GIDC's CETP of Vapi
(Gujarat), a very large CETP (designed for more than 1,000 members from mixed chemical
industries), primary treatment is also required from members. Compliance by individual units
with the pretreatment standards is critical to the efficiency of CETP operations and should be
carefully monitored to ensure proper operation of the CETP. Yet, it has been difficult for CETPs
to monitor member units and take action against those in default with pre-treatnent standards.
Currently, CETPs rely on SPCBs for enforcement of pre-treatment standards on its members,
through State Industrial Development Corporations ( SIDCs). Therefore, CETPs must be given
sufficient powers and means to inspect and test effluents of any of its member at the firm's outlet
and to take quick action against those that are not complying with their pretreatment obligations.
61. Sludge Disposal - Sludge, particularly from the mixed chemical sector, tanneries and dying
units may be hazardous and require safe and secured landfill facilities. However, with the
exception of two CETPs'8 that have implemented and are operating a secure hazardous waste
deposit, and three that are temporarily disposing of their sludge in small secured deposits built
within their premises but also have plans to establish secured hazardous waste deposits, all other
CETPs are or will be temporarily storing their sludge without special care, or dumping it in
nearby areas until their State Board can notify a suitable site for secure deposit. This reveals a
deficiency in design of CETPs and in the technical review carried out by NEERI'9 Early, during
project implementation, the Bank identified this issue, but did not impose the incorporation of
sludge disposal investments in CETPs' design. The rules framed under the Hazardous Waste Act
lay the onus of identification, accusation, environmental impact assessment and the final
notification of secured sites on the SPCBs. CETPs thus have to wait for a site to be notified by
SPCBs for disposal of sludge and there have been considerable delays in these notifications,
leading to temporary storage by CETPs. Nevertheless, since SPCBs were involved in the
promotion and clearance of CETPs, they should have addressed this issue in time and the Bank
and MoEF could have at least imposed the site notification as condition for approval of CETP
after this issue was raised.
62. Effluent Transport to CETPs- Except for two CETPs that are using lined tankers for the
transport of effluents from the member units to the CETP, all other CETPs appraised by IDBI and
17 The requirement of pre-treatment by tanneries is to remove chrome from effluent before it is discharged to the
CETP. Many medium-large units have their own chrome recovery unit. Other individual units segregate chrome
bearing effluent and transport by tankers to neighboring existing chrome recovery plant. It is estimated that recovered
chromium can amount to as much as 40% of the chromium needed in tanning and that the pay back period of the
recovery plant is approximately 2 years. However, no CETP is equipped with such facility and no individual
subproject for such facility has been financed under the project
18 Perfect Enviro Control Systems Pvt. in Gujarat for 6 tons per month of sludge and gypsum waste per unit members
and Enviro Technology Ltd. Ankleswar which, through a sister company has developed and operates a central secured
hazardous waste landfill, the design of which was financed under the technical assistance component of the project.
19 It may be noted here that the project was designed to finance the design and implementation of CETPs
for the treatment of wastewater and solid materials at industrial estates. (Refer SAR, 1991).



18
approved by the Bank use fixed collection and conveyance systems. Many of these systems were
implemented under the project as part of the CETPs and represent up to 60% of the total cost. A
few were implemented by the SIDCs. Tanker transport has the advantage of allowing easy
measurement of the volume and quality of effluent received from each member unit, thus
permitting an equitable sharing of costs based on pollutant loads. In addition, it makes it easy for
the CETP to refuse effluent from non-complying units. For large CETPs, however, operating
costs of fixed collection and transport system are lower. Ideally, they should be designed with
accurate metering and sampling devices and with the option of not accepting effluent from non-
complying units.
63. Recycling of Treated Effluents and Waste Minimization. CETPs are not yet recycling water,
however, a few of them have already started R&D programs to that effect. The treated effluent is
generally sent to the SIDC effluent transport system, in few cases to the municipal sewerage
system, and in 6 cases the effluent is used for gardening, plantations or released in agricultural
lands. In designing the cost sharing method, it is important to provide incentives to member units
for water recycling and waste minimization so that, by upgrading their production technology and
improving their effluent quality, they may save in their share of abatement costs. It was reported
that some CETPs are already taking initiatives of process optimization, recovery of toxic
substances and cleaner technology to minimize waste and reduce their effluent treatment costs.
64. Ownership and Management of CETPs. The predominant ownership model for the CETPs
appraised by IDBI, has been the association or cooperative of the member firms. A number of
CETPs were promoted, implemented and operated by SIDCs, as was the case of the CETP in
Vapi (C IDBI 07) which was initially controlled and operated by GIDC, and has now been
transferred to the VAPI Waste and Effluent Management Company Ltd., an association of its
members. Only one CETP was established for profit by an independent company.
65. CETPs promoted, implemented and operated by SIDCs turned out to be not suczessful in
either implementation or operation. Members firms often default on payments of their share of
treatment costs and tend to perceive that pollution control is the government's responsibility.
Also, public management of CETPs creates a conflict of interest within the government, as
SPCBs can find it difficult to take actions against another government body. The role of public
agencies like SIDCs is important in setting up CETPs in estates, but it should be limited to
disseminating information, motivating and organizing the SSI's, guidance in technical and
financial proposals. Experience in a number of CETPs also have shown that the assistance of
SIDCs in the collection of monthly effluent treatment charges together with water bills is efficient
and cost effective.
66. Adequate representation of member firms in the promoter company is essential to ensuring
that the design is based on accurate information, and results in a lower payment default rate by
members and better achievement of environmental goals than in CETPs owned and operated by
government bodies. However, many CETPs promoted, managed and operated by members
associations or cooperatives have technical and financial problems. This has already resulted in
IDBI experiencing difficulties in collecting interest charges from several CETPs. In most cases
this is due to lack of an experienced management team in charge of CETPs, who can
professionally manage the CETP as a business for profit for its members. Such a management
team should have the responsibility for the establishment and successful operation of the CETP
and include experts having experience in the establishment and running of CETPs.
67. Involvement of the private sector beyond the simple participation of members in industry
associations should contribute to sustainability. Private efforts to organize, own and manage
CETP's facilities as profit organizations should be encouraged and supported. However, this



19
could conceivably lead to a monopolistic situation with possible arbitrary increases in effluent
treatment charges, particularly when the CETP relies on a fixed conveyance system. Securing the
strong participation of members on the Board of the company can reduce this risk. The Enviro
Technology Ltd. CETP implemented in Ankaleshwar (Gujarat under the project) is a good
example of ownership arrangements: United Phosphorus Ltd. (UPL) is the main promoter and
controls 51 % of the shares; but 36 members are also equity partners and are represented on the
board of the company-in fact, the major promoters are large- scale industries which do not use
the CETP facilities for their own needs, the CETP being strictly for the treatment of SSI effluent;
this CETP has been operating in a sound technical and financial manner; and in 1998 the
company paid 10% dividends to all the equity shareholders.
68. Cost Recovery. All CETPs financed under the project have required contribution to the initial
equity from their members and in a few cases also an interest- free deposit. For operating costs,
there is a significant variation in the methods of charging effluent treatment costs by the CETPs
appraised by IDBI. Except for a few, most of them suffer from two limitations: (i) effluent
treatment costs are not equitable; and (ii) they do not provide incentives to member units for
preventing and controlling pollution. Different methods include those in which: (a) fixed costs
are shared according to water consumption but variable costs are divided equally; (b) fixed and
variable costs are divided equally between members; (c) there is a flat charge per m3 based on the
member's unit water consumption; (d) charges are based on water consumption, but a penalty is
added if COD is higher than an established limit; (e) charges are uniform per kg of skin or hide
treated by tanneries members; (f) charges are based on the effluent volume and a pollution factor
is calculated for each member from the estimated BOD and COD of its effluents; (g) fixed
charges are based on the booked volume of effluent and variable charges on the COD load of
effluent; and (h) as in the Ankaleshwar CETP, fixed costs are based on volumes treated and
variable costs on the pollution load of acidity and COD of effluent received in tankers. Many of
the CETPs have introduced a cross subsidy through differentiated charges for small and
medium/large scale industries.
69. The method of effluent treatment charge should be equitable and provide incentives to
members for pollution prevention. Since operation and maintenance costs of effluent treatment
depend on the volume and characteristics of effluent, the share of each firm in the total cost
should be based on the volume and characteristics of its effluent. Therefore, charges should be
based on volume and analysis of effluent and should differentiate between pollutants by the cost
associated with their treatment. These charges should recover costs of operation and
maintenance, financial costs and a return on investment. Finally, if subsidies are needed for the
establishment of a CETP, they must be limited to installation costs and be directed only to the
small-scale industries. The equitable sharing of all fixed and variable costs is crucial for efficient
functioning of the CETP. Large and medium-scale enterprises should not be obliged to
participate, but if the effluent channel is common to them and the CETP, they should be charged
equitably for their volume and effluent content.
(ii) Individual Investments
70. It is difficult to determine the global impact of the project on the environment. However,
sixty one subprojects for pollution abatement or cleaner technology financed under the project
aimed at complying with standards and may have contributed to the reduction in the number of
industries in non-compliance in the 17 categories of highly polluting industries in India between
1992/93 and 1998/99. In 1992, 1551 industries in these 17 categories were identified in India, of
which 540 were in non-compliance in 1992/93, declining to 147 in 1998/99 (Table 6B). It is
questionable, however, that these investments would not have been made without funding from
the project, since alternative sources of funds were available, albeit at unsubsidized rates. Based



20
on information obtained from Bank files, IDBI and ICICI, plant visits during the ICR mission,
and information obtained from a sample of beneficiaries contacted with questionnaires, it was
possible to assess the main characteristics of the individual subprojects. It was also possible to
assess the preliminary results obtained by about 40 beneficiaries who responded to questionnaires
(a sample of 58% of all sub-borrowers). A description of all subprojects together with their main
characteristics is provided in Table 6D, which also includes results obtained from the above 40
subprojects. A review of this data shows that, except in a few cases, most individual subprojects
appear to have generated their intended benefits, whether legal compliance, resources and/or
energy savings, waste minimization through recycling of wastes, or cleaner technology. Often,
environmental benefits are a combination of above benefits plus financial benefits. The following
paragraphs outline some of the most important benefits:
*  Out of 76 subprojects approved under the project, about 30 financed the installation or
modernization of liquid effluent treatment plants to help beneficiaries comply with SPCBs
standards. Most completed facilities reported that they were now in compliance and had their
consents renewed. About 10 of these subprojects, mainly in the pharmaceutical and the
sugar/ethanol sub-sectors, also installed biogas generation facilities for methane recovery and
use as fuel in plant operation, resulting in large energy savings. Additional resource recovery
was also achieved in black liquor treatment subprojects in the pulp and paper industry, in
which alkali and lignin are being recovered from the treatment.
-  About 12 subprojects helped resolve problems of dust and emission control in the cement,
steel and ferrous-alloys, and aluminum industries, through the installation of electrostatic
precipitators, bag filters, wet and dry scrubbers. In addition to meeting environmental
standards and improving ambient air, some of these subprojects permitted large resource
recoveries. This was the case for the installation of a dry scrubber in an aluminum smelter,
which, in addition to reducing fluorine and dust emissions to well within SPCB limits,
allowed savings of about Rs. 500,000 per day by recovering alumina and aluminum fluoride.
* Five plants were constructed to recycle wastes because of their financial returns. These
include: (i) a plant to use fly ash recovered in plant boilers or power plants in the
manufacturing of construction bricks and slabs; (ii) a plant to use slag, iron ore and coke fines
for the production of slag cement; (iii) a plastic waste recycling plant; (iv) a plant using by-
product fluosilicic acid, recovered from gas effluent treatment in the fertilizer industry, for
the production of aluminum fluoride for sale to aluminum smelters; and (v) a plant to produce
maleic anhydride from effluents of a phtalic anhydride plant. These are interesting examples
of for-profit resource recovery resulting in waste minimization.
*  Substantial benefits were achieved from the adoption of cleaner technologies, in particular
through: (i) the replacement of mercury cells by membrane electrolizers for the production of
caustic soda in about 11 plants, to eliminate mercury contamination and permit substantial
(25%) energy savings; (ii) the replacement of a single absorption sulfuric acid plant with a
double absorption plant to reduce SO2 emissions to levels within the standards, also resulting
in lower sulfur and energy consumption; (iii) the production of bio pesticides from seeds;
and (iv) upgrading of processes in existing plants, such as in an ammonium chloride plant, to
minimize waste and recover resources. These projects are good examples of cleaner industry
with large potential replicability.
71. These achievements, however, must be tempered in several respects:
* Most subloans for individual subproject were made to DFIs existing customers, and were not
necessarily directed to the ones most in need for this type of financial assistance. This would



21
have required more specific marketing strategies designed to reach new clients beyond the
DFI's traditional customer base and better defined eligibility criteria.
*  Two issues remain to be addressed with respect to the mercury cell replacement sub-projects:
(a) in many of the subprojects, mercury cells were replaced only partially and therefore
beneficiaries did not completely eliminate mercury contamination; and (b) the destination of
the old mercury cells is not clear. The subloan contracts should have incorporated strong
conditions to address these issues.
*  While investments include many liquid effluent treatment sub-projects and, to a lesser extent,
dust and emissions control subprojects, except for an incineration unit and the waste
recycling plants, the project did not finance investments to address problems of adequate
disposal of hazardous waste, a pervasive problem in India.
*  As mentioned earlier, there are strong doubts about the incrementality of project
environmental benefits, at least with respect to 25 projects (one third of the number of total
projects and 30% of total funding): (a) 10 subprojects have financed pollution control
facilities of new plants or capacity expansion units; while these facilities have a pollution
prevention objective, they should be considered a normal part of any new project, and, in any
case cannot claim to reduce pollution overall; and (b) 17 sub-projects, (including two in the
former category) were completed or were nearing completion when subloans were approved,
indicating that the project merely substituted for existing funds.
(iii) Demonstration Projects
72. Table 6E provides a description of each of the nine subprojects, their status, an assessment of
their environmental and other benefits, and of their replicability. Two sub-projects were
sponsored by sugar/distilleryindustries, two by pulp and paper industries, and one each by
synthetic fiber, pharmaceuticals, pesticides, and mechanical engineering industries. Three
subprojects intended to improve treatment methods to reduce pollution from liquid effluents to
levels compatible with standards (associated in two cases with energy recovery); three aimed at
recycling and resource recovery (in two cases associated with energy recovery as well); two were
test cases for the application of Clean Technology programs; and one aimed at developing
environmentally-friendly pesticides.
73. A number of subprojects have not yet stabilized, and their potential environmental benefits
are not certain. However, for some, financial benefits from resource recovery or by-product sale
could offer short pay-back periods. So far, there is evidence of replication for only one
subproject (IDBI 07), via the sale of technology. There are little prospects of replication of other
subprojects even if outstanding technical and cost problems are resolved (IDBI-02, 03, 04, 05 and
12). In one case, however (IDBI-09), there is no chance of replication, as this was essentially
product development for a single firm, which has patented the product and stated that it did not
intend to sell the process to potential Indian or foreign competitors. As mentioned earlier, five
out of the nine subprojects (IDBI-03, 04, 05, 06 and 07) were re-financed, casting doubt about the
additionality of benefits brought about by including them under the project. Generally, there are
no clear plans for dissemination of results in these subprojects.
74. In retrospect, this component has suffered from several design flaws. First, it relied on a
financial intermediary (IDBI) to promote the sub-component and identify subprojects. Financial
intermediaries are ill-equiped for this task. Furthermore, IDBI has a mandate to provide financing
only for medium and large projects (small and medium-scale industry being attended by the
Small Industry Development Bank of India, an IDBI subsidiary). Therefore, IDBI sought to



22
promote the scheme principally among its clientele, in this case large- and medium- scale
industry which is also normally able to generate the funds internally or borrow from other sources
for relatively small projects of this type (less than US$1.2 million at Appraisal). This explains
why IDBI had difficulties identifying sponsors until the fixed asset limit of US$5 million was
lifted and why more than half of the implemented subprojects were re-financed. The kind of
investments that the project sought to promote would have been better handled through a
competitive grant scheme managed by research and technology institutions with a wide range of
smaller clients.
75. Second, sponsors were not required to submit a plan for the dissemination of research results
together with their proposals. Third, there was no clear approach to the intellectual property over
the results of research. While it is certainly justified that sponsors should patent and licence their
technology for a fee (after all, they financed all the development and over 80% of plant costs),
they should not be allowed to otherwise restrict access to these results; the justification for
financing subprojects aimed at product development for the benefit of a single firm is weak as
they have little demonstration effect despite potential environmental benefits.
(c) Technical Assistance
76. A description of the purpose, status and impact of the technical assistance studies is provided
in Table 7. The impact of the most important study, that of staffing and organization of SPCBs,
has already been extensively commented upon. The study for the development of environmental
performance indicators for the project provided a useful basis for the Borrower's completion
report and some contributions to this report. Four other studies had concrete results: (I) impact
assessments and pre-investment technical studies for a centralized hazardous waste incinerator at
Chennai have resulted in a project and site proposals which is now at the review stage for
environmental clearances; (ii) the EIA and feasibility study for the Ankleshwar landfill has
resulted in a project which has been completed and started operations, the first of its kind in India
to be managed and implemented by a private sponsor; (iii) the study for technology development
for sewage treatment using specialty bio-products; and (iv) the studies for technological
development for treatment of polluted water bodies using specialty bio-products, are both
assosiated with the successful IDBI-07 demonstration project; one of the study helped in the
laboratory scale and testing studies, and the second study helped adapt the technology developed
by the sponsor to the depollution of a lake. Among the remaining studies, one of them (Air
Pollution Control in the Cement Industry in India) seems to have had limited benefits because it
focused on the specific needs of 8 large privately owned cement plants already with a good
environmental performance. For the remaining five studies, there is no information on their
results and impact.
C. Main Factors Affecting the Project
77. There were no significant delays during preparation of the project, as less than two years
elapsed between identification and signing. Serious delays in the implementation of the
Institutional Strengthening Component, however, led to one nine-month extension of the closing
date, from June 30, 1998 to March 31, 1999.
(a) Institutional Strengthening Component
78. There were extraordinary delays in the procurement of equipment for the institutional
strengthening component, since most of the monitoring and scientific equipment was only being



23
received by the closing date, i.e. seven years after effectiveness. The procurement process was
deeply flawed throughout implementation. The main difficulties were as follows:
*  CPCB was to prepare the technical specifications, in consultation with an expert committee
with representatives of state boards. One year after effectiveness CPCB came up with a set
of specifications;
*  The Implementation Cell (IC) of MoEF was originally in charge of carrying out procurement
activities. However, in March 1993, it became clear that IC did not have the required
capabilities and it was agreed that a procurement agent would be appointed. It took until the
end of 1993 for MoEF to appoint the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposal (DGS&D)
as procurement agent, thus losing another year in this process.
* After nine months (September 1994), the first lots of equipment (jeeps and equipment such as
air conditioners and voltage stabilitzers required for office and laboratory facilities) were
awarded. However, by the end of 1994, a year after the appointment of DGS&D, no
monitoring and scientific equipment had yet been procured (bids had not even been invited).
In agreement with the Bank, in February 1995, MoEF decided to pass on the responsibility of
procurement to CPCB, including the contracting of a new procurement agent.
*  It took yet another year for CPCB to sign a contract with a new procurement agent, the
National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), in February 1996.
3 By then, technological changes had occurred (since 1992) which made changes to technical
specifications necessary. A first package was floated in June 1996. However, after bids were
invited, changes were made to the specifications and items were added, so that bids were
eventually received only in June 1997, a full year after bids had been invited. However, the
award of contract were to be approved by CPCB, which did not agree with NTPC's
recommendation. The Bank arbitrated in favor of NTPC. Orders were placed only in March
1998, almost two years after bids had been invited.
*  The second package was awarded in November 1998, also almost two years after bid
invitation in March 1997. This time, the problem was that specifications had been too
narrowly defined and that most bidders were unable to meet all the specifications and
requested changes so they would be able to present proposals. Again, there was disagreement
between CPCB and NTPC.
*  The third and fourth packages were invited only in July 1998 and the contracts awarded in
January 1999, two months before the project closing date. This resulted in delivery of a
number of items - worth US$ 1.8 million - well beyond project closing date which made
them ineligible for reimbursement under IDA Credit.
79. In retrospect, poor performance can be attributed to the non-viability of centralized
procurement for most items which were to be procured in a large quantities -- a large variety of
specilialized items should not have been packaged in a few large packages, and the responsibility
for procurement of at least the less complex items should have been decentralized to SPCBs--.
Even for sophisticated items, the possibility should have been explored to: (a) let SPCBs
themselves procure their equipment or contract the procurement agent directly; (b) split
responsibilities for procurement between CPCB and the procurement agent in all steps of the
procurement process --CPCB's role should have been limited to agreeing with SPCBs on
technical specifications, and the rest of the process should have been left to the procurement



24
agent; and (c) sophisticated equipment should have been procured through a two-step bidding
process to avoid later changes to narrowly defined specifications.
(b) Investment Component
(i) Common Effluent Treatment Facilities
80. By March 1993, only two CETPs had been approved. Approvals subsequently increased to 13
by August 1994, 18 by February 1995 and 27 by March 1997. However, in March 1999, only half
of the 27 CETPs financed by IDBI had been commissioned. CETPs were affected by a number of
factors, which slowed down their implementation, and led to cost over runs:
*  lengthy approval procedures: CETPs had to be approved by the National Environmental
Engineering Institute (NEERI) (technical appraisal), which was the only institution
designated for that purpose; MoEF, the Steering Committee, IDBI (financial appraisal); and
the Bank procedures initially involved 16 steps in three stages. They were somewhat
simplified in 1993 (elimination of approval by the Steering Committee);
*  difficulties in getting groups of small enterprises to formalize their association into an eligible
entity and gather the required equity, particularly at the beginning of project implementation
when regulatory and court pressure was not yet very strong; and delays in completing
detailed engineering and issuing tenders (up to 6-9 months);
* delays in obtaining clearances from state governments for the sites and in obtaining consents
to establish;
*  most of all, delays in obtaining the release of state subsidies: since the release of state
subsidies triggered the release of the central (IDA) subsidy and of the IDBI subloan, these
delays created very serious problems for CETPs. In October 1996, 19 CETPs were
experiencing delays of up to two years in releasing the grants. This led to the suspension of
construction and cost over-runs. These delays continued to be pervasive until the closing
date;
* there were also delays in the release of IDBI funds, when IDBI started requiring personal
guarantees; finally, costs also increased due to late submission to the Bank of disbursement
applications. In the meantime, IDBI advanced the funds from its own resources, but at
interests rates (19%-20%) significantly above the 15% project rate.
81. After 1995, judicial activism leading to several Supreme Court orders--in particular in Delhi,
Tamil Nadu and Gujarat--led to substantial acceleration in the establishment of CETPs.
However, many CETPs did not wish to borrow from IDBI, with which they did not have client
relationships or whose procedures they viewed as cumbersome. Yet, in order to be eligible for
IDA subsidies, all CETPs had to be appraised financially by IDBI. Without consulting the Bank,
MoEF committed IDA funds to 60 of these CETPs (ref. para. 37). As a result, the financial
appraisal of these additional CETPs was not done in accordance with Bank's requirements. This
also led to incomplete information collection.
(ii) Individual Investments
82. Commitment of funds under the line of credit for individual investments by both IDBI and
ICICI was very fast: by October 1992, about a year after effectiveness, 50% of total IBRD funds
were already committed and, by mid-1994, or two and a half years after effectiveness, IBRD



25
funds were fully committed. In fact, as it became apparent that demand would exceed availability
of funds, on July 9, 1993, the Bank reallocated US$8 million, from CETPs and Demonstration
subprojects, which were moving slowly to this component.
83. The main reason for such fast commitments was the interest rate differential which had
developed between the project on-lending rates and commercial rates on alternative sources of
financing. Throughout the commitment period, this differential was about 1.5 to 3 percentage
points. Page 6 of Table 5D shows the interest rate band of IDBI lending since 1991, and ICICI
reported similar or even higher rates. This differential was not intended in project design.
Throughout preparation it was clear that on-lending rates were to be similar to prevailing
domestic currency lending rates of DFIs for investment projects. However, during negotiations
this covenant was changed and Bank requirement was compromised to "The Banks will onlend
their loan proceeds to sub-borrowers on terms consistent with the non-concessional rate
structure in effect at the time for term lending in domestic currency". The on-lending rate of 15%
specified in the Project Agreement was the commercial rate for domestic transactions at the time
of Appraisal. However, while commercial rates increased subsequently, the project on-lending
rate was not revised (Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement stipulated that "onlending rate to
investment enterprises shall, unless revised by the Borrower, in consultation with the Bank, be
15%").
84. While IBRD loan disbursements (which were essentially for individual investments at that
time) were substantially faster than expected until the end of 1994 (Table 4), they subsequently
stagnated until mid-1997. This is because sub-borrowers were reluctant to compile the
documentation required to support their expenditures, which had to be chanelled through DEA
and submitted to the Bank for reimbursement. When interest rates fell in line or below the project
rate, the incentive to do so was even less. Some sub-borrowers even requested the cancellation of
their loans or of its outstanding balance. Also, DEA was slow in submitting ICICI and IDBI
claim applications to the Bank (6-9 months in 1992).
(iii) Demonstration Projects
85. Approval of demonstration projects suffered considerable delays, as the first subproject was
approved only in 1996 (over four years after effectiveness). This was due to: (a) a one year delay
in MoEF establishing procedures for approval, which subsequently turned out to be too
cumbersome and had to be simplified (by-passing the Steering Committee); and (b) inability of
IDBI to identify sponsors who could meet all eligibility criteria, despite promotional work carried
out by a consultant hired specifically for this purpose. After the limit on fixed assets was waived
seven subprojects were finally approved in 1996 and another five in 1997 and 1998. As
mentioned elsewhere, three were subsequently withdrawn and five were exisitng subprojects
which were re-financed.
(c) Technical Assistance
86. Except for the SPCB Staffing and Organization Study, which was completed in April 1994,
almost two and a half years behind schedule, no progress was made to contract studies until the
beginning of 1997, despite repeated attempts to identify eligible studies and agree on work
programs. Eventually, 12 other studies were financed, but commitments remained far from
original estimates. This component appears to have suffered from a general lack of attention and
frequency of changes in senior officials in MoEF, and from lack of close coordination with
CPCB. Also, part of this component was to finance pre-investment studies for subprojects to be
funded under the investment component. Since most of the individual investment subprojects
were already designed and many were under implementation at the time of subloan approval, and



26
sub-borrowers were principally large enterprises capable of financing their own pre-investment
needs, these studies were not required. Finally, as already commented, IDBI and ICICI also did
not make much use of the funds available to them to strengthen their environmental capabilities.
D. Project Sustainability
87. Overall, from the available information, the extent of incremental environmental benefits
achieved by the project is not clear. Given the remaining implementation problems with most
CETPs and the apparent dependence on subsidies, the need for continued pressures from the
courts to compensate for the weak action on the part of the regulatory authorities, and the modest
interest of industry to use the credit lines for reasons other than to access the subsidy, the project
benefits are notjudged to be sustainable. Sustainability of the investment components would
largely depend on the ability of SPCBs to maintain pressure for compliance through regular
monitoring activities, agreed self-compliance programs and enforcement actions. Large and
medium-scale industries have significantly improved compliance since 1991 under pressure from
Courts, and legal requirements for periodic environmental audits should reinforce this trend
further. Sustainability of CETPs is uncertain despite the emphasis which Courts and SPCBs are
placing on their establishment and satisfactory operation as a solution to pollution created by
small-scale industries. This is because of the continued poor enforcement, and the sometimes
poor construction, maintenance and operation of the facilities. The CETPs' long-term
environmental and financial sustainability is critically dependent on programs to resolve
outstanding problems, including:
* sludge disposal,
* deficiencies in management and institutional responsibilities,
* changes in cost recovery mechanisms to ensure that members are paying the full equitable
cost of treatment based on their pollution load and to provide incentives to pollution
prevention.
88. The large variety of experiences now available in India could permit improvement in the
operation of CETPs. Finally, sustainability of achievements of most demonstration subprojects is
unlikely, as many have not stabilized and have not organized dissemination efforts to ensure
replicability (ref para 87). If the IPP project undertakes a consolidation of CETP experience and
introduces a retrofitting activity to this effect, then in the long run, the CETPs could potentially
become sustainable. The IPP project may also consider consolidating the experiences from the
IPC and develop fact sheets I manuals so as to institutionalize CETPs. This will contribute greatly
to ensuring the sustainability of CETPs.
89. Sustainability of the institutional strengthening component is also unlikely. Not enough
technically qualified and trained staff have been brought in, and critical enforcement and
regulatory requirements remain unmet. Despite long delays, the equipment received should
improve the monitoring and analytical capabilities of participating boards - though again,
assuming that adequate staffing and budget for Operation & Maintenance are assured. The
SPCBs made substantial progress towards financial self-sufficiency, but it will be imperative that
these funds be used wisely. Specifically, effectiveness of the boards needs to be enhanced in the
area of strategic planning and management. Their administrative autonomy needs to be
increased. Changes in national policies allowing boards to impose heavy financial penalties on
defaulters and a functioning system of effluent charges based on pollution load would
considerably enhance their effectiveness.



27
90. For the institution building aspect of this project to be truly sustainable, the project would
have had to not just strengthen the relevant authorities to design strategies to implement court
orders. It should have gone beyond this by building the capacity to anticipate and avoid the need
for court orders by designing improved regulations and enforcing them. In fact, the evidence
suggests that the environmental institutions did not internalize the intent of the court orders.
Thus, monitoring indicators to assess environmental improvement were not prepared until the end
of project implementation, and several SPCBs did not hire adequate technical staff (even though
they would have had the funds to do so). Similarly, the financial intermediaries did not develop
in-house technical expertise to independently evaluate future investment proposals brought to
them from private industry, even though this would have been a major objective of the credit line
component of the project.
E. Bank Performance
91. Overall Bank performance was cretainly not at its best. Duringpreparation, the Bank failed
to anticipate implementation difficulties, which could have been foreseen. During
implementation, most major issues were identified in the course of supervision, but the Bank did
not always pursue their speedy and complete resolution. These include problems associated with
procurement of equipment for SPCBs, which were raised with GOI, however, the Bank was not
able to obtain sufficient changes in procurement design and timini0. With respect to CETPs, the
Bank spent considerable staff and consultant time in supervising and evaluating experience.
However, despite having identified lack of proper sludge disposal as one of the problems, the
Bank did not press for the incorporation of sludge disposal investments in sub-project designs,
although this type of investment was eligible. This was due to the decision to leave hazardous
waste investments to a follow-up project which was under preparation during implementation of
this project. With respect to individual investments, Bank missions never reported that subloan
interest rates had become de-facto substantially subsidized, and made no effort to press for
changes (perhaps out of a realization that Bank funds would not disburse if interest rates were
aligned with market rates, due to the the added heavy bureaucratic requirements to secure
approval and, principally, disbursements). Pressure for quick disbursements when new
operations were under preparation may also -have been a reason for accepting to re-finance a
substantial number of subprojects or substitute IBRD funds for other existing financing sources.
Finally, no efforts were made to press for a review of eligibility criteria to exclude pollution
control facilities of new plants or expansions. The demonstration sub-component suffered several
design flaws. In addition, the decision to remove the cap on asset value was not supported by
adequate efforts to ensure replication2t. In general, the frequency of missions, only annually
except in 1996 and 1997, may not have been sufficient at times, given the novelty of the project
in India and the problems that emerged. Furthermore, the Bank did not pay adequate attention to
the financial control systems in MoEF including the procedures adopted by MoEF for approval of
grants to CETPs. The Bank mission did not include fianancial management specialist to conduct
a review of financial records maintained by MoEF, IDBI and ICICI during the implementation of
the project, except at the ICR stage. Such reviews are required to assure adequacy of the
financial systems and eligibility of expenditures. Bank resources and timing, composition and
scope of missions are presented in Tables 12 and 13.
20 The Task manager handled most procurement matters of the project from Washington until late 1997. Major
involvement of PDAT staff from New Delhi Office in this project started only towards the end of project in 1998.
21 Moreover, waiver of the limit of US$5 million for fixed assets was done informally through supervision
report and the follow-up action letter.



28
F. Borrower Performance
Government of India
92. Performance of MoEF was inadequate. Performance of CPCB was mixed, satisfactory for
the training component but deficient for equipment procurement. Most of the delays which
affected project implementation can be attributed to weak project coordination and management
arrangements. As required as a condition of Board presentation, MoEF established a
ProjectImplementation Cell to supervise the execution of the Institutional Component and
manage the procurement and disbursement activities required for its implementation. The unit
was also responsible for monitoring allocation and disbursements of grant funds for CETPs and
Demonstration subprojects and for overseeing implementation of TA component as well as the
overall project. The Cell was to consist of a Director (Deputy Secretary level), two scientists, and
a senior Project Analyst, plus secretarial staff. Despite Bank's repeated requests, the IC was
never adequately staffed to fully perform its functions, particularly after it assumed the
responsibility of the second project "Industrial Pollution Prevention". In the past few years the IC
was in effect reduced to one full time Scientist and a secretary. The lack of adequate attaention to
project coordination and monitoring is largely responsible for delays and poor reporting and
communications on the Institutional Strengthening, Technical Assistance, Demonstration Projects
and CETP components. MoEF did not develop adequate project management system, including
proper systems of approval, compilation and reporting. Also MoEF did not develop performance
indicators until close to the loan closing date. Although there was no covenant for development
of the performance indicators for the project, MoEF and the Bank during the supervision mission
of Fall 1994, had agreed that there is a need to develop such indicators to allow evaluatation of
the relative success of the investments and institutional strengthening components of the project.
It was subsequesnly agreed that a study would be contracted under the TA component to develop
these indicators. Finally, MoEF did not comply with the Loan/Credit Agreements when it
committed and even in somce cases disbursed IDA grants for CETPs not appraised by IDBI,
without seeking Bank's fornal approval.
93. Coordination procedures were also excessively bureaucratic. A Steering Committee was to
be established as a condition of Board approval to approve the allocation of grants under the
CETP, Demonstration and Technical Assistance components and guide and monitor their
execution. The Steering Committee was created, with 18 members, chaired by MoEF Secretary,
and including high-level representatives from state govemments, SPCBs, CPCB, and MoEF. The
Steering Committee appears to have met a few times in the early years of the project, but there is
no information about the frequency of its meetings later on. Its effectiveness was hampered by
the difficulty of organizing frequent meetings of such a large number of high level officials and
by frequent changes in high-level officials in SPCBs as well as in MoEF. In the end, in order to
reduce delays, the requirement of approval of CETPs and demonstration subprojects by the
Steering Committee was dropped. It is not clear, however, that the committee continued to meet
to establish or review policies and guidelines to govern the allocation of grants, which was its
most important role.
94. Finally, disbursement applications were sent by MoEF, IDBI and ICICI to the Department of
Economic Affairs (DEA) of the Ministry of Finance. There too, there were long delays, as it took
sometimes up to nine months for actual disbursements made by DFIs to be reflected in Bank's
project account.22
22 As reported in Annex I of Aide Memoire of October 1992 Supervision Mission.



29
Development Finance Institutions
95. Performance of IDBI and ICICI was satisfactory to the extent that they committed and
disbursed funds within the specified time frame to subprojects complying with the established
eligibility criteria, and met their obligations under the Loan and Project Agreements. Interest rate
levels provided them with incentives to privilege their existing clients and projects which were
already in their portfolio, and, although some may not have been within the spirit of the project in
terms of pollution control, they did so in comformity with the legal documents and with the
Bank's agreement. They generally met the financial covenants, but IDBI's performance on
CETPs and demonstration subprojects was less than satisfactory. In a few cases, the DFIs have
charged interest rates in excess of 15% by extending "bridge loans" to beneficiaries while
awaiting the necessary approvals, and have maintained these bridge loans sometimes substantially
beyond the approval date. However, part of this was due to delays in obtaining reimbursement
from the Bank, during which the DFIs had to advance the funds from their own, more costly,
resources. In order to obtain reimbursement from the Bank, they had first to obtain the complete
documentation from all sub-borrowers on their expenditures, and then submit their
reimbursement requests to DEA, which sometimes took months to process them.
96. However, with respect to individual investments, neither DFI made any special marketing
effort to reach clients beyond their best customers. Also, neither DFI however, used the
opportunity of the project and the technical assistance grant funds allocated for strengthening
their own environmental capabilities. This certainly affected their ability to appraise the
environmental justification of the subprojects, to follow up on implementation beyond financial
aspects, and to asses subproject results. Strong environmental groups within the DFIs and the
development of guidelines for environmental lending might have helped to better direct project
funds and prepare these institutions for future activities in the environmental sector.
G. Assessment of Outcome
97. The picture that emerges from the project is mixed: overall, in terms of its original objectives,
the outcome of the project is generally satisfactory with respect to physical outcome (Table 1) but
unsatisfactory in terms of environmental outcome. However, Project sustainability is unlikely.
Bank performance was marginal in light of a number of serious lapses: excessively broad
investmnent eligibility criteria, poorly designed interest rate covenant, lack of reporting of interest
rate subsidies during implementation, and failure to press for incorporation of sludge disposal in
subproject designs. As well, Demonstration projects are not replicable and there has been no
follow-up on technical assistance studies. The Borrower's (GOI) performance was satisfactory in
terms of securing counterpart funds from the state governments, but inadequate with respect to
procurement and project coordination and management. Performance of the DFIs was
satisfactory with respect to their commitments under the Project Agreement, but was less than
satisfactory with respect to building-up their own environmental capabilities under the project.
Performance of SPCBs was satisfactory, to the extent that they provided all the required
counterpart funds for the Institutional Strengthening component (not difficult in light of the
increased funds available from the water cess) and showed institutional improvements during the
project implementation period. Most of this came in response to court orders, however, and three
out of four SPCBs did not, in fact, increase their technical capacity enough to seriously improve
their policy making and enforcement capacity. As mentioned, the incremental benefits from
individual and demonstration subprojects are questionable, as well.



30
H. Future Operation
98. To ensure the sustainability of the project and consolidate its achievements, a number of
actions are recommended, some of which have been included as part of the follow-up Industrial
Pollution Prevention (IPP) Project.
*   GOI should propose the enactment of legislation to create emission charges based on
pollution load and allow SPCBs to impose high financial penalties on defaulters. At a
minimum, further substantial increases in water cess should be implemented to firther
enhance the financial autonomy of SPCBs and provide incentives to reduce water use. As
part of the IPP Project, a task force was created to review the recommendations of a study
financed as part of preparation of IPP Project and propose the introduction of economic
instruments. Progress in the work of this task force should be assessed and appropriate
legislation enacted to allow at least some testing of these recommendations; increased
decentralization of priority setting, and planning and decision-making to the state level should
be promoted;
* Each of the four state governments and SPCBs should prepare and carry out a specific action
plan to further implement the recommendations of the State Board Staffing and Organization
Study, in particular towards increased managerial autonomy, strategic planning,
decentralization of priority setting and manpower assessment and restructuring; GOI should
promote similar actions in other states (four other boards are being assisted under the IPP
Project);
*  Guidelines for CETP design (including sludge management), operation and
management(including cost recovery); should be developed. Standards for CETP (both
influent and effluent) should be reviewed in terms of relevance and practicability. (e) CETPs
that have design (e.g. sludge management) and operational deficiency (including cost
recovery) should be examined for technical and financial assistance.
= For individual investments, emphasis should turn to medium and small-scale industry.
whether or not they are part of CETPs. In this perspective, the choice of DFI may be re-
visited. Under the IPP project, technical assistance funds are available for extension services
and Waste Minimization Circles focusing on small-scale industries, but individual
investments continue to focus on large-scale industry (ref para 97). For medium to large
industries, efforts should be made towards promotion of voluntary initiatives rather than
providing direct financial assistance. It may also be useful to review the eligibility criteria for
the investment component to stress on the multimedia approach.
* To facilitate effective dissemination of the experiences of the IPC Project particularly with
respect to the investment component, fact - sheets or guidance manuals maybe developed for
technologies introduced through individual industry projects, demonstration projects and
CETPs.
* Operation of facilities is as important as investment if real environmental benefits are to be
achieved due to installation of pollution abatement measures. It is recommended that efforts
are made to establish training and certification of pollution abatement plant operators.
* One of the high priorities should be to build the environmental capacity in the financial
intermediary institutions, especially at the two DFIs viz. IDBI and ICICI.
* It is important that IPP project sets quantifiable environmental performance indicators and
initiates collection and analyses of data to this effect. This will allow more effective



31
evaluation of IPP unlike IPC. The performance indicators developed towards the end of IPC
project may be useful for such an exercise.
*  It is now difficult to justify Bank lending to large-scale industry in India given the availability
of alternative funding with less bureaucratic requirements and progress made by the highly
polluting large industries towards compliance. Emphasis should turn to medium and small-
scale industry. Under the IPP Project, technical assistance funds are available for extension
services and Waste Minimization Circles focusing on small industry. Yet the design of the
IPP project with respect to individual investments continues to focus on large-scale industry,
which constitutes the client base of IDBI and ICICI. The Bank and GOI should explore the
feasibility of chanelling more IBRD funds to small-and medium-scale industry by identifying
one or several financial intermediaries more suitable for this type of clientele.
*  Finally, significant attention needs to be given on how to follow up on the technical
assistance studies.
I. Key Lessons Learned
99. A number of lessons may be drawn from this project. The institutional strengthening and
technical assistance components should be complementary to - or better, built around - the
investment component, and concrete implementation programs should be agreed with the
borrower at the time of project preparation. In the design of institutional strengthening
components, organization studies should be followed by the preparation and implementation of
specific action plans within a specified time frame; and procurement of equipment should be
decentralized to beneficiaries. In line with this, delegation of procurement responsibilities to the
World Bank Offices in the member countries has already taken place.
100. With respect to CETPs, before new CETPs are established, a model should be developed
addressing issues of design, scope, management, ownership and cost charging systems to ensure
their sustainable and equitable operation in the particular circumstances. Project design should
include all investments necessary to contain pollution, including for sludge management. CETP
management should have sufficient powers to act against firms not complying with their pre-
treatment obligations or in default on their payments. All CETPs should have a professional
management team with responsibility for their establishment and operation, and private efforts to
organize, own and manage CETPs for profit should be encouraged, as long as their clients are
well represented in the company's board of directors to avoid risks of monopolistic behavior.
Subsidies, if any, should be limited to investment and accrue only to SSIs. On the other hand,
medium- and large-scale enterprises should not be forced to participate merely to get financial
equity participation. The cost recovery system should be equitable, take into account pollution
load, and provide incentives to members for water recycling and waste minimization. Technical
and financial clearances should be delegated to several institutions to reduce delays and permit
access to funding through other DFIs.
101. Environmental lines of credit have been shown to rarely contribute to improved
environmental outcomes. Large, well-run industries can afford to make the necessary
investments, drawing on well-established lines of credit. Small industries typically do not avail
themselves of environmental credit lines unless they are subsidized, in which case they often only
take the money in order to comply with court orders. Poor operation and maintenance on the part
of the small-scale industry, combined with lax enforcement on the part of the environmental
authorities, often undermines the benefits of these subsidies. All of this points to the fact that it is
the quality of management and other "intangible" factors that influence the environmental
performance of industries, not the availability of credit lines. This places all the more pressure on



32
well-designed technical assistance and institution-building activities, which harness the ingenuity
of industries to improve their management - and indirectly improve their environmental
performance.
102. At a minimum, credit line eligibility criteria should specifically exclude pollution control
facilities of new plants or capacity expansion units, and sub-projects which have already secured
financing from other sources and are under implementation should be excluded. Sub-project
appraisal should ensure that investments are addressing the entire pollution issue and are not
resolving a pollution problem just by shifting it to a different medium (i.e., from liquid effluents
to solid waste). Early during project implementation, financial intermediaries should be required
to develop an in-house environmental group capable of appraising the environmental soundness
of projects, supervise implementation, and monitor the environmental performance of their
clients. Access to World Bank financing - if at all - should be confined to financial
intermediaries capable of reaching small- and medium-scale clients, as large scale industry has
access to alternative sources of funds. With respect to overall management of the project physical
and financial reporting systems should be agreed upon at appraisal, and financial criteria and
monitoring indicators and the frequency of the reporting should be agreed before project
implemenation starts. During implementation, missions should include financial manahgement
specialist to review the adequacy of financial reporting systems.
103. For Demonstration Projects, agencies responsible for promoting demonstration projects
should not be financial intermediaries, but agencies capable of administering a competitive grant
program. Eligibility criteria for demonstration projects should include provisions for Intellectual
Property Rights over results and should require a commercialization and dissemination program.



33                             Table I - page I of I
Table 1: Summary of Assessmentsl
A. Achievement of Objectives              Substantial       Partial       Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                                X
Sector Policies                                               X
Financial Objectives                                          Xl
Institutional Development                                     X
Physical Objectives                           X
Poverty Reduction                                                                             X
Gender Issues                                                                                 X
Other Social Objectives                                                                       X
Environmental Objectives                                      XI
Public Sector Management                                      X
Private Sector Development                                                                    X
Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability                                     X
Highly
C. Bank Performance                       satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                                                X
Preparation Assistance                                        X
Appraisal                                                                     X
Supervision                                                                   X
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                   Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(Government of India)
Preparation                                                   x
Implementation:
Provision of counterpart funds                             X
Project Implementation Cell                                                x2
Covenant Compliance                                                           X
E.  Executing Agencies
(DFIs)
Provision of counterpart funds                                X
Covenant Compliance                                           X
Environmental Management                                                      X
F.  Beneficiaries                                             X3
(State Pollution Control Boards)
Highly                                          Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome                  satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
X3
To take into account lack of reporting on unintended interest rate subsidies and not for pressing for adequate disposal
of sludge of CETPs.
2 With respect to the Implementation Cell and committing IDA funds to CETPs without consultation with the Bank.
3 The satisfactory rating reflects physical outcomes of the project and not environmental outcomes and environmental
management which are rated unsatisfactory.
IPCPTA0 IMarks



34
Table 2 - Page 1 of 1
Table 2 - Related Bank Loans/Credits
Project ID                            Purpose                Year of            Status           Loan in
Loan Credit                                    Approval                           Millions of
Us$
10463       Loans 37790-1N  Industrial Pollution Prevention  July 26, 1994   Under             Loans: 93.0
& 37806-IN &    Project                                       Implementation-       and 50.0;
Credit 2645-IN                                                Closing Date: March    Credit: 17.7
31, 2002.
43728       Credit 2930-IN   Environmental Management      December 23,   Under                    50.0
Capacity Building Technical       1996       Implementation-
Assistance Project                           Closing Date: June
30, 2003
IPCPTA02



35
Table 3 - Page I of I
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                                Date planned!        Date actual/latest
estimate
Identification/ Preparation                                                  October 1989
Pre-appraisal                                                               April-May 1990
Appraisal                                              October 1990         Nov.-Dec. 1990
Negotiations                                           February 1991       April 15-19 1991
Board Presentation                                      March 1991           May 30, 1991
Signing                                                                       July 8, 1991
Effectiveness                                          October 1991        November 6, 1991
Project Mid-term Review                                                      February 1996
Project Completion                                  December 31, 1997              2
Loan/Credit Closing3                                   June 30, 1998        March 31, 1999
'Planned dates for pre-appraisal, appraisal, negotiations and Board presentation are as in Initial Executive
Project Summary. Planned date for effectiveness is as in the Memorandum and Recommendation of the
President.
'As of May 31, 1999, a number of CETP's were yet to be conunissioned.
The closing dates of the Loan and Credit were extended to March 31, 1999.
IPCP-ICR-table3.doc



36
Table 4 - Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank FY                                Cumulative Loan Disbursement
and Semester          Estimates                         Actual                       Actual as
Ending      Appraisal   Revised        Loan 3334      Credit 2252    Total      % of Estimate
1992  Dec. 1991    4.00        8.03          6.02            2.01          8.03          200.8
Jun. 1992    7.00       8.03          6.02            2.01          8.03          114.7
1993  Dec. 1992    11.00       11.41         9.40            2.01         11.41          103.7
Jun. 1993    15.00      19.09         17.08           2.01         19.09          127.3
1994  Dec. 1993   25.00        33.14         31.13           2.01         33.14          132.6
Jun. 1994    34.00      65.74         63.73           2.01         65.74          193.4
1995  Dec. 1994   53.00        66.16         64.15           2.01         66.16          124.8
Jun. 1995    72.00      73.92         71.91           2.01         73.92          102.7
1996  Dec. 1995   89.00        74.66         72.22           2.44         74.66          83.9
Jun. 1996   106.50      83.96         78.71           5.25         83.96          78.8
1997  Dec. 1996   117.00       90.63         85.38           5.25         90.63          77.5
Jun. 1997   129.00     116.77        103.47          13.30         116.77         90.5
1998  Dec. 1997   137.00      127.16        109.23          17.93         127.16         92.8
Jun. 1998   144.00     135.81        114.41          21.40         135.81         94.3
1999  Dec.1998    150.00      138.30        114.88          21.40         136.28         90.9
Sep. 1999   155.60     155.60        116.48          23.32         139.80         89.8
Date of Final Disbursement:
160.00
a80.00 
60 00
1992      1993      1994       1995      1996      1997       1998
Bank FY
-   Estimates Appraisal  Credit 2252   -h-- Loan 3334   --Total
Notes:
Loan 3334 - IN:   About US$ 7.51 million remained undisbursed as of September 23, 1999, and have been cancelled.
Credit 2252 - IN    As of September 27, 1999, disbursements totaled about SDR 16.75 million, equivalent to
US$23.32 million, and about XDR 6.65 million remained undisbursed, equivalent to about US$9.22 million
and have been cancelled (assuming an average US$ equivalent of 1.387 per XDR)
-0061 298.xls



37
Table 5A - Page I of 4
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table SA - Summary
Key Implementation Indicators in            Estimated                                Actual
SAR
A. Institutional Component
1. Train*g Program for CPCB      Four major areas: (a) quality assurance   About 2000 participants from 25 SPCBs and
and SPCBs                    and quality control to enable all   state pollution control committees were
laboratory activities to be accomplished  trained through 152 training programs (85%
by qualified analysts; (b) laboratory  with a one-week duration and the balance
instruments maintenance and operation   with a two-week duration), with a wide range
(including safety for handling samples    of topics. About 40% of topics pertained to
and equipment); (c) specialized technical Management of Information; 16% to
training (environmental science),   Environmental Monitoring; 12% to Pollution
including on environmental chemistry    Abatement Technologies; 11% to
and data handling and processing; and    Environmental Management and Policy-
(d) supervisory training for management  related issues; 11% to EIA, Audit and Risk
of laboratories and for project planning,  Management;. 8% to Control of Air and
formulation, management and reporting.  Water Pollution and Solid and Hazardous
Wastes; and the balance of 2% to
miscellaneous subjects. These programs were
delivered by some 30 specialized Indian
Institutions.
In addition, three major overseas training
programs in Canada, USA and Thailand were
organized for 38 scientific and engineering
staff of SPCBs and MoEF.
2. Equipment to upgrade the      Analytical and monitoring equipment    Analytical and monitoring equipment for 4
technical capabilities offour    for central laboratories and regional  SPCBs laboratories procured in four rounds of
Boards                       laboratories                         purchases.
3. Refurbishing of laboratory    Provision or re-farbishing of       22 central and regional laboratories were
faciflites offour Boards     laboratories, including: (a) civil works   improved or expanded: 13 in Uttar Pradesh, 5
and equipment for adequate         in Tamil Nadu and 4 in Maharashtra. Uttar
environmental control inside        Pradesh received 81% of total funding, Tamil
laboratories; (b) furbishing of     Nadu 16%, and Maharashtra 3%. Gujarat did
specialized rooms; (c) provision of  not submit any proposal .
office and laboratory space for Uttar
Pradesh and Maharashtra SPCBs; and
(d) utilities and data processing
equipment.



38
Table 5A - Page 2 of 4
Key Implementation Indicators in              Estimated                                  Actual
SAR
B. Investment Component
1. Common Tireatment Facilities   Design and implementation of common   All CETPs financed under the project were
treatment facilities for treatment of  for treatment of liquid effluents. Potential
waste water and solid materials at   common solid waste treatment and disposals
industrial estates and other sites with a    projects were excluded as they were intended
heavy concentration of chemical and  to be financed under another project which
related industries, in particular for small  was being prepared in parallel (Hazardous
scale.                               Waste Management Project).
About 20 CETPs, for a total of about
4,700 small scale enterprises, processing  27 CETPs were implemented under the
a total of about 163,700 CM/day of   project, with funding from IDBI. These had
effluent.                            3,926 members as of June 1999. Total
processing capacity: 143,000 CM/day of
effluent. 26 other CETPs, with 1,613
members, also received grants under the
project (but no funding from IDBI).
2. Individual Plant Treatment and  Design and implementation of resource   75 subprojects were approved and 69 were
Control Facilities             recovery, waste minimization and     implemented (32 funded by ICICI and 37 by
pollution abatement schemes by       IDBI) in 14 states and 16 industrial
individual enterprises in targeted sectors  subsectors.
(chemical and related industries
including fertilizers, leather tanning,
dyes, pesticides and insecticides,
pharmaceuticals, petrochemicals, pulp
and paper, and sugar and distilleries).
3. Demonstration Projects          Grants of up to US$500,000 for at least   Due to difficulties in finding suitable eligible
eight subprojects by relatively small  candidates, the ceiling of US$5 million in
enterprises (below US$5 million in fixed  fixed assets for sponsors was removed in
assets) and following conditions: (a)  1995.
consisting of prototype innovative units
in the field of waste minimization,  12 subprojects were approved (70% submitted
resource recovery or pollution       by sponsors with more than US$5 million in
abatement; (b) involving an element of   fixed assets). Three projects were
risk because of technological novelty  subsequently canceled. The other nine
and lack of commercial scale experience  projects were implemented.
in India; (c) addressing treatment or
disposal of toxic or hazardous waste
materials, or having a large
environmental impact on surrounding
area; (d) requiring a comparatively large
investment for pollution control by the
sponsors, which cannot be reasonably
financed on commercial terms; (e)
demonstrating new approaches or
techniques with potentially wide
replication in India.



39
Table 5A - Page 3 of 4
Key Implementation Indicators in            Estimated                                Actual
SAR
C. Technical Assistance
1. Pre-investment studies        For projects to be funded under the  Three studies were financed to prepare
investment component.               subprojects under a proposed Hazardous
Waste Project:
*  Centralized Hazardous Waste
Incineration Plant at Chennai
*  EIA and Feasibility Study for Common
Hazardous Waste Treatment and Disposal
Facility for TBIA
*  EIA and Feasibility Study for
Ankleshwar Landfill
2. Technical Studies             To assess the treatability of residues and
or waste streams. Including laboratory
equipment.
3. Pilot Plant Studies           Required to scale-up innovative     *  Municipal solid waste processing for
treatment technologies.                 production of organic manure (Thane)
*  Sewage Treatment using biofilter with
specialized bio-product (Wockhart)
*  Treatment of polluted waters using
endogenously manufactured specialty
products (Wockhart)
4. Technical Handbooks           Preparation of environmental
housekeeping manuals at different
industries.
5. Organizational Study of the   Review of the functions, structure and    *  Belliappa Committee Reports (two
State Boards.                staffing of the four participating SPCBs.  volumes) on Common Staffing Patterns
and Present and Future Requirements of
State Pollution Control Boards
a  Organization and Staffing of Pollution
Control Boards (Administrative Staff
College of India)
6. DFI Training Program          Training Program on Environmental   Training programs were conducted for IDBI
Issues at IDBI and ICICI            staff by the Indian Institute of Technology
(Mumbai), mostly in technologies for
pollution abatement and environmental
assessment. About 400 officers were trained,
mostly with rank of deputy general managers.



40
Table 5A - Page 4 of 4
Key Implementation Indicators in            Estimated                                Actual
SAR
7. Other Studies                                                      *  Development of Environmental
Performance Indicators.
*  Air Pollution Control in the Cement
Industry in India.
*  Preparation of Software for Hazard
Analysis in Process Industry
*  Epidemiological Survey of Effects of
Environmental Pollutants in Pune Area;
*  Regional Environmental Study for
Kumbh Mela Region of Haridwar,
Rishikesh
*  EIA of the lime kilns, cement plant and
allied units in Katni-Maihar (MP)
IPCPTAOSA



41
Table 5B, Page I of 4
Table 5B- Indicators for Project Implementation
Institutional Strengthening
1. Training Offered by CPCB- Number of Courses
1992-93  1993-94   1994-95   1995-96  1998-99   Total
7                       3       1       4        15
Perspective in Environmental Management                  7                       2                1       10
Environment and Development Policy Instruments                                   I        1                2
Environmental Management in Industry                                                              I        I
Application of Spacial Technology in Environmental                                                I        I
Management
Environmental Priorities and Sustainable Development                                              I        I
1          1           5                1        8
EIAs in Industrial Projects                               1          1           4                         6
Environmental Audits and ElAs                                                    I                1        2
Cmue-ase Polto Stde oInutil Eflet                                                1
39                     10               3        524
Laboratory Management                                     I                      I                1        3
Sampling and Analysis of Samples (Air & Water)                                   3                1        4
Advanced Inst. Methods of Analysis                                               6                1        7
Analytical Quality Control                                                       2                2        4
Bio-monitoring of Water Quality and River Water Quality                          I                1        2
River Quality Modelling                                                                           I        I
Survellance of Wastewater Treatment Units                                                         I        I
Computer-based Pollution Studies of Industrial Effluents                         I                         I
Quantitative Methods in Industrial Pollution Control                                              I
H     _aa s aste M    m                                  390                                      3       52
Remote Sensing and GIS                                   6                                                 6
Env. Statistics andH Data Management                      I                                                I
Management Information Systems                            I                                       I
Documentation                                             1                                                2
PC Applications & Developments                           30                      1 0              1       4 1
Zoning Atlas for Siting of Industries                                                             I        I
_mmagnammmom                                             2                        1               2    12
Hazardous Waste Management                                l                      3                         4
Solid Waste Management                                                           I                         l
Solid and Hazardous Waste Management                     I                       1               2         4
Management of Chemical Accidents                                                                  3        3
48ANWI                                                             1               2        4
Air Quality Management                                    1                                                1
Air Pollution                                                                    I                         I
Air Quality Monitoring and Control                                                                2        2
IPCP-ICR-table5B1 .doc



42
Table 5B, Page 2 of 4
1992-93  1993-94   199495   1995-96   1998-99   Total
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 33                                                         61
Water Quality Management                                                                              I
Water Pollution                                                         I                   1         2
Waste Water Treatment and Treatment Technologies                                            I         I
Anaerobic Waste Water Treatment                                                             I         I
Water Waste Management/Agroindustry                                     2                             2
Wastewater Management/Chemical Industry                                                     I         I
Wastewater Management in Textile/Other Industries                                           I         I
Soil and Groundwater Pollution and Monitoring                                               I         I
2_                  I                   1        2
___                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I . I
2_  I               1                   3        5
Clean Technology Audit and Waste Minimization       I                   1                             2
Cleaner Technology/Env. Mngt in Tanning Industry                                                 I 
Waste Minimnization/Clean ProductionII
Clean Coal TechnologyII
2                                                2
X _         ~~~~2                1                   3        6
Radiation and Pollution Control in Nuclear Fuel Cycle  I                                              I
Env. Improvement and Pollution Control in Cement and  I                                               I
Building Materials Industry
Pollution Control in Coal and coal-based Industries                     1                             1
Environmental Management in Mining                                                          1         I
Pollution Control in Iron and Steel Industry                                                I
CETP Design, Operation and Other Aspects                                                    I         I
Total Number of Courses                            58         1        46         1        39        145
Overseas Training Organized by MOEF:
1. Environmental Pollution Control Technologies, Policy and its Implementation- ETS Inc., USA-
February 22 to March 27, 1999.
2. Clean Technologies for Pollution Prevention, Formulation and Implementation of Projects- University of Ottawa,
Canada. February 22 to March 27, 1999.
3. Industrial Risk Assessment, Environmental Audit and EIA- AIT, Bangkok. February 22 to March 27, 1999.
IPCP-ICR-tabIe5BI .doc



43
Table 5B, Page 3 of 4
Table 51-Indicators for Project Implementation
Institutional Strengthening
2. Equipment Procured
Packages                                 Bid           Award        Delivery to      Amount
Invitation                      Site
A. Procurement by DGS&D
*  Jeeps (61-64)                                      Sep. 1994            1994     Rs.12,539,976
*  Voltage Stabilizers (114)                                               1994               n.a.
*  Air Conditioners (over 100-103?))                                    1994-95               n.a
*  Power generators (35)                              Sep. 1994            1994      Rs. 1,900,553
*  Photocopying Machines (34?)                                             1995               n.a
* Other Equipment
Sub-total DGSG                                                                      n.a
B. Procurement by CPCB/NTCP
1. CPCB I
*  Automatic Absorption               May 1996        01-20-97       07-14-98       US$1,324,537
Spectrophotomers (34)
*  Gas Chromatographs (34)             May 1996       03-18-98       07-16-98       JPY75,677,200
=US$630,600
Sub-total CPCB I                                                           US$1,955, 137
2. CPCB HI
*  High Performance Liquid             Jan. 1997      11-05-98       04-30-99       JPY17,573,800
Chromatographs (4)
*  TOC Analyzers (10)                  Jan. 1997      02-15-99       06-30-99         DM621,200
*  Digital Spectrophotometers (38)     Jan. 1997      11-10-98       03-25-99        Rs. 3,947,440
*  Specific Ion Electrode Meters (34)  Jan. 1997      12-15-98       03-31-99         US$217,212
*  Dissolved Oxygen Meters (68)        Jan. 1997      12-15-98       03-31-99
*  Reverse Osmosis Water Purification    Jan. 1997    02-15-99       05-15-99       Rs. 13,854,640
Systems (34)
*  Side Loading Balances (38)          Jan. 1997      12-14-98       03-31-99          SFrl76,890
*  Top Loading Electronic Balances     Jan. 1997      12-14-98       02-13-99      DM115,900 and
(38)                                                                               Rs.114,000
*  Noise Level Meters (34)             Jan. 1997      11-09-98       02-09-99         US$163,186
Sub-total CPCB II                                                       Rs.64,007,175
US$1,523,980
3. CPCB III
*  Microwave Digesters                                02-16-99       05-17-99       Rs. 10,640,000
*  Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen Analyzers                  02-17-99       05-18-99       Rs. 10,690,000
*  Evaporators                                        03-05-99       06-04-99        RS.4,150,000
*  Micro-pipettes                                     01-29-99       05-02-99        Rs.1,085,000
*  Automatic Monitoring Stations                      02-18-99       05-20-99       Rs. 26,000,000
*  Combustion Analyzers                               03-05-99       06-04-99         Rs. 270,000
*  High Volume Air Samplers with                      01-29-99       05-02-99        Rs. 1,288,000
Respirable Dust Sampling



44
Table 5B, Page 4 of 4
Packages                                  Bid          Award        Delivery to      Amount
Invitation                      Site
*  High Volume Samplers                               02-16-99       05-18-99        Rs.4,594,000
*  Handy Air Samplers                                 01-29-99       05-02-99        Rs.2,026,000
*  Stack Monitoring Kits                              02-18-99       05-20-99        Rs. 3,342,000
*  Smoke Density Meters                               03-05-99       06-04-99        Rs. 1,445,000
*  Detectro Tubes and Accessories                                                      Rs. 990,000
Sub-total CPCB III                                                      Rs. 65,530,000
US$1,560,240'_
4.  CPCB IV
*  COD Digesters                                      01-29-99       05-02-99        Rs.1,980,000
*  Freezers .                                                                        Rs. 1,334,000
*  Colony Counter Benches                             02-01-99       05-02-99         Rs. 1,00,000
*  Laminar Flow Benches                               01-25-99       04-28-99         Rs. I,148,000
*  Bacteriological Incubators                         01-25-99       04-28-99         Rs.1,500,000
*  BOD Incubators                                     01-29-99       05-02-99         Rs.1,050,000
*  Muffler Furnaces                                   01-29-99       05-02-99          Rs.550,000
*  Hot Air Oven                                       01-29-99       05-02-99          Rs. 589,000
*  Centrifuges                                        02-02-99       05-05-99         Rs.1,068,000
*  Vandorn Samplers                                   01-08-99       04-10-99          Rs.601,000
*  Heating Mantles                                    01-29-99       05-02-99          Rs.775,000
*  Magnetic Stirrers with Hot Plate                   01-29-99       05-02-99          Rs.154,000
*  Rotary Shankers                                    01-29-99       05-02-99          Rs.675,000
*  Flocculators                                       01-29-99       05-02-99          Rs. 546,000
*  Flame Photometers                                  03-05-99       06-04-99          Rs.449,000
Sub-total CPCB IV                                                         Rs.11,185,000
US$266,3102
Computer Equipment for DEA and          1995-96        1995-96       1995-96                n.a 3
PMUs in 20 Ministries and 20 States
(Strengthening of External Portfolio
Management)
Implementation Cell Office               1998?         1998?          1998?          Rs. 905,250=
Equipment                                                                              US$23,000
Total Equipment Funded by IDA                                                    US$9,512,438
' Declared ineligible due to late delivery after closing date.
2 Declared ineligible due to late delivery after closing date.
3 Original allocation as per Amendment to DCA was US$2,000,000.
4 Total IDA disbursements for equipment were US$10.4 million, out of which it is possible that US$0.89
million was disbursed against improvements to facilities necessary to receive the equipment (MoEF reports
that US$0.89 million were disbursed by IDA for these facilities). For lack of sufficient information, it is
not possible to allocate the remaining US$9.5 million among the various packages listed in this Table.
IPCPTA05B2 rev2.doc



Table 5C, Page I of 5
Table 5C. Indicators for Project Implementation
Common Effluent Treatment Plants Appraised by IDBI & Financed under the Project
1. Distribution by Size
Number of Projects                                                                              Credit 2252
Actual Total Project Cost  Sponsors contribution    Loan 3334 Disbursement   Disbursement          State Subsidy
Nb.      %          USS         %           USS          %          USS           %         USS         %         USS         %
Less than USS 500,000                6       22.2     2,263,614      5.6      1,081,607      6.0       164,291        1.4      491,679      10.0     526.034      8.8
US$500,000 to US$S.000,000           10      37.0     5,925,213     14.6      2,344,180      13.0      792,392        6.8      1.396,441    28.5    1.392,199    23.3
US$1,000,000 to USS2,000,000         6       22.2     7.990.491     19.7      3,137,401      17.3      2,572,850     22.1      892,944      18.2    1,387,296    23.2
US$1,000,000 to US$5,000,000         3       11.1     7.989.136     19.7      4,682,389      25.9      2,241,687      19.2     533,360      10.9     531,700      8.9
More than US$5,000,000               2       7.4      16,460.535    40.5      6,844,496      37.8      5.882.175     50.5      1,585,956    32.4    2,147,908     35.9
Total Project    27     100.0    40,628,988    100.0     18,090,073    100.0    11,653,394      100.0    4,900,380     100.0    5,985,137    100.0
-0034778.xls



Table SC, Page 2 of 5
Table SC. Indicators for Project Implementation
Common Effluent Treatment Plants Appraised by IDBI & Financed under the Project
2. Distribution by Industrial Sub-sectors
Nurnber of     Number of         TIreatment Capacity                             Sponsors           Loan 3334         Credit 2252
IBRD Sub-project No.          CETP's        Participants                               Total Project Cost    contribution       Disbursement      Disbursement      State Subsidy
per
Total per Sector Participant
Nb.    %        Nb.    %    M3/day   %         M3/day        US$        %        US$       %        US$       %        USS      %
Chemical Industry            6       22       2,129  54      83,450  58       39         9,285,780  23       3,194,005  18      3,818,645  33       863,095  18    1,410,034  24
Tanneries                    10      37         530  13      23,800  17       45        13,215,343  33       7,369,053  41      3,181,832  27     1,061,523  22    1,602,935  27
Dyes and Intermediates       9       33       1,028  26      33,950  24       33        17,221,988  42       7,143,939  39      4,502,118  39    2,789,763  57    2,786,168  47
Industries
Other Multiple Industries and  2     7         239   6        1,800   1       8            905,878   2         383,079   2        150,799   1       186,000   4       186,000   3
Shoping Centers (i)
Total Component         27     100       3,926  100    143,000 100       36        40,628,988  100     18,090,075  100    11,653,394  100    4,900,380  100    5,985,137  100
(i) include a shoping center and an industrial estate with different industries
50034778 xls



Table 5C, Page 3 of 5
Table 5C. Indicators for Project Implementation
Common Effluent Treatment Plants
3. Distribution by States
CETP's Appraised by IDBI and Financed under the Proiect
Number of Projects         Status as of March 99           Total Project Cost     Luan 3334 Disbursement    Credit 2252 Disbursement             State Subsidy
Nb.        %      Commissioned or        Being
Being Started    Implemented          US$           %            US$            %            US$            %             US$            %
TamilNadul                  16          59.3         6                 10              16,273,235    40.1          3,515,338     30.2           1,868,969     38.1          2,406,787     40.2
Maharashtra                  5           18.5        2                 3               4,261,787     10.5          1,109,355      9.5            681,095      13.9            681,095      11.4
Gujarat                      4           14.8        4                                 18.941,049    46.6          6,801,281     58.4          2,055,316      41.9          2,602,255     43.5
Uttar Pradesh                2           7.4         2                                  1,152,916     2.8            227,421      2.0            295,000       6.0            295,000      4.9
Total                       27         100.0         14                13             40,628,988    100.0         11,653,394    100.0          4,900,380    100.0           5,985,137    100.0
Other CETP's
Number of Projects         Status as of March 99          Comments
Nb.        %      CmisoeorFeasibility Study
Being Started
Andra Pradesh                3         5.9           3
Gujarat                      3         5.9            1                2
Haryana                      1         2.0            1
Himachal Pradesh             4         7.8                             4
Karnataka                    2         3.9           2
Madhya Pradesh               1         2.0            1
Maharashtra                  1         2.0            1
Punjab                       4         7.8                             4
Rajasthan                    2         3.9           2
Tamil Nadu                  15        29.4            9                         of which 6 are not yet started
New Delhi                   15        29.4                             15
Total                       51         100.0         20                25               6
IPCP-ICR-table5C.xls



48
Table 5C, Page 4 of 5
Table 5C. Indicators for Project Implementation
Common Effluent Treatment Plants Appraised by IDBI and Financed Under the Project
4. Distribution according to Treatment Capacity
No. of CETPs      Average No of       Average Capacity             Average Cost
Participants
of CETP   Per Participant  per CETP       per M3
No.         %                       M3/day        M3/day          USS           USS
Upto IOOOM3/day               7          26                 71          636              9       633,917          997
1000 to 2000 M3/day           5          19                 43         1,460           34        504,233          345
2000 to 3000 M3/day           6          22                 72         2,458            34      1,140,746         464
3,000 to I0,000 M3/day        5          19                 71         4,700            66      1,512,192         322
More than I0,000 M3/day       4          15                607        23,250            38      4,816,241          207
Total Component               27         100               146         5,296            36      1,504,777  284.1187938
-0034778.xls



Table 5C. Indicators for Project Implementation                                 Table 5C, Page 5 of 5
Common Effluent Treatment Plants Appraised by IDBI & Financed under the Project
5. Distribution according to Number of Members
Number                                     Averagec                       Sponsors         Loan 3334        Credit 2252
of CETPs    Total Number of Participants    apacityof Total Project Cost   contribution   Disbursement    Disbursement   State Subsidy
____________________CETP
Actual          M3/day
Initial
Estimate Total (i) Medium   Small              US$      %       US$       %      US $       %      US $     %       US$     %
up to 50 Members         12          359     363         1   362      1,938   9,523,641   23   6,208,255   34      845,129    7  1,217,613   25  1,252,643  21
50tol 00 Members          7          456     479        40    439     2,250   6,300,908   16   2,376,421   13    1,606,812   14    914,120   19  1,403,555  23
100 to 500 Members       6         1,218   1,564       49  1,015      6,500  18,075,161   44   7,558,972   42    5,781,573   50  2,368,138   48  2,366,478  40
more than 500 Members     2        1,222   1,520        87  1,363   32,500   6,729,277   17   1,946,427   11    3,419,880   29    400,509    8    962,461   16
Total Appraised by
IDBI                     27        3,255   3,926       177  3,179     5,296  40,628,988  100  18,090,075  100   11,653,394  100  4,900,380  100  5,985,137 100
(i) It is estimated that most of the balance of 570 members is of large and medium polluting industries
-4034778.xls



50
Table 5D, Page 1 of 6
Table SD. Indicators for Project Implementation
Individual Investments
1. Distribution by Size
Number and Size of Individual Loans Anuroved
Individual Loans ARproved   Loans Amounts Approved
Nb.            %           Amount              %
Us$                                                                US$
less than 500,000                     21           27.6            5,494,000        4.2
500,000 -1,000,000                     16          21.1           11,813,000        8.9
1,000,000-2,000,000                   13           17.1           17,870,000       13.5
2,000,000-3,000,000                    9           11.8           20,131,072       15.2
3,000,000-5,000,000                    12          15.8           46,876,375       35.4
5,000,000-8,000,000                    5            6.6           30,125,000       22.8
Total Projects Approved               76          100.0          132,309,447      100.0
Number and Size of Individual Subprojects Implemented
Individual Proiects        Total Cost of Project
ImRlemented                Implemented
Nb.            %           Amount              %
US$                                                                US$
less than 500000                       11          15.9            3,691,390        0.6
500,000 -1,000,000                     8           11.6            5,532,487        0.9
1,000,000-2,000,000                   16           23.2           22,330,801        3.8
2,000,000-5,000,000                    7           10.1           23,268,982        3.9
5,000,000-10,000,000                   13          18.8           90,882,290       15.3
10,000,000-30,000,000                 10           14.5          177,158,075       29.8
more than 30,000,000                   4            5.8          272,389,111       45.8
0.0
Total Projects Implemented            69          100.0          595,253,135      100.0
Projects Cancelled or Undisbursed 1/    7
Total Projects Approved               76
1/ As of June 1999,
-001993 1.xls



51
Table 5D, Page 2 of 6
Table 5D. Indicators for Project Implementation
Individual Investments
2. Distribution by Type of Projects
Number of Projects                                                   Total Costs of Projects
Type of Projects             Approved          Loan Amount Approved   Loan Amount Disbursed        Implemented
Nb.       %            USS         %            USS         %          USS         %
Pollution abatement and resource       45         59.2        63,753,000   48.2        42,925,937    41.8    133,392,561    22.4
recovery
Cleaner technology trough new facilities  16      21.1        39,738,072   30.0        36,713,071    35.7    254,692,935    42.8
or process modification
Pollution control facilities for anew plant  9    11.8        17,499,375   13.2        13,629,453    13.3    166,583,523    28.0
expansion of an existing plant
New Plants or Units to Recycle Wastes   6          7.9        11,319,000    8.6         9,471,082    9.2     40,584,115     6.8
Total Project                          76        100.0       132,309,447  100.0       102,739,543   100.0    595,253,135   100.0
IPCPTA05D( I toS).xls



52
Table 5D, Page 3 of 6
Table SD. Indicators for Project Implementation
Individual Investments
3. Distribution by Category of Industry
Number of                                                          Total Costs of
Projects           Loan Amount             Loan Amount              Projects
Category of Industry       Approved              Approved                Disbursed            Implemented
Nb.       %          Nb.          %          USS         %          USS         %
Chenical and Related IndustriesSector
Caustic Soda                               12   15.8        36,533,000    27.6      33,874,131    33.0    244,898,107    41.1
Sugar/ethanol distillery                   11   14.5         6,332,000    4.8        4,652,721    4.5     12,149,990     2.0
Pctrochemicals                              8    10.5       18,678,000    14.1      13,110,011    12.8    47,455,419     8.0
Pulp and Paper                              S    10.5       13,714,000    10.4       9,321,035    9.1     31,450,947     5.3
Dyes and intermediates                      7    9.2         8,888,000    6.7        3,515,464    3.4      7,558,518     1.3
Pharmaccuticals                             5    6.6         1,015,000    0.8         782,857     0.8      1,337,385     0.2
Fertilizers                                 4     5.3       13,410,000    10.1      10,017,131    9.8    136,187,370    22.9
Pesticides                                  1     1.3        2,205,072    1.7        2,205,072    2.1      7,514,610     1.3
Subtotal Chemical and Related
Industries Sector                          56    73.7     100,775,072    76.2       77,478,422    75.4    488,552,347    82.1
Other Polluting Industries
steel plant                                 7    9.2         7,214,000    5.5        6,184,257    6.0      11,720,898    2.0
Cement industry                             5    6.6         5,878,000    4.4        4,261,489    4.1      9,081,347     1.5
Aluminium                                   3    3.9         9,190,000    6.9        7,437,000    7.2     38,680,000     6.5
Copper smelter                              1     1.3        3,000,000    2.3        2,524,000    2.5     21,600,000     3.6
TherTnal Power                              1     1.3        1,530,000    1.2        1,077,000    1.0      16,000,000    2.7
other                                       3     3.9        4,722,375    3.6        3,777,375    3.7      9,618,543     1.6
Subtotal other Polluting Industries        20    26.3       31,534,375    23.8      25,261,121    24.6    106,700,788     18
Total Project                              76   100.0      132,309,447   100.0     102,739,543   100.0    595,253,135   100.0
Note:
The subsectors for which sector profiles were prepared during project preparation are: Dyes and Intermediates,
Fertilizers, Leather Tanneries, Pharmaceuticals, Pesticides and Insecticides, Petrochemicals, Pulp and Paper, and Sugar and distilleries.
-0019931 .xls



53
Table 5D, Page 4 of 6
Table 5D. Indicators for Project Implementation
Individual Investments
4. Distribution by Type of Pollution
Number of Projects                                                    Total Costs of Projects
Type of Pollution         Approved         Loan Amount Approved    Loan Amount Disbursed        Implemented
Nb.      %             Nb.        %             USS         %          USS         %
Hazardous Liquid Effluent       33        43.4        46,320,072    35.0        31,287,204    30.5    108,258,769    18.2
Dust and Gaseous Emissions      19        25.0        33,333,000    25.2        27,923,249    27.2    106,007,681    17.8
Solid Waste                      4         5.3         3,908,000     3.0         2,980,011    2.9       7,016,419    1.2
Dust and Gaseous Emissions      20        26.3        48,748,375    36.8        40,549,079    39.5    373,970,266    62.8
and/or Liquid Effluents and/or
Solid Waste
Total Project                   76       100.0       132,309,447   100.0       102,739,543   100.0    595,253,135   100.0
-0019931 .xls



54
Table 5D, Page 5 of 6
Table SD. Indicators for Project Implementation
Individual Investments
5. Distribution by States
State                         Number of Projects Approved     Loan Disbursement US$            Total Cost USS
Number  % of Total         USS          % of Total        US$         % of Total
Maharasthra                             23      30.3           32,174,489      31.3          103,045,618        17.3
TarnilNadul                             13      17.1           16,646,327      16.2          179,194,535       30.1
Gujarat                                  9      11.8           16,549,079      16.1          136,410,060        22.9
Uttar Pradesh                            2      2.6             5,435,684      5.3            29,726,684         5.0
Subtotal ProJect-targeted States        47      61.8           70,805,579      68.9          448,376,897        75.3
Madhya Pradesh                           6      7.9             8,166,387      7.9            63,790,269        10.7
Rajasthan                                2      2.6             6,196,270      6.0            17,485,538        2.9
Andhra Pradesh                           7      9.2             4,040,892      3.9            15,186,977         2.6
Orissa                                   2      2.6             2,958,396      2.9             6,440,551         1.1
Karnataka                                4      5.3             2,320,778      2.3             4,524,933         0.8
Pondicherry                              2      2.6              1,541,590     1.5             8,600,145         1.4
Haryana                                  1      1.3              1,077,000     1.0            16,000,000        2.7
Bengal                                   1      1.3               158,000      0.2              450,000          0.1
Bihar                                    1      1.3               147,457      0.1              271,002         0.0
Punjab                                   1      1.3                            0.0
Projects implemented in Many
Locations in India                       2      2.6              5,327,194     5.2            14,126,823         2.4
Total Individual Projects               76     100.0           102,739,543    100.0          595,253,135       100.0
-00 1993 1.xls



55
Table 5D, Page 6 of 6
Table 5D- Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Individual Investments
6. Interest Rate Band on IDBI non-project Lending
From August 16, 1991                18-20% p.a
From November 19, 1992              17.5-19.5%
From March 15, 1993                 17-19%
From August 10, 1993                16.5-18.5%
From September 8, 1993              15.5-18.5%
From March 1, 1994                  14-17.5%
From October 19, 1994               15-17.5%
From February 20, 1995              15-18.5%
From April 20, 1995                 15.5-18.5%
From November 1, 1995               15.5-19.5%
From November 20, 1995              16-19%
From February 26, 1996              16-20%
From July 1, 1996                   17-21%
From October 23, 1996               16.5-20%
From May 1, 1997                    15-18.5%
From July 1, 1997                   14.5-18%
From October 24, 1997               13.5-17%
From January 22, 1998               14.5-18%
From April 13, 1998                 14-17.5%
From March 17, 1999                 13.5-17%
Source: IDBI
IPCPTAO5D6



Table 6A, Page 1 of 5
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 6A- State Pollution Control Boards
1. Facilities
Maharashtra                   Gujarat                   Tamil Nadu                Uttar Pradesh
1990/91         |1998/99  1990/91            1998/99  1990191            1998199  1990/91            1998/99
Offices
Regional Offices                5                 11        4                 7        4                  5        13                 16
District Offices               13                 25        2                 -        17                 18        -
Field Offices                   -                 1                  -                  -                 2
Laboratories
Central                         1                 1         1                 1         1                 1         1                  1
Regional                       2                  4         2                 5         7                 9         9                 13
Field                           -                 2         -                           -                 -         -
Mobile Units                                      8         -                 na       6                  3         -
2. Staff
Maharashtral/                  Gujarat                   Tamil Nadu               Uttar Pradesh
1990/91 | 1992193 | 1996/97  1990/91  1992/93  1996/97  1990/91 r 1992/93 | 1997198  1990/91   1992/93  1998/99
Technical (Eng.) Staff         146      152      149       40       42        81       135      147      164       93        na       110
Scientific Staff               42       48        71       73       79       142       73       73       132       89       na        106
Admin., Financial & Legal      223      218      285       214      228      222       408      451      400       289       na       325
Total Staff                   411       418      505       327      349      445       616      671      696       471       na       541
Increase over Period (%)
Total Staff                 -       2%       23%        -       7%       36%        -       9%       13%        -                15%
Tech. & Scientific Staff    -       6%       17%        -       7%       97%       -        6%       42%        -                19%
Tech. & Scientific as % of Total    46%  48%     44%      35%       35%      50%      34%      33%       43%      39%        na      40%
1/ Total staff by 1998/99 increased to 650, including 250 technical and engineering staff, or 38% of the total.
IPCPTA06AXLS



Table 6A, Page 2 of 5
Table GA. Key Indicators for Project Operation- State Poilution Control 9oarde
3. Regulatory Activity
Maharashtral/                      Gujarat                                   Tamil Nadu                     Uttar Pradesh
1990/91  1 1992/93 1 1997/98    1990/91  1 1992/93 1 1996/97 1 1998/99    1990/91    1992/93    1997/98    1990/91  1 1992/93    1998/99
Consents                                                                                                                                                            (1991-92)
Granted                                   7,755      6,535      8,556         na       484       1,855        na       2,500      2,885      2,268         na      1,654      1,134
Rejected                                     na        -          -           na        153       895         na         -                    232         na       1,959      1,486
NOC/Location Clearance
Issued                                      283         na         na         na      1,210       693         na                                8         na          na      1,414
Rejected                                     na         na         na         na       232        145         na                               -          na         na       1,536
Industrial Samples Collected/Analyzed          6,943     10,215     27,677      4,676     na         12,471    20,964      7,521     10,955      18,812   479161/      46,611     90,964
Inspections                                    5,266      6,710     10,542      9,058     11,500     22,480     24,801    20,000     20.000      21.649    140001/     14,500     20,500
Notices and Orders
Notices Issued                                   na         na         na         na         na        516         na         na         17      7,879         na         na       1,281
Directions Issued (for Ume-bound programs) (cum)  na        na    1696 2V         na         na         38         na         na         na      10,916        na         na
Closure orders issued                            na         na      372 2/        na         na         na         na         na         na       1,299         3         na        630
Litioation (cumulative no.)                                                                                                                            In
Cases Filed                                      381       458        532         na       2,317      2,921        na        435        435        454        530         na       1,037
Cases Resotved in Favor of Board                 138       199        240         na        490        704         na        108        128        176        148         na        646
Cases Pending                                    172        na        213         na       1,629      1,838        na        205        185        154         na         na         na
4. Productivity Indicles (1990191=100)
Productivity Indices                        1990/91    1992t93    1997/98    1990/91    1992193    1996/97 |1998/99    1990/91    1992193    1997/98    1990/91    1992/93    1998/99
Samples per Total Staff                           17                    55         14                               47         12         16         27        102                   168
Samples per Technical and Scientifc Staff         37                   126         41                               94         36         50         64        263                   421
InspectionsperTotal Staff                         13                    21         27                               56         32         30         31         30                   168
Inspections per Technical and Scientific Staff    28                    48         80                              111         96         91         73         77                    95
Productfvity Growlh
SamplesperTotalStaff                             100                   325        100                              330        100        134        221        100                   175
Samples per Technical and Scientific Staff       100                   342        100                              228        100        138        176        100                   168
InspectionsperTotalStaff                         100                   163        100                              228        100         92         96        100                   130
InspectionsperTechnicalandScientificStaff        100                   171        100                              137        100         95         76        100                   126
1/ Refers to 1991/92
21 Refers to1998/99



Table 6A. Page 3 of 5
Table GA. Key Indicators for Project Operation- State Pollutlon Control Boards
5. Revenues and Expenditures (Rs. Lakhs)
198St89       1989/90        1990191        1991t92       1992193        1993t94        1994/95       1995196        1996197        1997/98
MAHARASHTRA
Revenues
Consent and Consent Form Fees                            44             48             64            63            141            167           214            228            429            773
W'aterCeossRelmbursement                                 45            181            122            188           147            554           521            317           1001            560
Anatyis Charges                                           0              0              1              1             1              1              1            26             60             86
Interest on Investments                                  na             na             44            46             44             95           126            265            307             na
Mlscehlaneous Sources                                    na             na              1             4              0              7             4              2              4              0
Sub-total- Intemall Generated                                                 232            302           333            824            868            838           1801            na
GrantstromStateGovemnment                               124            142            150           166            125            223           234            206            162             na
Grantsfrom CentralGovemment                              20              8             11            136            61             70             8              6              1             56
rotal Revenues                                                                393            604            519          1117           1110           1050           1964             na
Expndfurms
Operating Expenses                                       na             na            220           257            280            410           462            540            759             na
Capital Expenditures                                     na             na            158            31             45             91            61             58             57             na
Total Expenditures                                                            378            288           326            501            523            Soo           o16             na
SurpuslDelkct                                                                          15           316            194            le6           587            452           1148             na
Shae of Intemally Generated to Total Resoumces                                       59%            50%           64%            74%            78%            80%            92%
Shar of Intemally Gen. Resources to Expendilures                                     61%           105%          102%           164%           166%           140%          221%                                     Un
Share of Cess to Total Resources                                                     31%            31%           28%            50%            47%            30%            51%                                     OD
Growth of Resourmes in Nominal terms                    100
Growth ot Resources in Real terms                       100
GUJARAT
Rewnues
Consent and Consent Form Fees                             8             12              6            na             na             na            na             na           226            425
WaterCess Reimbursement                                   38            52             44            na             na             13            116           103            178            203
Analysis Charges                                         na             na             na             na            na             na            na             na             87            105
Interest on Investments                                  na             na             na            na             na             na            na             na            53             89
Miscellaneous Sources                                    na             na             na            na             na             na            na             na             10            40
Sub-total                                                                                                                                                             554            862
Grants from State Govemment                             150             90             na            na             na             na            na             na           248            466
Grants from Central Govemrnent                           32             24             17            na             na             na            na             na            -
Totat Revenues                                                                                                                                                        802          1,328



Table 6A, Page 4 of 5
1359          l9oom          1                                           11 1112  1312n3  134  19W499 139            13197           1317S1
Operadng Expenset                                        na             no             no             no            no             no             no             na           713          1,280
Captal Expendes                                          ns aN                                        na            na             ns na                                        s 89          48
Totl Ezndtxurs                                                                                                                                                        802           1,328
Su,ptuaecftt
ShareooffIenhm Generatedlb TotalResourmes                                                                                                                                     69%            65%
Shae of lntenmy Gen. Resow, to Expenditures                                                                                                                                   69%            65%
Share ofCuss to Total Resources                                                                                                                                               22%            15%
Grcwth of'Resoures in Asa1tWens
Growth of Resourmes hI Real tbnns
TAMtL NADU
Reenues
Conent and Consent Form Fees                             39           252            288            338            461           492            516            616            750          1.368
WMterCessRelmbursenunt                                    4             28            41             s8            103            11            253            446            455            100
Anasys Charges                                           25             30            30             72             85           107            127            128            120            198
Intest on Investments
Miscelaneous Sources                                     12            35             31              1             76           217            137            251            151            838
Sub-total                                        80            345            391           479            726            828          1,032          1,439          1,475          2,302
Grants fon Cenal Govemment                               87             8S            50             38             23            10             35              4             80-n
TotatRevnue                                     167            431            441           617            749            63           1,087          1,443          1,66          2,302
Expendtures
Operain Expenses                                        146           261            311            276            244           215            557            502            823            881
Capitl Expendrses                                        37            40             41            100            160           252             30            119             98             91
Total Expditures                                183            301            382           375            424            48            67             621            920            973
Surplus/Ddiclt                                          (15)           129            89            142            324           372            479            623            638          1,329
Share ofintearnalyGneratedto Total Resourmes            48%           80%            89%            93%           97%            99%            97%           100%            95%           100%
Share of lntemally Gn. Resoumes to Expenditures         44%          115%           111%           128%           171%          178%           176%           232%           160%           237%
Share ofCuss to Total Resourmes                          2%            6%             9%            13%            14%            1%            24%            31%            29%             4%
Grwth ofResoues in Nonrinaltenns                        100            257            263           309            447            501           637            862            929           1375
Growth of Resoures hi Real tenns                        100            239            222           229            302            312           358            451            458            638



Table 6A, Page 5 of 5
1988189       1999190        1990191        1991/92       1992193        1993194        1994V95       1995196        1996197         199798
UTTAR PRAVESH
Revenues
Consent and Consent Form Fees                            72             88             45            89            124            102            95             125           135            283
Water Cess Relmbursement                                  7             65             92            106           766            836          1261            868            758            953
Analysis Charges                                         na             na             na            na             na             na            na             na             na             na
Interest on Investments                                  na             na             na            na             na             na            na             na             na             na
Miscellaneous Sources                                    na             na             na            na             na             na            na             na             na             na
Sub-total
GrantsfromStateGovemment                                 19             20             na             0             10             41            90            108            202              0
Grants from Central Govemment                            29             23             16            na             na            167
Total Ravenues
Expenditures
Operating Expenses
Capital Expenditures
rotal Expenditures
Surplus/Deficit
Sham ofintemally Generated to Total Resounres                                                                                                                                                                         O
Share of Intemally Gen. Resounces to Expendctures
Sham of Coss to Total Resourres
Growth ofResounmes in Nominal tenns
Growth ofResources in Real terns
WVholesale Prce Index                                  100.0          107.4         118.4          134.7          148.2         160.6          178.0          191.1          203.7          215.5
Note: Table to be completed.                                                                                                                                                      IPCPTAO6A.XLS



61
Table 6B. Page I of I
Table 6B. Key Indicators for Project Operation
Pollution Control in the Highly Polluting 17 Categories of Industries
Number of Units                                    Complince Rate
In Non-                           LXCuding
Year-end          Total       In Compliance    Closed        complance                Total       Closures
Total India
1992/93           1551            960             51            540                       62/.         64%
1993/94           1551            1154            74            319                       74%          78%
1994/95           1551            117S            121           252                       76%          82%
1995/96           1551            1237            III           203                       80%         S6%
1996/97           1551            1260           125            166                       S1%         8SS%
1997/98           1551            1261            125           165                       S1%          88.
1998/99           1551            1269            135            147                      82%          901%
Total of Four States under the Project
1992/93           855             644             20            191                       75%          771%
1993/94           855             744             26             85                       87%          90%6
1994/95           855             737             34             84                       86%          90%.
1995/96           855             742             34             79                       87%          90Y%
1996/97           855             764             39             52                      89Y%          94%
1997/98           855             764             39             52                       89/%         94%
1998/99           855             766             42             47                       90%          94%
Gularat
1991/92                                                                                  72%
1992/93            177            152             0              25                       86%          86%
1993/94            177            162              2             13                       92%.         93%
1994/95            177            167              2             8                        94%          95%
1995/96            177            167             2              S                        94%          95%
1996/97            177            167             3              7                        94%          96%
1997/98            177            167             3              7                        94%          96%
1998/99            177            167             3              7                        94%          96%
Maharastra
1991/92                                                                                   62/
1992/93           335             263             11             61                       79%/         S1%
1993/94           335             289             14             32                       86%          90-/.
1994/95           335             293             14             28                       87/%         91%
1995/96           335             293             14             28                       87%         91%
1996/97           335             296             19             20                       8S%          94%
1997/9S           335             296             19             20                       88%          94%
199S/99           335             296             21             IS                       8S%          94%
TnmitNsdu
1991/92                                                                                   70/%
1992/93            119             92              1             26                       7 7%         78%
1993/94            119            108             2              9                        91%          92%
1994/95            119            109              2             8                        92%          93%
1995/96            119            114              2             3                        96%          971%
1996/97            119            114              2             3                        X%           97%/
1997/98            119            114             2              3                        96%          97%/
1998/99            119            114             2              3                        96%          97/%
Uttar Pradesh
1991/92                                                                                   20%
1992/93           224             137              8             79                       61%          63%
1993/94           224             185             8              31                       83%          86%
1994/95           224             168             16             40                       75%          81%
1995/96           224             16S             16             40                       75%          81%
1996/97           224             187             15             22                       83%          89%/.
1997/98           224             187             15             22                       83%          89/.
1998/99           224             189             16             19                       84%          91%
Source: 1991/92: State Boards Annual Reports (Staff Appraisal Report of IPP Project)
1992/93 and beyond: Statistics Provided by CPCB .
Compliance is measured as having adequate facilities to comply with the standards and/or actual compliance.



Table 6C, Page I of 7
Table 6C. Key Indicators for Project Operatbon
Common Effluent Treatment Plants Appraised by IDBI and Financed under the Project
1. Main Characteristics
talRDSub-project                                                                                                      Capacity         Type of       Preliminary       EffluentSldeTxpr                                    c        Cs
No.               Name of Sponsor, and CETP Location               No of Participants                  Sector          Mc/day        Treatmnt        Tretnt              R               Slrdgc           Trport         Actua Cot
Initial    Total     MSI         SSI                                                                                                                                uSS
C-IDBI-00l        Common Effluent Treatment Plant         345       404         49        355    Mixed Chemical         12000      Activated sludge required from  partly (ind and  sw project through    drainage
(Thane Belapur) Association, Thant                                             Industries                       and terciary    members         gardening       association bieng
Belapur, Maharuhtra (M).                                                                                        treatment                                      implemented
1.215,231
C-IDBI-002        TIMA CEM? Co-op. Society Ltd.,          106        150                  150    mixed industries                  Activated sludge required from  no             plans for Sludge and  tankem sub-
Tarapur, M                                                                                                                     members                         waste disposal are    contracted
being developed with
MIDC
1000                                                                                                   561,602
C-IDBI-003        Pallavaram Tanneries Industries         106        152                  152   tanneries               3000       aerobic        required, common no             Sludge disposal plastic pipline with
Effluent Treatment Co. Ltd.,                                                                                   treatment       chromium                        lined                pamping
Pallavaram, Tamil Nadu (TN)                                                                                                    treatment unit                                       stationts
2,205,939
C-IDBI-005         Unnao Tanncries Pollution Control       17        21                    21    tanneries              2150      two stage       required chrome is no but R&D for temporaty deposit.   gravity pipline
Company Ltd., Unnao, Uttar Pradesh                                                                              aerobic process, recovered      recycling for   SPCB is developing a
(UP)                                                                                                            based on ASP                    irrigation or in  new Hazardous w
tannereis      deposit
614,020
C-IDBI-006        Kodaikanal Effluent treatment company    89        89                    89    commercial center       800       two stage      not required     no                                  in house
Ltd., Koadaikanal, TN                                                                                           aerobic process,                                                    drainage
based on ASP
344,276
C-lDBI-007         Gujarat Industrial Development         966       615         30        550    Chemicals in           55000      two stage      preliminary amd   no, but R&D for sludge used in plant as pipline
Corporation (GIDC) Ltd., Vapi, Gujarat                                         industrial area                  biological     primary treatment irrigation    soil conditioner. R&D
(G)                                                                                                             process, based  required from                  for genenrlization.
on ASP         members                         Also designing a
common waste deposit
5,140,078
C-IDBI-009        Ayyaspet Muthialpet Bleaching &         58         58                    58    dying md                1500     two stage                        n.a            used asland fill     pipe conveying
Dyeing Ind. Effluent Treatment Co.                                             bleaching                        aeorobic                                                            system
Ltd., Ayyampet-Mutialpet, TN.                                                  industries                       process, based
on ASP
448,898
C-IDBI-010         Ranipet SIDCO Finished Effluent        88         86                    86    taneries               2500      two stage       required from    used for       temporary secured    umderground
Treatment Co. Ltd., Ranipet, TN                                                                                asorobic        members          irrigation     landfill. TNPCB is   pipe
process, based                                 developing common
on Activated                                   Hazardous w deposit
sludge process
1,102,405
C-IDBI-0II         Vamiyambadi Effluent Treatment Co.      20        20                    20    tanneries               1200     two stage       required from    tobe used for  tobestored in a site to pipeline
Ltd., Valayampet, Vaniyannbadi, TN                                                                             acorobic process members        irrigation      be identified by
TNPCB
568,9 18
IPCPT`A06C I .xIs



Table 6C, Page 2 of 7
No.               Name ofSponsor, and CETP Location              NoofParticipants                  Sctor          Capacity      Tretment      Prelimenary      Recyclng           Sludge         Transport      Actua Cost
Initial    Total    MSI         SSI                                                                                                                          USS
C-IDBI-012        TALCO Ranipet Tannery Effluent        76        76                   76    tanneries              3850     activated sludge not required from  na         11/2 year secured  common
Treatment Company Ltd, Ranipet, TN                                                                                        members,                       landfill. other disposal collection and
chromium is                   to be indicated by   pumping
precipitaded in                TNPCB               toCETP
CETP;                                                                    1,483,216
C-IDBI-013        Karur Thiruvai Dyeing Enviro Ltd.,    57        57        20         37    dying and              2100     activated sludge                              land filling        conveying main
Karur, TN                                                                   bleaching
industries                                                                                                               617,335
C-IDBI-014        Perfect Enviro Control Systems Pvt.    6         6         1          5     chemical              200       activated sludge. all members also  toGIDC   optrateasecure      pumping and
Ltd. Sarigam, Gujarat                                                                                      (secondary &   have primary    drainage,      hazardous waste     pipeline
tertiary)     treatment                      storage with the    transport
authorization for 6 t/m
445,516
C-IDBI-015        Amravati Pollutech Ltd., Karur. TN    52        52        20         32    dying and             2500      activated sludge                              land filling        conveying main
bleaching
industries                                                                                                               758,055
C-IDBI-017        Karur Andankoil Pollution Control Ltd.,    47   47                   47    dying and              1900     activated sludge                              land filling        conveying main
Andankoil.                                                                  bleaching
industries                                                                                                               507,029
C-IDBI-018        Vishram Tanners Enviro control        36        36                   36    tanneries              3400     activated sludge required from  released in    land filling       conveying main
Systems (P.) Ltd., Melivishram, TN                                                                                        members         agricultural land
1,053,717
C-IDBI-019        Perumalpet Effluent Treatment (P) Ltd.,    50   50                   50    tamneries             4000      activated sludge               released in    land filling        conveying                          0'5
Perumalpet, TN- not yet completed                                                                          and solar                      agricultual land                   system                             LO
evaporation for
soak liquor
3,748,198
C-IDBI-021        Taloja CETP Co-operative Society Ltd.,   256    905       57         813   chemical              10000      activated sludge preliminary                 tobe stoed in a site to MIDC
Taloja.                                                                                                                   treatment required             b identified by MPCB collection and
from small-scale                                   drainaBe
members, primary                                   pipeline
and secondary
treatment required
from medium- and
large-scale
members
1.589,199
C-IDBI-022       Mathura Audyogik Chettra'A'            30        30                   30    dying industries;     6250      two stage      required from   UPSIDC drain  temporary deposit.   underground
Pradhushan Nivaran Co.Ltd., Mathura,                                        saries printing unit           aeorobic       members                        UPPCB to identify a  conveyance
UP                                                                                                         process, based                                suitable site for   system
on ASP                                       Hazardous w deposit
538,896
C-IDBI-023        ACAMA CETP Cooperative Society        34        34                   34    chemical               250      two stage
ltda.Arbemath-Maharastra                                                                                   aeorobic
process, based
on ASP                                                                                    158,822
IPCPTA06CI .xIs



Table 6C, Page 3 of 7
IBRD Sub-project                                                                                                 Capacty         Type of      Preliminary       Emuent
No.              Name of Sponsor, and CETP Location              No of Participants                Sector       MC 4*iy        Treatment       Treatment       REeycing          Sludge          Trtport        ActutdCost
Initial    Total    MSI         SSI                                                                                                                          USS
C-IDBI-024        Dombivli CETP Plant Ltda. Dombivly,   165       165                 165   chemical and           6000      two stage      Preliminary                    landfill in sites as  MIDC
Maharastra.                                                                 textile industsies             aeorobic       Treatment and                  indicated by MPCB   underground
process, based  detoxication of                                  collection and
on ASP        effluent by                                        conveyanee
members required                                  system
736.934
C-IDBI-025       Karur Taluka Dyeing & Bleaching        45        45                   45    dying and             1500      two stage                                     landfill in sites as    collection and
Effluent Treatment Company. Ltd..                                           bleaching                      aeorobic                                     indicated by SPCB    conveying
Ramkrishnapuram. (not completed as of                                       industries                     proces, based                                                     system
June IS, 1999)                                                                                             on ASP
475.597
C-IDBI-026        Karur Vanchi Dyeing Enviro Tech Ltd.,    46     46                   46    dying nd               1200     twO stage                                     landfill in sites as    collection nud
Light House Sector, Kasr.                                                   bleaching                      seorobic                                     indicated by SPCB    conveying
industries                     process based                                                     "ytem
on ASP
520,723
C-IDBI-028        Enviro Technology Ltd. Ankleswar      96        193                 193    dying and              1000     two stages     not required:   to GIDC       fion primary         CETPs rubber
bleaching                      aerobie proess members pay     drainage systn. treianent to cement or lined tankm
industries                     based on ASP   accoeding to their TDS and     landfill. Otier sludge
plus tertiary to  effluent    chlorides yet to  in centrlined secured
reduce COD.                   high for       landfill developped &
recycling     operated by CETP
2,034,998
C-IDBI-029        Meivisharam TanneriesEffluent         19        19                   19   leather processing      600      combined       soak liquor is    disposed  to  aland filling at sites    collection and
Treatment Co. Ltd, Melpudupet TN.                                                                          aeration and    evaporated by the nilaih idenified indicated by SCPB    pumpog system               ON
(not cosopleted as ofJune I  1999)                                                                         biosolar       indusbies in aolar by TNPCB                                                           P
treatnnt      pars Nd prelimin.
proces        treatmnent requred
501,701
C-IDBI-030        Melvisharm Tanneries Effluent         9         9                    9     leather procesing      600      combined       soak liquor is    disposed  to  a Iad filling at sites    collection nd
Treatmnent Co. Ltd Chettythangal. TN                                                                       aeration and    evaprated by the nmdlah idendfied indicated by SCPB    pumpag system
(not comspleted as of June 1, 1999)                                                                        hiosoltr       industries in solar by TNPCB
trtment       pans and prelimin.
procesr       tratmenm requnred
390,505
C-IDBI-031        TALCODindigulTamnmEnviro              36        61                   61    leatherprocessing     2500      anaerobic      soak liquor is    proposed for use temporarily dispoed  collection,
Control Systems Pvt. Ltd., Dindigul, TN                                                                     reatment      evaporated by the in irigation    in plastic bas in  pumping aNd
industries in solar            CETP premises      wider greund
pans and prelimin                                 conveyance
tretmnent required                                system
I.S46,723
C-IDBI-032        Green Environment Services Co-       400        500                        dyes and              16000     biological     pee-treatment and  to Pirane   deposit ina solid   network of
operative Society Ltd. Vatva, G                                             intermediates                  serobic prcess desintoxication   sewera  system waste dumping site.  piplies
tremetit reqsed
frem beneficirieas
11.320,457
Total                 3255      3926       177       3179                                                                                                                          42
Notes: SSI and MSI are respectively small and medium sce industries; ASP: Activated Sludge Process
IPCPTA06CI.xla



Table 6C. Key indicators for Project Operation                                                              Table 6C, Page 4 of 7
Commom Effluent Treatment Plants Financed under the Project
2. Outcome of a Sample of 13 CETPs
IER) Sub-project Name of Sponsor, and CETP Location                     Legal Compliance 1/                     Capacity Utilization        Cost Charging System             Revenue Collection System     Type of Ownership and
No.                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mngmn
Influent            Effluent             Sludge
C-IDBI-001        Common Effluent Treatment Plant    in compliance    compliance (meets      not in compliance   optimal           initial capital contribution md monthy fixed  Satisfactory. Through MIDC water The CETP association
(Thane Belapur) Association, Thame                  standards except for TDS)                                    cost are differently charged for SSI amd other bills                  (Thane Bellapur). At the
Belapur, Maharashtra (M).                                                                                        units. treatment costs are based on 65% of                            initiative of MIDC and
water consumption for SSI and consmnption                             MPCB.
and COD for other units. Favorable to SME
C-IDBI-002        TIMA CETP Co-op. Society Ltd.,    not in Comipliance   not in compliance   not in compliance   optimal. an upgrade  fixed cost levied based on water consumption Satisfactory. Through MIDC water Tarapur Industrial
Tarapur, M                                                                                   and expansion is being with a minimum level of up to 99m3 and a   bills                   Manufacturer Association
implemented to meet maximum level for consumptions above 4500                             (TIMA) cooperative. At
the standards      m3. Variable costs are equaly devised                                 the initiative of MIDC and
between units.                                                        MPCB.
C-IDBI-003        Pallavaram Tanneries Industries   in compliance     not in compliance process in compliance for   operating at 80% of  equity contribution, fixed costs amd variable  not satisfactory. The compamy is in Pallavaram Tanmers
Effluent Treatment Co. Ltd.,                        modifications are being   the short term  total design capacity. costs are the same for all members units  default to repay the loan to IDBI and Industrial Effluent
Pallavaram, Tamil Nadu (TN)                         implemented                                                  irrespective of their size             will probably become a sick unit.   Treatment Company Ltd
C-IDBI-005        Unnao Tanneries Pollution Control    in compliance  in compliance          not in compliance  optimal. application   Equity participation according to size. charge Good, only the 5 smaller units have Unao Tanncries Pollution
Company Ltd., Unnao, Uttar Pradesh                                                           for other potential    on 100% water consumption at a flat Rs.    some problems due to recession in  Control Co. registred under
(UP)                                                                                         members             9.25/m3                                the industry however, the CETP has the Cos act 1956 based on
some financial cushion         no-profit no loss concept
C-IDBI-007        Gujarat Industrial Development    not always in                            not in compliance  in addition effluents  project cost to repay IDBI loan and  some problem in collection    initially GIDC. Now the
Corporation (GIDC) Ltd., Vapi, Gujarat Compliance                                            from small non      operational costs are shared based on 60% of                          VAPI Waste amd Effluent    ON
(G)                                                                                          polluting industries   water consumption. For COD higher tham                             Management Copipany Ltd.
and some domestic   IOOOmg/l, a 100% operating cost penalty is                            The large industries were
sewage are treated    charged                                                             obliged to join the CETP,
without charge                                                                            while they had their own
facilities.
C-IDBI-010        Ramipet SIDCO Finished Effluent  in compliance      in compliance          in partial        optimal             the initial contribution and the charges are   Satisfactory.          Ranipet SIDCO effluent
Treatment Co. Ltd., Ranipet, TN                                            compliance for the                    being shared equally.                                                 treatment Co Ltd
short term. Sludge
is also partally used
for manure used in
green belt
development.
C-IDB1-011        Vaniyamnbadi Effluent Treatment Co.   primary treatment is not yet completed  not in compliance  not yet started  flat fixed and variable charges per m3                               VANIYAMBADI effluent
Ltd., Valayampet, Vaeiyambadi, TN    already performed in                                                        effluent                                                              Treatment Co Ltda.
member units
C-IDBI-012        TALCO Ranipet Tannery Effluent    compliance        compliance (meets      compliance        optimal amd fll     contribution paid by all members. Service   Satisfactory. Leverage through  Talco Effluent Co. Ltd.
Treatment Company Ltd, Ranipet, TN                  standards except for TDS)                membership          charges are based on flat price per Kg of skin TNPCB: in cae of non-payment the
or hide treated. Possible since all the  effluent is not accepted and TNPCB
tannerims are of the same type        is informed. TNPCB initiates action
against non-compliers.
IPCP-ICR-table6C2.xls



Table 6C, Page 5 of 7
NO.              Name of Sponsor, mod CETP Location                     Lqap Compliance I/                      Capacity Ultilastioe        Cost Cbhrging System             Revenue Cofletico System        Me naement
lflrent             Effluent             Sludge
C-IDBI-014        Perfect Enviro Control Systems Pvt.  in compliance they  geneally in compliance  in compliance.  optimal. members   all members have cootributed to the initial satisfactory            organized by the member
Ltd. Sarigam, Gujarat             all have a prinmary                                        inclined to do more   equity and to a bridge deposit (interest free).                      units which set up the CETP
treatment                                                  recycling           Charges are based: (i) on a pollution factor                          under a new company, when
calculated for each unit from the BOD and                             the SPCB nomrs were
COD of its effluent; and (ii) the effluent                            revised and it bcame
quandity of each unit. Cost plus                                      imperative to the units to
have a secondary treatment
C-IDBI-021        Taloja CETP Co-operative Society Ltd., SSI are required to  not yet stafted                                      For large and medium industries charges are  should he satisfactory. will be by   cooperative company, with
Taloja.                           have a preliminaiy                                                             based only on volumes of effluent. For small MIDC through the monthly water  tripartite agreement between
treatment and the                                                             industries they are based on pollutants (COD) bills                    GIDC, CETP and the
medium to large ind.                                                          and BOD.                                                               membrs
which were obliged
to join CETP must
have primary and
second. treatment.
C-IDBI-028        Enviro Techmology Ltd. Anklewar    in compliance    in compliance. the CETP in compliance    optimal. waste      Mminbe  are not required to have primary   satisfactory. A deposit is required   Company operated on a
provide primary,                        minimization is    treatment. Flat fixed and variable costs are  from all members as working  commercial basis. United    ON
secondary and terciary                  canied out by       charged per volume treated. Variable dcarge  capital.                  Phosphorus is the main
treatment and ensure                     members to reduce   is based on pulltion load (acidity and COD)                           promoter (5 1%) and 36
removal of acidity, COD,                cost. This helped   of effluent received. Have paid 10% dividend                           members are also equity
BOD, heavy metals from                  accommodate new    to all equity holders.                                                 parsers. The major
SSI effluent                            members and 200 m3                                                                        promoter who are in large
of sewage from GIDC                                                                       and medium industries are
colony                                                                                    not utilizing the facility
which is keeped for SSI.
C-IDBI-03 I       TALCO Dindigul Tanners Enviro     in compliance     generally in compliance,  not in compliance,  satisfactory  flat charge based on a price per kg of raw    satisfactory. Leverage through  cooperative company. All
Control Systems Pvt. Ltd., Dindigul, TN             except for TDS and     stored in plastic bags                hide or skin treated                   SPCB                           members contributed in
chlorides             in premises                                                                                                 equity and in deposit
C-IDBI-032       Green Enviroment Services Co-      Claimed to be in    Claimed to be in     not in compliance  the project hoa    Equity contribution was collected. Fixed    treatment costs started to be charged cooprative society Ltd.
operative Society Ltd, Vatva, G   compliance, consent compliance, consent                    recently started amd us charges on booked volume of effluent.  only in April 99           with a 14 directors board.
requested         requested                                of May 99 was      Treatment charges based on COD load of                                 day to day operation is
operating at 50% of its effluent. Penalties are also charged if influent                  supervised by a six-member
capacity           is above standards for SS, ammon. N, heavy                             office
metals, oil&grease, and phenolic compounds
1/ According to information obtained from questionnaires sent to CETPs and to the Environmental Perfromance Indicators Study.
IPCP-ICR-table6C2.xls



67
Table 6C, Page 6 of 7
Table 6C. Key Indicators for Project Operation
3. Gujarat- Impact of 9 CETPs in Operation on Quality of Receiving Water Bodies
Location of CETP   Name of Receiving   Parameter (mg/l   Prior to Operation    After Operation
Body            except PH)
Vapi *            Estuary of                PH                 7.3               7.3
Damanganga               DO                 2.6               5.6
BOD                29                 13
COD                260                29
Sarigam *         Estuary of Tokar-         PH                 7.6               7.4
khadi                    DO                 Nil               6.2
BOD                194                15
COD                583                68
Ankleshwar *      Amala Khadi,              PH                 5.5               5.7
going to Estuary of      DO                 0.9               1.5
Narmada                 BOD                 336                71
COD               1,358               191
Nandesari          ECP going to             PH                 7.8               7.7
Estuary of Mahi          DO                 Nil               1.2
BOD                228                74
COD                550                103
GIDC, Vatva *;    Going to Khari            PH                 2.1               7.5
GIDC, Odhav; and  River                     DO                 Nil               Nil
Gumsav, Odhav                              BOD                983                307
COD               1,793              761
GIDC, Dhareshwar  Public sewer of           PH                 6.9               7.2
(Rajkot)          Rajkot (CETP              DO                 Nil               0.5
outlet)                  BOD                575                57
COD               2,386               151
Jetpur            Open land for             PH                7.25               7.5
irrigation, at outlet    DO                 Nil               3.5
(formerly going to      BOD                 53                 10
river)                  COD                 305                50
*: Financed under the project.
Source: Gujarat State Pollution Control Board
IPCPTA06C3Revi .doc



68
Table 6C, Page 7 of 7
Table 6C. Key Indicators for Project Operations
4. SPCB Standards for Typical Common Effluent Treatment Plants
Parameter                   Gujarat  Uttar Pradesh   Tamil Nadu   Maharashtra
PH                           6.5-8.5      7-8.5        6.5-9.0       6.5-9.0
BOD (mg/l)                     20          30            30           100
COD (mg/1)                    250         250            250          250
TSS (mg/I)                    100          100           100          100
TDS (mg/1)                   2,100                      2,100        2,100
Chromium (Cr)(mg/l)           2.0         <0.5           2.0          Nil
Hexavalent Chromium (mg/I)     1.0                       0.1          Nil
Mercury (Hg) (mg/I)           0.01                                    0.01
Arsenic (mg/l)                0.2                                     0.2
Chlorides (mg/I)                                        1,000         600
Phenolic Compounds (mg/l)      1.0
IPCPTA06C4.doc



Table 6D, Page I of 9
Table 6D. Key indicators for Project Operation - Individual Investments - Main Characteristics and Outcome
IBRD Loon
Sub-Loan No.   Name of Company            State             Type of Pollution    Type of Industry            Type of Project                       Outcome               Approved USS   Total Cost
US$
ICICI-B-001    Ballarpur Industries Ltd.  Haryana          Emissions control   Thermal Power      Waste minimization, and resource    Waste minimization through the use of   1.530.000    16,000.000
recovery. Use of fly ash from an other    fly ashes
industrial unit for concrete blocks
pro,duction
ICICI-B-002    Malladi Drugs & Phar.Ltd    Tamil Nadul     Liquid effluent    Pharmaceuticals     Pollution abatement. resource and energy  The company now comply with the     290,000       480,000
control and treatment                  recovery by adding an efilluent treatment state discharge standards. In addition to
facility with a biogas reactor      the treatmnent of plant effluent the
system produce methane and allow a
reduction in fuel costs
ICICI-B-003    Hukumchand Jute Ind. Ltd.   Madhya Pradesh   Toxic waste, and    Caustic Soda      Cleaner technology. replacement of 12   The plant effluent is now in compliance  1,030,000  7.420,000
toxic emissions and                   mercury cells by 8 membrane cells out of (Hg is less than 0,006 mg/I and COD
energy savings                        a total of 38 installed (financed by IDBI   less than 40 mgIl)
B06) and installation of an effluent
treatment system for about 150 m3/day
ICICI-B-004    Bayer India Ltd.           Maharasthra      Emissions control   Petrochemicals     Cleaner technology. Production of pastille Easier handling and dust free working  660,000  1,610,000
products in replacement of flakes   environment                                                             ON
produced in old plant to reduce dust                                                                        '.
emissions, minimize recycling and
increase capacity.
ICICI-B-005    Century Text. & Ind. Ltd.  Maharasthra      Toxic waste, and    Caustic Soda       Cleaner technology. Replacement of 9  Partial reduction of Hg pollution. In  2,230,000    10,170,000
toxic emissions and                    mercury cells by 4 membrane cells out of addition the process allows energy
energy savings                         34 installed for the fabrication of caustic  savings. However, large part of the
soda.                               company mercury cells is yet in
operation
ICICI-13-006    Nath Pulp & Paper Ltd.    Maharasthra      Liquid effluent    Pulp and Paper      Pollution abatement and resource     BOD and COD were reduced                1,830,000    5,400,000
control and treatment                  recovery, through the black liquor  respectively 2000ppm and 7000 ppm
treatment for BOD. COD and color    before the project to respectively 30 and
250 ppm. In addition, alkali and lignin
are recovered.
ICICI-13007;    Atul Products Ltd.        Gujarat          Toxic waste, and    Caustic Soda       Cleanertechnology. Replacementofall  Reduction of Hg pollution. In addition  2,66g,000    7,500,000
IDBI-BO I1                                                 toxic emissions and                    mercury cells by membrane cells for the  the process allows energy savings. No
energy savings                         manufacture of caustic soda.        liquid effuent is discharged from this
new plant. In addition to the control
systems in place in its complex, Atul is
implementing a secure land fill.
IPCPTAO6D.xls



Tabic 6D, Page 2 of 9
IBRD Loan
Sub-Loan No.  Name of Company              State              Type of Pollution    Type of Industry            Type of Project                         Outcome               Approved USS   TOtaI COst
ICICI-B-008    Atic Ind. Ltd./Atul         Gujarat          Liquid effluent     Dyes and Dye        Pollutionabatement. constructionofan   Except forCOD, which is in the Tange   2,280,000     3,710,000
control and treatment Intermediates    effluent treatment facility           220-350, the effluent is now in
conformity
ICICI-B-009    IPCA Labs. Ltd.             Madhya Pradesh   Liquid effluent and  Pharmaceuticals    Cleaner technology and pollution     The company now is complying with          145,000       270,000
toxic waste control                    abatement and resource and energy     state discharge standards. BOD and
recovery. Waste minimization through    COD were respectively reduced from
process changes. Waste heat recovery  400 and 2000 mg/I to less than 50 and
from gases before they are scrubbed.  200 mg/I. Treated water is used for
modernization of the effluent treatment   agriculture. Waste was minimized. and
facility.                            by products are recovered and sold.
ICICI-B-0l0    Indian Aluminum Co. Ltd.    Orissa           Fluoride emissions   Aluminu Smelter    Pollution abatement                                                           3,370,000     4,520,000
control
ICICI-B-01 I    Gujarat Alkalis & Chem. Ltd. Gujarat        Toxic waste, and    Caustic Soda        Cleaner technology                                                            4,710,000    63,200,000
toxic emissions and
energy savings
ICICI-B-012     Ilindalco Ind. Ltd.        UttarPradesh     Fluoride and dust    Aluminu Smelter    Pollution abatement and resource     Fluorine and dust emissions are now in   5,000,000    28,410,000
emissions control                      recovery, through the installation of a dry  compliance with standards. They are
scrubber and modernization of alumina   respectively 0.725 kg/t produced and 30
plant                                mg/Nm3 (standards are 1n50mg/Nm3                                          O
and I kg/t) economy of Rs. 500,000/day
for alumina and aluminum fluoride
recovered. Certified ISO 14001.
ICICI-B-013     Alufluoride Pvt. Ltd.      Andra Pradesh    Toxic liquid effluent Aluminu Fluoride  Aluminu fluoride plant based on by-  This is an industrial project to produce  820,000      5,750,000
(fluosilicic acid)    plant            product fluosilicic acid produced in a  3,500tty of aluminu fluoride recycling
nearby fertilizeT industry during gas  about 4,000 tVy by product fluosilicic
scrubbing                            acid. The acid can also be used in
drinking water production for dental
protection.
ICICI-B-014    Gokak Patel Volkart         Kamataka          Liquid effluent    Dyes and Dye        Pollution abatement                                                             164,000       236,000
control and treatment Intermediates
ICICI-B-015    Sudarshan Chem.lnd.Ltd      Maharasthra      Liquid effluent     Dyes and Dye        Pollution control facilities ofa new  Effluent treatment facility at a new dye  670,000       900,000
control and treatment Intermediates    industrial plant.                    plant. The plant is within the standard
limits of SPCB for COD and BOD
IPCPTA06D.xls



Table 6D, Page 3 of 9
IBRD Loan
Sub-Loan No,  Name of Company            State             Type of Pollution    Type of Industry           Type of Project                       Outcome               Approved USS   Total Cost
US$
ICICI.B-016    Kap Chem Ltd.             Kamataka         Liquid effluent    Ethanol distillery  Pollution abatement and energy recovery  The plant is stopped since 1993. The  680,000  1,200,000
control and treatment                 through the setting up of a bio-    project is expected to start by July 1999.
metanization effluent treatment plant.   In  addition  to  effluents  levels
guaranteed which are in compliance
with standards the plant will produce
about 2QOOOm3 of methane
ICICI-B-017    Rohit Pulp & Paper Ltd.   Gujarat          Liquid effluent    Pulp and Paper     Pollution abatement                                                          220,000
control and treatment
ICICI-B-0 8    Finolex Ind. Ltd.        Maharasthra      Air and water      Petrochemicals     Pollution abatement and resource recovery The plant effluents are now in   2,430,000     6,500,000
effluent control                     in a PVC plant                       conformity with the SPCB standards.
ICICI-B-019    NRC Ltd (Nat.Rayon Corp)   Maharasthra     Toxic waste, and    Caustic Soda      Cleaner technology, through the     Illumination of Hg pollution and in    2,000,000     2,365,483
toxic emissions and                  replacement of all 24 mercury cells by 8  addition, the process allows energy
energy savings                        membrane cells for the manufacture of   savings. no liquid effuent is discharged.
caustic soda.
ICICI-B-020    Madras Fertilizers Ltd.   Tamil Nadul      Liquid effluent    Fertilizers        Pollution abatement and resource recovery The plant is in conformity and with the  2,100,000  8,010,000
control and treatment                 through the modernization of the existing  SPCB load standards for the fertilizer
effluent treatment plant and installation of industry. In addition, the company treat
monitoring equipment               the city sewage and use it as cooling                                  1
water, reducing its needs by 10%
ICICI-B-021    Ihiru Arooran Sugars Ltd.    Tamil Nadul   Liquid effluent   Sugar/ethanol       Pollution abatement and energy recovery In addition to the removal of 87% of  833,000    1,714,286
control and treatment distillery     trough the installation ofla bio     COD and BOD, important energy costs
methanization reactor.             savings and the treated effluent is
transformed in bio compost.
ICICI-B-022    Globe Organics Ltd.       Andra Pradesh    Liquid effluent    Pharmaceuticals    Pollution abatement and resource recovery                                    130,000
control and treatment
ICICI-B-023    Kothari Sugars & Chcm.Ltd.  Andhra Pradesh    Liquid effluent  Sugar/ethanol     Pollution abatement and energy recovery  In addition to the removal of 90% of  580,000   4,000,000
control and treatment distillery     trough the installation of a bio     COD and BOD, important energy costs
methanization reactor.             savings (210 KWh are generated) and
the treated effluent is transfomed in bio
compost.
IPCPTAO6D.xIs



Table 6D, Page 4 of 9
tBRD Loan
Sub-Loan No.   Name of Company             State             'fype of Pollution    Type of Industry            Type of Project                         Outcome               Approved [JSS   Total Cost
USS
ICICI-B-024    Ramna Newsprint & Papers    Gujarat          Liquid effluent     Pulp and Paper      Pollution control facilities of a new  Gas emissions and effluents are within  3,000,000    5,364,000
Ltd.                                         control and treatment                  industrial plant, based on second hand    the SPCB limits. About 96% and 93%
equipment. Include an effluent treatment  of BOD and TSS are removed from
plant, ash handling, and electrostatics  effluent and 99.7% of the fly ash is
precipitators.                       collected.
ICICI-B-025    IFB Agro Ind. Ltd.          Bengal           liquid effluent     Sugar/ethanol       Pollution abatement and energy recovery  In addition to the removal of 90% of   170,000       450,000
control and treatment distillcry       trough the installation of a bio     COD and BOD, important energy costs
methanization reactor.               savings. The statutory requirement is
met by some dilution.
ICICI-B-026    Sterlite Industries Ltd.    Maliarasthra     Emissions cotitrol   Copper smelter     Pollution control facilities ofa new copper the plant has a continuous monitoring  3,000,000  21,600,000
stnelter plant with a double absorption    plan for stack emissions and ambient
sulfuric acid plant to recover the sulfur   air, effluents and solid wastes. The
dioxide gases.                       company meets all standards. It
achieved zero discharge of effluents by
full recycling. Solid waste is stored in
plastic lined ponds.
ICICI-B-027    Grasim Ind. Ltd.            Madhya Pradesh   Emissions control   Petrochemicals      Pollution abatement, through the     Compliance with standards and             500,000      1,300,000
installation of electrostatic separators to  improvement of working conditions
contro fly ash from boilers                                                                                    to
ICICI-B-028    Shreyans Ind. Ltd.          Punjab           Liquid effluent    Pulp and Paper       Pollution abatement                                                            270,000
control and treatment
ICICI-B-029    Rajashri Sugars l.td.       Tamil Nadul      Solid waste control  Sugar/ethanol      Pollution abatement                                                            330,000
and disposal       distillery
ICICI-B-030    Century Text. & Ind. Ltd.   Maharasthra      Air and water       Petrochemicals      Pollution abatement. through the     SPM level of exhaust gases came down      968,000      1,300,000
effluent control                       modemization of control facilities. Dust  from i50 mg/Nm3 to less than 100
control and ETP in the rayon plant   mg/Nm3, and is within SPCB norms.
Liquid effluent from ETP well below
the limits for pH, TSS, BOD and COD.
ICICI-B-032    Aurangabad Paper Mills Ltd.  Maharasthra     Emissions and liquid Pulp and Paper     Pollution abatement and resource recovery                                     2,000,000
effluent control and
treatment
IPCPTAG6D.xls



Table 6D, Page 5 of 9
IBRD Loan
Sub-Loan No.  Name of Company            State             Type of Pollution    Type of Industry           Type of Project                       Outcome               Approved USs  Total Cost
ICICI-B-033    Lanco Ind. Ltd.           Andhra Pradesh   Solid waste control  Pig-iron cement plant Pollution abatement and resource recovery Use of solid waste such as iron ore  2,218,000  4,310,000
fines, clinker, slag, coke fines in the
production of slag cement
ICICI-B-034    Jaysynth Dyestuff Ltd.    Gujarat          Liquid effluent    Dyes and           Pollution abatement through the     ICR mission found the ETP very bad in    750,000     1,010,000
control and       intermediates       construction of an ETP              terms of operation and maintenance.
treatment         (Pigments factory)                                      The wet sludge were bagged and stored
in plastic bags by workers in very bad
working conditions. Also they were
obliged to join the CETP and decided to
stop the biologic treatment.
ICICI-B-035    Indian Dyestuff Ltd.      Maharasthra      Liquid effluent    Dyes and           Pollution abatement                                                        4.200.000
control and       intermediates
treatment
ICICI-B-036    Mysore Petrochem. Ltd.    Maharasthrs      Liquid effluent    Petrochemicals     Pollution abatement, waste minimization, Minimization of liquid effluent and  4,760,000    10,808,000
control and                           and resource recovery. Use of liquid  resource recovery
treatment                             effluent from phtalic anhydride plant to
produce Maleic anhydride
ICICI-B-037    SIV Ind. Ltd.             Tamil Nadul      Liquid effluent    Petrochemicals     Pollution abatement and prevention.  Not yet completed, partly financed    8,o0,0000    23,231,000
control and treatment                 Resource recovery                   under the IPP project.
ICICI-B-03S    Travancore Chemiceals Ltd.   Tamil Nadul   Air, water eMuent.  other, barium salts    Pollution abatement and resource recovery                               211,000
and solid waste
control
ICICI-B-039    Tuticorin Alkali Ch.&     Tamil Nadul      Solid waste        other, Ammonium    Cleaner technology. The process is  The project is expected to be            875,000     1,100,000
Fert.Ltd.                                  minimization and    chloride          modified to recover ammonium chloride  commissioned in July 1999. It vill
liquid effluent                      from effluents by crystallization   allow minimization of solid waste and
control and treatment                 eliminating the use of lime, reducing solid liquid effluents and will result in the
wastes and liquid effluents and resulting in production of an additional 10,000 tpy
additional production of anmonium  of ammonium chloride.
chloride
B-IDBI--001    Sandur Mang.& Iron Ores Ltd. Kamataka      Emissions control   Pig iron and Ferro    Pollution abatement                                                      430.000       751,933
silicon
B-IDBI--003    Mouldwell Polymers        Maharasthra      Solid waste        Plastic recycling plant New plastic recycling plant                                             780,000     1,965,179
Recycling plant
B-IDBI--004    Nath Pulp and paper mills    Maharasthra   Liquid effluent    Pulp and Paper     Pollution control facilities of for the                                    1,255,000    14,728,617
control and treatment                 expansion of an industrial plant.
IPCPTA06D.xls



Table 6D. Page 6 of 9
IBRD Loan
Sub-Loan No.   NameofCompany               State              Type of Pollution    Type of Industry            Type of Project                         Outcome               Approved USS   TotalCost
us$
B-IDBI--005    Polyolefins Lts.            Maharasthis       Solid waste        Petrochemicals      Pollution abatement- Incinerator with    115 kg /hour of waste produced at      5So,o00       741,241
incineration                           caustic scrubbing system              design capacity are incinerated and the
plant meets the statutory emissions
norms. The actual emissions of S02
and NOx are in the range 15 -20 ppm
well below the MPCB limit.
B-IDBI--006    Hukumehand jute             Madhya Pradesh   Toxic waste, and    Caustic Soda        Cleaner tcchnology                   Replacement of 12 mercury cell by 8      1,560,000     9,446,539
toxic emissions and                                                          membrane cells for the manufacture of
energy savings                                                              caustic soda. In addition the process
allows energy savings. No liquid
effuent is discharged.
B-IDBI--007    Rashtriya Chem&Fert. Ltd.   Maharasthra      Emissions control   Fertilizers         Pollution abatement, and resource and    The project resulted in zero emission of  6,910,000  14.473,156
energy recovery                      purge and flash gases and recovery of
products such as Hydrogen, nitrogen,
ammonia, methane and argon.
Significant reduction in odor.
B-IDBI--OOS    EID Parry                   Tamil Nadul      Emissions control   Fertilizers         Cleaner technology for the replacementof Reduced S02 emissions, reduction in  1,010,000     1,326,717
a single by a double absorption H2S04    sulfur and energy consumption in the
plant. Pollution abatement for the   sulfuric acid production. Reduced
installation of a scrubber in an existing    fluorine emissions in fertilizer plant.
super phosphate plant                Information on the use of the fluorine
scrubbing liquor is not available.
B-IDBI--009    Emmellen Biotech Pharma    Maharasthra        Liquid effluent    Pharmaceuticals     Pollution abatement, waste minimization  The entire plant is claimed to be in  320,000        451,286
Ltd.                                         control and                            and energy recovery. Bio digestor with   conformity. The sludge is used as bio
treatment                              methane recovery                     fertilizer and bio gas is recovered for the
boiler and allow a 30% reduction in fuel
cost. Has eliminated the odor nuisance
in the neighborhood.
B-IDBI--Olo    GujaratAlkalis&Chem.Ltd.  Gujarat            Toxic waste, and    Caustic Soda        Cleaner technology                   Replacement of30 mercury cell by 17      4,710,000    52,566,944
toxic emissions and                                                         membrane cells for the manufacture of
energy savings                                                              caustic soda. In addition the process
allows energy savings. No liquid
effuent is discharged.
B-IDHI--012    Som Distilleries            MadhyaPradesh   Liquid effluent      Sugar/ethanol       Pollution abatement and energy recovery                                        960,000      1,109,059
control and treatment distillery
IPCPTA(6D.xls



Table 6D, Page 7 of 9
IBRD Loan
Sub-Loan No.  Name ofCompany              State              Type of Pollution    Typeof ndustry             Type of Project                        Outcome               Approved SS  Total Cost
B-IDBI-013     Colour Chem                Maharasthra      Liquid effluent    Dye pigment         Modemization ofeffluent treatment plant. COD is now in the range 150-250 ppm  574,000       669,900
control and treatment                  to comply with COD and HOD limits    and BOD in the range 30-70 ppm thus
now the company is in compliance
except for color. Production of 2,900
tons of solid waste stored in secured
plastic lined pit with leachate recovery,
B-IDBI--014    Shree Vindhya Paper Mills    Maharasthra    Liquid effluent    Pulp and Paper      Pollution control facilities of for the                                      4,800,000     5,629,649
Ltd.                                        control and treatment                  expansion of an industrial plant.
B-IDBI--015    Tata Yodogawa ltd.         Bihar            Dust and gaseous    steel plant        Pollution abatement                                                           145.000       271,002
emissions control
B-IDBI--016    Kopargaon Sahakari Sakhar   Maharasthra     Liquid effluent    Sugar/ethanol       Pollution abatement, energy saving and                                        633,000       857,607
Karkhana                                    control and treatment distillery       resource recovery
B-IDBI--01 7    Grasim Industries         Madhya Pradesh   Toxic waste, and    Caustic Soda       Cleaner technology                   Replacement of mercury cell by 8        5,000,000    44,244,670
toxic emissions and                                                        membrane cells for the manufacture of
energy savings                                                             caustic soda. In addition the process
allows energy savings. No liquid
effuent is discharged.
un
B-IDBI--018    Modi Alkalis & Chemicals    Rajasthan       Toxic waste, and    Caustic Soda       Expansion with cleaner technology    Replacement of mercury cell by          4,300,000    16,008,658
Ltd.                                        toxic emissions and                                                        membrmne cells for the manufacture of
energy savings                                                             caustic soda. In addition the process
allows energy savings. no liquid effuent
is discharged.
B-IDBI-019    Sagar Cements Ltd.          Andhra Pradesh    Dust and gaseous    Cement industry   Pollution abatement                                                           372,000       543,437
emissions control
B-IDBI--020    Jai Bhavani SSk Ltd.       Maharasthra      Liquid effluent    Sugar/ethanol       Pollution control facilities ofan expansion                                   420,000       554,479
control and treatment distillery       project
B-IDBI--021    Sandur Mang.& Iron Ores Ltd. Kamataka       Emissions control   Pig iron and ferro  Pollution abatement. Installation of bag   Manufacturing activities are stopped  1,500,000  2,336,999
silicon             filters                             since August 1998
B-IDBI--023    Tilaknagar Distill.& Industries Maharasthra  Liquid effluent   Sugar/ethanol       Pollution abatement, energy saving and                                        250,000       433,987
Ltd.                                        control and treatment distillery       resource recovery
B-IDBI--026    Sumangla Steels            Pondicherry      Dust and gaseous    steel plant        Pollution abatement                                                           280,000       379,476
emissions control
IPCPTA06D.xIs



Table 6D, Page 8 of 9
IBRD Loan
Sub-Loan No.  NrmeofCompany               State              Type of Pollution    Type of Industry           Type of Project                        Outcome               Approved Us$  Total Cost
us5$
B-IDBI--027    ACC                        8 locations in India Dust and gaseous    Cement industry  Pollution abatement. installation dust  Project permitted compliance and   3,000.000     5.608.280
emissions control                     emissions control systems on kiln, coal   recovery of resources such as kiln dust,
mill, and boiler stacks             coal dust which are reused in the
system. SPM were reduced from 400-
500 ppm to less than 90 ppsn and are
now well below SPCB standards.
B-IDBI-029    Raptakoss Brett             Maharasthra      Liquid effluent    Pharmaceuticals     Pollution abatement and resource recovery                                     130,000       136,100
control and
treatment
B-IDBI-032    Ispat Alloys                Orissa           Dust and gaseous    Ferro alloy plant  Pollution abatement. Reverse gas filters  SPM level ofexhaust gases came down  1,430,000   1,920,551
emissions control                      were installed to treat 390,000 Nm3 of   from 2543 mg/Nm3 to less than 30
fiue gas                            mg/Nm3, and are well below the SPCB
norms. SOx and Nox are also well
below the standards
B-IDBI--033    Tamil Nadu Cements         Tamil Nadul      Dust and gaseous    Cement industry    Pollution abatement                                                           950,000      1,197,S91
emissions control
Ch
B-IDBI--034    Kakatia Cements Ltd.       Andhar Pradesh   Dust and gaseous    Cement industry    Modernization of Pollution abatement                                          190,000       254,859
emissions control                     system
B-IDBI--035    Shree Cement Ltd.          Rajasthan        Dust and gaseous    Cement industry    Modernization of Pollution abatement                                         1,366,000     1,476,S80
emissions control                     system
B-IDBI-036    EID Parry, Nellikuppam      Tamil Nadul      Liquid effluent    Sugar/ethanol       Pollution control facilities ofan expansion                                   438,000       513,889
control and treatment distillery       project
B-IDBI-37/30   Simbhaoli Sugar Mills      Uttar Pradesh    Liquid effluent    Sugar/ethanol       Modernization of Pollution abatement                                         1,038,000     1,316,6S4
control and treatment distillery       system
B-1D13--038    Gujarat Heavy Chemicals Ltd. Gujarat        Dust control       Caustic Soda        Pollution control of an expansion project. The dust control of the plant during  1,690.000  2.026,499
A pneumatic transport system with its dust material handling was improved through
control system was installed to reduce dust the use of a pneumatic conveyor.
during handling of soda ash         Emissions are now in compliance
(under 150 mg/Nm3). Dust is recovered
and recycled in the system
IPCPTA06D.xIs



Table 6D, Page 9 of 9
IBRD Loan
Sub-Loan No.  Name of Company              State              Type of Pollution    Type of Industry            Type of Project                         Outcome               Approved USS   Total Cost
USS
B-IDBI--039    Chemfab Alkalis             Pondicherry      Toxic waste, and    Caustic Soda        Cleaner technology                   Replacement of mercury cell by           1,420,000     8,220,669
toxic emissions and                                                          membrane cells for the manufacture of
energy savings                                                               caustic soda. In addition the process
allows energy savings. No liquid
effuent is discharged.
B-IDBI--040    Vamshadara Paper Mills Ltd   Andhar Pradesh    Liquid effluent   Pulp and Paper      Pollution abatement and energy recovery                                        339,000        328,681
control and treatment
B-IDBI--042    Southem Petrochem Ind Ltd  'lamil Nadul      Toxic waste, and    Caustic Soda        Cleanertechnology. replacementofuseofReplacementof50%ofmercurycellby          5,215,000    21,728,645
toxic emissions and                    hazardous chemicals with that of non  membrane cells for the manufacture of
energy savings                         hazardous chemicals                   caustic soda. In addition the process
allows energy savings. No liquid
effuent is discharged.
B-IDBI--043    Ispat Industries            Maharasthra       Spent acid treatment steel plant       New spent acid regeneration plant for                                         1,211,000     1,750,936
plant                                  recycling
B-IDBI--045    Madras Fertilizer Ltd       Tamil Nadul      (i)dustandgaseous  Fertilizers          Pollution schemes of an expansion project. The prilling tower is now meeting the  3,390,000    112,377,497
emissions control;                     It includes: (i) modification of urea  state standards and is less than 50
and (ii) liquid                        prilling tower for better dust control and   mg/Nm3. Urea recovered is estimated to
effluent control                       urea recovery; (ii) an HDS flare stack; (iii) about Rsl7 million per year. Process
a condensate boiler to recover steam, and  condensate increased from 30 o 45
Ni-i3; and (iv) hydrolizer/stripper in urea p tons/h. liquid effluent and dust                                   -t
emissions are in compliance.
B- IDBI_..047    Dintex Dychem l td        Gujarat          Liquid effluent     dye intermediate, vinyl Development of efficient pollution                                         250,000      1,032,618
control and treatment sulfone production.   prevention and controf and resource
and dust control and                   recovery. Additional financing to a demo
recovery.                              project which received a grant.
B- IDBI        ElID Parry (2)              Tamil Nadul      Pollution ofaqueous Bio pesticides      Additional financing toa demo project    See demo project                     2,205,072     7,514,610
streams            production from seeds which received a grant.
1n- IDBI       JK Corp.(3)                                  Liquid effluent     Other               Pollution control facilities of a ncw                                         3,636,375     8,518,543
control and treatment                  project
and dust control and
recovery.
TOTAL INDIVIDUAL                                                                                                                                                132,309,447   595,253,135
PROJECTS
IPCPTA06D.xis



Table 6E, Page I of 7
Table 6E. Key Indicators for Project Operation
Demonstration Projects
Project Number   Sponsor                 Description and Status                          Results/Impact
D-IDBI-0001       EID Parry Ltd.         Description                                     Environmental Impact
(Neelikuppam Sugar    Setting up of Demonstration unit at a sugar/distillery   Avoids (usually inadequate) disposal of presumed, which is
Mills, Tamil Nadu)    plant located at Ennore for the manufacture of bio-    also unsuitable for application as organic manure into fields
gas (2.8 Cu.m per year), and organic fertilizers  due to high C/N ratio.
Gross fixed assets of   (20,000 MT/year) from sugar-mill press mud and  Effluents generated are partially recycled and the filtered
sponsor: US$22.9      distillate (31,500 MT/year).                     effluent used in house for gardening.
million at date of    Through anaerobic digestion of press mud and
approval              distillery effluent with methanogenic bacteria.  Other Benefits
This unit was the first of its kind in India.   Financial benefits from resource recovery: Sales of Biogas      _
and of enriched organic manure. However, sponsors has
Status                                          found energy costs for drying very high, making marketability
Approved in June 1995.                          of the fmal product difficult. Efforts are underway to reduce
Implementation started September 1995 and was   the energy cost.
completed in February 1997. Operations started in
mid-1997.                                       Replicability
Innovative technology for waste utilization in the
Technical know-how developed by sponsor without   sugar/distillery sector. Could greatly enhance the economics
outside collaboration, he also developed the tubular   of resource recovery and reduce the negative environmental
reactors used in the process.                   impact of their operation (solid waste disposal) and have a
wide application among over 50 similar plants currently in
operation.
However, technology is proprietary (patent pending) and
sponsor is unwilling to commercialize it for the moment, at
least as long as energy costs are not reduced.
1I1CPICR-table6E.doc



Table 6E, Page 2 of 7
Project Number   Sponsor               Description and Status                         Results/Impact
D- IDBI-002      Krishna Sahakari      Description                                    Environmental Impact
Sakhar Karkhana      Treatment of distillery spentwash, with cogeneration   Eliminates solid waste generation: reduction in the organic
(Satara; Maharashtra),  of steam and power.                        load by 99.9% from pre-treatment levels of 30,000-50,000
and Vasantdada Sugar  Technology consists of conversion of distillery  mg/liter to 30-500 mg/liter, resulting in load reduction from
Institute, Pune      spentwash into dry product so as to use it as a fuel in  13.5 tons of BOD per day to 10 kg per day. Air quality from
combination with bagasse. Pilot plant is treating the   boiler stack has not yet been monitored.
Gross fixed assets of   effluent of a 30,000 liters/day distillery.
Krishna SSK:                                                        Other Benefits
US$11.1 million at  Status.                                        Energy recovery
time of approval.    Approved in August 1995
Completion was planned for July 1996, but technical  Replicability
problems related to drying have delayed completion   Due to problems related to continuous drying, the plant has
till December 1999.                           not yet operated at full capacity and operating costs have thus
not yet been established.
Technology developed by Vasantdada Sugar Institute  Potential of replicability is large if the problems are solved
(VSI), Pune.                                  and operations are economical. It could offer a solution for
many of the some 200 distilleries in India. Dissemination
through commercialization will be carried out by VSI, which
has taken a patent for the process.
D- IDBI 003      Century Pulp and      Description                                    Environmental Impact
Paper Ltd (Lalkuan,    Development of a treatment method for pre-  Substantial reduction in pollution load of pre-hydrolysate
Uttar Pradesh)       hydrolysate liquor from a rayon-grade pulp plant, liquor (310 cu.m/day) by 60%-70% for COD (from 35,000-
through anaerobic digestion in a bulk volume  40,000 mg /liter) and by 80%-90% for BOD (from 65,000-
fermenter.                                    70,000 mg/liter).
Reduction in odor.
Status
Application was filed in December 1995 and    Other Benefits
approved in May 1996. Initial implementation  By-product bio-gas of about 23,800 cu.m/day at full capacity
schedule called for completion in June 1995, but due  (equivalent to 3,700 mtons of coal per year).
to delays in imports, actual completion was in June
1996 (indicating retroactive financing)       Replicability
Plant has only achieved 50% efficiency so far. Full
_____________________    Technology developed by sponsor, in collaboration    stabilization of reactor could not be achieved due to various
IPCPICR-table6E.doc



Table 6E, Page 3 of 7
Project Number   Sponsor               Description and Status                        Results/Impact
with Utility Equipment and Management (UEM),    teething problems being resolved (including through addition
India, and ADI International, Canada.         of hot water and soda ash), but sponsor hopes to achieve good
efficiency of the reactor within another 3-4 months.
Sponsor has declared a commitment to share the technology.
Dissemination will be organized jointly by the sponsor and
UEM. There are four units in India similar to that of the
sponsor.
D- IDBI-004      Gabriel India Ltd.   Description                                    Environmental Impact
(Parwanoo, Himnachal   Treatment of effluent from electroplating process of   Aimed at zero liquid effluents. Data sheets from January
Pradesh)             an engine bearings manufacturing plant. Involved the  1997 show that copper, tin, lead and fluoboric acid have been
development of a vacuum evaporator system to  completely recovered from the effluents.
recover salts (first time application in India).
Other Benefits
Status                                        Recycling of ten tons of chemicals and 36,000 cu.m of water
Approved in February 1996. Completed in March    per year. Total estimated savings: US$37,000 per year.  o
1996 (indicating retroactive fmancing)
Replicability
Technology developed by sponsor in collaboration    Large potential when applied to electroplating plants in India.
with Federal Mogul Corporation, USA.         No information available on sponsor's policy and efforts for
dissemination.
D-IDBI-005       Ashoka Pulp and       Description                                   Environmental Impact
Paper Mills (Delhi)    Pollution prevention/ waste minimization measures   The CP program reduced effluent volume by 30%, pollution
at a small scale agro-residue based pulp and paper    load by 30%, and gaseous emission by more than 10%. Plant
Gross fixed assets of   mill with a capacity of 36 tons per day. These  effluents were brought in compliance with SPCB norms, in
sponsor: US$0.4      measures were part of a comprehensive Clean   particular, BOD was reduced from 370 ppm to 28 ppm (SPCB
million (at time of  Production (CP) program being implemented at the   standard: 30 ppm), and COD from 1,100 ppm to 83 ppm
approval)            plant, with technical assistance provided under the    (SPCB standard: 250 ppm). Other pollutants which were
Demonstration in Small Industries for Reducing  already in compliance were also further brought down (PH,
Waste (DESIRE) Progran supported by UNIDO.    TSS in liquid effluents, SPM, NOx and CO in air emissions).
Measures financed included a deduster with
conveyer to recover fme particles from straw; a  Other Benefits
screw press washer to de-water the cured pulp to  After one year of implementation: 17% increase in production
IPCPICR-table6E.doc



Table 6E, Page 4 of 7
Project Number   Sponsor                Description and Status                          Results/Impact
recycle most black liquor; a high efficiency hood to   capacity; 17% reduction in cost of effluent treatment, 7%
reduce power consumption; and a sedimentation   reduction in cost of chemicals and 9% reduction in energy
save-all system to recover fiber from waste streams.  costs. Overall pay-back period was less than one year.
Status                                          Replicability
Approved in April 1996
Some of the four measures were already under    Potentially large replicability, as among 340 small pulp and
implementation in 1994, pointing at retroactive  paper mills in India, 90 are purely based on agro-residues
fmancing.                                       using a sulfate chemical pulping process without any
chemical recovery.
75% of program measures were implemented by     Experience and techno-economic studies for the plant were
March 97, the remaining 25% were suspended due to  published as case studies in Technical Manuals of the
plant shifting order. Part of the grant was     National Productivity Council, and a Clean Production
consequently canceled.                          Manual produced by the United Nations Environmental
Programme (UNEP).
According to the sponsor, the measures demonstrated have
been adopted by quite a few pulp and paper industries in the  co
country. It does not seem however that the same Clean
Production approach has been replicated so far.
Further developments in this particular unit will not take
place, as the plant has received an order to shift to another
location, where the owner plans to apply the same principles.
D-IDBI 006        Western Paques        Description                                     Environmental Benefits
(India) Ltd           Development of treatment facilities on a BOOT   BOD and PH were reduced to compliance levels, but COD
(Kumarapatnam,        basis, at Harihar Polyfibers rayon plant, to improve   levels still significantly above standards.
Kamataka)             the existing treatment facilities and generate bio-gas
as a product. First application of anaerobic digestion  Other Benefits:
Gross fixed assets:   of rayon residues (prehydrolysate liquor and alkali    Sale of Biogas and energy savings
US$4.9 million at time  backwater) using an upflow sludge blanket reactor.
of approval                                                           Replicability
Status                                         No information is available on efforts and success to replicate.
Approved in October 1996.                       Since sponsor is engaged in the supply and installation of
Plant commissioned  in April 1995 (retroactive  effluent treatment plants on a turnkey basis, replication if any
financing)                                     is expected through sale of technology and/or plants.
IPCPICR-table6E.doc



Table 6E, Page 5 of 7
Project Number   Sponsor               Description and Status                         Results/Impact
Technology developed in collaboration with Paques
BV, Netherlands.
D-IDBI-007       Wockhardt Ltd         Description                                    Environmental Impact
(Ankleshwar, Gujarat)  Demo. plant for treatment of complex organic  Plant has been able to meet SPCB effluent standards, which it
effluent from batch process multi-purpose bulk drug   did not previously for PH (previously 6.5 to 9.0; now 7.5 to
plant.                                        8.5); COD (previously 2,500 to 7,000 mg/I; now less than 250
Treatment of high COD effluent containing complex  mg/l); TSS (previously 500 to 1,500 mg/l; now less than 100
and refractory organic compounds using specialized   mg/I) and oil and grease (previously 100 to 400 mg/l; now
bio-products (biological culture and fixed film  less than 10 mg/l):
process specifically developed for the purpose).
Solid waste from the treatment plant is sent to a secured
Status                                        landfill, and other hazardous solid waste are stored within the
Approved in November 1996, when plant was     plant site in designated area complete with leachate collection
already completed. Plant started operations at the  system and treatment.
end of 1995. (retroactive financing).
Other Benefits
Products developed and manufactured by        Sale of the technology together with specialty bio-products
Wockhardt, in collaboration with Techniques et  developed for each application (so far about US$250,000).
Biochimie Appliquees, France.
Replicability
The sponsor is commercializing the technology through the
sale of technological packages which include the fixed
matrices and the bio-products (strain of microorganisms)
which are developed for each application. Its technology has
already been adopted in four of Wockhardt plants, a CETP
for treatment of effluents from dyes and dye intermediates,
treatment of a water body; and for pollution control in
acquaculture fanns (6,000 hectares).
Efforts are being made by the sponsor to extend this
technology to areas such as the treatment of water bodies,
industrial effluent and solid waste treatment, treatment of
municipal and agricultural solid waste; compact treatment
IPCPICR-table6E.doc



Table 6E, Page 6 of 7
Project Number   Sponsor               Description and Status                        Results/lmpact
systems for sewage treatment, and pollution control in
aquaculture (prawn and fish breeding farms).
Technology and bio-products are patented.
D-IDBI-009       EID Parry Ltd         Description                                   Environmental Impact
Cuddalore, Tamil     Design, construction and operation of a commercial-  Proven in field trials to effectively replace toxic chemical
Nadu).               scale facility for the production of a botanical  pesticides without their harmful side effects on the
Gross fixed assets:  pesticide from locally available neem seeds.  environment and on humans. Extensive field trials have been
US$22.9 million at   Process consists of extraction and manufacture of a   conducted on tea plantations.
time of grant approval. solution of 5% azadirachtin from the seeds of the
Neem tree.                                    Replicability
Sponsor has patented the product and does not intend to
Status                                        commercialize the technology. Only the product will be sold.
Grant approved in October 1996.
Construction completed and start of operations:
March 1998                                                                                               co
Technical collaboration from Trifolio-M, Germany
(provision of laboratory scale technology).
D-IDBI-012       Dintex Dyechem Ltd   Description                                    Environmental Impact
(Ahmedabad, Gujarat)  Application of the Cleaner Technology Approach to   HCL recovery increased from 43% to 83%;
a dyes intermediate (Vinyl Sulfone) plant, chosen as  HCL gas discharge now much below standards (previously
demonstration plant under the Special Program on    ranging from 231 grams per cu.m to 6,803 grams per cu.m;
Environment of the Asian Productivity Organization.  now only 19 miligrams per cu.m-standard is 50 miligrams);
Grant financed part of the eight steps required in the   Acidic mother liquor recovered and sold to pulp and paper
methodology, which goes from diagnostic of the  and textile industry (with consent of Regulatory Board);
production process through implementation of the  Glauber salt from condensate wastewater recovered and sold;
recommended measures.                         Reduction of gypsum sludge generation and solid waste
Main pollution problems to be addressed included    generation from filter press;
acidic wastewater from sulfonation (the       Quasi-elimination of particulate matter emission from the
neutralization of which result in large quantities of   flash dryer assembly (previously from 400 mgrans per cu.m,
gypsum waste), high-salt concentration of    now less than 50 mgrams-standard is 50 mgrams), and of
IPCPICR-table6E.doc



Table 6E, Page 7 of 7
Project Number   Sponsor                Description and Status                          Results/impact
wastewater from condensation; hydrochloric acid  S02 and bisulfite emission from the reduction vessel.
gaseous emission from sulfonation; and gaseous
emission from condensation.                     Other Benefits
Substantial financial benefits from cost savings and product
Status                                          recovery, allowing pay-back of investments in 1.3 years on
Request submitted in November 1996              average.
Grant approved in January 1998.,
Implementation started December 1996, and       Replicability
completed in March 1999. The project in all its  Potentially high in the 40 vinyl sulfone manufacturers in the
phases was financed by the Grant and own sponsor's  region, all invited to a workshop by NPC at the start of the
resources.                                      project. Plant open to visitors during project implementation.
Industries manufacturing this and similar products in process
Technological assistance was provided by the    of forming groups aiming at waste minimization circles.
National Productivity Council.
._
IPCPICR-table6E.doc



Table 7 - Page I of 5
Table 7: Technical Assistance and Studies Included under the Project
Study           Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined              Status                        Impact of Study
1. Organization and    *  Analyze the structure, internal       On the basis of broad terms of reference  A workshop was organized in
Staffing of Pollution  organization, staffng and training    discussed at negotiations and       Hyderabad on February 6, 1995 to
Control Boards         requirements of the SPCBs in relation to   suggestions sent by the Bank in May  discuss the recommendations of the
their existing and envisaged functions and   1991; two studies were prepared by a  study. Participants included
to the volume of work required to    government committee (the Belliappa    representatives form ASCI, CPCB,
undertake these functions effectively.  Conimittee) and presented to the Bank    MOEF and eight SPCBs, with the
for comments in October 1992:      Bank as observer. The
*  Make recommendations to MOEF, SPCBs  "Belliappa Committee Report on       recommendations of the workshop
and state governments on: (a) prioritization  Common Staffing Patterns for State  were summarized in a plan of action.
of functions of the SPCBs; (b) the key  Pollution Control Boards", and "Report  It was agreed that the Implementation
external coordination and participation  of the committee on the Present and  Cell would monitor its
functions of the boards with other agencies  Future Requirements of State Pollution   implementation, but there is no
of government and private sectors; (c) any  Control Boards in the context of the  subsequent report on implementation.
changes to the structure of SPCBs,   World Bank project on Industrial
including their legal and regulatory status;  Pollution Control".        The study did not result in the
(d) the internal organization of the SPCBs                               preparation of specific programs to         oo
in relation to their overall functions and  Following review, a new study was  adapt the recommendations of the
the priorities in their states; (e) the  commissioned with revised terms of  study to each one of the four SPCBs.
equipment, staffimg and training     reference with an increased focus on the  Nevertheless, each of the Boards has
requirements (including remuneration and   management and institutional analysis of since implemented a number of
career structure); and (f) the financial  the four SPCBs included in the project.  changes in line with the
requirements for the SPCBs and                                           recommendations of the study.
recommendations on financing sources  The study was carried out by
and financial management.            Administrative Staff College of India
(ASCI) and completed in April 1994.
*  Propose for each SPCB a management,
staffmg and financing plan, which would   The study concluded the need for a
be discussed with the State and Central  number of changes in policy,
Governments, and, after adjustments,  implementation management, and
adopted by them.                     operational procedures, which are
further detailed in Annex F.
IPCP-ICR-table7.doc



Table 7-Page 2 of 5
Study            Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined              Status                          Impact of Study
2. Development of      As per TORs prepared in 1995, the objectives   Originally awarded to Anna University   The study was a useful basis for the
Environmental       of the study were: (a) to propose measurements  in 1995, the study was eventually  preparation of the Borrower's
Performance        that could be used to evaluate the attainment of  commissioned by the Environmental  completion report and the Bank's
Indicators         the objectives of the project once completed;    Management Center- Mumbai in August  ICR. It did not achieve the original
(b) to estimate the impact of the activities taken  1998. The study was completed in  objectives.
under the institutional component on the ability  March 1999.
of the Boards on their monitoring and
enforcement tasks; (c) to evaluate the extent to
which the studies and other tasks sponsored
under the technical assistance component have
contributed to achieve the objectives of the
project; and (d) to evaluate the impact of the
schemes undertaken under the investment
component on the environmental performance
of the companies investing in these measures
and on the improvement of environmental
indicators in the surrounding area.
3. Centralized         Environmental and social impact assessments   Completed. The Environmental Impact  Project sponsored by Pure Tech. The
Hazardous Waste    and related technical site studies for     Assessment was carried out by Anna   site has been identified and site
Incineration Plant at  establishing an incinerator near Chennai.  University and the Social Assessment by  clearance obtained from TNPCB.       c
Chennai                                                       C.P. Ramaswamy Foundation.           Pending further processing of the
Technical studies were not submitted.    EA/SA, including public
consultations.
4. Common Hazardous  EIA and feasibility studies for establishment of  Study completed and report submitted to  No information on findings of the
Waste Treatment     a common hazardous waste treatment and    MoEF.                                study and current status.
and Disposal        disposal facility to manage the hazardous waste
Facility for Thane-   of industries in the region.
Belapur Industrial
Estate (TBIA)
IPCP-ICR-table7.doc



Table 7 - Page 3 of 5
Study            Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined             Status                          Impact of Study
5. Air pollution       Technical assistance to the Indian Cement  Carried out by World Environment    Technical assistance focused on eight
Control in the      Industry to improve air pollution control at  Center (contracted by ASSOCHAM, the  large privately owned cement plants,
Cement Industry in   eight selected cement plants.           Associated Chambers of Commerce and   all technologically sound and
India                                                        Industry of India)                   comparable in technology and
environmental performance to plants
in Europe and USA. Its contribution
to solving the air pollution problem
for the cement industry at large is thus
rather modest, since it left aside state
companies and small and medium
industry. It did not lead to the
development of a manual on good
practices for the cement industry with
a focus on air pollution control.
6. Municipal Solid     Studies to demonstrate production of organic    Completed. Proposed technology  Though not focused on industrial
Waste Processing   manure through microbial degradation of   demonstrated, using municipal solid  pollution control, this study
Project             municipal solid waste.                    waste from Thane, Mumbai.           demonstrated a technology for
municipal waste utilization.
7. Preparation of      Development of software for use in the    Completed. Carried out by the        No information available to assess
software for        identification of industrial process and  Department of Chemical Engineering,    impact.
Hazardous Analysis  operational hazards, and formulation of   Indian Institute of Technology (Kanpur).
in Process Industry   strategies for the mitigation of accidents.
IPCP-ICR-table7.doc



Table 7 - Page 4 of 5
Study            Purpose as defined at appraisalredefined              Status                          Impact of Study
8. EIA and Feasibility   EIA and feasibility study for a centralized  Completed. National Productivity  On the basis of this study and
Study for          secured landfill facility at Ankleshwar for  Council carried out the EIA and   subsequent authorizations from
Ankleshwar Landfill  industries in Bharuch District, Gujarat.  prepared the design criteria for the  GPCB, the landfill was developed
Sponsored by Ankleshwar Industry Association  landfill. Also carried out an inventory    according to German standards, using
and Ankleshwar Environmental Preservation    of hazardous waste generation for the    the expertise of NPC and GTZ.
Society.                                 state.                               Construction was completed and
operations have commenced. The
landfill is managed by a private
company (Bharuch Enviro
Infrastructure Limited-BEIL), with
160 companies as members, but
controlled by United Phosphorus Ltd.
9. Epidemiological     Epidemiological survey of effects of      Implemented by the Ramazini Institute   Study being completed.
Survey in Pune Area  environmental pollutants on health status of  of Occupational Health Services, Pune.
population residing in and around the industrial  Study being completed.
complex of Pune.
10. Performance        Assessment of pollution abatement measures    Implemented by Bharat Heavy     No information available to assess           co
evaluation of      adopted in thermal power plants and provision   Electricals Limited, and the Pollution  impact.                            ao
pollution control  of data on air pollution control equipment in    Control Research Institute, Haridwar.
techniques in      these plants.
selected thermal
power plants in
Kumbh Mela
Region of Haridwar,
Rishikesh
11. EIA of lime kilns,    Assess damage caused by these units on health   Carried out by Madya Pradesh  No information available to assess
cement plant and   of the surrounding population, flora and fauna;  Consultancy Organization Ltd, Raipur.  impact.
allied units in Katni-  propose suitable processes to improve thermal
Maihar area, Madya   efficiency of the lime kilns; propose mitigation
Pradesh            measures; and formulate an environmental
management package and an action plan,
including allocation of responsibilities for
implementation among various agencies.
IPCP-ICR-table7.doc



Table 7 - Page 5 of 5
Study           Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined              Status                         Impact of Study
12. Technology         Development of technology (lab-scale and pilot Carried-out by Wockhardt Ltd, Mumbai.  Associated with Project-financed
Development for    plant studies) for high COD sewage treatment                                  Demonstration Project IDBI D-07,
Sewage Treatment   using simplified treatment with specialized bio-                              which financed the pilot plant for
using Simplified   products developed and manufactured                                          treatment of high COD effluent
Treatment with     indigenously, in collaboration with Techniques                                containing complex and refractory
Biofilter with     et Biochimie Appliquees, France ( micro-                                      organic compounds at Wockhardt
Specialty bio-     organisms, support matrices for fixed films and                               bulk drug plant.
Products for Reuse   nutrients). Plants can treat sewage with a
of Water.          capacity of 80 CM/day with COD loadings of                                    Technology has high replicability
up to 10 CM of filter bed volume.                                            potential and can be extended to any
building or situations where a full-
scale plant is not practical. Study
contributed to introduction of
innovative technology for treatment of
high COD content sewage.
13. Technology         Use of above-described technology for    Carried out by Wockhardt Ltd., Mumbai  This method does not involve any
Development for    biological cleaning of a eutrophied lake in                                   chemical treatment and it controls
Treatment of       Thane, Mumbai, using Wockhardt proprietary                                    algal bloom, reduces phosphate and         co
Polluted Water     specialty products. Selected naturally                                        nitrate levels in the water. The           K0
Body using         occurring microbes (not genetically altered) are                             technology has a high degree of
Endogenously       being used in these studies.                                                  replicability to other lakes across the
Manufactured                                                                                     country.
Specialty Products
of Wockhardt Ltd.
IPCP-ICR-table7.doc



90
Table 8A - Page I of I
Table 8A - Project Costs
In Rs. Million                                          In Million US$
Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate        Appraisal Estimate         Actuat/Latest Estimate
Local   Foreien   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Institutional Component
Training                                 26.0     10.0      36.0     38.5      15.0     53.5       1.3      0.5       1.8      1.2      0.4       1.6
Equipment                                20.0    116.0    136.0      54.6    309.6    364.2        1.0      5.8       6.8      1.4       8.1      9.5
Facilities                               26.0      6.0      32.0     20.8       5.2     26.0       1.3      0.3       1.6      0.7       0.2      0.9
Operation                                92.0               92.0                                   4.6               4.6
Base Cost                  164.0    132.0    296.0    113.9    329.8    443.7        8.2       6.6     14.8       3.3      8.7     12.0
Contingencies
- Price                                 8.0      26.0     34.0                                   0.4      1.3       1.7
- Physical                              6.0      24.0     30.0                                   0.3       1.2      1.5
Subtotal Institutional Component     178.0    182.0    360.0    113.9    329.8    443.7        8.9       9.1     18.0       3.3      8.7      12.0
Investment
Common Treatment Facilities
-Implemented through IDBI                                         1,233.0    137.0  1,370.0                                  36.5      4.1      40.6
-implementeddirectlybyMOEF                                         858.2      95.4    953.6                                  17.3       1.9     19.2
SubtotalCommonTreatmentFac.   1,D80.0    120.0  1,200.0  2,091.2    232.4  2,323.6        54.0      6.0      60.0      53.8      6.0     59.8
Individual Projects                    2,680.0    660.0  3,340.0  17,693.0  4,423.3  22,116.3    134.0     33.0    167.0    476.1    119.0    595.1
Demonstration Projects                  120.0      80.0    200.0    357.6    238.4    596.0        6.0      4.0      10.0     10.3       6.8     17.1
Subtotal Investments          3,880.0    860.0  4,740.0  20,141.8  4,894.1  25,035.9    194.0     43.0    237.0    540.2    131.8    672.0
Technical Assistance                     20.0     80.0    100.0      28.4       7.1     35.5       1.0      4.0       5.0      0.8       0.2      1.0
Total Proiect Cost                    4,078.0  1,122.0  5,200.0  20.284.1  5,231.Q  25,515.1    203.9      56.1    260.0    544.3    140.7    685.0
Notes:
(i) Appraisal Estimates Exclude taxes and duties
(ii) Except for the technical assistance component, the % of actual foreign exchange is estimated at the same level as at appraisal.
The actual % of foreign exchange for the technical assistance component is estimated at20%.
IPCP-ICR-tab1e8AB rev2.xis



91
Table 8B - Project Financing                          Table 8 B - page 1 of 1
In US$ million
Component                                IBRD        IDA         DFI's     & Othe        GOI         oemnn          Total
Aiovraisal Estimates
Institutional Component
Training                                                  2.2                                                            2.2
Equipment                                                 8.6                                                            8.6
Facilities                                                1.8                                                            1.8
Operation                                                                                     5.4                        5.4
Subtotal Institutional Component                     12.6                                 5.4                       18.0
Investment Component
Common Treatment Facilities
- Implemented through IDBI                 24.0         12.0                    12.0        12.0                       80.0
- Implemented directly by MOEF
Subtotal Common Treatment Fac.      24.0        12.0                    12.0        12.0                       60.0
Individual Projects                         100.0                    25.0        42.0                                  167.0
Demonstration Projects                                    4.0                     6.0                                   10.0
Subtotal Investments              124.0        16.0        25.0         60.0        12.0                      237.0
Technical Assistance                                      3.0                     2.0                                    5.0
Total Project Cost     124.0        31.6        25.0        62.0        17.4                      260.0
Actual Estimates
Institutional Component
Training                                                  0.7                                 0.9                        1.6
Equipment                                                 9.5                                                            9.5
Facilities                                                0.9                                                            0.9
Operation
Subtotal Institutional Component                     11.1                                 0.9                        12.0
Investment Comronent
Common Treatment Facilities
-Implemented through IDBI                   13.8         4.9                    16.0                        5.9        40.6
- Implemented directly by MOEF                           3.7                    15.5                                   19.2
Subtotal Common Treatment Fac.      13.8         8.6                    31.5                        5.9        59.8
Individual Projects                         102.7                    57.3       435.1                                  595.1
Demonstration Projects                                    2.8                    14.3                                    17.1
Subtotal Investments              116.5        11.4        57.3       480.8                         5.9       672.0
Technical Assistance                                      0.8                     0.2                                    1.0
TotalProiectCost       116.5        23.3        57.3       481.0         0.9            5.9       685.0
Notes
Due to discrepancies between IDA disbursements for the institutional strengthening component and actual costs as reported by MoEF,
the following assumptions were made:
(a) Training costs: according to MoEF, these amounted to about US$1.6 million equivalent. Since IDA disbursed only the equivalent of
about US$0.7 million, the balance was assumed to have been financed out of GOI counterpart funds.
(b) Equipment: IDA disbursements were about US$10.4 million equivalent and there were no disbursements made under Civil Works.
Yet, according to MoEF, about US$0.89 million were disbursed by IDA for facilities. Assuming that disbursements against facilities are included
in the equipment category, this leaves about US$9.5 million for disbursements against equipment per se.
IPCP-ICR-table8AB rev2.xIs



Table 8C, Pge I of I
Table 8C. Costs and Financing- Conwnon Effluent Treatment Plants Appraised by IDBI
project No,           N.-e o65ponsor, CETP 1o-tioc                                         Project Costs Eoti.ttstt (tic.)                                                                             Att..l Costa end Fi.n..ig
Total Cost               Lo-n Approved            Credit App d               Totl Project Cos         Spooso rtscl-isbotioc    Loan 3334 Dibor-eMest   Credit 2252 Di.borsor-t            State SbBidy
(Ln.3334)                 (C,. 2252)
_ _Cmnmon_ESEucntTn_t_nt_Pl_nt  ____u_ela-  ___           R Rt.         USS         tRs.         US            t i.         USS           P.            USS          ti.          USS           R.           USS          tRis         US S           ib           USS
CGIDBI001 AsoC-i.cioo, Etio t.i    t uP Mtt iTh-Bt .).             30,200,000     959,285     14,000,000    367,100      5,000,000     170,000      40,000,000    1,215,231    16,000,000    50t,230     14,000,000     367,001        5,000,000     170,0        5,000,00      170,00
Ce-lDBi-002 TIMA CETP Cootp. Society Ltd., T-rtpr., M              12,000,000      3S1.173     3,600,000     160,000     3,000,000      S0.00       18,760,000      561,602     9,360,000     297,315     3,400,000     104,207        3,000,00n      80,00        3,000,00(      00,.0
C-IDBa0o3  ?atlPva.tat Tanooioslodonon  El.ot Trot-t Co. LtdN    70,300,000      2,233,037    46,200,000    1,540,000    5,000,000     166,000     73,560,000     2,205,939    17,410,00(1    553,018    46,200.000    1,322,51        5,000,0o     166,000      4,950,000      164,34
______Pcileecoo,Jeo Ncd. (15N)
C.tDRt-0e5U. LooooiePolction Control Coocpay Ltd., NJooco,         500,0000      619,406      5,800,000     690,000     4,875,000     16,0          9,8000,000    614,020     4,250,006     134,909      5,800,000     159,021        4,075,050    160,0010     4,875,000      160,00(
Uu-c Podosh (UP)
C-IDBI W6 Kodokoal Et .uc.. t tocoot coopny Ltd., Ko.dMiko ,       13,400,000     425,643     4,000,000      130,000     3,350,000     106,000      11,200,000     344,276     2,700,000      85,764     2,000,000      46,512         3,250,000    106,000      3,250,000      1(165)01
T'N
C4tDBI-007 Sijt nst iW Doolop-nc Coror,don ((G1IDC) Ltd.,         204,000,000     6,479,935    153,200,000   4,640,0 0   5,000,00      160000      11,957,000    5,140,078    45,477,000    1,444,549   108,919,000    2,813,577       5,000,000    160,000     22,561,100      721,95
____Vapi, Goj-ct (a)                                                                                                     O
C-IDBI- 9 AyypT   n  MnCo. Ltd, A3-hi.g n DyMoc gs    d ET i-n t   14,200,000     451,054     4,260,000     137.15050    3,530,000     115,000      13,903,000     448,090     4,163,000     132,235     2,700,000      86,015         3,550,0       5,000       3,570,000      115,64
C-IDtBI.00 Rooipt SlIDCO Fini.kod ES .c..t T.oveot Co. Ltd.,       32,O0,000      1,016,460    15,600,000   500,000      5,000,000     160,000     34,890,000     1,102,405    10,994100     349.250     13,096,000    433,100         5,000,00n    160,000      5,000,000      160,001
____ Ocipot, TN
C.stitO tt I VisyoobodilftnTce-t C. Ltd., VycNt,                  20,600,000     654,346      6,4s0,000    210,000      5,000,000     169,000      18,400,000     560,918     4,100,000     130,234     4,300,000      100,684        5,000,n0(5    169,000     5,000,000      169,00
____Vooiyccbadi, T5N
C7 IDBIOIt2 TALCOC itipet Teoo-,y Effldut Tr ac- nt Coomptoy Ltd,    46,000,0500  1,461,162    21,800,000   690,000                                 51,017,000    1,483,216    24,517,000    770,760     15,000,00t(    390,744                          0       11,500,000     305,70
R-oipt, TNO____
C-11)1I.013 K-,,crlbi-ovo  I3ysO, E-i ,o td., Kaso, TN             250,8000,000   660,699      6,040,000    255,000      5,00(5,000    5 62,000    20,860,000      657,335     4,560,000     5312,540    6,300,000      549,235        5,200,000    560,480      5,200,000      168,48
CtIDBL.014  PNfst F,nvimo Control Sycst . Pyt. Ltd Sacigtoo, G     12,900,000     409,761      3,100,000     99,000      3,200,000     102,000      14,000,000     45,516      0,076,0       256,2                                     3,200,00     102,p00      2,729,00        S6,90
C-IDBI-O15 A,.-vai Pollotoh Ltd., Korr                             24,400000      775,051      9,520,000    303,0(00     5,000,000     160,000     26,080,000      758,055     4,880,000     155,010     9,000,000        211,765      6,100,000    195,640      6,100,000      150,64
C-IDBI.017  K-o1r Andttkoil Pollftico Co,tmol Ltd., And-ekoil      22,000,000     724,220      S,240,000    265,55550    5,000,000     160,000      15,888,000     507,0(29    5,808,000     507,029                                   5,000,()C    160,000      5,000,000      160,00
clivhrisho,o   E--         SyTto N(P. Ls d.,           40,300,000    15,280,105    22,240,000    709,000     5,000,000     159,000      35,383,000    1,053,757    8,1560,000    256,0251    17,500,00(I    485,261        4,025,000    153,435      5,000,000      159,00)  .0
C.lDtit.0t9  Poccn,lpot OERcot T,eooe,oot (P) Ltd., Pen1ncdpet, TN- cot                                                                                                                                                 __1
C___-019  -tco,pt E         t       t L-sd                         61,500,000     1,953,510    39,200,000    1,250,( oo    5,000,0150  160,000    155,000,000     3,748,198    118,000,000   3,748,198                                        0          55             0
C.IDBt.021 T.oia CETP Cg gpc-d,v Socioty Ltd, raloja.             41,600,000      1,325,399    23,300,000   670,000      5,000,000     144,000     05,002,05'     5,009,199    5,000,0       501,077    23,300,00o      606,304        S,351,0no   240.500       S,35,2
CtIDBI,022  Mathum Audyogik Chcna A' Prdhushao Nivo-  Co.Ltd.,
Maehl,o UP                                             10,000,000     597,171      5,000.000     144,000     4,700,000     135,000      18,212,000     530,096     6,312,000     200,497     2,500,000      60,399         4,700,000    135,000      4,700,000      135,00
CGIDBI.023  ACAMA CETP~ Coopomdtvc Society Itda Amnbemnadh-                                                                              _____
Mabhoectm                                              4,000,000      115,00       1,000,000     29,000      1,0()0,000    29,000       5,000,000      150,822     2,000,o011     63,529      I,0(1,o0o     31,764         t,Oo()nOo   31,764        5,000,000   13,764
C-ltDBIt024 D bodnbi TP       L ClTP Ploo biy, Mahrt               26,200,000     748,5b71     6,0t0,000 o   72,000      5 ,t0,0       144,0005     23,200,000     736,934     13,200,000    419,290                                5,000,000     158,022        5,000,000    158,822
C.IDBI.025 Kamr Ta uka Dyciog & Blt4ghing Emul-t Trcatcnt__
Compay. Ltd., Rlacknct,op-co (ot co.pictcd a  Mof5o    19,300,000     613,053      5,790,000     165,000     4,825,000     137,000      15,996,000     475,597     6,352,000     201,767                                   4,822,00      136,915     4,022,000      136,91
C-IDBI-026  K-rcr V-.hi Dyeio6Envim T(oh Ltd., Light Huurco01c.  r  7,000,000     539,995      5J105,0150    145,000     4,250,0     00      1      7,00O,OoO  520,723         55,140,000    354,545                                   3,000,00 85,41            2,051,000 81,17
C.4DBI).OZ0  Envit Tcchnelogy Ltd. Aoklc-nat                       5 5,000,000    1,747,041    33,000,000   890,000      5,000,000     140,000     71,240,000     2,034,998    12,000,000    385,173     33,5500,000   919,105       13,120,000    367,360      13,120,000      367,36
C-l1DB l-029   , enhi m Tb t- nen Edfio as TofoooC. Ltd.           53,700,000     435,172      4,110 5(5,5(  1153,000    3,425,000     96,o00       16,500,000     501,701     10,505,000    333,526                                   3,000,00o     84,00       3,000,0(00      84,556
______Mlpccd.p.t, TN. (001 corpSoted c of J-n tO, 51999)
C-IDBI.030  MdliA-  T..erc Efflut Tsot0,,ns C. 1.5
Chueyth.ngs, TN (cot vompsoctd on of Jbo IS, 1999)     12,505),5500   397.055      3,7555,000   1055,000     3,125,000     88,000       12,500.000     390,505     10,760,0nn5    341,785                                                            1,740,0555      40,72(
C-tltIt.D031  TALCO Diodigu l TncN t oni   m Contol Sytc s  Pet Ltd.    50,200(5,O0  1,594,972    18,250,000  5 14.000  6,000000      169,000      53,900,000    1,546,723    23,400,500    743,207    120050t000o      232,359      61(000        16010       27,505(5(50    357.0.
C151032 OSr--o En-i-t-,S-nt Serdicen06o.599r5ti92 So0ic1y41.56
VCIB-3   ic                                           258,200,0055    5,201,565    163,5500,000   4,600,000    50,000,0055  289,000    386,854,000    5 1,320,457   170,000,000   5,39946  115,000,000       6                                      50,92700      1_425,5
S.b-totl                       I,161,400,000 1 36,795,448   632,180.000,    1,949,100   120,300,000   3,672,000       ,369,989,ODO   40,628,986   569,508,000   18,090,073   435,815,000   11,653,395   163,920,000   4,9p ,380    200,746,000    5,985,137
Adjursmeeece for ditboroocctnt undrr eoai 3334 - ,adr                                                                                                             (78,454,252)  (2,097,813)   70,494,925    2,097,83
oftov Coti.g d4t) nod Wor wh(ch detailed inforonodmn in
TOTAl                                                                                                                           40I,1618,400,005 36,4799,448   632,180,000  t2 260,30d,000    3672000    1,369,989000   4   49,3,74    1,99260   514 269,252  63920,00d   4,900,380    200,746,008    5,985,137
iPCPTA08C rev In



Table 8D Pagelof4
Table 8D - List of CETPs Approved by MOEF
(not forwarded for Bank Approval)
States/CETPs           Number of CETPs which    Total Project    Grant Under IDA Credit       Status of      Date         Members             Flow
Received Grants          Cost                                   Commissioning
for           for                       for       for Feasibility
Implementation   Feasibility            Implementation     Study                                Design      Actal      M3/day
Study
Rs. Lakhs
Andhra Pradesh
Progressive                                                   252.00           42.00                    Yes                         33
Pattencheru                                                   624.00           40.00                    Yes                         76
Jeedimetla                                                    997.00           50.00                    Yes          10/98          91
Sub total Andhra Pradesh                  3                 1,873.00          132.00
Gujarat
Odhav                                                         468.00           77.95                    Yes          2/99           57
Panoli                                                                                       5.00                     -
Sachine Infra                                               1,950.00                         5.00        -            -
Subtotal Gujarat                          1           2     2,418.00           77.95        10.00
Haryana
Kandli                                                         79.00           11.98                    Yes          5/97
Subtotal Haryana                          1                    79.00           11.98
Himachal Pradesh
Barotiwala                                                                                   3.15        No           -
Parwanoo                                                                                     3.15        No
Melatpur                                                                                     3.15        No
Kala Amb                                                                                     3.15        No
Subtotal Himachal Pradesh                             4                                     12.60
Karnataka



Table 8D Pa20Mf4
States/GETPs           Number of CETPs which    Total Project    Grant Under IDA Credit       Status of      Date         Members             Flow
Received Grants          Cost         GatCommissioning
for           for                       for       for Feasibility
Implementation   Feasibility            Implementation     Study                                 Design     Actal      M31day
Study
Rs. Lakhs
Pai & Pai                                                     150.24           29.84                    Yes           93
Lidkar Tanners                                                160.00           30.00                    Yes          7/94
Subtoltal Kamataka                        2                  310.24            59.84
Madhya Pradesh
Govindpura                                                    199.00           47.50                 No Progress                    38
Subtotal Madhya Pradesh                   1                   190.00           47.50
Maharshtra
L.K.Akiwate Ind. State                                         35.70            8.90                    Yes         12/97           20
Maharshtra                                1                    35.70            8.90                                                                                      4>
Panjab
Industrial Area A                                                                            2.60   No Progress
Batala Road                                                                                 11.70   No Progress
Gill Road                                                                                    1.30    No Progress
Rahon Road                                                                                   4.30    No Progress
Subtotal Punjab                                       4                                     19.90
Rajastan
Mandya Road                                                   325.00           50.00                    Yes          9/98         363
Punyata Road                                                  400.00           50.00                    Yes         10/98         404
Subtotal Rajastan                         2                   725.00          100.00
Tamil Nadu



Table 80 Paga3of4
StateslCETPs            Number of CETPs which    Total Project    Grant Under IDA CSdtttus ofommissbo
Received Grants  costn Uner DACreitDate                                                 Members              Flow
Received Grants           Cost                                    Commissioning
for           for                         for       for Feasibility
Implementation   Feasibility              Implementation     Study                                  Design      Actal      M31day
Study
Rs. Lakhs
Madhavaram                                                      125.00            25.00                     Yes          4/99
Ambar                                                           270.00            50.00                     Yes          4/99
Andipalayam                                                     328.70            53.70                     Yes           n.a           21         21          4500
Mannarai                                                        271.00            67.75                     Yes          2/99           32       4200          2500
Manickpuran                                                     127.00            31.75                     Yes          2/99           11       1600           800
Angeripalayam                                                   720.00           180.00                     Yes          2/99            92     10000          5000
Veerapandi                                                      675.00           168.75                     Yes          11/98           75     10000         10000
Chinnakarai                                                     305.70            61.25                     Yes          2/99            31      5000          3200
Kasipalayam                                                     347.00            55.00                     Yes          2/99            20      4000          4000
Kunangpalayan                                                   216.00            54.00                     n.a                          19      4200          4200
Karur Karuppam Palayan                                          108.00            27.00                     n.a          5/99
Sipcot Sidco (Phase li)                                         252.00            50.00                 In Progress
Talco Perinambut                                                160.00            40.00                     n.a
Sellandipalayam                                                                   56.25                 In Progress     12/99          150       2600          2600
Sukhaliur                                                                         42.13                                  7/99           80       1700          1700



Table SD Page4ofA
States/CETPs           Number of CETPs which    Total Project          Under IDA Credit       Status of      Date         Members             Flow
Received Grants          Cost         Grant                     Commissioning
for           for                       for       for Feasibility
Implementation   Feasibility            Implementation     Study                                 Design     Actal      M3/day
Study
Rs. Lakhs
Subtotal Tamil Nadu                      i5                 3,905.40          962.58
Now Delhi
(Design for 15 CETPs)
15 CETPs:
Feasibility                                                                                215.00
Det. Eng.                                                                                   30,00
comp. Wall                                                                                 150.00
Subtotal New Dethi                                   15                                    395.00
Sub -total                               26          25    9,536.34          1,400.75      437.50
Total CErPs (Rsmillion)                                       953.63                       183.83
USSmillion equivalent(@Rs.41 per US$)                          23.26                         4.43
Adjustment (1)                                                 -4.07                        -0.78
Total CErPs (US$ million)                                      19.19                         3.70
Note (1): Adjustment to compensate for discrepancies between total actual disbursements under category 2-B and costs in US$
as reported by IDBI for Demonstration projects and IDBl's approved CETPs.
IPCPTA08D revi



Table 8E, Page I of 2
Table BE. Costs and Financing- Individual Investments
IBRD Loao                                                                                                             DFl's Other  Sponsos & Other
IBRD) Sub-Loan No.         Nrme ofCompany             ApprovedUS$Loa. Disbursesent   DFI's Other    Spo..sors & Other                         Total Cost  Los Disburseomenst Lo... smillion  Financing million
US$          Losus   US$   Finoociog    USS   Total Cost US$    million Rs.      million Rs.         Rs.            Rl.
ICICI Sob-orolects
ICICI-B-001        Ballarpur Industries Ltd                1,530,000          1,077,000                         14,923,000        16,000,000         418.5              40.0                          378.5
ICICI-B-002        Malladi Drgs & Phar.Ltd                   290,000           237,000                             243,000           480,000          16.8               8.3                             8.5
ICICI-B-003        Hukumhod Jute Ind. Ltd.                 1,030,000           863,000                           6,557,000         7,420,000         259.7              30.2                          229.5
ICICI-B-004        Bayer India Ltd.                          660,000           687,000                             923,000         1,610,000          56.4              24.0                           32.3
ICICI-B-005        Century Text. & ld. Ltd.                2,230,000          2,548,000                          7,622,000        10,170,000         278.3              73.9                          204.4
ICICI-B-006        Nath Pulp & Paper Ltd,                  1,830,000          1,440.000                          3,960,000         5,400,000         300.0              90.0                          210.0
ICICI-B007 & BOI I  Atul Products Ltd.                     2,668,000          1,989,659       1,281,818          4,228,523         7.500,000         247.5              64.9          42.3             140.3
ICICI-B-008        Atic tnd. Ltd.                          2,280,000          1,414,000                          2,296,000         3,710,000          97.5              60.0                           37.5
ICICI-B-009        IPCA Labs. Ltd.                           145,000            141,000                            129,000           270,000           96                50                              4.6
ICICI-B-010        Indian Alumioium Co. Ltd                3,370,000          2,022,000                          2,498,000         4,520,000         158.2              70.8 .                         87.4
ICICI-B-011        GujaratAlkalies&Chem. Ltd.              4,710,000          3,830,000                         59,370,000        63,200,000        2212.0             134.1                         2078.0
ICICI-B-012        Hindaleo Ind. Ltd.                      5,000,000          4,675,000                         23,735,000        28,410,000         895.0             157.5                           737.5
ICICI-B-013        AlufluoridePvt. Ltd.                      820,000           740,000                           5,010,000         5,750,000         201.3              25.9                           175.4
ICICI-B-014        Gokak Patel Volkart                       164,000            111,000                            125,000           236,000           8.3               3.9                            4.4
ICICI-B-015        Sudarshan Chem.lnd.Ltd                    670,000           640,000                             260,000           900,000          40.0              20.0                            20.0
ICICI-B-016        Kap Chem Ltd.                             680,000           412,000                             788,000         1,200,000          30.0              13.0                            17.0
ICICI-BI 7         Rohit Pulp & Paper Ltd                    220,000
ICICI-B-018        Finolex Ind. Ltd                        2,430,000          1,557,000                          4,943,000         6,500,000         227.5              54.5                           173.0
ICICI-B-019        NRC Ltd (Nat.Rayon Corp)                2,000,000          1,999,000                            366,483         2,365,483          71.0              60.0                            11.0
ICICI-B-020        Madras Fertilisers Ltd.                 2,100,000           819,000 ???forloan in US$         7,191,000         8,010,000         243.6             130.0                           113.6
ICICI-B-021        Thir Arooran Sugars Ltd.                  833,000           800,000          914,286                            1,714,286          600               25.0          35.0
ICICI-B-022        Globe Organics Ltd.                       130,000
ICICI-B-023        Kothari Sugars&Chem.Ltd.                  580,000           558,000                           3,442,000         4,800,000         140.0              19.5                           120.5
ICICI-B-024        RamaNewsprint& Papers Ltd.              3,000,000          2,533,000                          2,831,000         5,364,000         187.7              90.0                           97.7
ICICI-B-025        IFBAgroInd.Ltd.                          170,000            158,000                            292,000           450,000          15.8               5.5                            10.2
ICICI-B-026        Sterlite Industdes Ltd.                 3,000,000          2,524,000                         19,076,000        21,600,000         660.0              90.5                          569.5
ICICI-B-027        Grasim Ind. Ltd.                          500,000           492,000          307,692            500,308         1,300,000          45 1              15.4          10.0              19.7
ICICI-B4028        Shreyans Ind. Ltd                         270,000
ICICI-B-029        Rajashfi Sugars Ltd.                      330,000
ICICI-B-030        Century Text. & Ind. Ltd.                 968,000           808,000                             492,000         1,300,000          36.3              28.7                            7.6
ICICI-B-032        Aurangabad Paper Mills Ltd.             2,000,000
ICICI-B-033        Laane Id. Ltd.                         2,218,000          1,952,000                          2,358,000         4,310,000         150.9              68.3                           82.5
ICICI-B-034        Jaysynth DyestuffLtd.                     750,000           660,000                             350,000         1,010,000          32.5              24.0                             8.5
ICICI-B-035        India Dyestuff Ltd.                     4,200,000
ICICI-B-036        Mysoe Petrochem. Ltd.                   4,760,000          4,025,000                          6,783,000        10,808,000         378.3             140.9                          237.4
ICICI-B-037        SIV Ind. Ltd.                           8,000,000          4,513,000       5,196,788         13,521,212        23,231,000         867.0             165.0         190.0            512.0
ICICI-B-038        Travancare Chemicals Ltd.                 211,000
ICICI-B-039        Tuticorin Alkali Ch.&Fert.Ltd.            875,000            141,000                            959,000         1,100,000          43.7               5.5                            38.2
Sub-totall CICI   67,622,000        46,365,659        7,700,584        195,772,526       249,838,769       8,388.3           1,744.3        277.3           6,366.7
Lessl DBI 011     1,330,000          1,282,659                                                                                 42.3
Total ICICI     66,292,000        15,03000          7,700,584        195S772.526      249.838.769        83883             1702.8         277.3            6366.7
IDBI Ssb-proieLts
B-IDBI--001        SandurManganrese& Iron Ores Ltd.          430,00D            383,058         121,019            267,856           751,933          23.3              11.3           3.8              8.3
B-IDBI--003        Mouldwtell Polymers                       780,000            611,863         154,803          1,199,313         1,965,179          60.3              18.8           48              368
B-IDBI-004         Nath Pulp and paper mills                1,255,000         1,039,292       2,467,521         11,221,803        14,728,617        462.0               326           77.4            352.0
B-IDBI-005         Polyolelins Lts.                          880,000            416,849              0             324,293          741,241           23.2              13.1                           10.2
IPCP-ICR-table8E.xIs



Table 8E, Page 2 of 2
IRD Loran
IBRD Sob-Loa. No.            Name of Company            Approved US$                                                                                                                 DFISs Other  Sp..9- & Other
Loan Diobu-s.nent   IDFt's Other    Sponsors & Other                         Total Cost  Loan Disbn......nI Loans mtillon  Finan.cing osrillion
US$          Loans   US$   Financing       US$   Total Cst USS       million R..      million Rs.         R,.              Rs.
B-IDBI-006          Hukumcthand jute                           1,560,000          1099,80o 5        441,886           7,904,848          9,446,539         280.6               33.6           13.5             241.5
B-IDBI--007         Rashtriya Chemicals and Ferlilizers Lt    6,910,000           6,688,376               0           7,784,780         14,473,156         460.7              212,9                            247.8
B-IDBI-008          ElO Party                                  1,010,000           997,607                0             329,210          1,326,717          40.3               30.3                             10.0
B-1138I-009         Emmellen Biotech Phamna Ltd.                320,000            300,8S7                0             150,429           451,286           15.0               100                               5.0
B-IDBl-010          Gujarat Alkalies & Chemicals Ltd.         4,710,000           4,577,817               0          47,989,127         52,566,944        163S.0              142.6                           1495,4
B-IDBI-011  &ICICI Atul Products Ltd.                         2,668,000          1,989,659        1,281,818           4,228,523          7,500,000         247.5               64.9           42.3             1403
B007
B-IDBI-012          Som Distile6es                              960,000            783,234                0             325,825          1,109,059          35.4               250                               10.4
B-IDBI-013          Colour Chem                                 574,000            478,500                0             191,400           669,900           21.0               15.0                              6.0
B.IDBI-014          Shree Vindhya Paper Mills Ltd.            4,800,000           4,060,631               0           1,569,018          5,629,649          105.5             133.9                             51.7
B-IDBI-015          Tata Yodogawa ltd.                          145,000            147,457                0             123,545            271,002           8.5                4.6                              3.9
B-IDBI--016         Kopargaon Sahakan Sakhar Karkhana           633.000            558,893                0             298,714            857,607          29.2               19.0                              10.2
B-IDBI-017          Grasim Industries                         5,000.000           4,787,348      27,128,305          12,329,017         44,244,670        1386.3              150.0          850.0             386.3
B-IDBI-018          Modi Alkalies & Chemicals Ltd.             4,300,000          5,004,118               0          11,004,540         16,008,658         510.0              159.4                            350.6
B-IDBI-019          Sagar Cements Ltd.                          372,000            351,636                0             191,801            543,437           17.0              11.0                              6.0
B-IDBI-020          Jai Bhavani SSk Ltd.                        420,000            411,899                0             142,580            554,479           17.5              13.0                              4.5
B-IDBI-021          Sandur Manganese & Iron Ores Ltd.          1,500,000          1,434,720               0             902,279          2,336,999          73.3               45.0                             28.3
B-IDBI-023          Tilaknagar Dis8lleries & lndustries Ltd     250,000            210,011                0             223,976           433,987           13.6                6.6                              7.0
B-IDBI-026          Sumangla Steels                             200,000            284,607                0              94,869           379,476            12.0               9.0                              3.0
B-IDBI-027          ACC                                        3,000,f00          1,690,819               0           3,917,461          5,608,280          181.0              54.6                            126.4
B-IDBI-029          Raptakoss Brett                             130,000             104,000               0              32,100            136,100           4.8                3.7                               1.1
B-IDBI-032          lspatAlloys                                1,430,000           936,396                0             984,155          1,920,551          60.2               29.4                             30.9
B-IDBI-033          Tamil Nadu Cements                          950,000            835,738                0             362,153          1,197,891          43.0               30.0                             13.0
B-IDBI-034          Kakada Cements Ltd.                         190,000            191,144                0              63,715           254,859            8.0                6.0                              2.0
B.IDBI-035          Shree Cement Ltd.                          1,366,8 o          112,1852                0             284,728          1,476,880          53.4               43.1                             10.3
B-IDBI-036          EID Pany, Nellikuppam                       438,000                                   0             513,889            513,889           18.5                                               18.5
B-IDBI-37/30        Simbhaol2 Sugar Mills                      1,038,000           760,884                0             556,000          1,316,684          44.0               25.4                             18.6                               st
B-IDBI-038          Gujarat Heavy Chemicals Ltd.               1,890,000          1,332,839               0             693,860          2,026,499          72.7               47.8                             24.9                                0c
B-IDBI-039          ChemfabAlkalies                            1,420,000          1,256,983       1,536,313           5,427,373          8,220,669         294.3               45.0           55.0             194.3
B-IDBI-040          Vamshadara Paper Mills Ltd                  339,508            248,112                0              80,569            328,681           120                9.1                              2.9
B-IDBI-042          Southem Petrochemicals Industiies Lt       5,21.000          4,585,782       6,701,711          10,441,172         21,728,645         900.0              185.7          271.4             422.9
B-11381-043         Ispat Industries                           1,211,000          1,086,019               0             684,917          1,750,936          65.7               40.0                             25.7
B-IDBI--045         Madras Fertilizer Ltd                      3,390,808          1,512,248       5,190,103         105,675,146        112,377,497        6015.0               80.9          277.8            5656.3
B- IDBI..047       D0ntex Dychem Ltd                            200,000            211,984          235,516             585,138          1,032,618          43.8                9.0           10.0              24.8
B- IDBI             EID Paony (2)                              2,205,072          2,205,072       2,894,157           2,415,381          7,514,610         272.6               80.0          105.0              87.6
B- IDBI             JK Corp.(3)                                3,636,375          3,836,375       2,752,532           2,129,636          8,518,543         338.2              144.4          109.3              84.6
Sub-total lDBI     67,355,447         58,363,543       50,905,684         243,645,139        352,914,366        13,975              1,995         1,820             10,160
less ICICI B007       -1338000            -707000                                                                                     -22.6
Total IDBI     66,017.447         57.656.543       50890,_684         243,645 139        352,914,366         13.975             L973           LN20              10.160
Sl,bltallndioidual Prmjecr           132,309,447.0      102,739,543.0    58,606,268.07      439,417,664.65    602,753,134.72      22,363.75            3,674.9        2097.5            16526.5
le,s Joinl Projecl IDBl 011                                               (1,281,818.18)      (4,228,522.82)     (7,500,000.00)     (247.50)                            -42.3             -140.3
TOTAL INDIVIDUAL PROJECTS               132,309,447        102,739,543       57,324,450         435,189,142        595,253,135      22,116.3            3,674.9        2,055.2          16,386.2
Notau
(1) IDBI01 I 0an ICICI B007 hn.. b-ca iepleneetjdjoitIy sd am premoted fo, bath fiaaral i.ltn6o.s
(2) - IDBI other.loots iclIdo n gimt of 17nillion Ru under the prje, nds ota- of 90 mtillia R. aad.r the IPPPrpjeot (Iaa 3779)
(3)- It 6 the pollo6ia pmertia ootpon...t ofa peojot totullits R.4,760 illion. IDBI oher uon an Ina. of bwnt 109.3 tillion RP. nder IPPP paoojt (loon 3779). This projet also bne.feitod fno other fact foot IDBI
INDIvEDuALcOsrOs.xis
IPCP-ICR-tab[e8E..ts



Table 8F, Page 1 of 2
Table 8F- Costs and Financing- Demonstration Projects
1. List of Projects and Costs In Rupees
_________  Original Cost in Rupees               Actual Cost in Rupees
Project                               Total    I   Grant      Total Cost    Sponsor         IDA       Loans/Other
Projects imlemented
D01- EID Parry-Sugar Distillery     80,000,000   15,000,000    96,900,000    46,900,000    15,000,000    35,000,000
D02- KSSK Distillery                52,500,000   14,500,000    78,146,000    33,146,000    15,000,000    30,000,000
D03- Century Pulp & Paper           16,500,000    6,600,000    16,500,000    9,900,000     6,600,000
D04- Gabriel India Electroplating   15,600,000    6,240,000    15,600,000    9,360,000     6,240,000
D05- Ashoka Pulp & Paper             5,400,000    2,160,000     3,948,000    2,348,000     1,600,000
D06-Westem Paques HPF Rayon Plant    43,040,000   15,000,000    43,040,000    28,040,000    15,000,000
D07- Wockhardt Effluent Treatment   22,910,000    9,200,000    25,430,000    16,230,000    9,200,000
D09- EID Parry Botanical Pesticide  300,000,000   15,000,000   272,632,000   102,632,000    15,000,000   155,000,000
D12- Dintex Dyechem Dye Intermediate    27,500,000   10,000,000    43,845,000    33,845,000    10,000,000
Total              563,450,000   93,700,000   596,041,000   282,401,000    93,640,000   220,000,000
Proiedts Canceled
D08- Okhla Sewage Treatment Plant   70,200,000   17,600,000
D10- Pudumjee Pulp & Paper Mill    108,000,000   18,000,000
D11- Kothari Sugar & Distillery Plant  18,000,000    7,200,000
Total              196,200,000   42.800,000
Total Approved            759,650,000  136,500,000
IPCPTA08F.xIs



Table 8F, Page 2 of 2
Table 8F- Costs and Fiancing- Demonstration Projects
2. List of Projects and Costs in USDollars
Original Cost in USDollars                    Actual Cost in USDollars
Exchange
Date of   Rate at                         Implementation
Project                           Approval Approval      Total      Grant       Period     Total Cost   Sponsor    IDA    LoanslOther
Projects Implemented
D01- EID Parry-Sugar Distillery     June-95     31.5   2,540,000    500,000  Mostly 1996     2,840,000  1,340,000   500,000  1,000,000
D02- KSSK Distillery                 Aug-95      31.4   1,670,000    480,000  Mid-95-mid 98    2,284,171   947,029   480,000    857,143
D03- Century Pulp & Paper            Dec-95     34.4      480,000    190,000   First half 96  477,791   287,791   190,000        -
D04- Gabriel India Electroplating    Jan-96     34.4      440,000    180,000     1995         463,636   283,636   180,000        -
D05- Ashoka Pulp& Paper              Jul-95     34.3      158,000     63,000    94-96         117,604    70,937    46,667        -
D06-Western Paques HPF Rayon Plant   Oct-96     35.5   1,214,000    423,000  Mid 94-Apr.95    1,315,994   892,994   423,000      -
D07- Wockhardt Effluent Treatment    Nov-96     36.0      640,000    260,000     1995         767,188   507,188   260,000
D09- EID Parry Botanical Pesticide   Oct-96     36.0   8,330,000    460,000      1997        7,616,444  2,850,889   460,000  4,305,556
D12- Dintex Dyechem Dye Intermediate  Jan-98    36.0      764,000    280,000    97-98        1,194,730   914,730   280,000      -
0
7ota/                                16,236,000   2,836,000              17,077,557  8,095,192  2,819,667  6,162,698
Proiects Canceled
D08- Okhla Sewage Treatment Plant    Dec-96     35.2   1,994,318    500,000
D10- Pudumjee Pulp & Paper Mill      Jun-97     36.0   3,000,000    500,000
DI1- Kothari Sugar & Distillery Plant  Jul-97   36.0      500,000    200,000
Total                                5,494,318   1,200,000
Total Approved                             21,730,318   4,036,000
-0059507.xls



101
Table 8G, Page 1 of 1
Table 8G. Costs and Financing- Technical Assistance
Study                                                        Total Cost   Total Cost
Rupees       US$
1 .SPCB Organization Study                                     n.a 1!       n.a 1/
2. Environmental Performance Indicators                        2,730,000     78,000
3. Assessments for Incineration Plant at Chennai               4,000,000    114,286
4. Hazardous Waste Facility at TBIA                            5,500,000    157,143
5. Air Pollution Control in the Cement Industry                2,730,000     78,000
6. Municipal Solid Waste Processing                            5,700,000    162,857
7. Software for Hazardous Analysis in Process Industry           618,562     17,673
8. Studies for Ankleshwar Landfill                               980,000     28,000
9. Epidemiological Survey in Pune Area                         1,184,000     33,829
10. Evaluation of Thermal Power Plants Pollution Control         578,000     16,514
1 1. EIA of Katni-Maihar Lime kilns & Cement Plants            4,703,000    134,371
12. Simplified Sewage Treatment Using Rio-filter               2,500,000     71,429
13. Treatment of Polluted Water Body Using Specialty Bio-products  2,500,000  71,429
Total Studies                                                 33,723,562    963,530
Environmental Training Program for DFI Officers (IDBI)         1,750,000     50,000
Total Technical Assistance Costs                              35,473,562  1,013,530
Financing:
IDA                                                                     805,380
Sponsors                                                                208,150
Assumes the following exchange rate: US$1 =Rs. 35
1/ Financed by the Central Government- Cost not available.
IPCPTA08E.XL
IPCPTA08G rev2.xls



102
Table 9, Page I of I
Table 9- Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic cost/benefit analysis was performed at Appraisal, as it is difficult to
quantify benefits and compare the cost effectiveness of the approach to pollution control adopted
under the project with other approaches. No indicators to measure environmental benefits were
proposed at Appraisal. Actual environmental benefits of the project are summarized in Table 6.
IPCPTA09.doc



Table 10 - Page I of 2
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Oigina        Revised
Agreement    Section    Covenant Type   Present   Fulfillment    Fulfillment   Description of Covenant                Comments
Status      Date           date
Loan & Credit  2.03        Implementation     C      June 30, 98   March 31, 99   Closing Date                         At Government request the closing date was
extendcd to March 31, 1999. When the loan
and the credit closed.
Loan &                     Implementation     C                    February       Mid-tern Review                      Program review took place February 12-28,
Credit                                                             1996                                                1996.
Loan & Credit  4.01 of    Accounts/audit     CD      not latter                   The Borrower shall maintain and cause   Although with some delays MoEF, IDBI and
CA and                                than nine                    to be maintained separate accounts and   ICICI audit reports have been sent to the Bank
3.01 of                               months after                 have them, and special account and
LA.                                   end of each                  SOEs, audited and furnish and cause to
fiscal year                 be furnished such reports.                                                             C
Loan & Credit  6.01 of    Flow and            C      condition of   November 6,   The Borrower to obtain from IDBI a
CA         utilization of             effectiveness  1991          lettcr of Understanding.
Funds
Loan & Credit  5.01 of    Flow and            C      condition of   November 6,   Subsidiary loan agreements to be     The Subsidiary agreement between GOI and
LA         utilization of             effectiveness  1991          executed on behalf of the Borrower and   ICICI was signed on October 25, 1991 and a
Funds                                                   IDBI and the Borrower and ICICI.    legal opinion was issued on October 30, 1991.
Credit         Schedule   Implementation     CD      Dec. 31,91    April 1994     The Borrower shall undertake and      In November 1992, an ongoing study since
5, Para                                                            complete a study on the organization  negotiations was completed by the Belliappa
3(a)                                                               and management of SPCB's.             Committee, but the Bank considered that it
did not fulfill the TOR's agreed between the
Bank and GOI during negotiations. A second
study was contracted to the Administration
Staff College of India, based on these TOR's.
It was completed in April 1994. The
recommendations of the study were discussed
and an action plan prepared during a seminar
in Hyderabad in February 1995.
IPCP-ICR-table l0.doc



Table 10 -Page 2 of 2
Original      Revised
Agreement    Section    Covenant Type   Present   Fulfillment    Fulfillment   Description of Covenant                Comments
Status      Date           date
Project       3.01        Accounts/audit      C      July 31                      IDBI and ICICI shall furnish audited  Although with some delays, IDBI and ICICI
financial statements and project     audit reports have been sent to the Bank
accounts for Part B and C2 to the Bank   regularly
not latter than four months after the end
of each such fiscal year.
Project       3.02 and    Financial           C      At all times                 IDBI to maintain their respective   IDBI maintained its debt/equity ratio between 9
3.03 (a)(i)  Performance                                           consolidated debt/equity ratio at less  and 10 from 1990/91 to 1994/95 and at about 6
than 12:1                           from 1995/96 to 1997/98
Project       3.02 and    Financial           **     At all times                 ICICI to maintain their respective    ICICI maintained a debt/equity ratio between
3.03 (a)(i)  Performance                                           consolidated debt/equity ratio at less than   5.2 and 7.0 between 1994/95 and 1997/98.
12:1
Project       3.03(a)(ii)  Financial          C      At all times                 IDBI to maintain their respective cash  IDBI's debt service coverage ratio was
Performance                                            generation for each year at least at 1.2:1    between 1.5 and 1.7 between 1990/91 and
times the consolidated debt service for  1994/95 and about 1.2-1.3 between 1995/96
that year                             and 1997/98.
Project       3.03(a)(ii)  Financial         ***     At all times                 ICICI to maintain their respective cash  ICICI maintained a DSCR, inclusive of short
Performance                                            generation for each year at least at 1.2:1    tem debt, at beween 1.4 and 1.7 over the
times the consolidated debt service for  period 1994/95 And 1997/98.
that year
Definitions
C = covenant complied with; CD = complied with after delay; CP = complied with partially; NC = not complied with
IPCP-ICR-table I O.doc



105
Table 11 - Page I of I
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no significant lack of compliance with applicable Operational Manual Statements,
including with Operational Directive 4.00 (Environmental Policies); Operational Directive 4.30
(Involuntary Resettlement) and Operational Directive 11.00 (Procurement).
IPCPTAI ldoc



106
Table 12 - Page I of I
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle         Planned            Revised             Actual
Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$         Weeks       US$
'000              '000                 '000
Preparation to Appraisal              n.a      n.a       n.a      n.a       95.9     218.5
Appraisal                             n.a      n.a       n.a      n.a       33.8      37.1
Negotiations through Board approval   n.a      n.a       n.a      n.a       10.8      26.5
Supervision:                          n.a      n.a       n.a      n.a
FY90 through FY98                 n.a       n.a      n.a       n.a     189.4     241.9
FY98                             17.0     42.5      18.5     39.3        8.6      16.3
FY99'                            23.5     39.5      28.0     42.1       10.4      23.3
Total Supervision                 n.a      n.a       n.a      n.a      208.4     281.5
Completion
FY99                              8.0      12.2      8.0     12.2
FY00                              7.6      30.0      7.6     30.3
Total Completion                 15.6     42.2      15.6     42.2
TOTAL                                 n.a      n.a       n.a      n.a
n.a: not available.
Note: to be updated to include actual figures for FY99 and planned and actual figures for FY2000
'Up to February 23, 1999-to be updated
IPCPTAI2.doc



107
Table 13 - Page I of 3
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
.__________ ._______  ________ 1                represented        Performance rating
Stage of       Month/year    Numiber of    Days In        Specalzed staff    implement   Development          Types of problems
proJect cycle                     persons      field'      sidlls rpresented      ation        objectives
...       _               l_ _   _ _ _                      j   status
Tbrouedt apprajl
Identification    October 1989       3            19       Chemical.Eng (TM).;
Env. Specialist;
Economist
Preparation     January 1990          I           14       Chemical Eng. (TM)
Pre-appraisal    April 1990           I           29      Chemical Eng. (TM )
Follow-up I     Aug./Sept 1990       3            18       Chemical.Eng (TM).;
Env. Specialist;
Economist
Appraisal       Nov./Dec. 1990       7            20       Chemical.Eng (TM).;
Env. Specialists; Env.
Engineers (C); Instit.
Specialists;
Economist
|Suervisio
November 1991        6            13      Chemical.Eng (TM).;        I             I         Additional work required on
Env. Engineer (C);                                State Boards Organization
Instit. Specialist;                               Study; no demonstration
Economist; Proc.                                  projects identified.
Specialist; Operations
Analyst
2.              October 1992         4            8        Chemical.Eng (TM).;                      I I      Lack of continuity in staff of
Env. Engineer (C);                                Implementation Cell; need to
Indust. Engineer;                                 simplify approval procedures
Operations Analyst                                for Demonstration Projects;
need for detailed training
schedules and full time
training coordinator.
3.              March 1993           3            7        Chemical.Eng (TM).;       I              I        Delays in procurement of
Env. Engineer (C );                               equipment (Inst. Streng.
Operations Analyst                                Component); CETPs
approvals lagging behind;
difficulties in identifying
eligible demonstration
projects.
For combined tasks addressed by missions (work on project as well as preparation and/or supervision of follow-up
projects).
IPCPTA13Revl.doc



108
Table 13 - Page 2 of 3
Performance rating
Stage of      Month/year    Number of    Days in         Spedalized staff    Implement   Development         Types of problems
project cycle                    persons       feld't     skills represented     ation       objectives
status
4.             AuglSept 1994         4           1s       Chemical.Eng (TM).;       S            HS        Need to strengthen
Env. Engineer (C                                 Implementation Cell; delays
Economist;                                       in procurement of equipment;
Operations Analyst                               need to change approval
procedures for demonstration
projects.
5.             JanlFeb. 1995         3           13      Chemical.Eng (TM);         S             S        No progress in demonstration
Env. Engineer (C);                               projects and in committing
Operations Analyst                               technical assistance funds;
delays in procurement of
equipment.
6. (Mid-term   February 1996         5           17       Chemical.Eng (TM).;       S             S        Need to strengthen
Review)                                                   Env. Engineer (C);                               Implementation Cell; delays
Economist;                                       in procurement of equipment;
Operations Officer;                              slow pace of disbursements;
Res. Assistant                                   delays in Performance
Indicators Study;, need to
review experience on CETPs.
7.             October 1996          1            5       Chemical Eng. (TM)    No rating     No rating    No progress under Technical
Assistance Component;
delays in release of grants to
CETPs; unsatisfactory
performance of
Implementation Cell.
8.             February 1997         3           17       Chemical.Eng (TM).;       S             S        Counterpart funds from
Env. Engineer;                                   Central Govemment; delays
Economist;                                       in release of grants to CETPs;
major delays in procurement
of equipment; mixed
environmental performance of
completed CETPs.
9.             July 1997             2           13       Chemical.Eng (TM).;   No Rating     No Rating    Delays in release of grants to
Projects Assistant.                              CETPs and resulting cost
overruns; IDBI personal
guarantee requirements for
CETPs; need to develop a
systematic strategy to
optimize CETP design,
operations and
management,.and outside
monitoring; insufficient
attention to sludge
management and teatibility
studies..
10.            August 1997           2           15      Chemical.Eng (TM).;        S             S        (Report not found)
Env. Engineer.
11.            September 1998        4           13       Operations Officer        S         No Rating    Delays in procurement of
(TM ); Env.                                      equipment; commitment of
Specialists; Proc.                               IDA funds to 15 CETPs in
Specialist                                       Delhi without Bank
agreement may not be
eligible.
Backup of IPCP-ICR-tahlel3.wbk



109
Table 13 - Page 3 of 3
Performance ratig
Stage of      Month/year    Number of   Days in         Specialized staff    Implement  Development        Types of problems
project cycle                    persons      field      skills represented     ation       objectives
status
12. Final SPN    April 1999         7           i8      Operations Officer        U             S        Late delivery of equipment;
and ICR                                                  (TM ); Env. Engineer                             commitment of IDA funds to
Preparation                                              (C); Indust. Engineer                            additional CETPs without
(C ); Economist (C );                           IDBI review and Bank
Env. Specialist; Proc.                          approval.
Specialist; Financial
Specialist.
Backup of IPCP-ICR-tablcl3.wbk



110
Annex A
Industrial Pollution Control Project (Loan/Credit 3334/2252-IN)
Final Supervision and Preparation of the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) Mission (April 5-22,1999)
Aide Memoire
1. PREAMBLE AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
1.1   A mission consisting of Mmes./Messrs. Hadjitarkhani (task leader), D. Babelon, C. Dahan, D.
Kantawala (consultants), and joined in the field by Messrs. P. Selvam, S. Vani and S. Krishnan of the
Bank's New Delhi Office, visited India April 5-22, 1999'. The purpose of the mission was to carry out the
final review of the implementation progress as well as the field work necessary to support the preparation
of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Industrial Pollution Control Project.
1.2   This aide memoire is a brief record of the main findings of the mission, including the overall
implementation progress of the project, and outlines some of the key questions that must be addressed to
assure sustained future benefits of the project. It also summarizes the project time-table and the next steps
agreed by all concerned parties for the more limited objective of producing the ICR.
1.3  In preparing this aide memoire, the mission has drawn on material provided by the Ministry of
Environment and Forests (MoEF), the four beneficiary State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) of Gujarat,
Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh, the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), and the
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India, Limited (ICICI) in response to a questionnaire sent
to them by the Bank. It has also drawn on presentations made by the various project beneficiaries in the
four SPCBs. The Aide Memoire was discussed and agreed to in a wrap up meeting with Mr. R. Paul,
additional Secretary, MoEF, on April 22, 1999. A list of sites visited by the mission is compiled in
Attachment 1. The observations made in this aide memoire are preliminary and subject to review and
confirmation by the Bank's management.
1.4   The mission in the course of its visit met with representatives from the MoEF, Department of
Economic Affairs (DEA) and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) in New Delhi, IDBI, ICICI in
Mumbai and the four SPCBs -- in Mumbai for Maharashtra, in Gujarat for Gandhinagar, on Chennai for
Tamil Nadu, and Lucknow for Uttar Pradesh. The mission visited a number of beneficiary
enterprises/plants in each of the four States and is deeply appreciative of the warm hospitality offered to it.
The mission is especially grateful to the staff of IDBI and ICICI who arranged the site visits and
coordinated the mission's work program and logistics. A list of persons met is given in Attachment II.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND PREMISES
2.1   The Industrial Pollution Control Project was approved by the Bank's Board on May 30, 1991, and
Loan 3334-IN in the amount of US$124 million and Credit 2252-lN in the amount of US$31.6 million
equivalent became effective on November 6, 1991. The project, which had a total cost of US$260 million
equivalent, was comprised of three main components, namely:
'Mr. Vani joined the mission for meetings with IDBI and ICICI in Mumbai and MoEF in New Delhi; Mr.
Krishnan joined the mission for meetings with MoEF only. Mr. Bekir Onursal, who was already in India
on a different assignment, joined the mission for the visits to project sites in Maharashtra, Gujarat and
Tamil Nadu.



111
Annex A
(a)   an institutional component designed to strengthen the State Pollution Control Boards in the states of
Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh;
(b)   an investment component designed to support efforts by industry to comply with regulations,
including support for set up of common effluent treatment plants (CETPs); and
(c)   a technical assistance component designed to assist the MoEF and the development financial
institutions (DFIs) to provide specialized technical assistance for the evaluation of environmental problems
and for the assessment of their solutions.
2.2   The rationale for the project is derived from the assessment that implementation of the activities
included under the project would reduce environmental degradation in India caused by industrial sources,
improve effectiveness and coverage of the Boards in their monitoring and enforcement activities and in this
manner enable the Government of India (GOI) to promote stricter compliance with provisions of the
environmental acts. Key objectives were:
(a)  to strengthen the four SPCBs to improve their effectiveness and coverage in monitoring and
enforcement activities;
(b)  to promote construction of the CETPs to improve environmental performance of those small and
medium scale industries, which also had the potential of replication elsewhere in India;
(c)  to provide technical and financial support to individual enterprises to support their efforts in waste
minimization and resource recovery, in particular in the chemical and related industries; and
(d)  to support the demonstration projects aimed at introducing novel techniques and processes to
address pervasive environmental problems in industry.
2.3  Based on a preliminary assessment of the mission, the foregoing objectives have been achieved to a
limited degree. Information and data made available to the mission by MoEF, the four SPCBs, IDBI and
ICICI suggests that SPCBs are in general functioning more effectively; a total of about 70 individual
enterprises have taken advantage of the lines of credit through IDBI and ICICI and 12 demonstration
projects have been financed under the project2. Moreover, commitments were made for a total of 87
CETPs3. Out of these 87 CETPs 10 have only completed their feasibility studies, 37 CETPs were
completed, and the balance 40 are at various stages of construction. These 40 include fifteen CETPs
approved by the GOI for New Delhi, for which MoEF has advanced a total of Rs. 225 million to the Delhi
Industrial Development Corporation under Supreme Court's Order of 1996 and has claimed reimbursement
from the Bank under the statement of expenses (SOE) procedures as actual expenses. Since the procedures
followed by MoEF are not in accordance with the Bank disbursement guidelines, DEA has agreed that the
Bank can recover the funds by deducting the amount from the withdrawal applications that are currently
being filed. So far the Bank has recovered a total of Rs. 30.4 million. Due to the large sum of funds
committed and the lack of progress with implementation of some of the CETPs, there is a possibility that
GOI may eventually have to refund the funds to the Bank.
2 These are rather rapid quantitative assessments, and a detailed analysis of the information and data
provided to the mission would be required before a qualitative assessment can be presented and the full
impact of the project can be measured. This analysis will be performed during preparation of the ICR.
3 Out of these 87 CETPs, only 27 have followed the proper approval procedures established under the
project and have been approved by the Bank. A list of these 27 CETPs is given in Attachment III and a
more detailed status is given in section IV of the aide memoire.



112
Annex A
III. INSTITUTIONAL COMPONENT
Component Description
3.1   The institutional componen -- Part A of the Project -- with a total cost of US$ 18 million, was to
fund training, equipment and facilities requirement at the SPCBs. An IDA allocation of US$ 12.6 million
equivalent was to cover the costs of training and equipment in the four states and GOI was expected to
allocate the balance resources required to meet the operation and maintenance costs of the financed
equipment and facilities. The GOI was to pass US$12.6 million equivalent from the proceeds of the IDA
Credit to the MoEF on a grant basis. It was further expected that through the appropriate budgetary
allocations, funds would be made available by the GOI to meet the counterpart funding requirement.
3.2   The MoEF had overall responsibility for the execution of this component. It was to coordinate the
activities of the beneficiary boards through a Central Sector Scheme (CSS), under which the proceeds of
the IDA Credit would be transferred to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to administer the
component on behalf of the SPCBs. The MoEF constituted an Implementation Cell to supervise the
execution of this component and directly undertake the procurement and disbursement activities required
for its implementation. In order to improve the operational efficiency of the SPCBs and ensure effective
use of the investment, the GOI had also agreed to conduct a review of the organization and management of
the SPCBs. This study was expected to be completed by December 1991 and its recommendations were to
be implemented in due course.
Main Findings
3.3   Procurement of Monitoring Equipment. The single most salient feature of this component is the
prolonged delays in procurement of laboratory and monitoring equipment. It is clear that MoEF has not
managed implementation of this activity effectively, and has completely failed to ensure timely delivery of
equipment. The long delays in delivery of the equipment--responsibility for which from 1996 onwards
should be equally shared between the CPCB and the procurement agent, National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC)-- has adversely affected some of the SPCBs. The worst affected SPCB is the
Maharashtra Board which as of March 31, 1999, had only received four Jeeps, some air-conditioners, and
some sundry equipment. The Maharashtra Board indicated that over the past several years, they were not
permitted by the state authorities to procure any monitoring equipment from their own resources as they
were never given a clear indication as to when the equipment financed under the project would be
delivered to them. As long as this expectation and promise was pending, they could not purchase new
equipment. As of the closing date of the project (March 31, 1999) there were still a large number of
monitoring equipment items which have been dispatched prior to closing date but are expected to be
received by mid-July, 1999. The mission advised MoEF that the current scheduleforfinal delivery of
equipment and settlement of the accounts is too tight and urged MoEF to advance the schedule to avoid
the risk of missing the deadline of July 31, 1999,for submitting final reimbursement applications.
3.4   Training. The training programs conducted in India, mostly concentrated in 1992/93 and 1994/95,
seem to have been useful and served their purpose. The mission was informed that a total of 2000 staff
from 26 SPCBs participated in 150 training courses conducted in 55 training institutions. CPCB staff
participated in about 75% of these training programs. Understandably, the MoEF is pleased with the
training programs that have been conducted and this feeling is shared by some of the Boards. However, an
overseas training program organized by MoEF in late February 1999 for about 36 participants, although
rated useful, seems to have been arranged in a hurried manner ahead of the project closing date, which
made full participation of all the SPCBs difficult.
3.5   Facilities. As stated in para. 3.1 above, provisions were made under the IDA credit for refurbishing
of laboratory facilities. This contained civil works and equipment to ensure adequate environmental
control inside the laboratories, furbishing of specialized rooms and the provision of office and laboratory
space for the Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra PCBs, and utilities equipment, i.e. back-up power facilities,



113
Amnex A
voltage regulators and data processing equipment. Although as of March 31, 1999, the IDA allocation for
facilities amounting to US$ 1.5 million remained unutilized, according to MoEF the funds have been
utilized between 1992/93 to 1996/97 for setting up 22 regional laboratories in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu
and Uttar Pradesh. MoEF has stated that a total of Rs. 29 million (about US$1.00 million) has been spent
on facilities, which might have been filed under different categories for purposes of withdrawal
applications that have been processed by the Bank.
3.6   Sustainability. Although the implementation of this component is far from fully satisfactory, the
mission's review suggests that this component is moving in the right direction and has a chance of being
sustained. Whether as a result of the recommendation of the "Organizational Structure Study of the
SPCBs" requested under the project or due to tighter enforcement affected as a response to judicial
activism, the four beneficiary SPCBs seem to be on a relatively better footing. In terms of their
administrative and financial functioning, they are in a better condition today than were a few years back.
They seem to be financially more self sufficient and less dependent on the state budget. Their revenues are
generated from water cess, fees for issuing consents and analysis of samples taken from the industries or
CETPs. Many new laboratories have been built and equipped under the Project. All four Boards would
have access to modem and sophisticated monitoring equipment (after the equipment ordered under the
Project is finally delivered), all have had training, and additional training could still be organized under the
Industrial Pollution Prevention Project. Most Boards have decentralized their functions and are utilizing
their regional and district laboratories more effectively. However, to maintain the current level of
achievements, efforts should be made to: (i) maintain the training and upgradation of thefour SPCB's
staff (ii) allocate adequatefundingfor operation and maintenance of the newly acquired laboratories
and monitoring equipment; and (iii) improve overall house-keeping of the laboratories.
IV. INVESTMENT COMPONENT
Component Description
4.1   The investment component -- Part B of the project -- designed to support investment projects in the
chemical and related industries such as fertilizers, leather tanning, dyes, pesticides and insecticides,
pharmaceuticals, petrochemicals, pulp and paper, and sugar and distilleries, which as a group had been
identified as a major source of industrial pollution. Under the project, efforts to monitor, control and
alleviate industrial pollution were focused in the states of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttar
Pradesh. The first three states are home to most of the chemical and related industries in India, while the
fourth state is the largest urbanized state with a large number of small and medium sized industrial plants.
4.2   The total cost of the investment component was estimated at about US$237 million out of which a
Bank loan of US$124 million and an IDA credit of US$16 million equivalent were allocated and the
remaining balance was to be contributions from IDBI, ICICI, the project sponsor and GOI. The GOI was
to pass on the proceeds of the Bank loan to IDBI (US$74 million) and ICICI (US$50 million) who were
acting as financing intermediaries for investment by enterprises in individual plant as well as common
treatment facilities4 The on-lending rate for IDBI and ICICI in Rupees was fixed at 15%, which was the
commercial long term rate for domestic transaction at the time of project negotiations.
4.3.  The project had made provision for setting up CETPs for clusters of small and medium scale
industries. The financing pattern that has materialized consists of 20% contribution from the promoters,
25% central subsidy (IDA funds)-- with a limit of Rs. 5 million per CETP up to 1996 which was removed
4Allocation of Bank loan for individual investment projects was US$50 million each for IDBI and ICICI.
However, since implementation of CETPs was the responsibility of IDBI, Bank loan of US$24 million
allocated for this purpose was also to be made available to IDBI. In 1996 due to low utilization of Bank
loan for CETPs, and strong demand for line of credit for individual investment US$8 million was
reallocated from CETPs to individual investment.



114
Annex A
later--subject to a matching 25% contribution from the state government. The remaining balance 30% was
to be secured from the Bank loan to be administered by the IDBIl. An allocation of US$16 million
equivalent from IDA resources were to be utilized for financing of the grant element for CETPs (US$12
million) and demonstration projects (US$4 million). The IDA resources were to be channeled through
GOI, which was to make the resources available to IDBI to administer on their behalf based on a Letter of
Understanding. The use of subsidy grants for CETPs and demonstration projects was justified on the
grounds that: (i) these investments had a large elements of externalities and often involved new concepts
in India, and without the subsidy the project would not take off; (ii) the CETPs were to assist small and
medium scale industries to participate in large investments that were to benefit society as a whole in terms
of improvements in human and physical resources; (iii) the target industries were expected to be in general
financially viable and facilities were installed before the new emission standards were in place; and (iv) the
subsidies were to be partially off-set by the higher water cess, anticipated at time of project launch, as well
as the increases in pollution charges. The demonstration projects were expected to introduce pioneering
project concepts with high risks and similar externalities as stated above which would make them difficult
to finance on a purely commercial basis. The Bank and the GOI had established separate eligibility criteria
for the CETPs and demonstration projects.
4.4  IDBI and ICICI were responsible for identifying and appraising the individual projects in line with
the established eligibility criteria. Furthermore, IDBI was given the responsibility of financial appraisal for
CETPs and administration of the grant on behalf of the GOI. The investment component comprised the
following activities:
(a)   investment projects relating to the redesign and implementation of waste minimization, resource
recovery and pollution abatement schemes by individual enterprises in targeted sectors;
(b)   investment projects for setting up common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) at industrial states and
other sites with a heavy concentration of chemical industries, for the treatment and proper disposal of
liquid, gaseous and solid wastes, mainly by small scale industries as well as carrying out of such studies as
would be required for the location, design, and implementation of the common treatment facilities; and
(c)    investment projects relating to establishment of eligible demonstration projects selected for
targeted incentives due to the relatively small size of the enterprise, the environmental problems associated
with their operations, and the potential demonstration effects of these problems in encouraging similar
investments and systems by other industries.
Main Findings
4.5   The outcome of this component is quite mixed; it seems commitment of the lines of credit for
investment for individual enterprises progressed in a satisfactory manner and a large number of enterprises
accessed the fund, although the higher utilization may have been because of the favorable interest rate
compared with commercial rates. However, the process of implementation of the CETPs, which in
accordance with the legal documents should have been responsibility of the IDBI, has been totally
confused because of MoEF interventions in committing the IDA funds (under the Central subsidy Scheme),
and the entire exercise has been poorly managed and monitored. Under the demonstration projects which
had initial difficulties and delays, a total of 12 projects were approved, but only seven were fully
implemented.
4.6   Individual Investments. A total of about 70 projects (excluding cancellations) have been approved
under Loan 3334-IN for which the total Bank commitment amounted to US$119 million. Actual
5 However, in the SAR the formula seems slightly different, as the Central subsidy contribution which is
funded by the IDA is stated as 20%, and the matching grant is also 20% and the balance is to come from
the Bank loan. MoEF has stated that the percentage of cost to be funded out of IDA funds increased and a
communication to this effect is awaited from MoEF.



115
Annex A
disbursements based on the Bank's record amounted to US$101.3 million as of March 31, 1999. Although
some of the investments were considered to be quite innovative and were good examples of environmental
improvements and candidates for replication elsewhere in India, a number of investments were for
pollution mitigation of either a new plant or expansion of an existing plant. The mission observed one case
of total environmental disaster from planning, design, implementation, monitoring, and safety aspects. A
list of investment projects implemented by IDBI and ICICI is given in Attachment IV.
4.7   CETPs. In the initial stage the concept of the CETPs was not taken seriously by the industries, and
it was only in 1994 after judicial activism led to closure of some industries that the industries were forced
to participate in the formation of the CETPs. Although, according to MoEF, a large number of CETPs
have been constructed or are under construction, it is premature to rate the performance of the CETPs in a
meaningful manner, as MoEF has not provided detailed information to the Bank yet. Some of the main
bottlenecks experienced by the CETPs which contributed to implementation delays in the initial stages are:
(a)  formation of the cooperative or society by small scale industries with compatible effluent quality;
(b)   acquiring land on a subsidized basis; and
(c)  timely release of the subsidies by Central as well as state governments.
4.8   There are major disagreements between the Bank and the MoEF in the way MoEF has committed
IDA funds for CETPs. Based on the Bank's records, there are only 27 CETPs that have fully complied
with the established eligibility criteria as reflected in the "Project Agreemenf' dated July 8, 1991. These
CETPs have been approved by the Bank and commitmnents under IDA funds have been issued by the
Bank. These CETPs have also used the Bank loan through IDBI and as of March 31, 1999, a total of
US$13 million of Bank loan has been disbursed. These CETPs are located in the four project States and
have been mostly completed and are operational. However, some of them are not yet fully stabilized, and
therefore, are not complying with all the standard parameters of the SPCBs.
4.9   The disagreement between the Bank and MoEF over the CETPs arises from the fact that from 1996
onwards MoEF decided, without consultation with the Bank, to commit the IDA funds to a large number of
CETPs. MoEF's action seems to have been in response to the Supreme Court Order which obligated
MoEF to extend the central subsidy equivalent to 25% of cost of the CETPs including 15 of them in Delhi.
4.10 Based on MoEF's account there are 87 CETPs under the IDA credit, including the 27 which have
been submitted by IDBI to the Bank for approval. Out of these 87 CETPs, 10 have only conducted the
feasibility studies for which the Bank has agreed to reimburse the eligible expenses that were made prior to
March 31, 1999 subject to verification of the accounts by the Bank. According to MoEF' s records, a total
of 37 CETPs have been completed including 27 approved by the Bank, and the remaining 13 have been
committed by the MoEF. There are also 40 CETPs that are still under construction, of which 15 are in
New Delhi, 16 in Tamil Nadu, and the rest are scattered in other states. In view of the special
circumstances under which MoEF committed the IDA funds, the Bank will collaborate with the GOI to
resolve this issue. The mission has agreed to recommend to the Bank's management to accord post facto
approval of the 13 CETPs that have been completed. This will be subject to their meeting the following
eligibility criteria stipulated on page 9 of the Project Agreement dated July 8, 1991, "Schedule" on
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans and Sub-grants and Investment Projects:
(a) A thorough survey of the effluents situation at the site shall have been undertaken and provisions made
for adequate pretreatment or disposal of effluents not suitable for common treatment;
(b) A feasibility study shall have been conducted, the economic and financial viability established, and
operating and maintenance costs estimated;
(c) An adequate Investment Enterprise has been constituted or identified with institutional and technical
capabilities to operate the CETP;



116
Annex A
(d) Legal and financial responsibilities have been properly defined and the Investment Enterprise owner is
responsible before the enforcement institutions for the quality of the common effluent after treatment; and
(e) Adequate cost recovery formulae have been properly adopted by the Investment enterprise with the
associated mechanisms for cost sharing or fees structures for the beneficiary enterprises.
4.11  In order to ensure compliance with the above eligibility criteria, the Bank will need confirmation
from the MoEF that the above procedures have been followed. Thereafter, the Bank will require MoEF to
make available the full documentation for these CETPs -- feasibility study as well as the financial
appraisal-- to the Bank for review the latest by May 15, 1999. Any CETPfor which funll documentation is
not made available to the Bank by such date will automatically be declared ineligible for the purpose of
IDA review and possiblefunding. After the Bank's review and confirmation of eligibility criteria, the
Bank will arrange visits to some of the sites to assess the outcome of the project and status of operations of
the CETPs, as well as verification and audit of the accounts.
4.12 For some of the 40 CETPs still under construction, (i.e. 15 in New Delhi) in addition to deviation
from the established approval procedures, MoEF has, contrary to the Bank disbursement guidelines,
claimed advances -- Rs. 225.8 million equivalent to US$6.4 million at 1997 exchange rate-- as actual
expenditures through SOE procedures. However, this particular issue has been resolved in principle during
a meeting held between the Bank, MoEF and DEA in New Delhi on March 8, 1999, where DEA agreed to
allow the Bank to recover these funds by deducting the amount from withdrawal applications that are being
filed by GOI.
4.13 The mission was informed that the MoEF has as of March 31, 1999 fully committed the entire un-
utilized balance of the IDA credit to CETPs6. The mission again advised MoEF that as per Article III,
Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement, dated July 8, 1991, implementation of the CETPs
and channeling of IDA funds was assigned to IDBI. Moreover, in para. 4.25 of the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) it has been indicated that "all proposals for common treatment facilities will be subject to prior
review and approval by the Bank". In order to assist the GOI to make most use of IDA funds allocated for
CETPs and to extend the benefits of IDA funds to a large number of small and medium scale industries, the
Bank mission has agreed to recommend to Bank management the authorization of reimbursement of the
eligible expenditures made by these 40 CETPs prior to March 31, 1999 subject to meeting the following
eligibility criteria and disbursement conditions:
(a) The CETPs should fully meet the eligibility criteria approval for the CETPs listed in para. 4.9 above;
(b) The MoEF should make available for Bank's review similar documentation as mentioned on para. 4.9
above for these CETPs by May 15,1999;
(c) The Bank will carry out the same review of the documentation (as mentioned in para. 4.10 above) to
establish the eligibility criteria and would further visit a large sample of the CETPs to verify what
percentage of the work has actually been completed prior to 31 March 1999, to determine the eligible
expenditures. The Bank review should be completed by 15 June 1999, to allow sufficient time to adjust
the withdrawal application before the deadline of 31 July 1999. The mission requestedfull cooperation
and support of the MoEF and DEA with this endeavor to make the review possible in a timely manner.
Due to time constraints, any slippage in the stated schedule could resullt in larger cancellation of IDA
funds.
4.14 Demonstration Projects. As mentioned above only 7 of the 12 demonstration projects approved
were fully implemented and the balance 5 were cancelled at either the early stages of implementation or
due to procedural complications. A list of these projects is given as Attachment V. Based on the two
demonstration projects that the mission visited, it was observed that funds were extended to rather large
companies. The mission, during review of the records of demonstration projects, noted that though the
eligible investment enterprises are defmed as those with less than US$5 million in fixed assets -- Loan
6 with the exception of IDA funds allocated to demonstration projects. This exclusion is due to the fact
that a number of demonstration projects were cancelled and IDBI inform MoEF after March 31, 1999.



117
Annex A
Agreement -Schedule - Section 3-- IDBI had approved, and the Bank had cleared, the proposal of
Wockhard Ltd which had US$148 millions in fixed assets. Further observations made seem to indicate that
some projects were funded retroactively and there is little evidence of replicability.
4.15 Sustainability. After initial difficulties, the project has helped launch the concept of CETPs and
propagate their wide acceptance. In terms of size and mix of industries and types of management, there are
a wide range of CETPs. In order to ensure sustainability of the CETPs, a number of issues should be
addressed, including:
(a)   correcting design deficiencies that exist in some CETPs;
(b)   ensuring financial viability of the CETPs by administering proper charges for treatment
commensurate with quality of influent in addition to quantity;
(c)   defining the optimal size of the CETPs for different industries by types and size;
(d)   delegating operations of the CETPs to a group of professional managers or a private company;
(e)   requiring proper disposal and management of the sludge in particular for tannery, dyeing and
bleaching, etc., which are classified as hazardous waste; and
(f)   encouraging increased recycling of effluent through fiscal incentives.
V. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
Component Description
5.1   The purpose of this component -- Part C of the Project -- was to support a package of technical
assistance initiatives to meet the needs for technical expertise, environmental assessment, research and
development in environmental technology and extension services on environmental issues in industry. The
TA component comprised the following activities:
(a)   pre-investment studies for projects to be funded under the investment component;
(b)   technical studies including required equipment to assess treatability of residues or waste streams;
(c)   pilot plant studies required to scale up innovative treatment technologies;
(d)   preparation of environmental housekeeping manuals at different industries;
(e)   an organizational study of the State Boards; and
(f)   a training program on environmental issues at the DFI' s.
Main Findings
5.2  Implementation of this component has not been fully satisfactory. It had a very late start and only
in late 1996 and early 1997 were studies under the project commissioned. A total of 12 studies were
initiated -- mostly from 1997 onwards-- of which according to MoEF seven are completed. The mission
has had access to only the "Organizational Study of the Boards" and, therefore, it is not in a position to
confirm whether the studies commissioned are more or less in line with project objectives. However, the
mission could not get a clear understanding of what selection criteria was adopted by MoEF in extending
the grant for studies to industries.
5.3   As mentioned in para. 5.1 (f) above, the DFIs had the opportunity to utilize the IDA funds to
strengthen their in-house environmental capability -- a golden opportunity in terms of utilizing the
resources for substantive training -- which they missed. However, they should make an effort to participate
in the training programs that will be organized under the Industrial Pollution Prevention Project in the near
future. As of March 31, 1999 an amount of US$2.2 million of this component remained unutilized.



118
Annex A
VI. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, DISBURSEMENTS, AUDIT
6.1   The mission reviewed documentation maintained by the IDBI and ICICI in support of withdrawal
applications submitted to the Bank. The mission noticed that in a few sub-loans to CETPs the amount
eligible for Bank financing was lower than the amount which was claimed for Bank reimbursement. This
discrepancy amounts to about Rs. 45 million over-disbursement, which the Bank would adjust against
future withdrawal application.
6.2   The mission has advised IDBI to review the audited project expenditure statements of the above
sub-loans as well as the rest of the CETPs to determine the extent of excess claim. IDBI has agreed to
complete this assessment by May 15, 1999 and send a report to the Bank.
6.3  In respect of individual projects the mission noted that both IDBI and ICICI had, in a few cases,
provided finance to the same investment enterprises (for example, Hukumchand Jute, Madras Fertilizers,
Atul, Gujarat Alkalies, etc.). The mission has asked ICICI to obtain the audited project financial
statements and confirm that there was no excess withdrawal and report it to the Bank by May 15, 1999.
6.4   The mission noted that MoEF had claimed and the Bank had paid, expenditures for CETPs around
Delhi which were not approved by the Bank. The disbursement unit of the Bank has initiated recovery of
Rs. 255.8 millions from the eligible claims submitted by the Gol. As of March 31, 1999, the Bank has
recovered US$873,281 from the withdrawal applications submitted by the Gol.
6.5   Both IDBI and ICICI have been prompt in submitting the audit reports for the project. However,
audit report from MoEF's withdrawal applications for the year 1997/98 is overdue. The mission has asked
MoEF to expedite the submission of this audit report.
6.6   Finally, as of March 31, 1999, according to the Bank's record -- there are no withdrawal
applications in the pipeline -- there remained a total undisbursed balance of US$7.7 million under Loan
3334-In, and about US$9.00 million under IDA credit. As mentioned above, MoEF has indicated that as of
March 31, 1999 a significant amount of undisbursed IDA credit has been committed to the CETPs;
however, unless proper utilization of these funds in accordance with the Bank guidelines can be established
within the time frame indicated in this Aide Memoire, the remaining balance of the Bank loan and IDA
credit will be cancelled as of July 31, 1999.
VII. SUMMMARY OF ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOI
7.1   As mentioned throughout this Aide Memoire, the management of CETPs approved by MoEF are in
total disarray and unless MoEF makes special efforts and dedicates additional resources to this task, it is
unlikely that the Bank and MoEF can resolve all the issues in a timely manner. A list of actions to be taken
by GOI with respect to overall sustainability of the project in general and to facilitate the resolution of the
CETPs' issues in particular is summarized below:
(a)   The mission advised MoEF that the current schedule for final delivery of equipment -- ordered
before March 31, 1999 -- and settlement of the accounts is too tight and urged MoEF to advance the
schedule to avoid the risk of missing the deadline of July 31, 1999 for submitting final
reimbursement applications (para. 3.3).
(b)  To maintain the current level of achievements made with respect to institutional strengthening of the
SPCBs, efforts should be made to: (i) maintain the training and upgradation of the SPCBs' staff, (ii)
allocate adequate funding for operation and maintenance of the newly acquired laboratories and
monitoring equipment; and (iii) improve overall house-keeping of the laboratories (para. 3.6).



119
Annex A
(c)   MoEF should make full documentation for the CETPs -- feasibility study as well as the financial
appraisal -- available to the Bank for review the latest by May 15, 1999. Any CETP for which full
documentation is not made available to the Bank by such date will automatically be declared
ineligible for the purpose of IDA review and possible funding (para. 4.1 1).
(d)   The Bank review should be completed by June 15, 1999 to allow sufficient time to adjust the
withdrawal applications before the deadline of July 31, 1999. The mission requests full cooperation
and support of the MoEF and DEA with this endeavor to make the timely review by the Bank
possible (para.4.13 c).
VIII. NEXT STEPS FOR THE ICR
8.1   Prior to arrival of the Bank mission, a questionnaire was sent to MoEF, IDBI, ICICI and the four
SPCBs to prepare for discussions. All the agencies had made a good effort and prepared a draft report
which was discussed with the mission. These reports should be finalized and forwarded to the Bank in
accordance with the schedule indicated below, Some additional information is being requested as given in
Attachment VI which should also be provided by May 15, 1999.
8.2   The next steps for producing the ICR are as follows:
(a)   MoEF's should make available the documentation on CETPs which it has authorized to the Bank by
May 15, 1999, including a detailed table that the Bank has designed for collecting information on
CETPs and made available to MoEF;
(b)   MoEF should complete data submission and the completion report by May 15, 1999;
(c)  IDBI and ICICI should complete their data submission and their portion of the completion report of
the credit lines; IDBI should complete data submission and their report of the CETPs and
demonstration projects by May 15, 1999;
(d)   MoEF should send to the Bank the consolidated project completion report incorporating the reports
of the four beneficiary Pollution Control Boards, IDBI and ICICI by May 20, 1999;
(e)   The Bank should complete the first draft of the ICR by July 8, 1999 and forward it to MoEF, IDBI
and ICICI for comment;
(f)   MoEF, IDBI and ICICI should send their comments on the first draft to the Bank by July 30, 1999.
At the same time MoEF, IDBI and ICICI should send a summary of their report -- not to exceed 10
pages each -- as their contribution for inclusion into the ICR; and
(g)   Finally, MoEF, IDBI and ICICI should send their comments on the Bank's ICR -- which would
also be included in the ICR -- by July 30, 1999.
April 22, 1999
New Delhi



120
Attachment I
LIST OF PROJECT SITES VISITED
1.    Taloja CETP (C-IDBI-021)                        Taloja CETP Co-op Society
P-24, MIDC, Taloja, Navi
Mumbai-410208
2.    Thane Belapur CETP                              CETP (Thane Belapur) Association,
P-20, Anand Bhakamnkar Common Facility Centre,
M.l.D.C. Khairane,
Thane- Belapur Road,
Navi Mumbai -400709
3.    Colour Chem                                     Colour Chem Limited
Mumbai Agra Road, Balkum
Thane 400608
4.    Bayer India, Thane (ICICI-B-04)                  Bayer (India) Limited
Kolshet Road, Tane 400607
5.    Rama Newsprint, Surat (ICICI-B-024)              Rama Newsprint and Papers Ltd.
Vil. Barbodhn, Tal. Olpad, Dist. Surat
6.    Atul Products (ICICI-B-07)                       Atul Limited, Atul 396020, Gujarat
7.    Attic Ind. (ICICI-B-08)                          Atul Limited, Atul 396020, Gujarat
8.    Jaysynth (ICICI-B-034)                           Jaysynth Dyechem Ltd.
301, SumerKendra, PandurangBudhkar
Marg, Worli, Mumbai
9.    Vapi Waste and Effluent                          VIA House, Plot-135,
Management Co. Ltd.                             GIDC, Vapi-396 195, Gujarat
(C-IDBI-007)
!0.    Saras Chemicals                                GIDC, Vapi-396 195, Gujarat
11.   Paras Chemicals                                 GIDC, Vapi-396 195, Gujarat
12    United Phosphorous Limited                       I 1,GIDC, Vapi-396 195, Gujarat
13    Enviro Technology Limited                       2413/14, GIDC, Ankleshwar-393 002,
(C-IDBI-028)                                    Gujarat
14    Wokhardt Limited                                 Plot No.138, GIDC Estate,
(D-IDBI-007)                                    Ankleshwar-393 002
Gujarat
15.    Pallavaram Tanneries Industries                 Pallavararn, Tamil Nadu
Effluent Treatment Co. Ltd.
(C-IDBI-003)
16.   EID Parry (D-IDBI-001)                          Cuddalore-607 803, Tamil Nadu
17.   EID Parry (D-IDBI-009)                          Cuddalore-607 803, Tamil Nadu
18.   Madras Fertilizers (IBDI-B-45)                  Madras Fertilizers Ltd., Manali, Chennai
19.   Unnao Tanneries (C-IDBI-05)                      Unnao, Uttar Pradesh



121
Attachment ll
Page l of 2
LIST OF KEY PERSONS MET
I.    IDBI
S. Muhnot, General Manager, Treasury & Forex Services Department, IDBI
M. L. Kashyap, Deputy General Manager, Treasury & Funding Division
Kailas Shinde, Manager
2.    ICICI
Ambikapratap Singh, Deputy General Manager
Rajiv Arora, Assistant Vice-President
N. G. Pai, Deputy Zonal Manager
Girish R. Mahajan, Deputy Manager
3.    Maharashtra Pollution Control Board
K. H. Mehta, Member Secretary
Ashok B. Jain, Law Officer
4.    Taloja CETP Co-op Society Ltd.
Shyam Sundar Karkum, Managing Director
M. A. Naik, Managing Director, Aquachem Consulting Engineers PVT. Ltd.
5.    Clariant (Colour Chem)
Dr. G. G. Patkar, Senior General Manager-Dyestuffs
Dr. M. K. Shah, Manager-Ecology
6.    Thane Belapur CETP
Sanjay Ghongade Project Manager
J. K. Shinde, Member, Executive Committee
7.    Rama Newsprint
S. P. Dasgupta, Resident Director
G. R. Karmarkar, Senior Vice-President
C. U. Mangtani, Vice President-Co-ordination
S. K. Jain, Dy. General Manager (Paper)
M. J. Baloch, Asst. Manager ( Environment)
8.    Bayer
John L. Walker, Technical Director
M. C. Badarinarayana, Vice President SHEQ
D. G. Talekar, General Manager Manufacturing
9.    Atul
Naresh K. Chourishi, Vice President
V. Kumaraswamy, General Manager-Finance
10.   Jaysynth Dyechem Ltd.
Sanjay Kumar Jain, General Manager-Finance
II.   Vapi-CETP
Manoj Oza, Managing Director
Sangappa C. Uppaladinni, Chief Executive Officer
C. Jani, Senior Executive
R. J. Mistry, Superintending Engineer, GIDC
12.    United Phosphorous Ltd. in Vapi
H. V. Ruparel, Vice President (Operations)



122
Attachment 11
Page 2 of 2
13.   United Phosphorous Ltd. in Ankleshwar
Ashok Panjwani, President - Operations
K. H. Chapatwala, Chief Manager
P. N. Parameswaran Moothathu, Deputy General Manager (Environment)
14.   Enviro Technology, Ltd.
B. D. Dalwadi, Chief Manager- Works
R. N. Trivedi
15.   WOCKHARDT
Shiva Singh, Vice-President, Bulk Drugs
J. N. Upadhyay, Deputy General Manager, Engineering Services
Manoj Karmarkar, Scientist
Mahendra Savadikar, Scientist
16.   Gujarat Pollution Control Board
P.V.S. Swaminathan, IAS(Retd.), Chairman
Dr. G. B. Soni, Member Secretary
17.   Tamnil Nadu pollution Control Board
M. Devraj, IAS, Chairman
Rangaswami, Member Secretary
18.   IDBI, Chennai Branch Office
B. Krishnamoorthy, General Manger
P. Nagaraju, Deputy General Manager
19.   Pallawaram CETP
20.   EID Parry
K. Raman, General Manager, Bio- Products Division
K. N. Radhakrishnan, Dy. General Manager-Finance
K. G. Kandaswamy, Manager ( Process & Safety)
Sathyanurthy. A, Dy. Manager (Accounts)
21.   Madras Fertilizers Limited
N.Y. Mahajan, Chairman & Managing Director
R. Raghunathan, General Manager-Finance & Accounts
G. Natesan, Dy. General Manager-Finance
P.S. Neelaknatan, General Manager, Plant
22.   Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board
Amit Chandra, Regional Officer
23.   Unnao Tanneries Pollution Control Company
A. K. Agarwal, Director
S. Awasthi, Project Engineer
24.   Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB
Dr. B. Sengupta, Member Secretary
25.   Department of Economic Affairs (DEA)
Mr. Abhas Jha, Deputy Secretary
Ms. Geeta Narayan, Under Secretary
26.   Ministry of Environment & Forests (MoEF)
Mr. Roy Paul, Additional Secretary
Mr. Vijay Sharma, Joint Secretary
Ms. Archana Joshi, Deputy Secretary
Mr. M. Hota, Deputy Director



123
List of Common Effluent Treatment Plants Financed by the Bank                        Attachment 111
Page I of 3
Project Costs
Subloan No.      Project             Name             Location    Total Project Subloan   Credit
Cost        Size
-   Common treatment Thane Bellapur    Thane, Bellapur,    1.000 (million USS)
C-IDBI-01  Commontreatment ThaneBellapur           Thane,Bellapur,    1.000       0.467     0.170
for industrial    Industries Association  Maharashtra
,effluents         (TBIA)
C-IDBI-02  Common treatment Tarapore Industries    Thane, Tarapore,    0.600      0.160     0.080
for industrial    Manufacturers        Maharashtra
effluents         Association (TIMA) Co-
operative Society Ltd.
C-IDBI-03  Common effluent   Pallavaram Tanners   Pallavaram,          2.300       1.540    0.166
treatment plant for  Industrial ETC    Tamil Nadu
tanneries         (PTIETC)
C-IDBI-05  Common effluent   Unnao Tanneries       Unnao, Uttar        0.650      0.190     0.160
treatment plant for  Pollution Control  Pradesh
tanneries         Company Ltd.
(UTPCCL)
C-IDBI-06  Common effluent   Kodaikanal Effluent   Kodaikanal.         0.420       0.130    0.106
treatment plant for a Treatment Company   Tamil Nadu
commercial center a Ltd. (KETCL)
Kodaikanal
C-DBI-07  Common effluent   Gujarat Industrial     Vapi. Gujarat       6.470       4.640    0.160
treatment plant for  Development
an industrial estate  Corporation (GIDC)
C-IDBI-09  Common effluent   Ayyampet &            Ayyampet &          0.342       0.137    0.115
treatment plant for  Muthialpet. Bleaching  Muthialpet
dyeing & bleaching & Dyeing Effluent   Villages. Chengai
industrial units  Treatment Company   DT. Madras
C-IDBI-10  Common effluent   Ranipet SIDCO         Ranipet. North      1.000       0.500    0.160
treatment plant for  Finished Leather  Arcot District.
tanneries         Effluent Treatment Co. Tamil Nadu
P t. Ltd. (RETC)
C-IDBI-II  Common effluent   Vaniyambadi Effluent  Valayampet.         0.6S1       0.210    0.169
treatment plant for  Treatment Company   North Arcot
tanneries         Ltd. (VETCO)         District. Tamil
Nadu
C-IDBI-12  Common effluent   RanipetTannery        Ranipet, North      1.455       0.506
treatment plant for  Effluent Treatment Co. Arcot District,
tanneries         Ltd. (RANITEC)       Tamil Nadu
C-IDBI-13  Common effluent   KarurThiruvai Dveing Karur.Tamil          0.673       0.215    0.162
treatment plant for  Enviro Ltd. (KTDEL)  Nadu
dyeing & bleaching
industrial units
C-IDBI-14  Common effluent   Perfect Enviro Control Sarigam.           0.411       0.099    0.102
treatment plant for a S% stems (PECS)  Ankleshwar.
group of chemical                      Gujarat
units



124
List of Common Emuent Treatment Plants Financed by the Bank                          Attachment III
Page 2 of 3
Project Costs
Subloan No.      Project             Name             Location    Total Project  Subloan   Credit
Cost        Size
(million USS)
C-IDBI-1S  Common effluent   Amravathi Pollutech   Andankoil,         0.776       0.303     0.160
treatment plant for  Limited (APL)     Karur, Tamil
dyeing & bleaching                     Nadu
industrial units
C-IDBI-17  Common effluent   Karur Andankoil       Andankoil,         0.725       0.260     0.160
treatment plant for  Pollution Control Ltd. Karur, Tamil
dyeing & bleaching (KAPCL)             Nadu
industrial units
C-IDBI-18  Common effluent   Visharam Tanners      Melvisharam,        1.284      0.709     0.159
treatment plant for  Enviro Control System  North Arcot
tanneries         (P) Ltd.             District, Tamil
Nadu
C-IDBI-19  Common effluent   Perumalpet Effluent   Perumalpet,         1.950      1.250    0.160
treatment plant for  Treatment Pvt, Ltd.    Vaniyambadi
tanneries                              Distr., Tamil
Nadu
C-IDBI-21  Common effluent   Taloja CETP Co-op    Taloja, District     1.196      0.670    0.144
treatment plant for  Society Limited   Raigad,
chemical industries                    Mahatashtra
C-IDBI-22  Common effluent   Mathura Audhyogik   Mathura               0.540      0.144     0.135
treatment plant for  Chettra 'A' Pradushan  Industrial Estate,
chemical industries Nivaran Co. Ltd.   Uttar Pradesh
C-IDBI-23  Common effluent   Acma CETP Co-op    Ambemath.              0.115      0.029     0.029
treatment plant for  Society Ltd.      District Thane.
chemical industries                    Maharashtra
C-IDBI-24  Common effluent   Dombivli Common    Dombivli               0.574      0.172     0.144
treatment plant for  Effluent Treatment    Industrial Estate.
chemical and textile Plant Ltd.        District Thane.
industries                             Maharashtra
C-IDBI-25  Common effluent   Karur Taluk Dyeing and Ramnakrishna-      0.549      0.165     0.137
treatment plant for  Bleaching Effluent    puram. Karur.
dyeing & bleaching Treatment Plant     Tamil Nadu
industrial units  Company Ltd. (KTETP)
C-IDBI-26  Common effluent   KarurVanchi Dyeing   Light House          0.483      0.145     0.121
treatment plant for  Enviro Tech Ltd.  Sector. Karur,
dyeing & bleaching (KVDETL)            Tamil Nadu
industrial units



125
List of Common Effluent Treatment Plants Financed by the Bank                          Attachment lli
Page 3 of 3
Project Costs
Subloan No.      Project              Name             Location    Total Project  Subloan   Credit
(million USS)
C-IDBI-28  Common efuent   Enviro Technology Ltd. Ankleshwar,           1.540       0.890    0.140
treatment plant for                     Gujarat
various industrial
units (dyes and
chemicals)
C-IDBI-29  Common effluent   Melvisharam Tanneries Melpudupet,          0.384       0.115    0.096
treatment plant for  Effleunt Treatment    Tamil Nadu
leather processing   Company (P) Limited
(MTETCPL)
C-IDBI-30  Common effluent   Melvisharam Tanneries Chettithangal,       0.351       0.105    0.088
treatment plant for  Effleunt Treatment    Tamil Nadu
leather processing   Company (P) Limited
(MTETCPL)
C-IDBI-31  Common effluent   Talco Dindigul Tanners Dindigul,Tamil      1.410       0.514    0.169
treatment plant for  Enviro Control Systems Nadu
leather processing   Pvt. Ltd. (DINTEC)
C-IDBI-32  Common effluent   Green Environment   Vatva, Gujarat         7.250       1.300    0:280
T-IDBI-01  treatment plant for  Services Co-operative
industries        Society Ltd. (GESCO)
manufacturing dyes
and dye
intermediates and
related activities
Total                         27 CETPs                                  35.1         15.6      3.7



126
Attachment IV
Page I of4
A- ICICI Limited - Individual Investments Sub-Projects
Sub-Project       Name of              Type of Project           Loan        Loan        Total Cost
No.           Company                                      Approved  Disbursement
US$         US$           USS
ICICI-B-00 1     Ballarpur                                        1,530,000      1,077,000    16,000,000
Industries
Limited
ICICI-B-002      Malladi Drugs &                                   290,000        237,000      480,000
Pharma Limited                                            ______42_000
ICICI-B-003      Hukumchand                                       1,030,000       863,000     7,420,000
Jute Ind. Ltd.
ICICI-B-004      Bayer India Ltd.  Replaced existing plant with more  660,000     687,000     1,610,000
modem and less polluting and high
capacity plant.
ICICI-B-005      Century Text. &   Replaced existing plant with more    2,230,000  2,548,000    10,170,000
Ind. Ltd.       modem and less polluting plant.
ICICI-B-006      Nath Pulp &                                      1,830,000      1,440,000    5,400,000
Paper Ltd.
ICICI-B-007      Atul Products    Replaced existing plant with more    1,338,000  707,000     6,920,000
Ltd.            modem and less polluting plant.
ICICI-B-008      Atic Ind. Ltd.    Provide pollution control to an  2,280,000    1,414,000    3,710,000
existing plant
ICICI-B-009      IPCA Labs. Ltd.  To provide pollution control      145,000       141,000      270,000
facilities in the existing industrial
plant and replaced an exiting process
with more modem and less polluting
process.   __                                                        l
ICICI-B-0 10     Indian                                           3,370,000      2,022,000    4,520,000
Aluminium
Company Ltd.
ICICI-B-0 11     Gujarat Alkalies                                 4,710,000      3,830,000    63,200,000
& Chem. Ltd.
ICICI-B-012      Hindalco Ind.    To provide pollution control    5,000,000      4,675,000    28,410,000
Ltd.            facilities in the existing industrial
plant.
ICICI-B-013      Alufluoride Pvt.                                   820,000       740,000     5,750,000
Ltd.
ICICI-B-0 14     Gokak Patel                                        164,000       111 ,000      236,000
Volkart
ICICI-B-015      Sudarshan        To provide finance for pollution  670,000       640,000       900,000
Chemical       control facilities of a new industrial
Industries      plant.
Limited
ICICI-B-016      Kap Chem Ltd.   Provide pollution control facilities to    680,000  412,000   1,200,000
the existing industrial plant.           I              I___
ICICI-B-0 17      Rohit Pulp &                                  Cancelled
Paper Ltd.
ICICI-B-018       Finolex Ind. Ltd.                               2,430,000      1,557,000    6,500,000
ICICI-B-019      NRC Limited      Replaced an exiting industrial plant   2,000,000  1,999,000    40,80u,u00
(formerly       with more modem and less polluting
National Rayon   plant.
Corpn.)       I
ICICI-B-020       Madras          To provide pollution control to the    2,100,000  819,000   8,010,OOti
Fertilisers Ltd.   existing industrial plant.                                        I



127
Attachment IV
Page2 of4
A - ICICI Limited - Individual Investments Sub-Projects
Sub-Project        Name of              Type of Project            Loan        Loan        Total Cost 
No.           Company                                        Approved  Disbursement
USS         USS            USS
ICICI-B-021       Thiru Arooran                                       833,000       800,000     5,364,000
Sugars Ltd.
ICICI-B-022       Globe Organics                                  Cancelled
Ltd.
ICICI-B-023       Kothari Sugars &                                    580,000       558,000     4,000,000
Chemicals Ltd.
ICICI-B-024       Rama Newsprint                                    3,000,000      2,533,000    7,800,000
& Papers Ltd.
ICICI-B-025       IFB Agro Ind.                                       170,000        158,000      450,000
_ _____________   Ltd.  I__            _  _-_600_00_
ICICI-B-026       Sterlite Industries  To provide finance for pollution  3,000,000  2,524,000    210
(India) Ltd.    control facilities of a new industrial
plant,
ICICI-B:027       Grasim Ind. Ltd.  To provide pollution control      500,000       492,000      1,300,000
1________________                  facilities to existing industrial unit. _
ICICI-B-028       Shreyans Ind.                                   Cancelled
Ltd.
ICICI-B-029       Rajashri Sugars                                 Cancelled
Ltd.
ICICI-B-030       Century Text. &   To provide pollution control      968,000       808,000      1,300,000
Ind. Ltd.       facilities to increased capacity of
industrial unit and modification in
_________  process for pollution reduction.
ICICI-B-032       Aurangabad                                                                    Cancelled
Paper Mills Ltd.           _____                                       _
ICICI-B-033       Lanco Ind. Ltd.                                   2,218,000      1,952,000     4,310,000
ICICI-B-034       Jaysynth         To provide pollution control       750,000        660,000     1,010,000
Dyestuff (India)  facilities for the existing industrial
Ltd.            plant.
ICICI-B-035       Indian Dyestuff                                                               Cancelled
Ltd.
ICICI-B-036       Mysore                                            4,760,000      4,025,000    10,808,000
Petrochemicals
ICICI-B-037       SIV ?d. Ltd.                                      8,000,000      4,513,000    23,231,000
ICICI-B-038       Travancore                                      Cancelled
Chemicals Ltd.
ICICI-B-039       Tuticorin Alkali  Investment is on the existing      875,000       141,000     1,100,000
Chem. & Fert.   industrial plant to reduce the liquid
Ltd.            and solid wastes.
Total                                   58,931,000



128
Attachment IV
Page 3 of 4
A - IDBI Limited - Individual Investments Sub-Projects
Sub-Project           Name of                 Type of Project                Loan           Loan
No.             Company                                               Approved   Disbursement
USS           US$
B-IDBI--001           Sandur Manganese   Stand Alone                              430,000         363,058
& Iron Ores Ltd.
B-IDBI--003           Mouldwell          Grassroot-Stand Alone                    780,000         611,063
Polymers
B-IDBI--004          Nath Pulp and       Modemization/diversification            1,255,000       1,039,292
paper mills
B-IDBI--005           Polyolefins Lts.   Stand Alone                              580,000         416,948
B-IDBI-006            Hukumchand jute    Stand Alone                             1,560,000       1,099,805
B-IDBI--007           Rashtriya          Stand Alone                             6,910,000       6,688,376
Chemicals and
Fertilizers Ltd.
B-IDBI--008           EID Party          Stand Alone                             1,010,000        997,507
B-IDBI--009           Emmellen Biotech   Stand Alone                              320,000         300,857
Pharma Ltd.  ______________
B-IDBI--010           Gujarat Alkalies &   Modemization/Stand Alone              4,710,000       4,551,817
I__________    _ ______  Chemicals Ltd.    ______________
B-IDBI--01 I          Atul Products Ltd.   Stand Alone                           1,330,000       1,282,659
B-IDBI--012           Som Distilleries                                            960,000         783,234
B-IDBI--013           Colour Chem        Upgradation-Stand Alone                  574,000         478,500
B-IDBI--014           Shree Vindhya      Expansion cum modemization              4,800,000       4,060,631
Paper Mills Ltd.
B-IDBI--015           Tata Yodogawa      Stand Alone                               145,000         147,457
ltd.
B-IDBI--016           Kopargaon          Stand Alone                              633,000          558,893
Sahakari Sakhar
Karkhana
B-IDBI--017           Grasim Industries    Modemization-Stand Alone              5,000,000       4,787,348
B-IDBI--018           Modi Alkalies &    Expansion                               4,300,000       5,004,118
Chemicals Ltd.
B-IDBI--019           Sagar Cements      Stand Alone                                372,00(        351,636
Ltd.
B-IDBI--020           Jai Bhavani SSk    Stand Alone                              420,000          411,899
Ltd.
B-IDBI--02 1          Sandur Manganese                                           1,500,000       1,434,720
& Iron Ores Ltd.
B-IDBI--023           Tilaknagar         Stand Alone                              250,000          210,011
Distilleries &
Industries Ltd.
B-IDBI--026           Sumangla Steels    Stand Alone                               280,000         284,607
B-IDBI--027           ACC                Stand Alone                             3,000,000       1,690,819
B-IDBI--029           Raptakoss Brett    Stand Alone                               130,000         104,000
B-IDBI--032          Ispat Alloys        Stand Alone                             1,430,000         936,396
B-IDBI--033           Tarnil Nadu        Stand Alone                               950,000         835,738
Cements
B-IDBI--034           Kakatia Cements    Modemization-Stand Alone                  190,000         191,144
Ltd.
B-IDBI--035           Shree Cement Ltd.   Stand Alone                            1,366,000       1,192,152
B-IDBI--036           EID Parry,         Expansion                                 438,000               0
Nellikupparn
B-IDBI-037/0          Simbhaoli Sugar    Stand Alone                             1,038,000         760,684
Mills
B-IDBI--038           Gujarat Heavy      Expansion                               1,690,000       1,332,639
Chemicals Ltd.                                                      I
B-IDBI--039           Chemfab Alkalies   Modemization-Stand Alone                1,420,000       1,256,983



129
Attachment IV
Page 4 of 4
A - lDBI Limited - Individual Investments Sub-Projects
Sub-Project          Name of                 Type of Project                Loan           Loan
No.             Company                                              Approved   Disbursement
B-IDBI--040          Vamshadara Paper  Stand Alone                               339,000         248,112
Mills Ltd
B-lDBI--042          Southern           Stand Alone                            5,215,000        4,585,762
Petrochemicals
Industries Ltd
B-IDBI--043          Ispat Industries   Stand Alone                            1,211,000        1,066,019
B-IDBI--045          Madras Fertilizer    ModernizationlExpansion              3,390,000        1,512,248
______ _____ _____ L td                                                 _ _ _ _  _
Total                                        59,926,000



130
Attachment V
List of Demonstration Sub-projects
Sr.   Sub-Project No.     Proponents Name            WB          Utilisedl     Status
No.                                              Authorization     (US S)
______________                     ~~~ ~~~(US  S)
1     D-IDBI-001       EID Parry Ltd.               500,000       500,000     Completed
(Neelikuppam Sugar Mills)                    _
2     D-IDBI-002       Vasantdada Sugar Institute   480,000       480,000
(Krishna Sakhar karkhana
Sangli)
3     D-IDBI-003       Century Pulp & Paper         190,000        190,000
Mills Ltd. Lalkua, Uttar
Pradesh
4     D-IDBI-004       Gabriel India Ltd.           180,000        180,000
Faridabad unit
5     D-IDBI-005       MWs Ashoka Pulp & Paper      63,000         46,667       Partly
Loni, Delhi                                            cancelled
6     D-IDBI-006       Western Paques India Ltd.    423,000          -        Cancelled
(Harihahr Polyfibre unit of
Grasim)
7     D-IDBI-007       Wockhardt Ltd.               260,000       260,000     Completed
(Ankleshwar Unit)
8     D-IDBI-008       Department of Electronics    500,000         N/A         Partly
(DOE), Govt. of India,                                 cancelled
Delhi Jal Board, New
Delhi
9     D-IDBI-009       EID Parry Ltd. (Neem         460,000        460,000    Completed
project)
10    D-IDBI-010       Pudmjee Pulp & Paper Ltd.    500,000          -        Cancelled
11    D-IDBI-01 1      Kothari Sugar &              200,000                   Cancelled
Chemicals Ltd.
(authorized vide telex
dated July 23, 1997)
12    D-IDBI-012       Dintex Dyechem Ltd.          280,000       224,000     Completed
Total                                       4,036,000       2,340,667
N/A: Not available yet.



131
Attachment VI
Additional Information to be Incorporated in Respective Final Completion Reports
Additional Information from MOEF/CPCB
1. How the water cess rates and allocation between central and state govermments changed since
1991.
2. What changes in fiscal incentives took place since 1991(table 2.1 of staff appraisal report) such
as excise tax, accelerated depreciation and custom duties for pollution control equipment.
3. Changes in level of penalties for failure to comply with the water, air and environmental acts
since 1991.
4. Information of the Steering committee (para 5.07 of SAR): Composition, responsibilities,
periodicity of meetings and effectiveness.
Information on Financial Statements to be Requested from IDBI and ICICI
Annually, over the period 1990/91 to 1997/98:
Long-term Debt/Equity Ratio
Long-term Debt Service Coverage Ratio
As defined under Sections 3.02, 3.03 and 3.04 of the Project Agreement (interest and principal
payments refer only to those on the long-term debt, i.e debt with maturity over than one year).
Also: for the same period: the Return on Equity Ratio.
This information should be availabie in the annual external audit reports on IDBI and ICICI
accounts sent to the Bank.
Additional Information from IDBI
1. Revised and Completed Report
2. for each subproject, provide total cost, World Bank financing, any additional IDBI loan,
sponsors funds: as originally approved and actual, in Rs and US$; date of approval and date of
completion
3. Cost and financing tables for each component as shown in table below, including:



132
Attachment VI
In Rupees: total cost, WB loans, world bank grants, Counterpart funds from IDBI, the central
governnent, the state government and sponsors contributions.
In US$: Idem indicating the exchange rate assumptions
Project       W.B       IDA/GOI        IDBI      Sponsors      State      Total
Component                                                       Gover.
CETP's
Individual
Investments
Demonstration
Projects
T9chnical.
Assistance
Total      ___ ____ ______X
3. for each component the phasing of expenditures in Rupees per year.
4. Pending questionnaires:
- Individual investments: B17, B32, B20, B23, B07, B27
- Demonstration Projects: 3 out of 7 (already received: ED Parry (2), WOCKHART, and
Krishna SSK)
- CETP's: 14 out of 25 (10 already received: Ankleshwar, VAPI, Munlund-Valsad, Ranipet,
Dindigul 2, Unnao, Tarapur, Vatva, Pallavaram, and Belapur).
Additional Information from ICICI
1. Completion Report
2. for each subproject, provide total cost, World Bank financing, any additional IDBI loan,
sponsors funds: as originally approved and actual, in Rs and US$; date of approval and date of
completion
3. Cost and financing tables for each component as shown in table below, including:
In Rupees: total cost, WB loans, world bank grants, Counterpart funds from ICICI, and
sponsors contributions.
In US$: Idem indicating the exchange rate assumptions



133
Attachment VI
Project     W.B    ICICI    Sponsors         Total
Component                              ___
Individual
Investments
Technical
Assistance
Total
3. for each component the phasing of expenditures in Rupees per year.
4. A complete list of projects indicating if they were self standing pollution control projects, part
of a modernization/expansion project, or part of new projects.
5. Replies to the questionnaires for subprojects B21, B29, B20, B24, B28, and B37
Remaining Information from the Maharastra Pollution Control Board (MPCB)
1. The Board has provided good indicators of output (consents and inspections) and status of legal
action (directions issued, closures and restarts, public interest litigation and complains), however,
they are cumulative and do not allow an assessment of trends. MPCB should provide yearly
information for the same indicators.
2. Give information on total number of samples collected and analyzed separately for air, water and
hazardous wastes for each year between 1992 and 1996.
3. Provide further breakdown of budget revenues by sources (consent fee, water cess, consent form
fee, analyses, fines and penalties and grants from central government) for the years 1991/92 to
97/98.
4. Provide actual average monitoring for air and water quality in major rivers and industrial areas
monitored regularly by MPCB for each year between 1992 and 1998.
5. Provide one annual report between 1990/91 and 1993/94
Remaining Information from the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB)
1. Provide asap the complete final report with information requested in the Bank questionnaire.
2. As part of above report provide yearly time series between 1991 and 1996 on consent, samples
collected, and litigation such as those provided in the 1996/97 annual report and if possible provide
the same data for 1997/98.



134
Attachment VI
3. Provide breakdown of budget revenues by sources (consent fee, water cess, consent form fee,
analyses, fines and penalties and grants from central and state governments) for the years 1991/92
to 97/98, and expenditures by main categories for the same periods.
4. Provide actual average monitoring for air and water quality in major rivers and industrial areas
monitored regularly by GPCB for each year between 1992 and 1998.
5. Provide statistical information on number of industries monitored and number of industries in
compliance for the highly polluting industries for each year between 1992 and 1998.
6. Provide annual reports for 1991/92 and 1994/95.
Remaining Information from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB)
1. Provide breakdown of budget revenues by sources (consent fee, water cess, consent form fee,
analyses, fines and penalties and grants from central and state governments) for the years 1991/92
to 97/98, and expenditures by main categories for the same periods.
2. Provide actual average monitoring for air and water quality in major rivers and industrial areas
monitored regularly by TNPCB for each year between 1992 and 1998.
3. Provide statisiical information on number of industries monitored and number of industries in
compliance for the highly polluting industries for each year between 1992 and 1998.
6. Provide annual reports for 1991/92 or 1992/93.



135                                  Annex B
T4-gnP PARYA'V'AhAN.
Vijai Sharma                               DE DLHi
Joint Secretary
Tel: 4360634        Te'            ephone
Fax:4363577                     T:
9.-ItF, _4Ye7-lex : (bi-hlngual): W-66185 DOE IN
FAX: 4360678
e hP7TT
G-OVERNMEliNT rO INDIA
D.O. No. 25(13)/99-PL                   EMiNiST   I r liRC`.l-;' f & FO,RESTS
PAR'A       N, B. A'A' i20  COM%N-  EX
55~~ ~~ l  _   '*  ,St10C0 5
LODLUj ROAD5 N=k rDEL Hi-9II C03
15 September, 1999
Dear Mr. Ackermann,
Thank you for your letter dated 20 August 1999 enclosing the draft ICR for the World Bank
aided Industrial Pollution Control Project.
At the outset it must be stated that the ICR should focus its comments on the project, its
implementation and performance. The ICR should not enter into political questions. However,
the draft ICR has commented about political will, and the like. The comments and the
insinuations macde are baseless. They have been made without standing. The ICR suffers from
lack of perspective. It is based on wrong premise and flawed. The ICR should be redone.
As far as performance of the project is concerned, it is generally recognized that it got off
to a late start. 90 percent of the work could be done only in the last three years. The reasons
are quite identifiable. The project was the first of its kind in the field of environment, inter-
disciplinary, and involving multiplicity of implementing agencies at both Centre and State level.
Also, the industry did display initial reticence for investment in pollution control measures
accompanied by reluctance to approach DFis. Land availability was a problem. There were
procedural delays in release of Central/State financial subsidies. The problems, however, were
gradually surmounted. Experience gained in the Industrial Pollution Control Project is holding
us in good stance as we make further progress in the Industrial Pollution Prevention Project.
As far as project execution is concerned, by and large this has been satisfactory.
Though, in the area of equipment procurement, we had been concerned about delays in
finalization of tenders and consequent lags in placement of orders. The Bank was alive to this
problem. In discussions, it had also been agreed that equipment for which orders had been
placed before 31 March 1999 would be eligible for reimbursement, even if delivered
subsequently. This accommodation by the Bank was in recognition of MoEF's assurance to the
Bank that all possible measures would be taken to ensure the delivery of the equipment before
settlement of accounts. The MoEF met its assurance.
As far as training is concerned, 145 training programmes have been conducted for
SPCB personnel. 22 laboratories in Maharashtra, UP and Tamil Nadu have been given
assistance for laboratory facilities. 12 Demonstration projects and 12 technical studies were
approved in order to support various technologies for control and prevention of pollution. 88
CETPs were approved under the project in 12 States covering a spectrum of industries. It is
widely accepted that the take off and success of CETPs is on account of the World Bank



136
project. This dimension of pollution control, i.e., of treating effluents collectively, and its
institutionalisation through industrial associations has come to be established because of the
impetus given to CETPs by the World Bank project.
The project has assisted positively the national effort to control pollution.  The
investments made in the Project would result in environmental benefits. The level of compliance
by polluting industries has shown significant improvement. The small-scale industrial sector has
benefited substantially because of CETPs. The SPCBs have also gained by way of trained
manpower, equipment and other infrastructure, and enhanced capability for enforcement and
monitoring. Demonstration projects in waste minimization and resource recovery have been
successful and are replicable. Technical assistance studies have contributed to the identification
and implementation of solutions to environmental problems. Such initiatives have encouraged
shift from concentration based standards to load based standards which will result in waste
minimization.
The MoEF coordinated and implemented the project well. In sum, its performance was
quite good. The experience has been very useful and will hold us in good stead in the context
.pf future projects. The project had called for coordination with both Central and State level
agencies, as well as DFIs and procurement agencies. There were delays earlier but the
bottlenecks were cleared, and ultimately the physical targets have been met. As far as the
performance of the Bank is concerned, we got good support. The Bank was responsive and
interactions were productive. However, of late, the Bank's approach became much less
understanding. It is our view that environmental projects like these, which are substantially
promotional also, with a multiplicity of agencies and institutions involved, should not be
subjected to the rigidity of deadlines accompanying the more commercially oriented projects.
The project would be sustainable in the long run. A number of policy and legislative
initiatives have been taken for protecting the environment and for controlling pollution. In this
regard, it must also be mentioned that the comments in the draft ICR about policy decisions and
court mandates draw from superficial assessment of the related processes involved.
We have also undertaken sector-specific monitoring of industrial pollution. The
sustainability of the project will be given momentum by the monitoring and enforcement
capabilities of SPCBs which the project itself has substantially strengthened. We have also
taken steps to augment the resources of the SPCBs. There has been marked improvement in
enforcement and compliance.
This is to request you to take our views into account so that the ICR is redone. We shall
be looking forward to your next visit to India.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
(Sharma)
Mr. Richard Ackermann
Sector Director, Environment
South Asia Region
The World Bank
Washington-DC, USA (Fax: (202) 522 1664)



137
!4I0q..erI;3ftq'*Wa    Nq" 4*                     Annex C
Wt4* *W Ch  w ,f* v440 005.
w                 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK Of INDIA
1ID1 TOWER, CUFFE PARAQE, MUMBAI - 400 005.
FAX MESSAGE
FOR    Mr. Richard Ackermann, Sector Director, Environment, South Asia Region - The World Bank
Fag No.
FROM   Mr. S.M hnot, uM, i t.u, iUIl, lool, MUrnmui
DATE S:eptmber 16, 19W
No. of wges 4(lnctUdin tNs Page)
OUR FAX NO.: :091-22-2181155    TELEPHONE NO. O91-ZZ-218M20
The infom,eaon conttined in fhis Irans5smsion is coninital. it may also be kgegy prggd. Ir Is intended only for
Mt .Oressees stated above. it you are no et addiwe,e you should not iacses, opy, ciculate or in any other
way us. the lnformeftn c*ontdinedin this transiion. Such uneuthorised uso may be unlaWful. Ifyou have received
M'; trapsrnjssjon In error, peaseg telephone us Immediately so that we can affoifge for ts r*ftum.
Please  refer  your  letter  of  August  20,1999  enclosing   the   draft
implementation completion report on IPCP-3334/2252. Our comments on the
report are as under:
1.     Delay in project implementation for CETPs (Para 13) - As observed in
the ICR, there have been several factors which affected the slowdown in
the implementation of CETPs, primarily due to the concept itself being
new and the requirement of several small companies to get together and
set up a CETP with attendent problems of quality of effluent inflow
charging for effluent treatment and professional management of such
CETPs which were relatively larger than the individual small and medium
scale units. This was further complicated by procedural problemns.
However, IDBI 's role did not cause delay in implementation of CETPs
since (a) many borrowers wanted to avail only the grant facility and were
not interested in taking up any loan whatsoever from any institution so as
not to increase the recurring cost of CETPs and consequent collection
from
. 12/-
t:Z1w111;usiIi *        wet.; iza. * h}*^;  *iepe . {IT@           9      4r t . toorfeoiior,ouion.on
Tel.: 3SI1lIzlCSalT@ FSx. * B022216124 9 *Tolx iie-1wZies * Telgram: *INDBANKINLT * Pos: Sep No. O08SJi1JOS71reow,oeonog



138
its members. Their/vvillingness to borrow from IDBI was, thus, not due to
any operational difficulties with IDBI. (b) disbursements by IDBI could be
effected only after financial closure of the project and receipt of
corresponding state and central subsidies to the CETPs- You would
appreciate that without such subsidy being available to the project (being
critical as viability was based on such subsidised funding), the
disbursements could not be effected. This constrained the performance of
IDBI as IDBI had to operate in the general environment comprising
problems relating to adaptation of a new concept viz- CETP in the
absence of a strong regulatory I enforcement system for pollution control
an-d intense competition among SSIs and other industries .;pncially after
opening up of the Indian economy.
To address the operational and organisational problems of CETPs, it is
suggested that WB could establish a core consulting group to provide
consultancy services to all the CETPs at affordable cost.
2.    Assistance under individual investments component to regular blue
chip clients by DFis: (Para 14) - The OFIs have maintained a broad
base of corporates for the individual investments covering a wide range of
industries.  It may W    be seen from the project proponent's list that
several corporates had approached IDBI for the first time which indicates
that they were not the regular clients. It may also be observed that quite a
few such companies are presently in default to the financial institutions as
they were not the blue chip clients in the first place.
3.   Inability of ID0B to identify eligible sponsors for demonstration sub-
projects: As per the financial system operating in India, national level
DFIs have been given the role of providing finance to mdiitIm and large
projects (i.e. projects having a project cost of over Rs.5 crore), while the
needs of small and medium sector is taken care of by Small Industries
:;31-



139
Development Bank of India (SIDBI), a subsidiary of IDBI, commercial
banks and state level financial institutions. In view of this, IDBI is in touch
only with medium and large borrowers and so it was not possible to
identify sub-project sponsors till the limit on industrial size was removed.
4.   Lack of interest by DOBI to strengthen its environmental capabilities
: IDBI has been interested in strengthening its environmental capabilites
and in this connection a few of its executives had participated with direct
World Bank approvai in programmes like cleaner production process and
technology for textile industry and paper industry as also in the waste
expo-97 However thereafter it was understood that MOEF would be
managing the TA component. IDBI was in touch with MOEF for deputing
some of its staff for training under MOEF's training programme scheduled
for Pollution Control Board staff. However at the last moment the same
could not materialise and IDBI was informally advised to formulate a
separate training programme for its staff. A separate training programme
was thereafter formulated by IDBI in the short period available to it, but
the same could not be approved by WB in view of the guidelines for
appointment of consultants having not been followed by IDBI, due to
paucity of time. IDBI stands committed to training its staff on
environmental aspects and requests WB to consider earmarking the
lapsed Technical Assistance component directly to IDBI for upgrading
environmental skills of its staff. This could be a separate component in
itself to help IDBI appraise environmental aspects of large industrial and
infra structural projects for which guidelines/ policy is proposed to be laid
...4J-



140
down under Environrrment and Social Report for IDBI being prepared by
ERM India Ltd, (under TA component of IPPP - 3779).
With best regards,
(S. Muhnot)



141                                Annex D
vP If            5 _ _ _ ________________
Suvalaxmi Chakraborty
Deputy General Manager
September 14, 1999
Mr. Richard Ackermann
Senior Director, Environment
South Asia Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC 20433,
USA
Dear Mr. Ackermann,
Industrial Pollution Control Project (Ln/Cr. 3334/2252 -IN)
Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
We refer your letter dated August 20, 1999 enclosing a copy of the draft ICR for
our review and comments.
We are pleased to note that the review team recommended ICICI's overall
performance as 'satisfactory' in terms of achieving the project objectives and
outcome. We also note that the team has made certain observations regarding
the implementation issues and he outcomes. We would like to clarify as under:
1. The review team  has commented that "the DFIs have not used the
opportunity of the project and the technical assistance grant funds allocated
for strengthening their own environmental capabilities." and therefore, the
"Performance of the DFIs was 'unsatisfactory' with respect to their failure to
build-up their own environmental capabilities."
We wish to clarify that, many of the ICICI officers from the lending side have
undergone training in industrial environmental management related issues in
the past few years, at institutions like ASCI, Hyderabad, IlT-Mumbai and also
abroad. It is likely that the funds utilised for the training, may have been
made available through other resources. In fact, ICICI's technology group
managing an USAID project had organised a training programme with a
faculty from USA on 'Environmental due diligence for Bankers' for all the FIs
(including ICICI) and banks which was highly appreciated. We are also in the
process of formulating an Environmental and Social Policy to look into these
issues while making investment decisions. We hope that with this, the
review team may find that over the years ICICI has been developing
environmental capabilities as desired under this project.
ICICI Limited
ICICI Towers
Bandra-Kurla Complex  Tel (+91-22) 653 1414
Mumbai 400 051, India  Fax (+91-22) 653 1122  Website www.icici,com



142
2. The review mission also observed that "neither DFI made any special
marketing effort to reach clients beyond their best customers"
We would like to mention here that all the multilateral/bilateral lines of credit
and the technology programmes are actively promoted by ICICI at various
appropriate forums. The details of these programmes are also available on
the ICICI Intranet for all ICICI officers to access whenever the need arises for
the same. As you might be aware of, ICICI has always been in touch with a
variety of clients who cover the market. We have been trying our best to
make special marketing efforts to them.
3. Another observation we wouldi like to clarify is "most sub-ioans for individual
sub-projects were made to DFls best customers"
In this case we submit that the investment decisions are based on many
factors and one of the major criteria is the ability of the borrower to repay
the assistance. Needless to say, that all our investment decisions have been
based on the eligibility criteria for the concerned credit line and the ability of
the borrower to implement the project successfully, ensure positive impact
on the environment and repay the assistance. However, a review of the
credit rating of the assisted sub-projects would show a distribution of IBRD
funds to our best to moderate range of clients.
We have also submitted Independent Assessment Report on April 21, 1999 that
addresses key project issues, a copy of which is re-enclosed.
We now look forward to receiving the final ICR incorporating our views.
Thanking you,
Yours sincerely,
Suvalaxmi Chakraborty



143
Annex E, Page I of 4
Policy Statement for the Abatement of Pollution
Policy Statement Directions and Objectives    X Status
The objective is to integrate environmental considerations into decision making at all levels. To achieve
this, steps have to be taken to:
*  Prevent pollution at source;
*  Encourage, develop and apply the best available practical technical solutions;
*  Ensure that the polluter pays for the pollution and control arrangements;
*  Focus protection on heavily polluted areas and river stretches; and
*  Involve the public in decision making.
Critically Polluted Areas.
Strategies will be developed for areas with high  .  17 categories of highly polluting industries
pollution loads where the cumulative effect of the  identified and persuaded to install requisite
various types of pollutants would be taken into    pollution control systems-Notification sent
account including pollution of ground water.       to them in February 1992 requiring them to
meet standards by December 1993.
. All units generating above specified limits
of 18 categories of waste required to obtain
authorization.
. Central Action Plans drawn up for 22
critically polluted areas selected in
consultation with State Boards.
. River basin-wise surveys conducted to
identify the pollution stretches and their
sources. Based on these surveys, the Ganga
River Action Plan and subsequently the
National River Action Plan were launched.
Assistance for Adoption of Clean Technologies by Small Scale Industries.
.  The Government is implementing a scheme   .  87 Common Effluent Treatment Plants
for providing assistance for promoting      approved by MOEF country-wide,
combined facilities for treatment of effluents  including 53 completed or nearing
and solid wastes generated in clusters of   completion.
small scale units.
.  Cleaner Technology Clearing House being
*  Assistance will be provided to small-scale   established, with NEERI as nodal agency.
units, particularly those located in rural areas,
to aid the implementation of pollution control *  National Productivity Council
measures by promoting development and       (NPC)/UNDP "Project DESIRE"
adoption of cleaner technologies.           implemented to demonstrate the concept of
waste minimization in small-scale industry
in three sectors.



144
Annex E, Page 2 of 4
Policy Statement Directions and Objectives        Status
* Waste Minimization Circles (WMC) being
succesfully established in various sub-
sectors. 37 in 1998. Training programs for
participants organized by NPC.
Standards.
*  Norms will be revised to lay down mass-based   *  Load-based national standards have been
standards, which will set specific limits to     developed for 11 industry categories
encourage the minimization od waste, promote     (pollutant specific standards) and
recycling and reuse of materials, as well as     wastewater quantity limits have been
conservation of natural resources, particulalrly  prescribed for 13 industry categories.
water.
* Public Liability Insurance Act enacted in
*  Regulations for liability and compensation for    1992 specify minimum coverage for those
damages will supplement standards, to promote     owning or having control over handling of
greater care and caution.                         hazardous substances.
Fiscal Measures.
*  The items for which excise and customs rebate  *  Since 1991, the following additional fiscal
are allowed will be reviewed.                     incentives were implemented: (a) 35%
investment allowance on devices and
*  Economic instruments will be investigated to       systems for pollution control and
encourage the shift from curative to preventive   environmental protection; (b) exemption of
measures, internalize the cost of pollution and   capital gains tax when shifting away from
conserve resources, particularly water. A direct  congested urban areas; (c) excise and duty
economic signal is offered by an effluent charge  exemptions on utilization of fly-ash,
based on the nature and volume of releases to the  photogypsum and connected products; (d)
environment. The level will be based on the cost  excise exemption on building materials
of treatment and the flow discharged, in order to  using them; (e) customs duty exemption on
provide an incentive to set-up treatment plants.  imports of capital goods required for the
The scope of the charges will also be extended to  production of building materials using fly-
emissions and solid waste.                        ash and photogypsum.
*  To deal with the range of pollution problems a  *  Task force formed in March 1995 to
mix of regulatory and economic measures will be   examine the feasibility of different types of
adopted.                                          economic instruments for industrial
pollution abatement and develop a plan of
action for their selective introduction. The
task force submitted its report to MoEF in
March 1997 (this study was the subject of a
covenant under the Pollution Prevention
Project). So far, no new economic
instrument has been introduced and tested.
IPCP-ICR-Annex-E.doc



145
Annex E, Page 3 of 4
Policy Statement Directions and Objectives        Status
Integration.
*  Sectoral Ministries, State Governments, local    *  1994 Notification on EIA specifies
bodies and agencies responsible for planning and  compulsory steps in site selection, and
implementation of development projects will be   choice of appropriate technology and
required to integrate environmental concerns     control measures. Clearance from CPCB
more effectively in all policy areas.            must be obtained for projects costing more
than 50 Crores.
. An integrated overview and organizational
structure for decentralized environmental impact  .  1997 Notifications require public hearings
assessments and law enforcement based on         for projects requiring clearance from
cooperation with local authorities will be sought.  Central Government.
  A long-term policy for pesticides use, including   .  Preparation of Zoning Atlases for siting of
the introduction of environmentally acceptable   industries initiated.
pesticides, and integrated pest management
together with the phasing out of the proven
harmful toxic and persistent ones, would be
formulated and infrastructure developed for its
effective implementation.
. Forests and natural vegetation should be restored
and protected and green belts raised in urban and
industrial areas.
. Annual Administration Reports of the Ministries
will include a chapter on actions taken to follow
up the policy statement and other environmental
initiatives they have taken.
EnvironmentalAudit.
Annual statements will help industries and local  1993 Notification makes submission of
bodies in identifying and focusing attention on areas   Environmental Statements compulsory by all
of concern, practices that need to be changed and  industrial units by the end of the year. Since
plans to deal with adverse effects. This will be  1995, all units in 17 categories of industries
extended to an environmental audit. The measures    must submit annual environmental statements.
will provide better information to the public.
Environmental Statistics.
The collection of environmental, economic and    Network of Water (480) and Air (290) quality
health data will be done to determine the status and to  monitoring stations established. Water Quality
develop a concise set of environmental indicators for  Atlas of India prepared.
monitoring the effects of pollution.
IPCP-ICR-Annex-E.doc



146
Annex E, Page 4 of 4
Policy Statement Directions and Objectives        Status
Public Partnership
.  A high Government priority will be to educate  *  Substantial increase in public interest
citizens about environmental risks, the economic  litigations.
and health dangers of resource degradation and
the real cost of natural resources.           *  Criteria for eco-labelling for different
categories of environment friendly products
*  Public interest litigations against polluting units  developed.
will be encouraged and supported.
*  A system of certification of goods that are
"environmentally friendly"will be set-up;
  Special legal institutions will be set up to provide
compensation to individuals for environmental
damage and interim relief.
.  Greater emphasis will be placed on promotion of
environmental awareness, undertaking and
competence in schools, colleges an training
institutions; professional and NGO bodies will be
encouraged to be more active; social action by
voluntary organizations and individuals will be
promoted.
IPCP-ICR-Annex-E.doc



Annex F, Page I of 11
Implementation of Main Recommendations of SPCBs Reorganization Study
Recommendation                                    Maharashtra               Gujarat               Tamil Nadu                   r Pradesh
Policy
Along with industrial pollution control, give  1993: vehicle emission:   1993: vehicle emission:  1993: vehicle emission:  1993: vehicle emission:
emphasis to automobile and municipal sewage   Function delegated to  Function delegated to    Board authorized to issue  Function delegated to
pollution.                                    Regional Transport     Regional Transport    certificates of compliance,   Regional Transport
Officer, who issues    Officer, who issues   but compliance of standards  Officer, who issues
pollution clearance    pollution clearance   and control measures       pollution clearance
ceritificates.         ceritificates.        monitored by Transport     ceritificates.
Department. Board control
Municipalities:        Municipalities: Board   emissions from vehicles  Municipalities: must apply
monitoring of municipal  does not monitor    only in 3 Vehicle Emission   for consent, but few have
waste water is the     municipal discharges    Monitoring (VEM) stations  treatment plants and
responsibility of the  and only has advisory   in Chennai.              enforcement is difficult.
Municipal Water Supply  role.
and Sewerage Board.                          Municipalities:            1994: Supreme Court
1999: High Court has    Municipalities must apply    orders 27 municipalities  '
1998: Board pursuing   set up committee.     for consent, but only 3 have  along Ganges River to
local authorities in urban                   treatment plants.          establish sewage treatment
areas to provide                             Enforcement difficult due to  plants.
treatment, but                               lack of funds.
enforcement disfficult                                                  1999:
due to lack of funds.                         1999:                     Vehicular emissions still
Vehicles: Between 1996 and  responsibility of State
1998, Board established   Transport Department.
VEMs in five other
loactions.                Polluting municipalities
being identified (by June
Municipalities: All       1999); installation of
municipalities directed to    treatment plants by 2002-
comply with Water Act. 6    2005.
have treatment plants and 5
other are under construction.



Annex F, Page 2 of 11
11
Recommendation                                      Maharashtra                Gujarat                Tamil Nadu                Uttar Pradesh
Improve the economics of compliance through                             1997: Board finalizing    1998: all 17 category.
increased self-regulation, by requesting industries to                  procedures for         Highly polluting industries
prepare environmental audits and to report plant                        compulsory audits for    have provided
specific environmental parameters monthly; require                      certain types of       environmental statements.
new industries in the red category to install on-line                   industries, by auditors   In 1999, 256 industries have
pollution monitoring systems.                                           recognized by the      been identified to provide
Board.                 statements.
Promote time-bound voluntary compliance         1995: Power given to the  1999: Board has power   1999: time-bound
agreements, to reduce reliance on lengthy and   Board to issue directions  to negotiate agreements  agreements, with
expensive litigation.                          to non-compliers and     with defaulters. Board   guarantees, are being used,
demand Bank guarantees  does it with highly    while Board also continues
for up to 10% of cost of   polluting industries,  to rely on closure orders, or
pollution control devices  associated with 20%  orders to interupt power
to be provided.         guarantee.             supply, to ensure
._________________ _  _compliance.
Progressively increase consent fees and cess to  Cess rates increased in    Cess rates increased in   Cess rates increased in 1992  Cess rates increased in
reflect damage costs and resource depletion. Meter   1992 (all India), but still  1992 (all India), but  (all India), but still far from    1992 (all India), but still
cess.                                           far from reflecting     still far from reflecting   reflecting damage costs and   far from reflecting damage
damage costs and        damage costs and       resource depletion.         costs and resource            A
resource depletion.     resource depletion.                                depletion.                   co
Rate of consent fees revised
in 1996 to reflect polluting
nature of industries.
Increase in cess rate under
consideration by GOI.
Introduce load-based standards in areas where  National Load based      National Load based    National Load based         Current Status?
industries are concentrated.                   standards being          standards being        standards being monitored
monitored by State      monitored by State     by State Board.
Board.                  Board.
Prepare model ElAs by categories of industries and   1993:NOCs issued when   1993: Two-stage NOC    1993: no clear policy  1993: NOC required for
expand their scope to include environmental option   board approached by  triggering release of  regarding NOCs. Issued    release of financing,
assessments; issue NOCs in two stages to ensure  industry. Consent for  funds from financing   only when needed by indus-  electricity and water
that the pollution control systems are in place prior   operation not issued  institutions.    try to obatin financing. Not  supply.
to start of operation.                          unless measures                                controlled subsequently.
IPCP-ICR-Annex-F.doc



Annex F, Page 3 of 11
11
Recommendation                                      Maharashtra               Gujarat                Tamil Nadu                Uttar Pradesh
specified in consent    1994: Central
implemented. One-stage  Government issues      1994: Central Government
NOC                     rules on compulsory    issues rules on compulsory   1994: Central Government
EIA for a list of      EIA for a list of industries.   issues rules on compulsory
1994: Central          industries.                                        EIA for a list of industries.
Government issues rules                        1997: Central government
on compulsory EIA for a  1997: Central        issues rules on public      1997: Central government
list of industries.    government issues rules  hearings on compulsory    issues rules on public
on public hearings on    ElAs.                    hearings on compulsory
1997: Central          compulsory ElAs.                                   ElAs.
government issues rules                        1999: EIAs required for 29
on public hearings on                         highly polluting categories
compulsory ElAs.        1997: 40 EIAs         of industries. Public
reviewed.              hearings. 63 reviewed last
1998: State issues own                        year. One-stage NOC.
rules on projects
requiring ElAs and
enviromnental
management plans.
Carry out detailed epidemiological studies linking                                            1999: Epidemiological      1999:Priority list of at least
environmental quality and disease burden.                                                     studies being conducted by   5 critical areas by March  H
Ramachandra Medical        1999.
College, Chennai.
Strategy
Identify critical areas and prepare Area       1995: Policy for location                      1999: no new industry can    1999
Environmental Plans for them, including a detailed   of industries within river               locate within I km from    Zoning Atlas under
time-bound program for controlling pollution and  basins proposed,                            water courses and 5 km     preparation.
ensuring compliance by priority industries; develop   specifying minimum                      from major rivers.
environmental zoning regulations; and establish  distances from rivers;
specific load based standards.                 detailed study on Thane                        Since 1997-98, with the
Bellapur carrying                              assistance of CPCB, State
capacity initiated, to                         Board also preparing
further regulate                              Zoning Atlas for siting of
industrial development                        industries, starting with
in area.                                      Tiruvallur and
IPCP-1CR-Annex-F.doc



Annex F, Page 4 of 11
11
Recommendation                                         Maharashtra                Gujarat                  Tamil Nadu                 Uttar Pradesh
Kancheepuram Districts.
1998: cell being
established for preparing
zoning atlas. MPCB and
MIDC developing an
industrial location policy
for siting of new
industrial estates.
Identification of polluting industries: Map industries  1993: polluting    1993:                    1993:                        1993:
based on quantity and quality of discharge,       industries defined based   Case by case analysis of  17 most polluting industries   17 industries criteria, plus
industrial concentration and sensitivity of       on volume of discharge    quantity and quality of   identified; others grouped  BOD discharge.
ecosystem.                                        effluents.               effluent.               into red/green/orange.
Categorization of industries
1995: industries                                 into red, orange and green
reclassified under red,                          revised in 1994.
orange and green
categories.                                       1999: no change.
LI 
Functions
1994: durationof         193 Regional            1993                         1993
Consents Award and renewal: Power of giving or    consents extended from    issues and renews       Award and renewal of        Regional office issues
renewing consents to non-red categories should be    1, 2, and 3 years for red,   consents to moderately   consents sole responsibility   consent to 48 categories of
given to Regional Offices.                        orange and green         polluting effluent       of head office.             moderately polluting
categories to 2, 4 and 6    releasing industries.                             industries. Head office to
years; tiny non-polluting   Head office issues all    Consents valid one year  all other.
industries given         air emission consents    except green industries (two
perpetual consents       and highly polluting    years).                      1999
without fee by sub-      industries effluent                                  Small non-polluting
regional officers. Single   consents. Consents    1998                        industries exempted from
consent system (water,    valid for one year.    Regional office grants       obtaining consent; one-
air and hazardous waste                          consent to existing green    time consent for other non-
introduced).             1999: Consents valid 2,  and orange industries (head   polluting industries;
4 and 6 years for red,    office for green site      Duration of consent for
1995: sub-regional       orange and green        industries), and renews      moderately polluting
officer auhtorized to    industries, respectively.  consent to orange and green   industries extended to 3
IPCP-ICR-Annex-Fdoc



Annex F, Page 5 of 11
11
Recommendation                                         Maharashtra                Gujarat                  Tamil Nadu                 Uttar Pradesh
grant consents to small                          industries and small red     years.
orange and green                                  industries.
industries.
1999: Board delegates
1999: duration of                                powers to Regional and
consent extended to up                           District Offices for issue
to 5, 10 and 15 years for                        and renewal of consent for
red, orange and green                            all orange and green
industries.                                      industries.
All consents valid one year.
Delegation of industry review and review of       1993:- sub-regional       1993                    1993:-                       1993:-
inspection reports and sending out notices of     offices only responsible   Review and inspection    sub-regional offices only  sub-regional offices only
violation should be delegated to regional and     for site inspections and    delegated to sub-     responsible for site        responsible for site
subregional offices; fequency of inspections should   sampling.            regional offices.        inspections and sampling.    inspections and sampling.
be specified.                                     Regional offices                                  Regional offices responsible  Regional offices
responsible only for     Any further delegation    only for review and        responsible only for review   H
review and inspection of  since?                 inspection of moderately     and inspection of
moderately and non-                              and non-polluting            moderately and non-
polluting industries.                             industries.                 polluting industries.
1999: Filing prosecution                         1994-95: Board delegates
delegated to Regional                            powers to Regional Officers
Offices.                                         to issue Show Cause
Notices to large and
medium industries and the
responsibility to personally
inspect highly polluting
industries, Board delegates
powers to District Officers
to issue Notices to small-
scale industries.
Board prescribes frequency
of inspections according to
size and categorization of
industries.
IPCP-ICR-Antiex-F.doc



Annex F, Page 6 of 11
11
Recommendation                                      Maharashtra                Gujarat                Tamil Nadu                Uttar Pradesh
Monitoring: most of the routine monitoring (sample  1993: System of 115  1993: Board does not    1993: Board does not      1993: Board does not
collection and analysis) should be assigned to  accredited labs. In     recognize private      recognize private          recognize private
certified labs instead of SPCB labs-this would bring   existence, to perform  laboratories.    laboratories.              laboratories.
down the expenditures of the Boards and release  tests paid by industry.
time of technical people. SPCB labs should perform                      1999: no change.       1999: no change.            1999: no change.
legal tests as well as random cross testing of private  1994: Board stops
labs tests and surprise testing of industries.  recognition, except
recognized educational
institutions labs.
Financial Management
Improve internal resource generation (raising  Substantial progress     Degree of self-        Substantial progress made    Substantial progress made
consent fees and analysis charges) to reduce    made towards self-      sufficiency mainatined   towards self-sufficiency,  towards self-sufficiency,
dependence on state budget support.            sufficiency, from 59% in  at bout 55% since     from 48% in 1988-89 to     from 77& on average over
1990-91 to 92% in 1996-  1989-90.              100% in 1997-98 (more       period 1988-91 to 100% in
97.                                            recently, through increase in  1997-98.
consent fees in 1996 and
drives to ensure payment of
arrears).
Convert Boards into corporate entities with financial No change in legal  No change in legal   No change in legal status.    No change in legal status.
and administrative autonomy.                    status.                 status.
All-India advanced management and technical     CPCB has provided       CPCB has provided      CPCB has provided           CPCB has provided
training programs should be organized for SPCB  extensive training under   extensive training under  extensive training under  extensive training under
staff, while SPCB should provide for in-house basic  IPCP.              IPCP.                  IPCP. In 1995, Board       IPCP.
training needs.                                                                                established Environmental
Training Institute to train
staff of board and personnel
from industries,
municipalities and NGOs in
the field of environment and
pollution control.
IPCP-ICR-Annex-F.doc



Annex F, Page 7 of II
11
Recommendation                                     Maharashtra               Gujarat               Tainil Nadu               Uttar Pradesh
Organization Structure
Establishment of Planning cell for preparation of  1993: no           1993: no               1993: no                   1993: no
strategic plan.
1999: Project planning                        1998: Planning and
cell established.                             Development cell created
under the joint chief
environmental engineer.
Establishment of cells to deal with NGOs and  1993: no                1993: no               1993: no                   1993: no
environmental awareness activities.
1994: NGO Cell         1996: setting up of    1994-95: Environmental     1999: Separate cell
established.           Pollution Awareness    Education and Training     estblished to promote
and Assiatance Center.  Section created.         environmental awareness
in the public.
1995-96: NGO cell created
under the Scientific Adviser.
1996: Environmental                                   U)
Awareness and Assistance
Cell created.
Establish vigilance cell for checking samples.  1993: no vigilance cell.   1993: Board has a full  1993: no vigilance cell.  1993: no vigilance cell.
time vigilance cell.
Establish a research cell which can undertake  1993: no               1993: no               1993 : no                  1993: no
sponsored research and improve knowledge on
biomonitoring, env. Negotiating, options      1994: Clean Technology   1997: R&D cell        1998: Applied R&D unit
assessmenr, risk analysis, GIS and clean      Cell established.       established at head    created in Chennai AEL;
technologies.                                                         office.                focusing on cleaner
technologies Research fund
established for research
activities in the field of
waste reduction, reuse or
recycling, has so far
sponsored 6 projects.
IPCP-ICR-Annex-F.doc



Annex F, Page 8 of 11
11
Recommendation                                         Maharashtra                Gujarat                  Tamil Nadu                 Uttar Pradesh
Staffing
Carry out manpower studies to identify surpluses in   1999: Some additional  1995: High Court       1995-96: computerization of
different offices at different locations; and ways to    staff positions created  orders strengthening of   Head Office, Regional
reduce manpower requirements through              but mostly not filled, due  Board staff by 169    Offices and 2 District
decentralization of issue and renewal of consents,    to state government  (implemented).           Offices.
elimination of duplication of work, increased use of  policy not to create new    Presently no shortage of
computerized systems and consultants, and         positions irrespective of   technical staff.      1999: government approval
contracting out uneconomical services.            funding. Board                                    for new staff positions not
considers itself short of                        required since board is self-
staff to handle new tasks                        suficient.
(biomedical and
hazardous waste
management rules and
public hearing
procedures).
Increase compensation to attract skilled and talented                                              No change in rules and
professionals.                                                                                     regulations.
Train administrative staff in computers, graphics,                                                  Computer training in office
GIS so that they can be converted to technical                                                      applications given to staff.
support staff.
Reporting
Prepare every year an environmental quality report                                                  Status reports and
indicating status, time series trends and changes in                                               environmental quality
critical locations with serious problems.                                                          reports provided in Annual
Reports, periodicals and
newsletters and newspaper
publications (Chennai Air
Quality).
Prepare annual reports in a standard format
IPCP-]CR-Annex-F.doc



Annex F, Page 9 of I I
11
Recommendation                                      Maharashtra               Gujarat                Tamil Nadu                    r Pradesh
Computerized Decision Support Systems
Consent Information system providing break-up of                                              1999: Board has developed
categories and locations, and of industries                                                   computerized system for
functioning with or without consent.                                                          inventory of industry and
issue and renewal of
consent. Consent
Information System in
progress.
Cess billing and compliance information system,  1993:                 1993:                  1993:
with breakdown of industries by region, categories   Cess administraion  Computerized cess    Regular monitoring of water
of industry, type of industrial waste, and discharge    system under   administration system.   consumption, used for
severity status; inpection agenda drawn accordingly.  implementation.                         estimating cess.
1994: computerization                          1998: Computerized system
completed.                                     developed at head office for
assessing cess and                                      H
compliance by industry.
Finance: breakdown of revenues and expenditures                                               1993:
by district.                                                                                  Pay bills and Bank
statements, and budget and
provident funds are
computerized.
Current status: no change.
Treatment facilities: types and suitability of                                                1999: Board developing
treatment facilities of industries; status of industries.                                     various treatment options
for industries.
Hazardous waste: inventory of industries with  1993:                                          1999: Board has completed
hazardous wastes and materials, methods of     computerized system                            inventory of all sources
IPCP-ICR-Annex-F.doc



Annex F, Page 10 of 11
11
Recommendation    _                                  Mharashtra                 Gujarat                 Tamil Nadu                Uttar Pradesh
collection, disposal, transportation and control,  with data on industries,                      generating hazardous waste
priority areas for management.                  type of waste,                                   in the state and evolved
categorization of waste                         treatment methods.
and disposal methods.
Used for monitoring and
selection of disposal
____________________   ____ _                sites.
Materials Property Data Base                                                                     Current status: Not
implemented.
Personnel: staff strength for each function;                             1993:                   Current status: Not
employee file for each person; and Training                              Computerized system     implemented.
Programs based on deficiencies.                                          for accounting of
salaries and travel
expenses.
._______________________________  Current status?
Consultants data base, including track record of                                                 Current status. Not                                       m
performance.                                                                                    implemented.
Environmental engineering data base, including                                                   Current status: Not
information on different industries, their operation,                                            implemented.
mehtods of pollution control, , reports on latest
technology trends in environmental management.                   ___
Legal Information System: break-up of industries by  1993:                                       1993:
compliance, details of case jusgements which can be  System for providing                        Case details computerized
used as precedents,; early warning system of non-    support for issuing                         and monthly status reports
complying and regularly defaulting industries.  notices to non-                                  generated.
complying industries.
Inspection Program: list of inspectors and their                                                 Current status: Not
assigned industries, fortnightly agenda for each        _       _                                implemented.
IPCP-1CR-Annex-F.doc



Annex F, Page II of 11
11
Recommendation                                         IMaharashtra                Gujarat                 Tamil Nadu                 Uttar Pradesh
inspector, list of priority areas, issues and
instructions for effective monitoring.
Pollution Control and Monitoring Equipment                                                          Board has been updating
database, including list of brands of equipment,                                                    data on pollution control
costs, availability and suitability for India.                                                      and monitoring equipment,
costs, availability and
suitabil ity.
Cn
IPP-CR-Annex-F .doc



