Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3334 IN
              (Industrial Pollution Control Project)
                               among
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
               INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
                                and
   INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
                        Dated July 8, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3334 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1991, among INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), and
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA (IDBI) and
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA
LIMITED (ICICI).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of
even date herewith between India (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-three million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 23,400,000) on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
      (B)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty-four million
Page  2
dollars ($124,000,000) on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
IDBI and ICICI agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (C)   by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered
into between the Borrower and IDBI and the Borrower and
ICICI, the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be relent to IDBI and ICICI
respectively on the terms and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
      WHEREAS IDBI and ICICI, in consideration of the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the
Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
            Management and Operations of IDBI and ICICI
      Section 2.01. IDBI and ICICI declare their
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and,
to this end, shall respectively carry out Parts B and
C.2, and Part B.1 of the Project and conduct their
respective operations and affairs in accordance with
sound administrative and financial standards and
practices, with qualified management and personnel, and
in accordance with their respective constitutional
documents and Statement of Policy.
      Section 2.02. (a) IDBI and ICICI undertake that,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans, Sub-
grants and Investment Projects shall be made in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Schedule to this Agreement.
      (b)   IDBI and ICICI shall exercise their respective
rights in relation to each Investment Project in such
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and
IDBI and ICICI; (ii) comply with their obligations under
this Agreement and their respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
      Section 2.03. IDBI and ICICI shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08, and 9.09 of the General Conditions applicable to
Loan Agreements (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement and their respective
Parts B and C.2 of the Project.
      Section 2.04. IDBI and ICICI shall duly perform all
their obligations under their respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreements. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
IDBI and ICICI shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
Page  3
assigning or waiving their respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) IDBI and ICICI shall, at the
request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with
regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the
performance of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and under their respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Loan.
      (b)   IDBI and ICICI shall promptly inform the Bank
of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by IDBI and ICICI of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and under their
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) IDBI and ICICI shall each maintain
procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the
progress of Parts B and C.2 of the Project and of each
Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of IDBI and ICICI
respectively.
      (b)   IDBI and ICICI shall each:
              (i)        have its records, accounts and
                         financial statements (balance
                         sheets, statements of income and
                         expenses and related statements)
                         for each fiscal year audited, in
                         accordance with appro- priate
                         auditing principles consistently
                         applied, by independent auditors
                         acceptable to the Bank;
             (ii)        furnish to the Bank as soon as
                         available, but in any case not
                         later than four months after the
                         end of each such year: (A)
                         certified copies of its financial
                         statements for such year as so
                         audited; and (B) the report of such
                         audit by said auditors, of such
                         scope and in such detail as the
                         Bank shall have reasonably
                         requested; and
            (iii)        furnish to the Bank such other
                         information concerning said
                         records, accounts and financial
                         statements as well as the audit
                         thereof, as the Bank shall from
                         time to time reasonably request.
      Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, ICICI and IDBI shall: (a) conduct their respective
operations and affairs in such manner as shall be
necessary to maintain, at all times, their respective
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section
3.03 of this Agreement; and (b) if such ratio shall, for
reasons beyond the control of ICICI and IDBI, be
exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable actions as
shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio
Page  4
within such limit.
      Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, ICICI and IDBI shall:
            (i)    not incur or permit any subsidiary to
                   incur any debt if, after the incurring
                   of such debt, the consolidated debt of
                   ICICI and IDBI, respec- tively, and all
                   their respective subsidiaries then
                   incurred and outstanding would be
                   greater than twelve times the
                   consolidated capital and surplus of
                   ICICI and IDBI respectively and all
                   their respective subsidiaries; and
            (ii)   ensure that at all times their
                   respective consolidated internal cash
                   generation for each year shall be at
                   least 1.2:1 times the con- solidated
                   debt service requirements of their
                   respective consolidated debt for that
                   year.
      (b)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The term "debt" means any debt incurred
                   by ICICI and IDBI or any subsidiary
                   thereof maturing more than one year
                   after the date on which it is originally
                   incurred; provided, however, that
                   current repayments of such debt due and
                   payable within one year shall be
                   excluded therefrom.
            (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A)
                   under a loan contract or agreement or
                   other instrument providing for such debt
                   or for the modification of its terms of
                   payment on the date, and to the extent,
                   the amount of such debt has become
                   outstanding pursuant to such loan
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and
                   (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the
                   date the agreement providing for such
                   guarantee has been entered into but only
                   to the extent that the guaranteed debt
                   is outstanding.
           (iii)         The term "equity" means the sum of
                         the total unimpaired paid-up
                         capital, retained earnings and
                         reserves of ICICI and IDBI
                         respectively not allocated to cover
                         specific liabilities.
            (iv)   Whenever for the purposes of this
                   Section it shall be necessary to value,
                   in terms of Rupees, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall
                   be made on the basis of the prevailing
                   lawful rate of exchange at which such
                   other currency is, at the time of such
                   valuation, obtainable for the purposes
                   of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a
                   rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
            (v)    The term "consolidated debt of ICICI and
                   IDBI, respectively, and all their
                   respective sub- sidiaries" means the
                   total amount of debt of ICICI and IDBI,
Page  5
                   respectively, and all their respective
                   subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by
                   ICICI and IDBI, respectively, to any
                   sub- sidiary or by any subsidiary to
                   ICICI and IDBI, respectively, or to any
                   other subsidiary.
            (vi)   The term "consolidated capital and
                   surplus of ICICI and IDBI, respectively
                   and all their respective subsidiaries"
                   means the aggregate of the total
                   unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and
                   free reserves of ICICI and IDBI
                   respectively and all their respective
                   subsidiaries after excluding therefrom
                   such amounts as shall represent equity
                   interests of ICICI and IDBI respectively
                   in any subsidiary or of any such
                   subsidiary in ICICI and IDBI
                   respectively or in any other subsidiary.
      Section 3.04. ICICI and IDBI shall not make any
repayment in advance of maturity in respect of any
outstanding debt of ICICI and IDBI which materially
affect the ability of ICICI and IDBI to meet their
respective financial obligations.
      Section 3.05. The Bank and ICICI and IDBI shall,
from time to time, at the request of any party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the
administration, operations and financial condition of
ICICI or IDBI, and ICICI or IDBI shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of ICICI or IDBI.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement
becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations
of the Bank and of IDBI and ICICI thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)    the date on which the Loan Agreement
                   shall terminate in accordance with its
                   terms; or
           (ii)    the date twenty years after the date of
                   this Agreement.
      (b)   If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify IDBI
and ICICI of this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement
shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding
any cancellation or suspension under the General
Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or
permitted to be given or made under this Agreement and
Page  6
any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For IDBI:
            Industrial Development Bank of India
            IDBI Tower
            Cuffe Parade
            Bombay -- 400 005
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDBANKIND                      011-2193
                   Bombay                    011-4812
      For ICICI:
            Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
              of India Limited
            163 Backbay Reclamation
            Road No. 3
            Bombay -- 400 020
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   CREDCORP                  011-3062 ICIC IN
                   Bombay
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be
executed, under this Agreement on behalf of IDBI or ICICI
may be taken or executed by the Chairman and Managing
Director of IDBI and ICICI respectively, or such other
person or persons as the said Chairman and Managing
Director shall designate in writing. IDBI and ICICI shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authen- ticated specimen signature of each such
person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original,
and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  7
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Marianne Haug
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
                   INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT
CORPORATION
                     OF INDIA LIMITED
                   By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
              Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
         of Sub-loans, Sub-grants and Investment Projects
1.    (a)   Sub-loans. Terms and conditions of Sub-loans
shall include:
            (i)    Onlending rate to Investment Enterprises
                   shall, unless revised by the Borrower,
                   in consultation with the Bank, be 15%;
                   and
           (ii)    Repayment term shall not exceed 15 years
                   inclusive of up to four years of grace.
      (b)   Sub-grants. The Sub-grants shall be made only
for Investment Projects under Part B.2 (a) and (b) of the
Project.
      (c)   Investment Projects. All Investment Projects
shall satisfy the following eligibility criteria:
      (1)   Investment Projects under Part B.1 of the
Project
            (i)    Investment Projects shall have been
                   appraised by IDBI or ICICI and found to
                   have a substantial positive effect on
                   the environment and meet the standards
                   prescribed for the concerned industry;
           (ii)    Investment Enterprise shall have an
                   acceptable capital structure such that
                   with the Sub-loan the debt-equity ratio
                   thereof would not exceed 75:25; and
          (iii)    No Sub-loan or combination of Sub-loans
                   to a single Investment Enterprise by
                   either IDBI or ICICI or both, shall
                   exceed $10 million equi- valent.
      (2)   Common Treatment Facilities under Part B.2 (a)
of the
            Project
            (i)    A thorough survey of the effluent
                   situation at the site shall have been
                   undertaken and pro- visions made for
Page  8
                   adequate pretreatment or disposal of
                   effluents not suitable for common
                   treatment;
           (ii)    A feasibility study shall have been
                   conducted, the economic and financial
                   viability established, and operating and
                   maintenance costs estimated;
          (iii)    an adequate Investment Enterprise has
                   been constituted or identified with
                   institutional and technical capabilities
                   to operate the common treatment
                   facility;
           (iv)    legal and financial responsibilities
                   have been properly defined and the
                   Investment Enterprise owner is
                   responsible before the enforcement
                   institutions for the quality of the
                   common effluent after treatment;
            (v)    adequate cost recovery formulae have
                   been adopted by the Investment
                   Enterprise with the associated
                   mechanisms for cost sharing or fees
                   structures for the beneficiary
                   enterprises.
(3)   Demonstration Projects under Part B.2 (b) of the
Project
            (i)    Investment Enterprises are of small
                   scale (below $5,000,000 equivalent in
                   fixed assets);
           (ii)    Sub-projects represent pioneering uses
                   of clean technologies in India or
                   consist of prototype units for dealing
                   with environmental problems in industry
                   and have an anticipated widespread
                   application;
          (iii)    Investment Enterprises are currently
                   efficient and economic and require a
                   comparatively large investment for
                   environmental protection;
           (iv)    the financial rate of return and/or the
                   risks involved in the required
                   investments do not enable it to be
                   financed on commercial terms; and
            (v)    financing of the Sub-loan of such
                   Investment Enterprise shall not exceed
                   $500,000.
2.    No expenditures for goods or services required for
an Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
      (a)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall
have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures
shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior
to the date on which the Bank shall have received the
application and information required under paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
      (b)   the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall
have been a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety
Page  9
days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received the request and information required under
paragraph 3(b) of this Schedule in respect of such
free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this Agreement,
a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project under Part B(1) of the Project in an
amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
which shall not exceed the sum of $3,500,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
or of any other loan provided for in any outstanding loan
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower or IDBI or
ICICI entered into before the date of this Agreement, the
proceeds of which have been or are being used for
financing goods and services directly and materially
related to such Investment Project.
3.    (a)   When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, IDBI and
ICICI shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a
description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal
of the Investment Project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of
the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of
the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
      (b)   Each request by IDBI and ICICI for
authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a
summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the
Investment Project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the
pro- visions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or before
September 30, 1994.
4.    Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby IDBI and
ICICI shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Bank and IDBI and ICICI, including the right to:
      (a)   require the Investment Enterprise to carry out
and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records;
      (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to the Development Credit Agreement, and (ii) such goods,
civil works, and services shall be used exclusively in
the carrying out of the Investment Project;
      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
      (d)   require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and
(ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
Page  10
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of
use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
      (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or IDBI
and ICICI shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to
the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project;
and
      (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the
Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its contract with IDBI or
ICICI.
