                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34135

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (CPL-40100)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

          FOR THE MOROCCO SECOND SEWERAGE AND WATER REUSE PROJECT




                                           December 22, 2005




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Group
Middle East and North Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2005)

                             Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham
                                      DH 1 = US$ 0.11
                                     US$ 1 = DH 9.06

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1     December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD     : Agence Française de Développement (French Cooperation Agency)
CAS     : Country Assistance Strategy
EIB     : European Investment Bank
MTR     : Mid-Term Review
O&M     : Operation and Maintenance
ONE     : Office National de l'Electricité (National Electric Company)
PCD     : Project Concept Note
PDO     : Project Development Objective
PIU     : Project Implementation Unit
PSP     : Private Sector Participation
RADEEF  : Régie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricité de Fès
          (Autonomous Water and Power Utility of Fez)
SAR     : Staff Appraisal Report (former PAD, Project Appraisal Document)
TA      : Technical Assistance



                           Vice President:      Christiaan J. Poortman
                         Country Director       Theodore O. Ahlers
                          Sector Director       Hossein Razavi
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Pier F. Mantovani

                                          MOROCCO
                    Morocco Second Sewerage and Water Reuse Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       11
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             12
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             14
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            21
Annex Borrower's completion report                                               22
Annex Map of project footprint

Project ID: P005503                                                  Project Name: Morocco Second Sewerage and Water
                                                                     Reuse Project
Team Leader: Pier Francesco Mantovani                                TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 23, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Morocco Second Sewerage and Water Reuse                  L/C/TF Number: CPL-40100
                            Project
   Country/Department: MOROCCO                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Sewerage (100%)
                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Other urban
                            development (P); Access to urban services and housing (P);
                            Administrative and civil service reform (P); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/19/1994                                     Effective: 08/30/1996                08/30/1996
     Appraisal: 05/19/1995                                         MTR: 11/03/1999                  11/03/1999
      Approval: 04/30/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          RADEEF/RADEEF (FEZ CITY WATER; RADEEF/ELECTRICITY AND
                                           SEWERAGE UTILITY)
                      Other Partners:      Agence Française de Développement (AFD)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Daniel Ritchie
Sector Manager:                 Jonathan D. Walters                            Amir Al-Khafaji
Team Leader at ICR:             Pier Francesco Mantovani                       Sergio Calegari
ICR Primary Author:             Michael Hamaide


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HU
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project was prepared in the mid-90's at a time in which Morocco aimed to rehabilitate a very deficient
sanitation sector.   Sewage was collected by tax-funded municipal departments, services were not billed and
featured inadequate quality and coverage, and wastewater treatment was non-existent. The Government's goal was
to expand sewerage coverage and treatment capacity, and to transfer operations to public water utilities that would
achieve full cost-recovery through tariffs.    The concept of the Project was to support this strategy through
infrastructure financing in several major cities (including Casablanca, Fez and Marrakech), building the capacity
of the new operators, and enhancing cost-recovery. At appraisal however, the scope of the project was suddenly
narrowed down to the city of Fez, with RADEEF - the water and power utility mandated to take over sewerage
operations - as the Borrower. This reduction in scope was in part caused by deterioration of sector dialogue
between the Government and the Bank, after the Government decided to negotiate a sole-source multi-service
concession in Casablanca. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) reflects a hurriedly changed scope, with uneven
objective, component and indicator definitions. The Project was to be co-financed by IBRD, AFD and RADEEF.
In a side agreement with RADEEF, the Government (also the Guarantor) committed to raise tariffs and enforce
repayment of arrears to enable RADEEF to meet its obligations under the project. The Bank and RADEEF were at
the time already engaged in the Fifth Water Supply project, which closed in 2001 and was rated satisfactory.

The development objectives, excerpted from the loan agreement, consisted of:
1. Protecting the environment, improving hygiene and public health, and preserving water resources through
     appropriate collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater;
2. Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Borrower; and
3. Strengthening cost recovery in the sewerage sub-sector.

The SAR did not include an explicit and succinct formulation of these objectives. The objectives were generally
consistent with the CAS, and with stated Government goals for the sector, as well as with the Banks's overall
water sector strategy for the region. More accurately defined objectives may have specified the location of the
expected outcomes, although a loan agreement with RADEEF implicitly restricted them to RADEEF's jurisdiction.
In spite of this, the objectives appear to have been overly complex and demanding, considering the agency's
inexperience and lack of capacity in sewerage, its modest performance as a water operator, and the general
disrepair of the sanitation system.

3.2 Revised Objective:

From the onset, the project experienced serious delays due to Borrower's lack of capacity to implement a complex
scope, made even worse by the Government's defaulting on the side-agreement, which left RADEEF with no
chance of meeting its co-financing and legal covenants. The client-provided design for a lagoon treatment plant,
to be funded by AFD, proved unfeasible.          Eventually, due to RADEEF's limited progress and continued
non-compliance, the project was suspended for 15 months, between June 2000 and September 2001, with less than
20% of the loan disbursed. The project was restructured in 2003 after cancellation of essential co-finacing.

The revised objectives, as excerpted from the amended loan and subsequent Projects Status Reports, consisted of:
1. Protecting the environment, and improving hygiene and public health in Fez through appropriate collection
     of the city wastewater;
2. Strengthening the institutional capabilities of RADEEF; and
3. Strengthening cost recovery in the sewerage sub-sector of RADEEF.

The restructuring occurred as a result of AFD's decision to pull out of the project, and of RADEEF's confirmed
inability to summon its counterpart funding. Project restructuring was also driven by the fact that: (i) completing
the ongoing works would yield major environmental benefits; (ii) finishing the new studies for the treatment plant
would help RADEEF overcome complex socio-technical constraints impairing project feasibility; and (iii)




                                                        - 2 -

improving the sewerage situation in Fez would help restore dialogue with the Government. Restructuring allowed
for the refocusing of the objectives, reduction of the scope (with the postponement of the treatment plant and of a
major overdesigned interceptor), cancellation of US$12 million of the loan, and an 18-month extension to the
closing date of the project.

The amended objectives were explicitly narrowed to Fez and RADEEF, and no longer included wastewater
treatment. They were coupled with reduced financial covenant thresholds, but no update of the monitoring
framework. As a result of a decision reportedly based on a legal opinion that the revisions did not justify the
Executive Directors' attention, Board approval was not sought. The revision of the objectives was approved at the
Director level, and was reported in the monthly operations report to the Board. In retrospect, the team should have
mobilized the time and resources needed to formally submit the revision to the Board.

3.3 Original Components:

The components, as described in the loan agreement, read as follows:
1. Rehabilitation, reinforcement and expansion of sewerage facilities consisting of supply and laying of
     interceptors, sewers, sewerage house connections, rehabilitation of existing sewers and ancillary works over a
     length of about 280 km, with a diameter ranging from 200 to 2,300 mm;
2. Provision of about 21,000 social sewerage house connections, including equipment thereof;
3. Installation of a pre-treatment facility, an olive oil residue treatment facility and a lagoon-based wastewater
     treatment plant.
4. Acquisition of equipment and utility vehicles and provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen
     the operational capability of RADEEF.

These components were consistent with the PDOs, however no breakdown of funding was available by component.
The SAR for its part lacks a clear description of components: Line-items are listed for three cities, with no details
as to outputs, financing, or procurement.
3.4 Revised Components:

Upon restructuring of the project in June 2003, the revised components were changed as follows:
1. Rehabilitation, reinforcement and expansion of sewerage facilities in the city of Fez;
2. Provision of about 21,000 social sewerage house connections, including equipment thereof;
3. Installation of a pre-treatment facility, and carrying out feasibility and environmental studies of technical
     options to treat olive oil residue and wastewater in the city of Fez;
4. Acquisition of equipment and utility vehicles, and provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen
     the operational capability of RADEEF.

The revisions included the cancellation of a major interceptor in component (A), and replacement of the treatment
plant with studies to prepare a new plant design in component (C). They were approved at the Director level and
not submitted for approval by the Board of Executive Directors.



3.5 Quality at Entry:

The quality at entry of the project is rated highly unsatisfactory. Beyond SAR inconsistencies, project design was
weak, with shortcomings such as:
l    Overambitious scope, in light of sector and RADEEF capacities, and Fez sewerage system conditions;
l    Inadequate technical feasibility assessment of crucial subcomponents: The project committed to a preliminary
     lagoon plant design, which proved unfeasible due to land acquisition requirements and inadequate process
     performance; The renewal of the north interceptor also had to be postponed, due to over-design; The
     requirements and challenges of implementing industrial pre-treatment were underestimated.
l    General lack of needs analysis and funded components, or dialogue (ESW), to promote capacity building and
     policy reform;




                                                         - 3 -

l    Lack of evidence of public health and social impact assessments;
l    Monitoring framework ill-adapted to sewerage infrastructure outputs/outcomes;
l    Narrow and optimistic risk evaluation focusing on potential non-performance of the side-agreement, lacking
     mitigation or contingency measures and overlooking capacity, technical, financial and social risks.
l    Lessons derived from previous projects were disregarded, in particular for capacity building and training.

Substantial delays in project approval (10 months after appraisal), and startup (18 months after effectiveness)
suggest non optimal project readiness. Weakening of dialogue between the Bank and the Governement at the end
of preparation may have contributed to this situation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall outcome of the project is rated         satisfactory.   The project has been rated satisfactory since
restructuring, consistent with the revised objectives. However, as the restructuring was not formally submitted to
the Board of Executive Directors approval, Bank guidelines recommend that for ICR purposes, the outcome only be
rated against the original objectives. Despite a troubled history, and as detailed hereafter, the project is deemed to
have substantially achieved its original components and objectives. At closing furthermore, the project is estimated
to have a 12% economic rate of return, with a positive NPV and a strong sustainability outlook.

The outcome indicators of the project were limited to financial parameters, with no indicators to assess services,
public health, and environmental or institutional outcomes. Project outputs were only tracked as numbers of
connections and staff (see Annex 1). Such limitations were compounded by the fact that the indicators were not
systematically documented through implementation, and that no alternative indicators were proposed. As a result,
project evaluation must in part be based on reasonably inferred direct of indirect impacts of sewerage and project
activities. Anecdotal evidence is also offered by team or Borrower for illustration of some impacts.

A.        Original objective: Protecting the environment, improving hygiene and public health, and preserving
water resources through appropriate collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater. This outcome is rated
satisfactory. The extensive augmentation and rehabilitation of the sewerage network has considerably improved
sanitation across Fez, with benefits to hygiene, public health and quality of life. Such benefits, which are
acknowledged by all stakeholders (RADEEF, citizens, public officials), albeit inadequately and not scientifically
documented, can be attributed to reduced exposure to flowing or stagnating wastewater, and thus to water borne
pathogens. By reliably collecting all sewage flows, the project has improved environmental conditions in the city
and along the Oued Fez. The project did not achieve substantial protection of water resources, as it could only
implement a pretreatment station, and had to forgo a flawed treatment plant concept. The project nevertheless
prepared the groundwork for a viable plant, and delivered the necessary design and studies which now allow
implementation of the plant. As a result, the likely outcome on the environmental objective is satisfactory. The
following facts illustrate sewerage results, which have environmental and public health impacts:
l    From a baseline of 62,000 sewerage connections, the project has made possible to establish 53,000 additional
     connections, reaching a total of 115,000 connections, i.e. an 85% increase in connected households. Of these,
     30,000 were "social connections" in poor neighborhoods. Population access to house connections was thus
     raised from 65% in 1996 to 95% in 2005, which translates into approximately 300,000 additional urban
     dwellers connected to modern sewerage network. RADEEF furthermore estimates more broadly that sewerage
     improvements have benefited over 500,000 people (see Annex 9).
l    Dozens of open air sewage flow and pooling areas have been eliminated. By RADEEF's account, chronic
     sewage backflows into homes and wet weather sewer overflows have been substantially reduced. The quality of
     life, amenity and sanitary conditions of Fez have thus been improved, particularly in the Medina (the densely
     populated medieval core of Fez), along the Oued Fez and in downtown areas previously known as "black
     spots". Anecdotally, notoriously noxious downtown areas now feature tourist traffic and restaurants.
l    100% of sewage flows are now captured in enclosed sewers, and dozens of sewers previously discharging into
     local oueds are intercepted. About 80% of sewage undergoes pre-treatment (screening and desilting) at the
     Zenjfour pretreatment station, before discharge to the downstream reaches of Oued Fez.



                                                         - 4 -

l   With no biological treatment plant, the oued Fez and Sebou river are still polluted by the organic loads of Fez.
    The project has however developed a viable secondary treatment plant design, which has been adopted for a
    AFD/EIB-funded design-build-operate (DBO) project to be completed by 2009.

B.       Original objective: Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Borrower; This outcome is rated
satisfactory. RADEEF's capacity for sewerage has significantly improved since 1996. Institution building
components in the project were limited to equipment and technical assistance for infrastructure program
management, in part because other RADEEF capacity needs were being addressed under the Bank's Fifth. Water
Project also on-going at the time. Key project-related achievements during the project include:
l   Setup of a sanitation department, hiring and training of 75 technical staff and 95 laborers assigned to
    operations and works, adoption of health and safety measures, and development of sewerage network maps.
l   Setup of an industrial pretreatment unit, with analytical laboratory capabilities, mandated to monitor and
    control industrial discharges into the network, although with limited enforcement authority.
l   Management accounting of electricity, water and sanitation operating costs and revenues.
l   Good customer and community relations, due to much improved sanitation service, translating into satisfactory
    bill collection among non-institutional clients.

C.       Original objective: Strengthening cost recovery in the sewerage sub-sector. This outcome is rated
unsatisfactory, as the objective was never consistently met. Although no indicator or target was suggested at
appraisal, partial cost-recovery can be inferred from net income data in Table 1 below. Despite improvements,
linked more to tariff increases than to efficiency gains, cost-recovery of RADEEF's sewerage operations has
remained weak. In 2003 for instance RADEEF achieved overall cost-recovery thanks to electricity and water sales.
This performance could not be updated, as RADEEF's 2004 audited financial statements remain unavailable as of
November 2005. Cost-recovery has nevertheless benefited from the following gains:
l   Since 2001, several sewerage (and water) tariff increases and structure adjustments have been granted to
    RADEEF, including three substantial sewerage tariff increases (April 2001, December 2001, and February
    2004), thus limiting the reliance on electricity revenue transfers.
l   RADEEF's implementation of management accounting by activities allows for better monitoring of costs and
    revenues for its substantially expanded sewerage operation and client base.
l   As of 2005 a budget rule is at last enforced nationwide by which local governements must include validated
    utility costs in their budgets and pay all outstanding utility bills before any surplus reallocation is authorized.
    A 5-year payment plan for certified accumulated arrears is also announced for RADEEF.
l   As part of the follow-up treatment plant project, the Government, the city and RADEEF are committed to
    achieve self-sufficient sanitation operations, by doubling sewerage tariffs between 2005 and by 2009.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The project has achieved full completion of the revised components by the June 30, 2005 closing date, with about
48% of loan disbursements occurring in the last 24 months.

A. Rehabilitation, reinforcement and expansion of sewerage facilities in the city of Fez: The outcome of works
completed under the main component of the project is satisfactory.
l   Fez's primary network was expanded, rehabilitated and interconnected (construction of Western and
    Downstream interceptors, rehabilitation of Southern and Moulay Abdellah collectors).
l   The secondary network was expanded and rehabilitated, allowing 55,000 new household connections, of which
    30,000 were in poor areas (Northern, Jnanates, Aouinet Al Hajjaj, Tarik, Fez Jdid and Medina).
l   Sanitation was extended to new urban developments (Himmer I and II, Miyit, Ain Smen, and Massira
    Dokkarat collectors, Bensouda and Hay ben Abdellah networks).
l   Overflow "black-spots" were eliminated by strengthening sewerage and stormwater networks (New City,
    Southern system, Guerouaoua and Ban Siffer collectors, Downstream interceptor).
l   Rehabilitation, enclosure, and interception of traditional oueds-égouts were completed in the Medina (a
    uniquely challenging manual undertaking, bordering on architectural restoration).
l   The planned replacement of the North collector was reassessed, in favor of rehabilitation, at a savings



                                                          - 5 -

    estimated at US$9 million. The rehabilitation study was completed, with the actual works part of a follow-up
    project.
In total, over 60 km of sewers of mostly large and medium diameters were installed, 15,000 tons of debris and solid
waste were extracted in rehabilitation works, and dozens of open air sewers were enclosed.

B. Provision of about 21,000 social sewerage house connections, including equipment: This output is satisfactory
. Over 30,000 social connections to the sewerage network were completed in collaboration with other state
agencies, and coordinated with water connections implemented under the Fifth Water Project.

C. Installation of a pre-treatment facility, and carrying out feasibility and environmental studies of technical
options to treat olive oil residue and wastewater in the city of Fez: The output of this component must be rated
unsatisfactory against its original contents, which committed to the construction of a treatment plant. The
Zenjfour screening and desilting station was built for pretreatment of over 80% of Fez effluents, producing
wastewater that can be dropped through a cogeneration turbine. Clogging of screens by solid waste still hampers
operation of the station and can cause accidental overflows. The original component included the construction of a
lagoon-based wastewater treatment plant, whose Borrower-provided design proved technically unfeasible because
of land acquisition requirements and insufficent pollution abatement performance. In turn, the restructured project
delivered the feasibility, preliminary design, impact, and risk studies for a modern activated-sludge treatment
plant, soon to be built under a follow-up AFD/EIB-funded project. Environmental management studies also
outlined options to address the industrial pollution sources, including olive residues. The project nevertheless
underestimated the socioeconomic challenge of implementing industrial pretreatment and waste management
solutions in Fez. With regards to the restructured component, the output is satisfactory.

D. Acquisition of equipment and vehicles and provision of technical assistance and training to strengthen the
operational capability of RADEEF. The output of this component is rated unsatisfactory. New utility cars,
trucks, and sewage curing equipment effectively strengthened network operations capacity. TA provided to
infrastructure program management also proved invaluable in post-suspension and post-restructuring recoveries.
However, in light of RADEEF capacity building needs, and in spite of institutional capacity and cost recovery
objectives, this component was under-designed, and did not supply RADEEF with substantial training or TA in
operations or management. The lack of training is flagged by the Borrower in its project completion report.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Appraisal assumptions for calculating the rate of return of the project components did not materialize: Besides an
18 month startup delay, the revenue plan was thrown off by Government's default on covenanted tariff adjustments
and arrears recovery. RADEEF's ability to implement more efficient cost recovery strategies and to generate
financial resources to cover its share of the investment costs was thus impacted. Persistent efficiency issues
continued to plague the utility, including worsening distribution efficiency (unaccounted-for-water initially rated at
35-40% was estimated at 48-49% in 2003). Environmental and health benefits were not accounted for in the
original assessment. In retrospect, taking into account such additional benefits and planning for their monitoring
may have made the economic analysis more relevant. The inclusion of decisive factors such as network efficiency,
effect of droughts, urban growth, and the cost of health and environmental degradation, would also have been
useful.

The ICR's economic analysis is based on actual utility performance and takes into account revenues generated
from the sewerage activity, including tariffs and connection fees. The revenues are then projected over 20 years
(until 2025) and are gauged against total costs for the period including O&M costs and investments. The latter are
valued using border (or shadow) prices and include cost of equipment rehabilitation (in 2018 and 2019). In
addition, the analysis takes into account RADEEF's latest gains in terms of scheduled tariff adjustments, and
arrears recovery regulations, to enhance revenue generation. The most likely scenario that is evaluated is based on
the following assumptions: (i) a 25% sewerage tariff adjustment recurring every 10 years (i.e. 2006 and 2017); (ii)
O&M costs that do not include treatment (not included in the restructured scope of project), and (ii) volumes
collected increasing by 2% annually. The resulting Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is of about 12%, which




                                                         - 6 -

matches the assessment made at appraisal (see Annex 3). When treatment O&M costs are included in the scenario
the ERR drops to 9%. A third scenario, based on a 25% tariff adjustment every 5 years while not taking into
consideration the treatment cost increase, shows that ERR increase to about 13% (11% when adding treatment
costs). Investment viability is shown as strongly dependent on RADEEF's continued ability to secure periodic
tariff adjustments. As data on health and environment was not collected during the project, related benefits were
not assessed. Consequently, the calculated ERR does not benefit from the positive contribution of these impacts.
The project NPV for the period 1997-2025 at a 10% discount rate is estimated at US$ 63 million in terms of
revenues, and US$ 7 million in terms of benefits (revenues net of costs).

4.4 Financial rate of return:

This parameter was not assessed at appraisal. Financial viability of RADEEF's sanitation activity is discussed
below.

Financial Capacity: (also see Annex 3)
Inadequate cost recovery, in part due to unpredictable tariff increases and chronic accumulation of arrears, has long
contributed to RADEEF's unsustainable financial performance. Indicators for the 1997-2003 period show a trend
of negative net income for all activities (electricity, water and sewerage). The impact of substantial tariff increases
in electricity, water or sanitation is felt in 1999 and 2002. Continued cross-subsidization from the electricity
activity is also reaching its limits.

                             Table 1: Net Income in Dh Million for RADEEF's Activities
           Activity                   1997      1998       1999       2000       2001       2002       2003
           Electricity               -4.70     -11.60      31.98      41.65      49.74      42.69      14.00
         Water                       -91.80    -92.25      -69.97    -55.29     -66.02      -46.39    -46.00
         Sewerage                     -4.04    -19.20      -18.17    -25.83     -22.86       9.79      -3.75

Institutional arrears have persisted for all activities through the life of the project, reaching a staggering cumulated
626 millions Dh (US$ 60 million), with insufficient write-offs and ever less credible collection plans. Starting in
2003, RADEEF is nevetheless implemting a three-year 120 million Dh write-off.

Sewerage Activity Projections (also see Annex 3): Since 2001, tariff regulation by the Government has given
increasing weight to utility sustainability imperatives with particular emphasis, starting in 2005, on sanitation.
Also, starting in 2005, new public administration rules may protect utilities against accumulation of municipal
arrears. The 2017 projections reported in Annex 3, assume such improvements, and suggest that RADEEF
sewerage activity will generate positive net income in the long-term. The assumptions include (i) a 25% average
tariff increase every 10 years; (ii) sewerage accounts receivable reduced to 6 months for service and 1 month for
works ; (iii) 2% annual increase in volumes collected ; and (iv) a 10% annual increase of connections and works.
This should lead to better cost recovery with a net operating ratio of about 30% by 2006 and to 27% by 2010.
Average internal cash generation would reach 38 Dh million for the period 2005-2017.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of the project is rated modest. The initial lack of sewerage experience has
largely been compensated "on-the-job", as today's RADEEF adequately fulfills basic sewerage operation and
maintenance services with standard operating procedures. Through its project implementation unit, RADEEF also
improved capital program management capacity, as attested by the pace of execution achieved since restructuring.
From a management standpoint, RADEEF has integrated sanitation along its traditional water and electricity
operations, and established a viable multi-utility business, with adequate budgeting and accounting by activities
and limited emphasis on performance management.              Finally, initial Borrower and Government struggles on
sewerage tariff and cost-recovery issues have contributed to increased awareness of regulation responsibility in the
sustainability of the sanitation sector.




                                                           - 7 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Regardless of its causes, the cancellation of AFD's loan in 2001, on the basis non performance by RADEEF,
significantly changed the project conditions, and could not be foreseen at project inception. The contracting of
complex and unmechanized works in the Medina was delayed by the lack of candidates in the first two bid
attempts.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Along with the Bank, the Government was responsible for project readiness shortcomings. The Government is
largely accountable for not complying with the tariff increase and arrear repayment commitments of the
side-agreement which ultimately led to project suspension in 2001. At the local government level, inertia on the
issue of arrears resulted from the view that RADEEF should be a malleable extension of the municipality. The
municipality was not effective in supporting RADEEF in issues related to land acquisition, industrial pretreatment,
and solid waste management, and vandalism.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

RADEEF's inability to assert its management autonomy under the double influence of municipal and central
governements was a factor which impaired its contribution to all Project objectives. Beyond tariff and arrear
impacts,    the  cost-recovery     objective  was    undermined    by    RADEEF     not   making     a   priority  of
"unaccounted-for-water", and letting performance degrade over the life of the project. In spite of insufficient
implementation capacity in the early project years, RADEEF's performance in completing all components in the
last two years of the project should be highlighted.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Total project costs at appraisal were estimated at US$97.0 million, of which US$40.0 million were to be financed
by IBRD. The deficit was to be financed by AFD (US$ 23.6 million), RADEEF (18.8 US$ million) and by direct
contributions of beneficiaries (14.6 US$ million). At the time cost breakdown was only available by expense
category and not by component. AFD cancelled its loan in 2000 after RADEEF was unable to mobilize counterpart
resources and the lagoon-based treatment plant design proved unfeasible. Project restructuring in 2003 led to the
cancellation of some substantial subcomponents, including the lagoon wastewater treatment plant (estimated at
US$20 million) and the replacement of the northern collector (estimated a $18 million). The total restructured
project cost was US$ 40 million, of which US$28 million was financed by IBRD. At closing, total actual cost was
33.76 US$ million with Bank funding totaling US$ 26.3 million, thus achieving a 94% disbursement rate on the
US$28 million restructured loan (also see Annex 2).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Project sustainability is rated likely. This rating is supported by the following considerations: i) Projections point
to the financial viability of RADEEF's sewerage activity, ii) the works implemented by the project are well within
RADEEF's operation and maintenance capabilities; and iii) the Government is committed to sustain the
development and performance of the sector, with more comprehensive regulatory and financing strategies .

Other donors will also be contributing to RADEEF's development and performance. The financing plan for the
AFD/EIB-funded wastewater treatment plant has thus committed the Government to a substantial "public good"
capital subsidy, as well as to a scheduled doubling of sewerage tariffs between 2005 and 2009. Furthermore, when
it is established in 2009, the private operator of the new wastewater treatment plant can be expected to apply
indirect competitive pressures on RADEEF's upstream operations. RADEEF is also to implement an aggressive



                                                         - 8 -

AFD-financed efficiency and loss-reduction program, including approximately US$20 million of mains renewal,
towards lowering non-revenue water from 46% to 30%, thereby substantially improving its financial sustainability
outlook.    This relation with a donor should ensure RADEEF's continued focus on financial management
performance, as well as renewed leverage on government regulators and stakeholders.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Normal and sustainable operations, in particular at the Zenjfour pre-treatment station, remain contingent on a
reduction of solid waste loads disposed by Fez citizens in the sewer system.             The enclosure of traditional
"oued-égouts" by the project and the outsourcing of municipal solid waste collection by the city are expected to
alleviate this issue. Environmental and visual project impacts will also be further consolidated once RADEEF and
local authorities address an isolated but recurrent problem of sabotage by a handful of urban farmers who cause
sewer overflows to irrigate their plots. It is also important that RADEEF increase the sophistication of sewerage
operations, in particular through the implementation and management of an effective industrial pretreatment
program.     RADEEF's strategic planning should also accommodate capacity expansions for the wastewater
treatment plant which, depending on demand and population growth scenarios, could be needed as early as 2014.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance in project preparation is rated unsatisfactory.          Identification and preparation thoroughly
articulated a very ambitious vision of solving Morocco's complex sewerage infrastructure priorities, with
overwhelming focus on nationwide financing and cost-recovery issues, at the expense of institutional and technical
challenges faced by the multiple operators, and with limited concern for maximizing and measuring sanitation
impacts. After sector dialogue with the Government stalled, and the project scope was reduced to Fez, appraisal
failed to tailor-down ambitions, objectively reassess risks and capacities, and focus on the consistency of a complex
project design. The steps and time required to retrofit a deficient sewerage system, establish an operator and
develop a sustainable treatment capacity, in a large city lacking any solid waste or industrial pollution
management, were indeed underestimated.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank performance during project supervision is rated, on balance, unsatisfactory. This rating is given as a
result of weaknesses such as: i) failure to ensure timely restructuring, ii) failure to improve an obviously lacking
monitoring framework; iii) decision to suspend the project without sufficient prior mitigation of potential lawsuits
impacts on RADEEF, and iv) repeated losses of momentum in client service due to high rate of task leader
turnover (7 since 1996). The rating is given in spite of the fact that strenuous supervision efforts also contributed
positively to the project through i) regular and well-staffed missions to supervise and facilitate complex project
issues, ii) quality of advice and commitment provided to client by teams and management, iii) careful
restructuring, and iv) progress in sector policies and deepening of dialogue. Suspension had considerable costs in
terms of procurement claims, implementation delays and damage to sector dialogue. The restructuring effort was
substantial and successful but could have been enacted sooner.          With the suspension and with the ensuing
withdrawal of AFD's co-financing in 2001, the project outlook was sufficiently altered to call for restructuring.
The need to restructure was only agreed with RADEEF in April 2003, and the formal restructuring request was
received in June 2003. The restructured loan agreement was later submitted to Borrower and signed in November
2003. Restructuring was a process more than a step, and improvements in project performance were gained
incrementally. Project performance was upgraded to Satisfactory in June 2003, following a certain number of key
actions (i.e. large water tariff increase, cancellation of an over-designed replacement of the "north collector"). In
order to encourage further improvements on sensitive issues, the Bank made the closing date extension contingent
on continued good performance until November 2003, based on a set of criteria specified as early as April 2003.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:



                                                          - 9 -

The Bank's overall performance is considered unsatisfactory, despite redeeming efforts in supervision and
restructuring. As described above, the main reasons for this rating include:
l    Urealistic goals and inadequate project design and appraisal (also see Quality at Entr);
l    Unavailability of public health specialists and socioeconomists to improve monitoring of impacts during
     supervision;
l    High task team leader turnover;
l    Delayed restructuring.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower performance in preparation is rated unsatisfactory. The project was prepared in the absence of a viable
institutional and financial framework for the sanitation sector and both the Government and the Borrower were not
fully aware of their own limitations to implement such an ambitious project. Evidence of this includes the
side-agreement failure, as well as the non-feasibility of the lagoon-wastewater treatment plant design.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The central and local government implementation performance was unsatisfactory. As a promoter of the newly
restructured sanitation sector, the Government should have acted on its side-agreement obligations instead of
undermining the credibility of its sector policies at the time. As de facto regulator, it should also have provided
RADEEF with clearer incentives for performance, and more aggressive support in its dealings with the
municipality. Both local and central governments also long failed to resolve the problem of arrears and of
industrial pollution pretreatment.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

While it is important to stress the impressive amount of construction that RADEEF managed to complete in the
two years following restructuring (48% of loan disbursements), the performance of the implementing agency over
the life of the project is considered unsatisfactory. The lack of specialized capacity of the agency, and its lack of
management autonomy were important factors in its inability to meet the loan covenants, thereby leading to
suspension. Management ability to enhance overall performance and cost recovery has also remained weak. Its
reporting remained focused on procurement and disbursement progress, physical advancement, and anecdotal
impacts, and never tracked by component or by performance indicators. Issuance of audited financial statements
suffered substantial delays.      Erroneous disbursement applications occurred in 2003 but were subsequently
corrected.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


Based on the above, aggregate Borrower and Guarantor performance is considered unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


A. Critical risks call for contingency planning. Appraisal focused on the risk of a possible side-agreement
     default. It discussed probabilities and measures to reduce the risk, but did not offer alternative courses of
     action if this "mission-critical" risk were to occur. Contingency planning might have prepared the parties to
     trigger the restructuring as early as 1999 (midterm review) and avoid the subsequent suspension controversy.
     In committing to an ambitious project subject to external and hypothetical factors, Bank and Borrower should
     develop contingency plans, or even "exit strategies", in the event critical conditions do not materialize.

B. Formal project restructuring should occur as early as possible. The Project would have reached better



                                                          - 10 -

    outcomes faster, and Bank and Borrower would have incurred lesser costs, if the restructuring had taken place
    earlier. Project teams should be prepared to restructure projects in early stages, when the Project Document or
    the PDOs are inaccurate, when the monitoring system is not in place or is faulty, or when important changes
    affect the project environment. A streamlining of the restructuring process would facilitate a decision to
    restructure, and limit the risk of supervision budget overrun.

C. Focus on nationwide reform should not distract from anchoring project preparation in local and
    technical feasibility. While framed to support an ambitious national vision to rehabilitate and develop the
    sanitation sector, project preparation was not sufficiently concerned with the technical details and institutional
    realities crucial to implementation in Fez. The risks of superficial design were also inherent to the Bank's
    originally intended multi-city/multi-agency implementation scope.

D. Infrastructure projects should not claim public health benefits without investing the effort to make such
    benefits credible. The project did not involve public health specialists in preparation or supervision. As a
    result, components did not include any provisions to ensure and maximize public health impacts, and the
    monitoring framework did not include relevant indicators, with baseline values and regular updates. To a
    certain extent, the project similarly failed to maximize and monitor environmental benefits. Supervision
    budgets should be designed and managed so as to allow the involvement of specific additional expertise.

E. Institutional capacity and performance objectives deserve to be supported by relevant technical
    assistance or training components. While the project aimed at institutional and performance gains, it lacked
    a strategy and components to influence such objectives. Even in middle income countries, and despite
    common client reticence to borrow for "soft" components, capacity building needs should not be
    underestimated.

F. The population of Fez is better off with the project than without it. Even with a less ambitious restructured
    scope, indicators provided in this report show that the population of Fez is better off with the project than
    without it. Restructured project performance rating and client dialogue should not continue to be penalized
    through completion, after substantial measures have been taken to redress issues caused by a faulty and overly
    ambitious original design.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Borrower's completion report is attached as Annex. Borower comments on this report, informally received, are
hereby conveyed:
l   The satisfactoryproject outcome rating is incompatible with unsatisfactoryperformance by all parties.
l   Borrower did not lack of capacity to implement a complex scope. Early problems and delays were caused by
    the fact that the project was negociated based on conceptual design estimates, and that a detailed preliminary
    design for the wastewater plant would not be available until mid-1998.
l   Some public health impacts could be derived from the wastewater treatment plant risk study completed in
    2005.

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                        - 11 -

N/A




       - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



 Outcome / Impact Indicators :                               1


                                                                                                         2
                        Indicator/Matrix                                                      At Appraisal                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                             (FY2005 data))                   (FY2003 data)
 Water Distribution System Efficiency                                                             70%                              52%
 (in percent)
Working Ratio (in percent)                                                                        83%                              87%
Operating Ratio (in percent)                                                                      40%                              68%
Accounts Receivables (in months)                                                                9 months                       18 months
Debt Service (times)                                                                              n/a                               2.2
Debt Ratio (in percent)                                                                           5%                               17%
Cash Generation (% of inv. Program)                                                               n/a                               n/a
Average Water Tariff (DH/m3)                                                                      3.46                             5.61
Average Sewerage Charge (DH/m3)                                                                   n/a                              1.71

 1 These performance indicators were formally selected in the 1996 Staff Appraisal Report (Annex 2-13).
 2 These indicators were not systematically reported by the Borrower nor tracked in supervision's PSR/ISRs.
 3 At ICR time, the Borrower's audited Financial Statements for 2004 were unavailable. .




 Output Indicators:

                        Indicator/Matrix                                                 Baseline              Last PSR                 Target
                                                                                         (07/1996)                    4
                                                                                                               (3/2005)                  value

Number of sewerage house connections                                                      62,000            115,000 approx.           120,000
(SHC)
Number of technical staff per thousand                                                     1.2                    1.5                    2.0
SHC
Population served by SHC                                                                   65%               95% approx.                 97%
Population serve by individual sanitation                                                  2%                     n/a                    n/a


4The latest data available on these indicators date back to March 2005.




                                                                                                - 13 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


 Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)

                                      Estimated Costs                Estimated Costs                          Actual Costs
                                         at appraisal                 At restructuring                           at closing

        Categories                     Total         Bank           Total            Bank                Total              Bank

  Civil Works & Sewers
 (incl. Treatment Plant)                89.7          29.8            32                22               29.06              21.80

 Supply & Installation of
 Equipment & Vehicles                   3.9            1.2           3.5               2.5                1.98              1.75

      TA & Training                     3.4             2            4.5               3.5                2.72              2.72

       Unallocated                                      7

      Project Total                      97            40             40                28               33.76              26.27




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                              Procurement Method1

      Expenditure Category                          ICB                 NCB               Other2                 N.B.F.        Total Cost

1. Works                                          31.91                 0.68                  -                                      32.58
                                                  (6.26)               (0.04)                                                        (6.31)
2. Goods                                          21.21                 0.05                  -                                      21.26
                                                 (15.90)                                                                            (15.90)
3. Services                                           -                    -                3.41                                      3.41
                                                                                           (2.50)                                    (2.50)
4. Miscellaneous                                      -                    -                  -

                   Total                          53.12                 0.73                3.41                                     57.25
                                                 (22.17)               (0.04)              (2.50)                                   (24.71)
    1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project
       management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-
       lending project funds to local government units.




                                                                 - 14 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

 * Calculations include tariff adjustments of 25% in 2006 and 2017. However, they do not include O&M treatment costs




                                   Table 1: Projected project benefits 1997-20025 (US$ million)

              Civil works                          T.A &           Total       O&M                    Sewerage
                & sewers        Equipment        Training       Investment      costs      Costs       revenues      Benefits-Costs
 1997             0.00              0.00           0.44            0.44                     0.87         0.00           -0.87
 1998             0.00              0.10           0.38            0.47                     0.95         0.00           -0.95
 1999             5.29              0.00           0.38            5.67                    11.33         0.00           -11.33
 2000             5.28              0.19           0.00            5.46                    10.93         0.00           -10.93
 2001             0.60              0.25           0.00            0.85                     1.69         0.00           -1.69
 2002             2.86              0.36           0.34            3.55                     7.11         0.00           -7.11
 2003             2.52              0.46           0.34            3.32         3.24        9.89         6.65           -3.24
 2004             3.51              0.41           0.35            4.27         3.32       11.85         6.77           -5.08
 2005             9.01              0.00           0.50            9.51         3.40       22.41         8.47           -13.95
 2006                                                                           3.49        3.49        11.63            8.14
 2007                                                                           3.57        3.57        12.71            9.15
 2008                                                                           3.66        3.66        12.99            9.33
 2009                                                                           3.56        3.56        13.03            9.47
 2010                                                                           3.56        3.56        13.32            9.76
 2011                                                                           3.56        3.56        13.62           10.06
 2012                                                                           3.56        3.56        13.93           10.37
 2013                                                                           3.56        3.56        14.24           10.68
 2014                                                                           3.56        3.56        14.57           11.01
 2015                                                                           3.56        3.56        14.91           11.35
 2016                                                                           3.56        3.56        15.25           11.69
 2017                                                                           3.56        3.56        17.90           14.34
 2018                                                              4.00         3.56        7.56        18.31           10.75
 2019                                                              4.00         3.56        7.56        18.73           11.17
 2020                                                                           3.56        3.56        19.16           15.60
 2021                                                                           3.56        3.56        19.63           16.07
 2022                                                                           3.56        3.56        20.09           16.53
 2023                                                                           3.56        3.56        20.57           17.01
 2024                                                                           3.56        3.56        21.06           17.50
 2025                                                                           3.56        3.56        21.06           17.50

 Economic Rate of Return ERR = 12%




                                                          - 15 -

                    Table 2: RADEEF- Sewerage Activity, Income Statement-projections to 2017

Income Statement                                                 2003      2004    2005     2006     2017

Gross Income (in DH million)                                     58.14    57.65    73.32    104.60  168.98
 Sewerage Charges                                                55.69    49.34    58.05    73.90   113.14
 Connection Charges                                                        6.72    13.54    28.81    50.95
 Other income (works)                                            2.45      1.59    1.74     1.90     4.89
Capitalized Output (as Income)                                   7.66      9.35    10.40    10.40    8.00
Gross Income (in DH million)                                     65.80    66.99    83.72    115.00  176.98
Inputs Costs                                                     13.38    13.10    13.00    13.00    11.00

Other inputs related costs                                       1.80      2.04    2.22     2.37     4.80
Taxes                                                            0.20      0.16    0.17     0.17     0.27
Salaries                                                         16.53    17.41    18.11    18.83    28.99

Total operational costs                                          31.92    32.71    33.50    34.38    45.06

Gross Operating Income (surplus)                                 33.88    34.28    50.22    80.62   131.92

O&M + depreciation                                               58.88    62.19    56.23    59.27   102.27
Other Operating costs                                                      0.01    0.01     0.01     0.00
Depreciation and provisions/allowances for stocks                26.96    29.48    22.73    24.89    57.21
   Inv. Depreciation                                                      25.96    19.20    24.89    57.21
Total Costs (including depreciation + financial expenses)        67.70    67.99    63.68    68.05   110.27
Operating Income                                                 6.92      4.79    27.48    55.73    74.71
Interest and Other Financial Income                              3.17      0.11    0.12     0.13     0.26
Interest and Financial Charges                                   8.83      5.79    7.45     8.78     8.00
Financial provisions                                                      (1.63)
Other financial Charges                                                    0.22    0.22     0.24     0.35
Income from financial transactions (résultat financier)          (5.65)   (4.28)   (7.55)   (8.89)  (8.09)

Investment Subsidies                                                       3.82    4.03     4.25     11.35
Other Income                                                     3.03      0.27
Other provisions (dotations non-courantes)                       7.71      6.16    6.09       -       -

Income (resultat exceptionnel)                                   (4.71)   (2.13)   (2.06)   4.25     11.35
Taxes                                                            0.30      0.34    0.37     0.52     0.84

Net Income                                                       (3.75)   (1.96)   17.51    50.57    77.12




                                                          - 16 -

                         Table 3: RADEEF ­ Sewerage Activity, Financial Performance Ratios

Ratio Analysis                                                     2003    2004    2005     2006   2007     2010    2011     2017

Gross Operating Ratio                                               89%     93%     67%     52%     49%     75%      73%     58%

Net Operating Ratio                                                 49%     49%     40%     30%     28%     27%      28%     25%

Volumes collected (Million m3)                                     32.65   33.00  33.94   34.57   35.21   37.20    37.89  38.60

O&M Costs (Million Dh) including treatment as of 2010              32.05   32.85  33.64   34.53   35.30   71.45    72.58  89.06

O&M Costs (Million Dh) not including treatment                     32.05   32.85  33.64   34.53   35.30   36.08    37.19  45.06

OM/m3 (Dh) including treatment costs                                0.98    1.00  0.99    1.00    1.00    1.92       1.92 2.31

Average Tariff (Dh/m3)                                              1.71    1.71  1.71    2.14    2.14    2.14       2.14 2.68

Average Tariff / average cost/m3 including treatment               174%    172%    173%   214%    213%     111%    112%     116%

OM/m3 (Dh) not including treatment costs                            0.98    1.00  0.99    1.00    1.00    0.97       0.98 1.17

Average Tariff / average cost/m3 not including treatment           174%    172%    173%   214%    213%     221%    218%     229%

Arrears in days                                                     246     287   183     182     183     187        187  188

Arrears in Months                                                    8.2     9.6     6.1     6.1     6.1      6.2     6.2      6.3

Internal Cash Generation                                           30.79   28.10  34.40   48.45   66.11   32.88   34.77   29.21

Debt Ratio                                                      26%       25%      31%     38%     43%     38%     37%      21%




                  Table 4: RADEEF ­ Consolidated (All Activities), Financial Performance Ratios


                                                    2003  2004  2005    2006   2007    2010    2011    2017
Net Income (in Dh million)                           -35  -63      9     86     116     67      67      70
Operating Ratio                                     68%   68%    64%    56%     53%    57%     58%     62%
Working Ratio                                       108%  87%    81%    72%     69%    80%     80%     83%
Arrears (days)                                       645  607    540    456     402     329    324     292
Debt Ratio                                          18%   17%    20%    38%     38%    32%     30%     18%
Internal Cash Generation ( in Dh million)                  97    119    -354    174     180    185     212
Average Water Tariff (Dh/m3)                        5.48  5.61   5.61   5.79    5.79   5.79    5.79    5.79
Water Distribution System Efficiency                53%   55%    57%    60%     63%    70%     70%     70%




                                                             - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              11/28/1994

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              4/28/1995
              3/6/1996

 Supervision

              04/30/1997                2    SANITARY ENGINEER (1);            S               S
                                             SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              10/27/1997                2    PR. SANITARY ENGINEER             S               S
                                             (1); SR. FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)
              03/27/1998                4    ENGINEER (2); FINANCIAL           S               S
                                             ANALYST (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1)
              03/09/1999                4    SENIOR FINANCIAL ANALY            U               U
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                             PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL AN
                                             (1)
              05/27/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                  U               U
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FIN. MGT. SPECIALIST (1)
              11/23/2000                3    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);            U               U
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTALIST (1)
              06/26/2001                4    FINANCIAL ANALYST/FMS             U               U
                                             (1); ENGINEER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              04/16/2002                3    ENGINEER/PROCUR. SPEC.            U               U
                                             (1); EGR/FIN. ANALYST/TTL
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTALIST (1)
              02/07/2003                4    SR INFRASTR. SPEC./TTL (1);       U               U
                                             LEAD FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); SR ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPEC. (1); JPA - ENGINEER (1)
              04/29/2004                5    SECTOR MANAGER (1); SR            S               S
                                             INFRASTR. SPEC /TTL (1);
                                             LEAD WATER & SANI. SPE
                                             (1); JPA - ENGINEER (1);
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1)
              10/24/2003                4    SR INFRASTR. SPEC /TTL (1);       S               S
                                             LEAD FINANCIAL ANALYST



                                              - 18 -

                                                  (1); JPA - ENGINEER (1); SR
                                                  FINANCIAL OFFICER (1)
               07/26/2004                    4    SR INFRASTR. SPEC (1); SR         S    S
                                                  WAT & SAN SPEC /TTL (1);
                                                  LEAD FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                                  (1); JPA ENGINEER (1)
               10/16/2004                    3    SR. WAT. & SAN SPEC/TL (1);       S    S
                                                  OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                  FIN. MGT SPEC. (1)
               03/20/2005                    2    SR. WAT. & SAN SPEC/TTL           S    S
                                                  (1); OPERATOINS OFFICER
                                                  (1); JPA ENGINEER (1)

 ICR
               01/07/2005                   3     SR. WAT. & SAN                    S    S
                                                  SPEC/TTL (1);
                                                  OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                                  (1); JPA ENGINEER (1)

Source: SAP

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  58.1                            209
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       37.2                            134
  Supervision                                195.8                            705
  ICR                                           8.3                            30
  Total                                      299.4                          1,078
Source: SAP, Bank budget
No. of Staff weeks calculated based on an average cost of $3,600 per staff week.




                                                  - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


l Mission Aide-Memoires
l Staff Appraisal Report
l Loan and Guarantee Agreement, Amended Loan Agreement
l Internal Memos and official correspondences on Loan Suspension and Lifting
l Internal Memos and official correspondences on Project Restructuring
l Project Status Reports/Implementation Status Reports on File
l Descriptive list of sub-projects on file
l Full report of Borrower's contribution on file
l Plan Directeur d'Assainissement de Fez (December 1995)
l AFD's Credit Suspension and Credit Cancellation Letters
l AFD's evaluation of new wastewater treatment plant project (2004)




                                                  - 22 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's completion report




                                        - 23 -

- 24 -

- 25 -

- 26 -

- 27 -

- 28 -

