Page  1
                                                          Conformed copy
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4010 MOR
                              Loan Agreement
              (Second Sewerage and Water Re-use Project)
                                between
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                                  and
         THE WATER AND ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION AUTHORITY OF FES
                         Dated May 30, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4010 MOR
                           LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 30, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and THE WATER AND ELECTRICITY
DISTRIBUTION AUTHORITY OF FES (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS: (A) Kingdom of Morocco (the Guarantor) and the Borrower,
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date here-
with between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to
undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee
Agreement;
     (C)  the Borrower intends to contract from other external sources
of funds (the Cofinanciers) one or more loans (the Cofinanciers' Loans)
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in agreements (the Cofinanciers' Loan Agreements) to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Cofinanciers; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
Page  2
                    General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals
          shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
          territories of any country which is not a member of the
          Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
          such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
          to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if
          such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is
          prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
          Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
          United Nations."
     (c)  In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
          which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
          inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
          3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "RADEEF" means the Water and Electricity Distribution Authority
of Fes (Regie Autonome Intercommunale de Distribution d'Eau et d'
Electricit de Fes) established and operating pursuant to the Decree
(Decret) No. 2-64-394 dated September 29, 1964, issued by the Guarantor,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (b)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Fiscal Year" means the twelve month period commencing on
January 1 and ending on December 31;
     (d)  "Category" means a withdrawal category set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (e)  "Performance Contract" means: (i) the contract dated December
16, 1993 between the Guarantor and the Borrower, as the same may be
updated from time to time, and (ii) its addendum dated March 15, 1996;
and
     (f)  "Investment, Financial and Operational Targets" means, for the
Borrower, the investment, financial and operational targets set forth in
the Performance Contract between the Borrower and the Guarantor, as the
same may be revised from time to time in accordance with the provisions
of Section 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount
of forty million dollars ($40,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of
the date of such withdrawal.
Page  3
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dirhams a special deposit account in the General Treasury
of the Guarantor on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
                  a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
                  as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
                  investments; and (B) loans which may be made by
                  the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
                  determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second
                  six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
               amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
               to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost
               of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
               preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
               1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued
               on the principal amount outstanding during the pre-
               ceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates appli-
               cable during such Interest Period."
Page  4
               "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
               Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
               Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings deter-
               mined in respect of such Quarter."
               "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period com-
               mencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
               a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic,
financial, environmental and public utility practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation
of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                               ARTICLE IV
               Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and public
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain
its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public
utility practices.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                              ARTICLE V
Page  5
                         Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
            (i)     have its records, accounts and financial statements
                    (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
                    and related statements) and the records and accounts
                    for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited,
                    in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                    consistently applied, by independent auditors
                    acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                    case not later than six months after the end of each
                    such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
                    statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
                    report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                    and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                    requested; and
           (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                    said records, accounts and financial statements as
                    well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
                    to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)     maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                    Section, records and accounts reflecting such
                    expenditures;
           (ii)     retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                    received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in
                    which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or
                    payment out of the Special Account was made, all
                    records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                    receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                    expenditures;
          (iii)     enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                    records; and
           (iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are included
                    in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
                    this Section and that the report of such audit
                    contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                    whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                    during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
                    cedures and internal controls involved in their
                    preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.
     Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall produce, for each of its Fiscal Years, funds from
internal sources equivalent to not less than 25% of the annual average
of the Borrower's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be
incurred, for that year, the previous Fiscal Year and the next
following Fiscal Year.
     (b)  Before September 30 in each Fiscal Year, the Borrower shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to
the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following Fiscal
Year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon its
completion.
Page  6
     (c)  If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower's Fiscal
Year covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all
necessary measures (including, without limitation, recommendation
for adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to
meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)     The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                    difference between:
                    (A)  the sum of revenues from all sources related
                         to operations, consumer deposits and consumer
                         contributions in aid of construction, net
                         non-operating income and any reduction in
                         working capital other than cash; and
                    (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                         including administration, adequate maintenance
                         and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes
                         (excluding provision for depreciation and
                         other non-cash operating charges), debt service
                         requirements, all cash dividends and other cash
                         distributions of surplus, increase in working
                         capital other than cash and other cash outflows
                         other than capital expenditures.
           (ii)     The term "net non-operating income" means the
                    difference between:
                    (A)  revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and
                    (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                         of taxes, incurred in the generation of
                         revenues in (A) above.
          (iii)     The term "working capital other than cash" means the
                    difference between current assets excluding cash and
                    current liabilities at the end of each Fiscal Year.
           (iv)     The term "current assets excluding cash" means all
                    assets other than cash which could in the ordinary
                    course of business be converted into cash within
                    twelve months, including accounts receivable,
                    marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid
                    expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses
                    within the next Fiscal Year.
            (v)     The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities
                    which will become due and payable or could under
                    circumstances then existing be called for payment
                    within twelve months, including accounts payable,
                    customer advances, debt service requirements, taxes
                    and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
           (vi)     The term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
                    tures on account of fixed assets, including interest
                    charged to construction, related to operations.
          (vii)     Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
                    be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
                    the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
                    such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
                    prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
                    other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
                    obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
                    or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
                    rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 5.03. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Page  7
Borrower shall not incur debt unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the estimated
net revenues of the Borrower for each Fiscal Year during the term of
the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.2 times the estimated debt
service requirements of the Borrower in such year on all debt of the
Borrower including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
               maturing by its terms more than one year after the date
               on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
               contract or agreement or other instrument providing for
               such debt or for the modification of its terms of
               payment on the date of such contract, agreement or
               instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the
               date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
               entered into.
         (iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
               (A)  the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                    operations and net non-operating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations
                    including administration, adequate maintenance,
                    taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but
                    excluding provision for depreciation, other non-
                    cash operating charges and interest and other
                    charges on debt.
          (iv) The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
               between:
               (A)  revenues from all sources other than those related
                    to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                    taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
                    (A) above.
           (v) The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
               amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
               any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
          (vi) The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
               by the Borrower not earlier than twelve months prior to
               the incurrence of the debt in question, which both the
               Bank and the Borrower accept as reasonable and as to
               which the Bank has notified the Borrower of its
               acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since
               such notification which has, or may reasonably be
               expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect
               on the financial condition or future operating results of
               the Borrower.
         (vii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
               necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
               Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such
               valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
               lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is,
               at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
               purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
               such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
               to the Bank.
     Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall for each Fiscal Year, com-
mencing with the 1998 Fiscal Year, maintain its receivables at a level
which shall not exceed its average three months' billings.
Page  8
     (b)  Before September 30 in each Fiscal Year, the Borrower shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank,
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)
in respect of such year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such
review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Fiscal Year covered by
such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures in
order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For purposes of this Section the following terms have the
following meanings:
              (i)   "receivables" means the aggregate amount of all
                    bills outstanding at the end of the Fiscal Year
                    under review;
             (ii)   "bills" means the amounts periodically billed by
                    the Borrower; and
            (iii)   "average three months' billing" shall be calculated
                    by dividing the aggregate amount of all bills
                    issued by the Borrower during the Fiscal Year
                    under review by 4.
                                ARTICLE VI
                            Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Decree referred to under Section 1.02 (a) shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of the
Borrower or its ability to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall have failed to perform any of its obli-
gations under the Guarantee Agreement.
     (c)  The Guarantor or the Borrower shall have failed to perform
any of its respective obligations under the Performance Contract.
     (d)  The proceeds of the financing provided under the Cofinanciers'
Loan Agreements shall not have become available to the Borrower before
July 1, 1998; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obli-
gations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     (e)   (i) Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                    of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
                    financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
                    cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
                    pursuant to the terms thereof, or
               (B)  any such loan or grant shall have become due and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
          (ii) Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank
               that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
               prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
               to perform any of its obligations under such agreement;
               and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
               the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
               consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
Page  9
               this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
     (b)  Any event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Guarantor
or to the Borrower.
     (c)  The event specified in paragraph (e) (i) B of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the provisions of paragraph (e)
(ii) of said Section.
                                ARTICLE VII
                                Termination
     Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VIII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. The Director General of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     For the Borrower:
          RADEEF
          Rue de Soudan
          B.P. 2097
          Fes
          Kingdom of Morocco
          Cable address:           Telex:
               RADEEF              51939
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and
year first above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  10
                    By /s/ Amir Al-Khafaji
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                    Middle East and North Africa Region
                    THE WATER AND ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION
                       AUTHORITY OF FES
                    By /s/ Abdellatif Berrada
                                             Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of  items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
                                Dollar               to be
     Category                  Equivalent)          Financed
(1)  Civil works and           29,800,000         75%
     installation
     of sewers
(2)  Equipment                  1,200,000         100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures;
                                                  100% of local
                                                  expenditures;
                                                  (ex-factory cost)
                                                  and 80% of local
                                                  expenditures for
                                                  other items
                                                  procured locally
(3)  Consultants'               2,000,000         100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Unallocated                7,000,000
                               __________
          TOTAL                40,000,000
                               ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods,
works or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
Page  11
prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $700,000, may be
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after March 1, 1996.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist in protecting the
environment, improving hygiene and public salubrity and preserving
water resources through appropriate collection, treatment and disposal
of waste water, strengthening institutional capabilities of the
Borrower and cost recovery in the sewerage sub-sector.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
1.   Rehabilitation, reinforcement and expansion of sewerage facilities
consisting of supply and laying of interceptors, sewers, sewerage house
connections, rehabilitation of existing sewers and ancillary works
over a length of about 280 km with a diameter ranging from 200 to 2300
mm.
2.   Provision of about 21,000 social sewerage house connections
including equipment thereof.
3.   Installation of a pre-treatment facility, an olive oil residue
treatment facility and a lagoon waste water treatment plant.
4.   Acquisition of equipment and vehicles, and provision of technical
assistance and training to strengthen the operational capability of
RADEEF.
                                 * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                         Amortization Schedule
                                       Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due                 (expressed in dollars)*
     December 1, 2001                         775,000
     June 1, 2002                             805,000
     December 1, 2002                         830,000
     June 1, 2003                             860,000
     December 1, 2003                         890,000
     June 1, 2004                             920,000
     December 1, 2004                         955,000
     June 1, 2005                             985,000
     December 1, 2005                       1,020,000
     June 1, 2006                           1,055,000
     December 1, 2006                       1,095,000
     June 1, 2007                           1,130,000
     December 1, 2007                       1,170,000
     June 1, 2008                           1,210,000
     December 1, 2008                       1,255,000
     June 1, 2009                           1,300,000
     December 1, 2009                       1,345,000
     June 1, 2010                           1,390,000
     December 1, 2010                       1,440,000
     June 1, 2011                           1,490,000
     December 1, 2011                       1,540,000
     June 1, 2012                           1,595,000
     December 1, 2012                       1,650,000
     June 1, 2013                           1,710,000
     December 1, 2013                       1,770,000
     June 1, 2014                           1,830,000
Page  12
     December 1, 2014                       1,895,000
     June 1, 2015                           1,960,000
     December 1, 2015                       2,030,000
     June 1, 2016                           2,100,000
_____________________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                         Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
     Time of Prepayment            Premium
                              The interest rate
                              (expressed as a
                              percentage per annum)
                              applicable to the Loan
                              on the day of prepayment
                              multiplied by:
Not more than three years               0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but               0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                 0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not              0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not              0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before               1.00
     maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
     The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Page  13
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
           (i) To the extent practicable, contracts for the supply and
               installation of pipes shall be grouped in bid packages
               estimated to cost $1,500,000 equivalent or more each.
          (ii) To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall
               be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $300,000
               equivalent or more each.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     (a)  Works estimated to cost less than $2,500,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 equiva-
lent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than $75,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
Page  14
with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply
to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employ-
ment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall at all times: (a) take all necessary action to
achieve the Investment, Financial and Operational Targets set forth in
its Performance Contract, and (b) duly perform its obligations under
the Performance Contract and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving said Performance Contract or any
provision thereof.
2.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with the indicators set forth in
the Performance Contract, the carrying out of the Project, including the
achievement of its Investment, Financial and Operational Targets;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Guarantor and the Bank on or about September 30 of
each Fiscal Year, a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the implementation of the Performance
Contract, including:  (i) a review of the Borrower's expenditure program
during the preceding Fiscal Year; (ii) a forecast of the Borrower's cost
of operation during the next Fiscal Year, including a reasonable water
and power consumption forecast based on the previous year's forecast and
on actual consumption levels; (iii) based on such forecasts and in order
to comply with the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement, a
recommendation to the Guarantor for water tariff and sewerage charge
adjustment including proposed Investment, Financial and Operational
Targets for such period, and any other measures proposed to further the
progress in the carrying out of the Project;
     (c)  review with the Bank, by October 31, 1999, or such later date
as the Bank shall agree, the reports prepared in accordance with para-
graph (b) of this Section; and
     (d)  thereafter, promptly introduce such revisions into its Invest-
ment, Financial and Operational Targets as shall have been agreed amongthe Guarantor, 
the Bank and the Borrower; and take all measures required
to further the progress in the carrying out of the Project as shall have
been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)       the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  15
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals (from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions) shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
               Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
               payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
               shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
               Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
               as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
               been shown by said documents and other evidence to have
               been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
               expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equiva-
lent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank
Page  16
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and
accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; and
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of the Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions.
