Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2519-PO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
December 7, 1979
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit             =           Portuguese Escudo  (Esc.)
Esc. 47.6                                             US$1.00
Esc.  1                                               US$0.021
Esc.  1 million           =                           US$21,000
Measures
1 m2                                  10.76 sq. feet
1 km2                                  0.38 sq. miles
1 hectare (ha)            =            2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
I.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR  *****W             *..**............  .*.....o          1
Socio-Economic Background ...          ........................              1
Development and Reform of the Education and Training
System . . ........ . ..* * * * * ..... -   .....***    o* ....*.      1
Educational Issues ... .**...o.o..*.....*....-o ....                         3
Educational Finance * ..**..*.........*.*..*.**... **.*.**.*............      ..*. .*  7
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education ..............                       8
II.    THE PROJECT  ......                      ..... ooo .....                    10
Introduction .......* *.*.... *. * * *.**.*....*.**.*.* ........ ..... .* ...*.  10
Objectives and Scope .... o.... ..   ....         ..a * ...... a- a -       10
Agricultural Technician Training Institutes oo-o-ee.                        11
Engineering Technician Training Institutes   .....   o.                     12
Vocational, Science and Practical Studies in
Diversified Schools . ... *..oo.....                                  13
Primary Teacher Training Institutes              ............               15
Faculty of Education . ... ....-.-.............. --                         16
Improvement of University Instruction   .*......oo                          16
Farmer Training and Demonstration Centers              ....                 17
Nutrition Education Program ........oo*o***o*o*o..o..                       18
Agricultural Information Center .......  o- .... ........                   18
Technical Assistance . .... ..      ... ......... -.............            19
III.    PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLENENTATION AND
DISBURSEMENTS .-.....o...             ........................        19
Cost of the Project ................ ....... .oo....                        19
Project Financing ......... .................o.e..                          22
Recurrent Costs  -......a.a................*aa...000                        23
Implementation .................oo..................                        23
IV.   BENEFITS AND RISKS o ....26..... o.......                  .... oo           26
Benefits    ..*bo-.oo- .....- a.-                                           26
Risks oo... -o-.........           oo...........  -........................  27
Key Implementation Dates                  ..............                    27
V.    AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .o ....                      28
This document has a  stricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwW be disclod without World Bank authoriation.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANEEXE S
1.   CHARTS, TABLES AND SCHEDULES
Chart 1        Structure of the Education System
Tables 1.1      Comparative Education Indicators
1.2     Unit Capital Costs and Areas Per Student
1.3     Contingency Allowances
Schedules 1.1  Schedule for Technical Assistance
1.2 Implementation Schedules
(a) Ministry of Education
(b) Ministry of Agriculture
1.3 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
2.   RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A.   Reports and Studies Relating to Education
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C.   Selected Working Papers of the Project
MAP: Location of Project Institutions



REPUBLIC OF ORTUGAL
Basic Data (1977)
Total Population                                            9.73 million
Estimated Rate of Population Growth (1970-77)               0.8 % p.a.
Per Capita GNP                                              US$1,850
Literacy Rate (1975)                                        70%
Gross A/ Net b/
Primary School Enrollment (Gr. 1-4) as a
Percentage of Age-Group 7-10                              137%    96% male
129%    92% female
132%    94% total
Preparatory School Enrollment (Gr. 5-6) as a                  87%    58% male
Percentage of Age-Group 11-12                              85%    56% female
86%    57% total
Secondary School Enrollment (gr. 7-11) as a                   58%    33% male
Percentage of Age-Group 13-17                               58%    36% female
58%    35% total
Higher Education Enrollment as a                              14%      6% male
Percentage of Age-Group 18-22                               9%     4% female
12%     5% total
Central Government Expenditure on Education                  18.2% recurrent
As a Percentage of Total Government Expenditure            7.8% capital
15.4% total
Central Government Expenditures on Education
As a Percentage of GDP                                     3.6%
Total Expenditures on Education, Public and Private,
As a Percentage of GDP                                     4%
a/ Gross enrollment ratio including over-age students.
b/ Excluding both over-age and under-age students.






GLOSSARY
MAP :       Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
ME  :       Ministry of Education






I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Socio-Economic Background
1.01      Portugal is now in the sixth year of a transitional and difficult
period of restructuring its socio-economic system to meet more equitably the
needs and aspirations of a democratic society and of an economy becoming
increasingly oriented toward entry into the European Common Market. The
situation is complicated by a severe but improving unemployment problem; a
situation in which large numbers of skilled workers, university graduates
and young and unskilled workers are either unemployed or underemployed. The
unemployment rate was at a high 12.7% of the labor force in 1976, but in the
last two years has fluctuated between 7% and 8%. Consequently, skilled worker
training centers which because their unemployed graduates qualify for a higher
rate of unemployment compensation had been maintained at less than half capac-
ity during 1976-78, are planned to be near full capacity by the end of 1979.
1.02      Both Bank and government studies indicate that if the Portuguese
economy is to attain even a modest growth in the medium term and continue
alleviating the unemployment problem, it is necessary to increase investments
and outputs in the two major areas of agriculture and export-oriented manu-
facturing. In recognition of this, actions and investments are currently
being initiated to improve the situation in these two priority sectors.
1.03      The development program will place considerable demands on the edu-
cation and training system which is not adequately developed either quantita-
tively or qualitatively to meet these demands. The more glaring deficiencies
are in the training of industrial and agricultural technicians, agricultural
extension personnel and farmer training, and in the quality of training of
agricultural, engineering and science professionals, with.lesser but still
significant deficiencies at the vocational training levels.
Development and Reform of the Education and Training System
1.04      National economic and social development policies and programs are
dependent upon the continuing efforts of the formal and non-formal education
and training system in improving the quality and quantity of appropriately
trained manpower to meet the rapidly evolving needs of the country. The devel-
opment of the education and training sector has been seriously constrained in
recent years by tradition-bound inequities and imbalances, by the continuing
rapid changes in government and the attendant lack of continuity in education
planning, policies and management. In recognition of the development role of
education and training and the constraints of recent years which have hindered
its efforts to develop a comprehensive education strategy, the government has
formulated broad strategy objectives focusing mainly on:
(a)  Extending compulaory education from four to six years and
at a later date to nine years, while assuring access to
such education for students in the more remote areas
through appropriate school provisions. A comprehensive
school mapping exercise now in the process of being com-
pleted will provide a basis for a more equitable distribu-
tion of educational opportunity.



(b)  Improving the interna.. efficiency -sxi qul't'y of schooling.
The  .igh repetition rates in 19/3-7X. of 24%, 14% and 22%
respectively for pri.mary, epreYsaTtory acan cecondary schools
are being significantly reduced through the introduction of
a form of automatic promotioa.
(c)  Restructuring and reorientizng secondary education and training
to meet manpower needs (pare. 1013)o A rapid restructuring
of secondary education is being undertaken by the government
through the integration o5' the acadeu,iic and technical schools
into a single diversified educational system, and extending
upper secondary education from the c^rrent two-year program
(grades 10-11) to three years. Practical studies will be
required of all students and opportunities for in-depth voca-
tional studies will be available to more than 50% of upper
secondary students, of which about one-third would be in the
industrial skills which are in short supply. This emphasis
upon vocational studies is being complemented by the indus-
trial skills training program of the Ministry of Labor which
will be operating at full capacity by the end of 1979. Ongoing
studies are determining the kinds of skills training required
in each region.
(d)  In recognition of the need for reforms in post-secondary edu-
cation, the government is:  restricting university enrollments
in accordance with manpower requirements; expanding technician
training; and upgrading engineering and science instruction.
Furthermore, the government is acutely aware of the major
deficiencies in agricultural education and training and the
increasingly important role of well-trained agricultural
professionals and technicians in improving and expanding
the rural extension. service, farming training, farmer coop-
eratives and in applied agricultural research. Consequently,
the government attaches significant importance to the expan-
sion of agricultural technician training and in upgrading
university agricultural instruction, as well as the related
program of farmer training. The need for upgrading and
expanding health technician training is also recognized and
a study detailing its needs and cooperative actions required
between the Ministries of Zducaticn and Social Affairs is
being carried out with bilateral assistance.
(e)  Improving the quality and professional competence of the teach-
ing force at all levels. A major effort was initiated in the
first education project (Loan 1559-PO), and is to be expanded
in the proposed second project to imEprove the quality and bring
into balance the suppXy Erd demand of qualified teachers at the
various levels. The program of improvement includes pre-service
teacher training at the three-year post-secondary level for
primEry school (grades 1-6) teachers and at the university
degree level for acl secondary teachers including commercial,



-3-
agricultural and industrial teachers. An extensive in-
service and out-reach teacher improvement program is also
in the process of being initiated under the first project
and is to be expanded under the proposed project.
(f)  Strengthening business and industrial management capabilities.
The managerial deficiencies existing at the time of the 1974
revolution have been further aggravated by the post-revolution
emigration of top managers and the greater level of managerial
abilities required for successful performance under current
economic conditions. Some 20,000 managers in the public and
private sectors require upgrading of their production and mar-
keting management skills. The problem is being addressed with
assistance under the first education project through the devel-
opment of a broad range of training programs at two new manage-
ment training centers under the Ministry of Industry, as well
as through complementary training at an existing training
center under the Ministry of Planning. Particular emphasis
is to be placed upon management assistance to medium and
small scale export oriented industries to strengthen their
competitive positions.
1.05      Additionally, the government is proposing to take more effective
action in regard to adult and literacy training. A January 1979 law aims at
the elimination of adult illiteracy and assuring basic education opportunity
for all and calls for the rapid development of a national plan of action.
Consequently, a National Council for Basic Adult Literacy Education has been
organized and is operational.  An action program is to be elaborated before
the end of 1979 and the government has expressed interest in Bank assistance
towards development and implementation of the project.
1.06      In recognition of significant deficiencies in educational planning
and curriculum development, technical assistance for both specialist assis-
tance and fellowship training abroad in these fields is being provided under
the first education project.
Educational Issues
1.07      The principal issues, which must be addressed, relate to the areas
of: (a) basic education, (b) adult education and literacy training, (c)
teacher training, (d) farmer training, and (e) meeting manpower training
needs.
(a) Basic Education (Formal System)
1.08      Enrollments in the first four grades of the primary school are
equivalent to 132% of the age group, due to the high incidence of over-age
students, with the net rate being about 94% (49% girls). Although this shows
that almost all school age children attend the first four grades, the net
enrollment rate in grades five and six drops to 57% (47% girls). Furthermore,
about 30% of those completing grade six do not continue their education. The



-4-
high incidence o. dropouts after grades 4 and 6 affect particularly the rural
areas of the North, Northeast and the Alentejo region of the South where
school facilities for grades 5-9 are frequently not available. Effective
measures to redress this deficiency are awaiting the completion of the school
mapping exercise and the development of a school construction program based
upon the results of the exercise. To effectively implement such a construc-
tion program will require considerable strengthening of the design and manage-
ment capabilities of the Ministry of Public Works. The proposed measures
would form part of the government's efforts in current planning to raise the
minimum school leaving age to 15, which would entail increasing enrollments
in grades 7-9 from the current 210,000 to 450,000 by 1987.  However, urgent
actions will be necessary if this target is to be attained.
(b) Adult Education and Literacy Training
1.09      Educational opportunities are inadequate to supply the urgent needs
of the 25-30% of the adults who are functionally illiterate. Although private
and public industry conduct a range of evening courses for both literate and
illiterate workers, much remains to be done. Except in a few factories, no
basic education programs for adults are available in the rural areas where
illiteracy is the highest. The 1979 law passed by the National Assembly (para.
1.05) aims at a rapid reduction in adult illiteracy.
(c) Teacher Training
1.10      If the objectives of expanding, upgrading and improving the internal
efficiency and relevancy of the formal system (para. 1.04) are to be attained,
significant reforms in the teacher training system must be made. The quality
of primary education is seriously handicapped in that only a minimal number
of the teachers in the basic cycle grades 1-6 have had more than 11 years of
total education and none has had adequate preparation in teaching methodology.
Furthermore, their pedagogical training was received at the immature age of
about 16-17 years and due to the almost complete lack of modern teaching equip-
ment and inadequate numbers of qualified teacher trainers, the quality of the
training course (grades 10-11) has been poor. The extensive upgrading of the
total primary teacher training system to the three-year post-secondary level
being initiated under the first education project and to be completed under
the proposed project will, through its pre-service and in-service courses, do
much to improve the quality of the teaching force.
1.11      Secondary teacher training for both general and vocational teachers
has been unsystematic and largely ad-hoc in nature.  With the exception of
some science teachers who have had a limited amount of pre-service pedagogical
training in recent years, neither general nor vocational teachers have had
such training, nor have adequate in-service training provisions been available
to correct this deficiency.- The steps being taken under the first education
project and those proposed under the second project, in the restructuring and
reorientation of training,. will significantly increase the quality and help
assure the required numbers of fully qualified secondary teachers of all types.
Pre-service pedagogical training of secondary teachers is being upgraded to



-5-
formal university faculty status and will be required of all new teachers
after the training programs become fully operational. In-service training of
teachers will be reoriented from the occasional courses currently arranged by
individual schools to a systematic program conducted by the faculties of edu-
cation and coordinated by the Ministry of Education.
(d) Farmer Training
1.12      The current status of farmer training is seriously inadequate for
the task of upgrading the production and management skills of farmers neces-
sary to meet the government's medium and long-term agricultural production
goals. The rural extension service currently operates only four farmer train-
ing centers and three demonstration farms training about 3,500 farmers annually.
An additional 5,500 farmers are reached annually through on-the-farm visita-
tions. These programs reach a total of only about 1% of all farmers. Govern-
ment plans are to establish a minimum of 30 farmer training and demonstration
centers by the late 1980's so as to train about 25,000 farmers annually and
to reach indirectly another 100,000 or more per year.
(e) Meeting Manpower Training Needs
1.13      One of the more critical issues faced by the educational planning
authorities is that of restructuring the education and training system to make
it quantitatively and qualitatively more relevant to the country's manpower
needs. While the inadequacy of basic data makes accurate estimates of tech-
nical manpower requirements difficult, the general dimensions of the short-
falls are indicated in the following table:



6-
Estimate of Manpower Requirements and Supply for Engineers and
Agricultural and Industrial Technicians and Skilled Industrial Workers
1978-90
Annual Output of Supply Institutions
Average                          1985
Annual                All                             1985
Requirements           Insti-      of Which Bank      Shortfall
1978-90     1977   tutions   Education Projects  (Surplus)
I        II
Engineer             1,300      1,700     1,700         0        800     (+400)
Industrial
Technicians        3,300          0     1,950    1,050        900    -1,350
Agricultural
Technicians          400          0       370       150       220    -   30
Industrial
Skills
Training:
Skilled
Workers /1         45,000 )
Foremen and                    12,000    14,000         0     2,800   -47,000 /2
Supervisors       16,000 )
Semi-skilled
Workers           23,400     4,500      4,500       420         0   -18,900 /2
/1   The Portuguese definition of "skilled worker" includes those with the
amount of shopwork provided in the diversified secondary schools. Avail-
able manpower supply and demand data in Portugal are based upon this
definition.
/2   In 1977 there were about 68,100 formal apprentices in the larger firms,
in courses ranging from one to three years from which these shortfalls
can be partially filled.
Source: Ministry of Labor Manpower and Employment Data and Analysis - 1977,
Ministry of Agriculture estimates, and mission calculations.
1.14      The quality of output is of equal importance with the quantitative
needs indicated in the manpower table. During the unstable post-revolutionary
period of 1974-77, university enrollments increased from about 48,000 to about
70,000, with a serious decrease in the quality of the graduates.  Engineer-
ing graduates, already at an estimated 400 surplus in 1977, will increase by
another 900 per year during 1980 and 1981 due to the large influx of students
in 1975 and 1976. Enrollment controls introduced in 1978 will effectively
reduce output to about 1,700 annually from 1984. This level of output will,
however, continue to produce a surplus until the late 1980's when supply and
demand are expected to balance. Other university enrollments had also in-
creased excessively and are being effectively reduced to meet realistic



-7-
economic and social development needs. At the same time, a study included
in the first education project revealed a serious need for extensive upgrading
of instructional equipment to permit more modern and practically oriented
instruction in the faculties of agriculture, engineering and science, and
identified the priority needs in this respect. The proposed project would
provide assistance in addressing this need. The government also recognizes
that major deficiencies exist in the training of agricultural, industrial and
health technicians. In the past, industrial technicians have either been
trained abroad or have achieved their status informally and in many cases
engineers who have been trained in excess of needs, are filling technician
positions. It is estimated that some 15-20% of the stock of engineers are
currently working as technicians. The imbalance which has arisen due to the
oversupply of engineers and the total lack of training of industrial techni-
cians is being redressed in the proposed project by the conversion of three
engineering colleges into technician training institutes. This conversion
would reduce the annual output of engineers by about 700 while expanding the
annual supply of technicians by about 900. By 1984 the Bank assisted insti-
tutions would have an annual output of about 1,950 or about 60% of the average
annual needs. The shortfall of about 1,350 industrial technicians would be
partially met through the 400 annual surplus of engineers and those trained
on-the-job or abroad. The requirements for agricultural technicians, mainly
for agricultural research and the extension service, would be brought approxi-
mately into balance by 1985 when the output from the institutions included in
the proposed project are expected to become available.
1.15      The diversified secondary school system, to be expanded under the
proposed project, would provide most of the required skilled industrial
workers in the less industrialized areas of the country, and would supplement
the outputs of the Ministry of Labor training centers and the industrial
apprenticeship programs in the other areas. The annual output of about
2,800 from the strong industrial options combined with the estimated 12,000
output from the industrial options in the 180 secondary technician schools
currently being integrated into the diversified secondary system, would pro-
vide about 24% of the 61,000 skilled industrial workers required annually.
The 4,500 annual output of the Ministry of Labor centers would provide about
20% of the annual requirements for semi-skilled workers. The annual short-
fall of about 47,000 skilled workers and about 19,000 semi-skilled workers
would be partially filled from the formal apprenticeship programs referred
to in the footnote to the above table.
Educational Finance
1.16      From 1970 to 1977 education's share of central government expendi-
ture has increased from 11% to about 15.4% and the proportion of GDP devoted
to public education increased from 2% to 3.6% during the same period, largely
reflecting increased enrollments and teachers' salaries. The total costs of
public education have steadily increased from about Esc. 3.6 billion in 1971
to Esc. 23.3 billion or about 15.4% of the total public expenditures in 1977,
but is expected to decline to about 14% by 1985 if the expected growth in GDP
is attained.



-8-
1.17      The public sector educational improvements being implemented or
proposed would require a recurrent expenditure of about Esc. 28.8 billion
(US$605 million) in 1985 in comparison to Esc. 20.2 billion (US$424 million)
in 1977. This would be an average annual increase of about 4.5%. The esti-
mated annual capital costs of all levels of education in 1985 would be about
Esc. 3.8 billion (US$80 million). Assuming an average annual GDP growth
rate of 5.5%, public capital and recurrent expenditures on education in 1985
would represent a reasonable 3.3% of projected GDP, and it is expected that
the government would be able to provide this level of support.
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education
1.18      From the first Bank education mission to Portugal in August 1976
until the present, the education and training system has remained in a rather
unsettled state, following the earlier political upheavals. The identifica-
tion of project items suitable for Bank financing with assurance that they
were indeed of highest priority became exceedingly difficult because of the
changing system and the prospects of further major changes. The government
intended to alter the basic structure of the formal education system and to
revise the curricula of the preparatory and secondary schools, but decisions
regarding the details of such changes had not yet been taken during the
processing of the first education loan (Loan 1559). The need for other
changes was recognized also, although a choice from among possible alternatives
could not be made until the completion of analyses of data that had not yet
been assembled.
1.19      In these circumstances, the following strategy was adopted:  (i)
within the dialogue occasioned by the educational lending operations, to
assign highest priority to expanding the Bank's technical assistance input to
help the government with some of the choices to be made and to concentrate on
institution building (some of the results of these efforts are described in
para. 4.01); (ii) as part of the above, to recommend and, in some instances,
finance studies that would provide rational bases for the system's further
development; and (iii) pending the completion of these studies, to finance
urgently needed programs to improve the formal system and increase the supply
of trained manpower, programs that are urgently needed irrespective of the
results of the studies.
1.20      Within this context, the first education loan of US$21 million
equivalent, approved in June 1978, financed the construction and/or equipping
of two new management training institutes, seven technician insitutes, five
vocational .training centers, and nine teacher training institutes. The
project also included a large technical assistance component (US$4.1 million)
to provide assistance in teacher training, curriculum development, planning,
organization, and administration. The project was designed to improve the
quality and scope of management training, introduce the concept of subpro-
fessional, practical oriented technician training, provide pre-apprenticeship
skills training to unemployed early school leavers in major urban areas,
improve the quality of teacher training, and upgrade and rationalize the
primary school teacher training system. Largely because of inadequate initia-
tives in design development, as a result of budgetary constraints which



-9-
resulted on a moratorium on hiring of new personnel and consultants, as well
as some site problems, implementation of civil works is 9-15 months behind
schedule. Recent actions and agreements, however, augur well for future
satisfactory progress on civil works to complement satisfactory progress in
all other aspects of the project.
1.21      We hope to extend the above mentioned strategy now through the
processing of the proposed second project because major studies have still not
yet been completed. Studies on the need for the development of an adult
education system and the desired content and scope of skill re-training
programs are being financed with bilateral assistance and are underway.
Similarly, the major manpower planning study and the pre-investment study of
para-medical training financed under the first education loan are still in
process.
1.22      Parts of the proposed project--the vocational and science blocks
and the various university faculties (except Education)--are based, however,
respectively on the completion of curricula reforms at preparatory and
secondary school levels and upon the findings of the first project's pre-
investment study of the need to upgrade university science and engineering
teaching.  The balance of the project, as in the first project, responds to
urgent needs for improvement in teacher training and for increased production
of better trained manpower, which should be met without further delay and
which will not be affected by the results of ongoing studies.
1.23      For the future, Bank strategy should be to continue to follow
closely the progress of various studies and to provide advice and guidance
where required and requested, without the commitment of another education
project within any particular year. Bank staff will follow and advise on
these studies, but will give special attention to two subjects of study that
are of particular importance because their findings may affect the viability
of Bank financed projects in agriculture and industry. The first concerns a
number of studies financed by bilateral agencies and the Bank on how the
agricultural services should be expanded and upgraded, and the corresponding
manpower and training requirements. The second is a group of studies financed
by bilateral agencies and the government on (a) how larger scale industry in
Portugal should change its production practices to become more modern and
competitive with the countries of the Common Market that it aspires to join
and (b) the amount and types of retraining of the industrial labor force that
will be necessary to make such change possible. When sufficient numbers of
the various studies (especially the two above mentioned groups but also those
on adult education and para-medical training) become available, consideration
should be given to assisting in the implementation of their recommendations.
1.24      In the meantime, and while maintaining a dialogue with the government
on the direction and progress of all studies and on the choices to be made in
the further development of the education system, attention will also be
directed towards identifying priority needs that might be met through external
financing.



X 10 
II. THE PROJECT
Introduction
2.01      The proposed project was prepared by the Portuguese government
through preinvestment studies included in the first education project, a Bank
reconnaissance/identification mission in July 1978 and preparation missions
in October 1978 and January 1979. The project was appraised by Messrs. W.
Hobbs (technical educator, mission leader), C. Germanacos (educational planner,
consultant), J. Crosnier (agricultural educator) and H. Go (architect).
Oblectives and Scope
2.02      The project would assist the government in implementing programs
consistent with its educational development strategy (para 1.04) and would
have the following main objectives: (a) expand post-secondary agricultural
and industrial technician training; (b) assist in meeting the need for basic
cycle and secondary teachers, including science and vocational; (c) assist in
upgrading science teaching and in expanding vocational and diversified train-
ing at the secondary level; (d) expand and improve farmer training and the
capabilities of the rural extension services; and (e) upgrade university
science, engineering and agricultural instruction.



- 11 -
2.03      The project would comprise the following components:
Capacity               Output
Ministry and Item                         Grades    Total    Ne7w    Total    New
Ministry of Education
Construction, furniture, equipment;
and related technical assistance:
2 Agricultural Technician Training
Institutes                            13-15        720    720       220    220
32 Vocational and Science Blocks           7-12    36,640 36,640    5,900  5,900
Equipment and technical assistance:
3 Engineering Technician Training
Institutes                            13-15      3,400  3,400       900    900
11 Vocational and Science Blocks          7-12    12,500 12,500    2,100  2,100
7 Primary Teacher Training Institutes  13-15       2,220              600
1 Faculty of Education                  16-17, 18   500    500        450    450
1 Faculty of Agriculture                13-17        750              120
1 Faculty of Veterinary Medicine        13-17        350               60
1 Faculty of Engineering                13-17      6,000             800
1 Faculty of Science                    13-17      1,600              280
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
Construction, furniture, equipment
and related technical assistance:
7 Farmer Training Centers               Adult        240    240)  10,000 10,000
3 Demonstration Centers                 Adult        180    120)
2 Mobile Training Units                 Adult         30     30       600    600
Equipment and technical assistance:
Nutrition Education Program             Adult
Agricultural Information Center           1-12
Total Training places                              65,130 54,150   22,030 20,170
Agricultural Technician Training Institutes
2.04      To help provide the numbers of medium level technicians required by
the agricultural extension, research and farmer associations services, cur-
rently under expansion by the government, the proposed project would provide
financing of construction, furniture, equipment and technical assistance for
new agricultural technician training institutes (grades 13-15). The insti-
tutes would have a combined enrollment of 720 (30% women), an annual output
of about 220 or about 55% of the average annual demand and, when combined with
the 150 annual output of agricultural technicians from institutes under the
first project, would provide about 93% of average annual requirements during
the period of 1978-90 (paras. 1.13 and 1.14). Annual outputs would include
about 55 each from programs of crop production, animal production, rural



m 12 -
engineering and home economics. The new home economics program, as well as
the enrollment of women in other programs, reflects the growing recognition
of the increasingly important role of women in agriculture. The home economics
program would include training in nutrition, poultry and vegetables production
and preservation, clothing and child care, and its graduates would be employed
mainly by the rural extension service.
2.05      The institutes would be located in the East Central and North
Eastern regions of the country where major governmental emphasis is being
placed upon agricultural development. The institutes would have attached
farms of sufficient size to provide the necessary practical field experiences
for students, and would also provide office facilities for 3-4 agricultural
and home economics extension specialists and laboratory and workshop facili-
ties for farmer training activities jointly conducted by the extension spe-
cialists and institute faculty. The sites and farms have been found accept-
able by the mission and acquisition is expected to be completed by September
1979.
2.06      The plan of study would comprise two and one half years of study,
including about 75% technical theory and practice, and one-half year of
on-the-job internships. Detailed curricula and equipment lists are in the
process of being prepared by qualified agriculturalists. To assure the
continuing relevance of the curricula, field experiences and the placement
of graduates, an advisory committee consisting of agricultural extension
specialists and representatives from rural credit institutions, farmer asso-
ciations and the agricultural service industry would be established by the
opening date of the institutes. In recognition of the desirability of such
advisory committees, the government decree establishing the post-secondary
technician training system also mandates the establishment of such committees.
2.07      To assist in evaluation and to assure the continuing relevance of
training programs through a systematic feedback of information, the government
has provided an assurance that a follow-up system to trace graduate place-
ment and job performance would be developed and operational by the time the
first classes graduate.
2.08      No difficulty is expected in recruiting the approximately 62 in-
structors required from among the existing oversupply of university graduates
in science, agriculture and engineering and from selected personnel from
the Ministry of Agriculture's rural extension service on a part-time basis.
As nearly all would not have received pre-service teacher training, the
government intends to provide in-service pedagogical training to these staff.
The government has provided an assurance that a detailed plan and schedule
for in-service training would be prepared and sent to the Bank for review and
comment within six months of the Loan Agreement. About half of the 14 rural
engineers, the 8 home economists, and the 8 senior instructors for the crop
and livestock production programs would be sent abroad for internships or
study program of 4-18 months.
Engineering Technician Training Institutes
2.09      To meet the urgent need for engineering technicians (paras. 1.13 and
1.14) and to expand further the technician training system initiated under the



- 13 -
first education project, the project would provide financing for equipment and
technical assistance for the conversion of three engineering colleges into
technician training institutes (grades 13-15). Two of the institutes with
enrollments of 1,400 and 1,200 respectively are located in the industrial
sections rf Lisbon and Porto and the third, with an enrollment of about 800,
is in the country's third largest city of Coimbra. The combined annual output
of about 900 graduates (20% women) would correspond to about 27% of the 1978-
90 average annual requirements for industrial technicians; and, when combined
with the annual output of about 1,050 industrial technicians from institutes
under the first education project, would provide about 60% of the average
annual requirements during the same period.
2.10      The plan provides for two and one-half years of study followed by
one-half year of internship in industry, and would include programs in elec-
tricity, electronics, chemical technology, mechanical production, civil con-
struction, design drafting and data processing. To assure a proper balance
of theory and practice, the students' instructional day would be about equally
divided among general subjects (65% mathematics and science), technical theory
and technical practice. Curricula, course syllabi and equipment lists are
being developed with bilateral assistance and assistance from industry.
2.11      To help assure the continuing relevanee of the instructional program
to the needs of industry, a government decree requires the development of an
appropriate industrial advisory committee by the opening date of the insti-
tutes. The government has provided an assurance that a follow-up system
to trace graduate placement and job performance would be developed and opera-
tional by the time the first classes graduate.
2.12      The approximately 300 instructors required would be recruited from
among the existing faculty, and, on a part-time basis, from industry. The
government anticipates no problem in this respect as salaries and terms of
employment are adequately competitive. The senior instructors in each of the
programs of study would intern abroad for a period of about four months in
similar institutions under the technical assistance program included within
this project.
Vocational, Science and Practical Studies in Diversified Schools
2.13      The project would help initiate the government's policy of restruc-
turing and reorienting education and training at the secondary level towards
economic development needs. At the lower secondary level (grades 7-9) indus-
trial arts and craft subjects (6 periods per week) will be provided for all
students in grades 7 and 8, with an option given in grade 9 of either pre-
vocational industrial arts or commercial subjects (4 periods per week). These
practical programs are intended, particularly in the last year, to provide a
strong orientation towards the skill training options being introduced at the
upper secondary level. At that level, which will be extended from 2 to 3
years, new practical optionts--industrial, agricultural and commercial--will be
introduced to complement the existing options of science/maths and humanities.
In addition the present theoretical teaching of science would be given a more
practical bias. All students will be required to take a minimum of four



14 
periods per week of practical subjects (which would include a requirement
of science/math for those taking the humanities option), while job-oriented
students, or those seeking a more technical bias to their education, will
take 10 periods per week of vocational subjects. Students taking the indus-
trial option will have, in addition to their industrial subjects, 8 hours
per week of maths and science, with a further 12 periods per week of general
subjects. To assist in attracting students into this option, the best grad-
uating students will receive preferential treatment in admissions to the
post-secondary technician training programs. The other graduating students
will enter industry as skilled workers, with the expectation of their pro-
gressing to foremen/supervisors after appropriate experience.
2.14      The government intends for purpose of this transformation of the
secondary school system to combine the resources of the existing academic
and technical schools so that the academic school students could obtain the
desired hours of shopwork and improved science laboratory instruction.
Academic secondary schools would be appropriately chosen as satellites to a
particular secondary technician school so as to maintain easy commuting
distances between the academic and technician schools. Unfortunately, all
of the secondary technician schools are located in urban areas, making the
extension of the proposed system to the rural areas impossible without the
establishment of suitable workshop and science laboratories in rural secondary
schools that could then serve as the centers of such networks of academic
secondary schools.
2.15      This project items would assist in the implementation of the pro-
posed reform through the construction and/or equipping of science labora-
tories, vocational and other practical facilities for 43 secondary schools
recently built or under construction, the majority of which are located in
rural towns in the poorer regions of the country. At 32 of the schools new
construction would be required for which financing is proposed under the
project. In the remaining schools, appropriately sized spaces are available
which will be adapted by the government to meet the requirements of the new
curricula. Total enrollments (grades 7-12) would be about 49,140, all bene-
fitting from the resources to be provided, but the actual number of science
and vocational places to be constructed and/or equipped at the upper secondary
level would be 6,200 and 15,130 (including 6,100 commercial) respectively.
In addition, 3,500 places would be equipped at the lower secondary level for
pre-vocational practical studies. The annual outputs from grade 12 would be
about 8,000. The vocational options would produce about 4,700 skilled workers
annually, of which about 2,800 would be in the industrial field.
2.16      The head instructors required for the vocational and prevocational
subjects in the project schools would be selected from among the 3,300 expe-
rienced and qualified instructors in the 180 existing secondary technical
schools which are now being integrated, on a phased basis, with nearby aca-
demic secondary schools to form additional non-project diversified schools.
It is not expected that difficulties would be encountered in recruiting tech-
nically and pedagogically qualified teachers for the senior positions in the
other subject areas. Technically qualified teachers are expected to be avail-
able in adequate numbers for the junior positions, but in-service pedagogical
training would be necessary for many of them. The government has provided



- 15 -
an assurance that a detailed plan and schedule for in-service training would
be prepared and sent to the Bank for its review and comment within six months
of the Loan Agreement. For the medium and longer term, the secondary teacher
training center in the first education project and the proposed faculty of
education in this project would provide both the pre-service and in-service
teacher training for these schools.
2.17      The vocational curricula and course syllabi are in the process of
being adapted from those in the existing vocational secondary schools. Those
for the science subjects are being upgraded to reflect the improved practical
applications of scientific theory made possible by appropriate equipped
laboratories. In order to evaluate the effects of the diversified curricula
upon the graduates' career paths, the government has provided an assurance
that a study to trace their entrance into further studies or job placement,
and subsequent performance in each, would be developed and operational by the
time the first classes graduate.
Primary Teacher Training Institutes
2.18      The project would assist the government in completing implementation
of its rationalization plan for basic cycle teacher training developed as a
result of Bank-Government dialogue. Under the plan the present network of
21 teacher training schools will be consolidated into 15 institutions, each
serving a geographical region and with the overall intake reduced from 2,000
to about 1,400 by 1981 to reflect the reduced teacher needs. The curriculum,
which has been at the upper secondary level (grades 10-11) and emphasized
subject content with only a limited provision for teaching methodology, has
a result of the first education project, been upgraded to the post-secondary
level (grades 13-15) and provides a balance among subject content, methodology
and practice teaching. To assist in upgrading the quality of the existing
teaching force, one-year full-time in-service programs and short ad-hoc courses
would also be provided.
2.19      The first project provided for the construction and/or equipping
of eight of the upgraded teacher training institutes. The proposed project
would finance equipment for the conversion of the remaining seven institutions
in the regional network into post-secondary institutes having the new curri-
cula and training methodology. The minor building renovations required would
be financed by the government. The capacities of the institutes vary from
240 to 420 places, depending upon location, and are considered adequate to
meet the needs of each region being served. They would have a combined
enrollment of about 2,220 (70% women) with annual outputs of about 600 from
pre-service courses and about 420 from the full-time in-service courses. The
short ad-hoc courses would cater to the needs of about 3,000 additional
teachers each year.
2.20      Arrangements are underway, with technical assistance under the
first project, related to the management requirements and curriculum devel-
opment for the upgraded teacher training institutions. The required fellow-
ship training for staff upgrading has also been provided for under the first
project and through bilateral assistance.



- 16 -
Faculty of Education
2.21      The project would finance equipment and technical assistance for
the establishment of the first full faculty of education in the Portuguese
higher education system and would expand on the provision for pre-service
teacher training in the University of Aveiro Teacher Training Center included
under the first education project.
2.22      The proposed Faculty of Education would provide one year of pre-
service pedagogical studies for fourth year students of the various facul-
ties of the University of Lisbon and would formally supervise the fifth
(internship) year. A licenciatura degree would be awarded upon successful
completion of the internship year. The faculty of education would also pro-
vide the same two-year pedagogical program for graduates of industrial,
agricultural and commercial technician training institutes, and would also
award them the licenciatura degree. Additionally, both part-time and full-
time in-service courses and out-reach programs would be provided and could
lead to the award of the masters' degree in education. These graduate level
courses would also be available to provide needed upgrading of staff quali-
fications in the primary teacher training institutes. The faculty would in
due course broaden its program to include graduate studies to train school
administrators, remedial and guidance teachers and school supervisors; and
to undertake applied educational research.
2.23      The faculty would operate in existing buildings which are adequate
for the purpose and which would be fully equipped under the project.  It
would cater to a total of about 500 teacher trainees annually, including
about 30 industrial, 30 commercial, 15 agricultural, 150 science, 150 human-
ities and languages, 25 full-time graduate students and 100 in-service stud-
ents. Model teaching laboratories, including specialized ones for vocational
teacher trainees, would be provided and fully equipped to assure that train-
ing would be relevant to the curricula and equipment now being made avail-
able in the secondary schools. About 45 fully qualified teacher trainers
would be required. About one-third would be transferred from the existing
department of education of the Faculty of Science and the remainder would
be recruited from among experienced secondary teachers and no difficulty is
expected in this regard. To help assure a properly qualified cadre of
teacher trainers, about 34 man-years of fellowship training abroad (para
2.34) is included under the project. Teacher trainers would be sent abroad
under a program (Annex 1, Schedule 1.1) which would enable them to return
to the faculty by October 1981, the scheduled opening date of the faculty.
2.24      In view of the experience gained with similar type of programs
under the first project, adequate expertise exists in Portugal for the devel-
opment of curricula and related equipment lists for this project item.
Satisfactory arrangements in this respect are already proceeding.
Improvement of University Instruction
2.25      In view of Portugal's proposed entrance into the European Common
Market, and the high priority placed upon improvements in its industrial and



- 17 -
agricultural sectors, it is particularly urgent that current deficiencies in
university science, engineering and agriculture instruction be corrected.
The project would finance undergraduate instructional equipment and about
five man-years of fellowship training required for the extensive upgrading
necessary to permit more modern and practically oriented instruction in the
Faculties of Agriculture, Veterinary Medicine and Engineering of the Tech-
nical University of Lisbon and the Faculty of Science of the University
of Lisbon. The additional equipment and technical assistance proposed would
permit the upgrading of curricula and course syllabi to reflect the improved
practical applications of technical theory made possible by appropriately
equipped laboratories. A high percentage of the professors hold recent
advanced degrees from universities abroad and have the ability and motiva-
tion to carry out the improvements that would be made possible by this proj-
ect. The preliminary equipment lists and specifications and the required
curriculum revisions are complete and are satisfactory. The details of
the improved course syllabi for the laboratory exercises will be completed
by the time of equipment installation.
2.26      Each of these faculties, in accordance with a 1977 Government
decree, are reducing their enrollments to more appropriately fit available
space and manpower needs. Enrollments, including evening classes, will be
limited to 750 in agriculture, 350 in veterinary medicine, 6,000 in engi-
neering and 1,600 in science representing about a 30% reduction over current
enrollments. Annual outputs would be about 120, 60, 800 and 280 respectively.
Farmer Training and Demonstration Centers
2.27      In response to the high priority the government currently places
upon improving the productive capacity of the agricultural sector, and in
recognition of the highly important and expanded role of the rural extension
services, the project would finance construction, furniture, equipment and
technical assistance for seven regional farmer training and extension centers
and three demonstration farms. The demonstration farms and the farmer train-
ing and extension centers, distributed throughout the seven agricultural
production regions of the country, would assist in upgrading the productive
and farm management capabilities of about 10,000 farmers (25% women) per year
through a sequential series of both day and night classes, field demonstra-
tions, and agricultural services. Courses would range in length from one day
to six weeks.
2.28      In addition to accommodations for classes, group meetings and
field demonstrations, the centers and the demonstration farms would provide
offices for the local extension personnel, soils, fertilizer and seeds
laboratories, a home economics nutrition/foods and clothing laboratory, a
farm machinery workshop and an animal production unit. Additionally, a
large mobile unit for training farmers in the preventive maintenance of
farm tractors would be attached to one of the farmer training centers
located in the Alentajo Reg-ion of the South and one in the Beira Litoral
Region in the North. About 600 farmers per year would be reached through
maintenance courses of about two weeks in length. The existing farmer
training curricula would be upgraded to reflect the new methodologies and



course content made possible by the new accoodations and equipment and
would cater to the specific needs of farmers in each of the agricultural
regions.
2.29      Except for the home economists, the professional staff required
for these centers are current employees of the rural extension service who
have been extensively upgraded during the past 18 months through bilateral
assistance. The initially required technician level personnel would be
recruited from the outputs of the agricultural technician training insti-
tutes under the first education project and later replacements from those
under the second education project. As bilateral assistance has not included
the training of trainers or agricultural cooperative specialists, about 17
man-months of consultancies for this purpose, as well as about 57 man-months
of fellowships abroad, would be included within this project.
Nutrition Education Program
2.30      During the past three years the General Directorate of Rural Exten-
sion has been operating a pilot nutrition education program in close liaison
with the Ministries of Education and Social Affairs. The proposed project
would provide financing of educational and transport equipment and related
technical assistance to upgrade the equipment and staff, respectively, of
the National Nutrition Education Program, its four existing field,teams and
to equip 14 additional field teams. The teams consist of a nutritionist, a
home economist and a horticultural production specialist.
2.31      The teams provide instruction to school teachers in the preparation
and use of nutrition education materials for integration into the school
curriculum, and demonstrations to students and rural families on balancing
food diets using local products and improved methods of food production and
preservation at family and village levels. The objectives of the program
are to: (i) upgrade the nutrition education capability of about 20,000 pri-
mary teachers (50% of total) in five years; and (ii) involve annually about
2,000 rural adults (50% women) and 5,000 school age rural students (50% girls)
in improved programs of food production and preservation designed to reduce
food deficiencies, improve nutrition and decrease imports. About four man-
months of specialist assistance and 24 man-months of short-term fellowships
would be provided under the project to upgrade the capabilities of the central
staff.
Agricultural Information Center
2.32      As a means of correcting the seriously inadequate system of prep-
aration of printed agricultural education materials, the project would finance
audio-visual and printing equipment in the amount of about US$0.14 million
(including contingencies) and about 18 man-months of fellowships training
to establish an agricultural information center, located in the Ministry
headquarters in Lisbon, for the preparation and printing of educational
materials. These materials including audio-visual and printed would be
prepared by ministry subject-matter specialists and illustrators and would
annually provide vital support to some 18,000 participants in the farmer



- 19 -
training, demonstration farm and nutrition education programs, about 1,200
enrollments in the agricultural technician training and secondary vocational
agriculture programs of the project, and to 100,000 or more farmers not
participating in the above programs.
Technical Assistance
2.33      The expected contribution of the project to institution building is
believed to be of equal importance with the qualitative and quantitative out-
puts of the project institutions. Consequently, a substantial technical
assistance component has been included to help achieve this objective (Annex 1,
Schedule 1.1). In summary, about 25 consultants would be employed for a total
of about six and one-half man-years to assist in (a) institutional organiza-
tion and operation of the agricultural technician training institutes; (b)
curriculum development for the industrial technician training programs; and
(c) upgrading rural extension and nutrition programs, farmer training method-
ology and agricultural audio-visual materials production.  Additionally,
fellowships for about 82 man-years of teaching and administrative internships
of formal studies abroad would be provided for about 142,selected faculty
and staff of the project institutions and about two and one-half man-years for
project administration personnel.
2.34      Because of the number of consultants and fellowships, the technical
assistance program will require considerable skill in its management, timely
recruitment of consultants and placement of fellowship recipients in appro-
priate institutions abroad. Consequently, the government has provided an
assurance that the recruitment of consultant on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank, and the arrangements for fellowship
training would be carried out substantially as scheduled (Annex 1, Schedule
1.1).
III.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost of the Prolect
3.01      Summary of Project Cost.  The total cost of the project is estimated
at Esc. 2,809.6 million or US$59.0 million equivalent. The estimated total
cost and foreign exchange components by main project items are summarized
below:



- 20 -
% of
Esc. Millions           US$ Millions      Baseline
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Cost
2 Agricultural
Technician Train-
ing Institutes       172.05  123.52   295.57    3.62    2.59    6.21   1405
3 Engineering
Technician Train-
ing Institutes        20.38  183.43   203.81    0.43    3.85    4.28   10.0
43 Vocational/
Science Blocks       303.95  568.29   872.24    6.39   11.93   18.32   42.8
7 Primary Teacher
Training Insti-
tutes                  5.24   47.14    52.38    0.11    0.99    1.10    2.6
1 Faculty of Education    2.10   18.85    20.95    0.04    0.40    0.44    1.0
1 Faculty of Agriculture  3.00   27.00    30.00.   0.06    0.57    0.63    1.5
1 Faculty of Vet.Medicine 3.00   27.00    30.00    0.06    0.57    0.63    1.5
1 Faculty of Engineering  5.14   46.29    51.43    0.11    0.97    1.08    2.5
1 Faculty of Science      8.57   77.14    85.71    0.18    1.62    1.80    4.2
7 Farmer Training
Centers               84.00   87.46   171.46    1.76    1.84    3.60    8.4
3 Demonstration Centers  27.71   29.43    57.14    0.58    0.62    1.20    2.8
2 Mobile Training Units   0.43    3.86     4.29    0.01    0.08    0.09    0.2
1 Agricultural Informa-
tion Center            0.48    4.28     4.76    0.01    0.09    0.10    0.2
1 Nutrition Education
Program                4.76   42.86    47.62    0.10    0.90    1.00    2.4
Technical Assistance:)
Specialists and      ) 22.00   88.00   110.00    0.46    1.85    2.31    5.4
Fellowships         )
Baseline Cost       662.81 1374.55  2037.36   13.92   28.87   42.79  100.0
Contingencies
Physical Unforeseen   65.18  133.06   198.24    1.37    2.79    4.16    9.7
Price Increase       176.75  397.25   574.00    3.71    8.34   12.05   28.2
Subtotal           241.93  530.31   772.24    5.08   11.13   16.21   37.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST    904.74 1904.86  2809.60   19.00   40.00   59.00



- 21 -
3.02      A breakdown of estimated project costs into local and foreign
cost elements by categories of expenditure is summarized as follows:
% of
Esc. Millions              US$ Millions        Baseline
Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Cost
Construction
Academic & Communal
Facilities           445.89    191.09    636.98   9.36       4.02    13.38   31.3
Boarding              22.87       9.80     32.67   0.49      0.20      0.69    1.6
Staff Housing         26.66      11.43     38.09   0.56      0.24      0.80    1.9
Prof. Services        11.43       0.00     11.43   0.24      0.00      0.24    0.5
Subtotal          506.85    212.32    719.17  10.65       4.46    15.11   35.3
Furniture              15.33       6.57     21.90   0.32      0.14      0.46    1.1
Equipment             118.63  1,067.66  1,186.29   2.49    22.42    24.91   58.2
Subtotal            133.96  1,074.23  1,208.19   2.81    22.56    25.37   59.3
Technical Assistance
Fellowships           16.67      66.67     83.34   0.35      1.40      1.75    4.1
Experts                5.33      21.33     26.66   0.11      0.45      0.56    1.3
Subtotal             22.00     88.00    110.00   0.46       1.85      2.31    5.4
Baseline Costs        662.81  1,374.55  2,037.36  13.92    28.87    42.79  100.0
Contingencies         241.93    530.31    772.24   5.08    11.13    16.21   37.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST   904.74  1,904.86  2,809.60  19.00    40.00    59.00
3.03      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated civil works costs for the
proposed project are based on unit prices derived from current contracts and
detailed estimates of other projects of similar character by the Ministries
of Public Works and Education. Furniture and equipment costs are based on
current CIF unit prices and adjusted upward to include local transportation
and installation. Cost estimates do not include any identifiable import
duties and taxes. In line with recent experience, the estimate of technical
assistance is based upon (i) average costs per man-month of about US$6,900
for experts (consisting of fees and per diem) and about US$1,600 for fellow-
ships of which 80% would be foreign costs, and (ii) average travel costs to
and from home office or study base abroad of about US$750 per individual (80%
foreign exchange).
3.04      Contingency Allowance.  The project cost includes a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical conditions equal to 10% of the estimated



22
baseline cost of civil works, professional fees, furniture and equipment and
5% of the estimated cost of technical assistance. It also includes price
escalation contingencies 1/ calculated for the period beginning October 1,
1979 and in accordance with an agreed schedule of implementation (Annex 1,
Schedules 1.2). Prices are expected to increase during the project imple-
mentation period by a total of about 23.7% for civil works, 27.6% for furni-
ture, 27.6% for equipment, 23.7% for architects' fees, 15.8% for fellowships
and 21.0% for specialists. Accordingly, aggregated price increases are
estimated at about 25.7% of baseline cost plus physical contingencies. Total
contingencies are estimated to be 37.9% of the baseline cost.
3.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent is US$40.0 million equivalent or about 67.8% of the total project cost.
The calculations of the foreign exchange component are based on the assump-
tion that (a) all civil works and related professional services will be
awarded to local firms, (b) 100% of the furniture will be awarded to local
suppliers, and (c) based upon experience with the first education project, all
equipment is expected to be directly imported. The resulting foreign exchange
content of each category of expenditure is as follows: (i) civil works, 30%,
(ii) furniture, 30%; (iii) equipment, 90%; (iv) consultant architects' fees,
0%; and (v) technical assistance, 80%.
Project Financing
3.06      The proposed loan of US$40.0 million would finance 67.8% of the
total costs and 100% of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project.
The balance of the total project costs would be financed by the government.
The proposed financial plan is summarized below:
1/   Based on anticipated annual price increases of (i) 10% for 1979, 9% for
1980, 8% for 1981 and 7% for 1982-84 for civil works; (ii) 10% for 1979,
14% for 1980, 12% for 1981, 10% for 1982 and 8% for 1982-84 for equipment
and furniture (based on a study of escalation in educational equipment
prices over the past three years); and (iii) 7% for 1979, 10% for 1980,
9% for 1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% for 1983-84 for technical assistance. As
a result of a government policy in force since early 1978 of automatic
exchange rate adjustments of the Escudo to the US$, the higher rate of
local price increases is reduced to an equivalent rate in terms of US$ by
re-evaluation of the Escudos. Therefore, the same rate of increase has
been applied to both foreign and local cost estimates.



- 23 -
Financial Plan by Category of Expenditure
(in US$ Million)
Government           IBRD          Total
Amount     %      Amount     %      Amount
Civil Works                              10.41   70.0       4.46   30.0      14.87
Furniture                                 0.32   70.0       0.14   30.0       0.46
Equipment                                 2.49   10.0      22.42   90.0      24.91
Professional Fees                         0.24  100.0       0.00    0.0       0.24
Technical Assistance                      0.46   20.0       1.85   80.0       2.31
Baseline Cost                            13.92   32.5      28.87   67.5      42.79
Contingencies
Physical                                 1.37   32.9       2.79   67.1       4.16
Price Increase                           3.71   30.8       8.34   69.2      12.05
Total Contingencies                       5.08   31.3      11.13   68.7      16.21
Total Project Cost                       19.00   32.2      40.00   67.8      59.00
Recurrent Costs
3.07      When fully operational in 1985, the Ministry of Education (ME)
project institutions are estimated to require Esc. 870 million annually in
recurrent costs, corresponding to about 3% of projected public recurrent
expenditures on education in 1985. However, as most of the institutions in
the project are existing ones, the marginal recurrent costs would be about
Esc. 530 million or less than 2% of the projected 1985 recurrent costs.
Marginal recurrent costs of about Esc. 22.4 million for the rural extension
programs, not included above, will be met by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Fisheries. In view of the high priority of the proposed project and the
Government's very strong commitment, it is expected that these very modest
additional expenditures will be fully met.
Implementation
3.08      The construction, furnishing and equipping of all schools is sched-
uled to be completed by June 1983 while the technical assistance component
would be completed by June 1984 (Annex 1, Schedules 1.1 and 1.2). To allow
sufficient time for submission of the final withdrawal applications, the
Closing Date would be December 31, 1984.
3.09      The Ministry of Education component would be implemented through
a Project Implementation Coordination Unit working with the technical secre-
tariats of the General Directorate of Higher Education which is successfully
implementing the first education project, and the General Directorate of



- 24 -
School Facilities which has had experience with bilateral financed projects.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries has organized a project implemen-
tation unit under the General Directorate of Rural Extension. Both ministries
have formally appointed the coordinators, architects and equipment procurement
officers; accountants and such clerical staff as may be required will be
appointed by February 1980.
3.10      Preliminary drawings for the secondary vocational blocks have been
submitted to the Bank for review and comments and predesign studies for the ME
agricultural training institutes and the MAP farmer training centers had
already been initiated at the time of appraisal. The staff architects of the
ME and the Ministry of Housing and Public Works (MHOP) would be responsible
for the design and preparation of final construction drawings for the second-
ary vocational blocks. The consultant architects for the two agricultural
technician training institutes will be appointed by ME by the end of December
1979 and preliminary drawings are expected to be completed and forwarded to
the Bank for review and comment by March 1980. The minor renovations required
in the basic cycle teacher training institutes are currently under study by
ME architects. The staff architects of MAP are also expected to have com-
pleted preliminary drawings for their project items by March 1980.
3.11      Suitable sites for the farmer training centers and demonstration
farms are already acquired and sites for the agricultural technician training
institutes have been found acceptable to the mission and are in the process
of being acquired. Acquisition is expected to be completed by January 1980.
The vocational blocks will be built adjacent to existing secondary schools
with adequate space on their present sites to accommodate the planned addi-
tions.
3.12      The curricula and equipment lists for the basic cycle teacher
training institutes, agricultural technician training institutes, industrial
technician institutes, and the faculty of education are being prepared drawing
on the experience gained in developing similar type curricula and equipment
lists under the First Education Project. Preliminary equipment lists for the
improvement of university teaching have been reviewed by the mission and are
currently being revised by the respective faculties, and the required curri-
cula and course syllabi modifications will be completed by the completion of
equipment installation. The curricula and preliminary equipment lists for
the science and vocational blocks have been completed and submitted to the
Bank for review and comment. The Ministry of Agriculture equipment lists are
quite simple and the preliminary lists are expected to be completed without
difficulty by January 1980.
3.13      Procurement.  Civil works contracts for the two Agricultural Tech-
nician Training Institutes (amounting to US$2.9 million each, including
contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Civil works contracts for the proposed vocational/science block
additions (averaging US$320,000 each and amounting in total to US$10.4 million
including contingencies) to the secondary schools, now under construction or
about to commence construction, would be negotiated with the original con-
tractors with prior Bank approval through extensions to such contracts, which



- 25 -
provide that additional construction would be carried out during the term of
the contract on the basis of the initial unit cost. The original contracts
for the construction of the secondary schools (funded by the government) were
awarded following local competitive bidding open to foreign bidders, but for
which no foreigr bids were received. In view of the dispersed nature of the
works and the relatively small cost of individual items (averaging US$400,000
including contingencies), civil works contracts for the remaining project
items (amounting to US$4.1 million including contingencies) would be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding under normal government procedures,
which are satisfactory to the Bank and do not exclude foreign bidders. The
local construction industry is well developed and competitive and it is
expected that all contracts would be awarded to local firms. As the furniture
manufacturing industry is also well developed and competitive, it is expected
that 100% of furniture contracts would be awarded to local suppliers. Detailed
lists and specifications of furniture and equipment to be financed under the
loan would be presented to the Bank for review and approval prior to procure-
ment. Furniture and equipment items (amounting to US$35.6 million including
contingencies) would be grouped to the extent possible in large packages to
permit bulk procurement. Contracts for furniture and equipment in excess of
US$100,000 would be awarded in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for
ICB. Small items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the above
figure or items of specialized nature for which ICB would not be practical,
and items which must be compatible with other equipment procured under ICB,
would be procured under normal Government procedures which are satisfactory to
the Bank and would include to the extent possible quotations from at least
three manufacturers or suppliers; the total value of furniture and equipment
so procured would not exceed US$5.0 million equivalent which would represent
about 14% of estimated furniture and equipment cost including contingency
allowances. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids under ICB,
local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of
preference equal to the existing rate of customs duties applicable to compet-
ing imports or 15% of CIF price, whichever is lower.
3.14      Disbursements.  Disbursements (Annex 1, Schedule 1.3) would be on
the basis of:
(i)  30% of total expenditures of civil works;
(ii)  Furniture and equipment:  100% of foreign expenditures and of
local expenditures ex-factory; 80% of local expenditures of
such imported items procured locally; and
(iii)  100% of foreign expenditures for fellowships and expatriate
consultants; and 80% of local expenditures for local consul-
tants.
3.15      These percentages would be adjusted as required, to assure continued
financing for each category for the implementation period.  Retroactive
financing for civil works contracts to be let in January 1980 is proposed in
an amount not to exceed US$200,000 for expenditures incurred after January 1,
1980.



- 26 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01      The Bank's involvement in Portugal's education system began at a
propitious time, when the system was in a state of flux after the recent
political upheavals. The Bank staff found the education authorities to be
progressive, dedicated to the reform and upgrading of the education system,
and responsive to the views and suggestions of the Bank's staff. In this
climate, the Bank's contribution to the development of the Portuguese educa-
tional system has been disproportionately great in comparison with the com-
bined amount of Bank financing provided in the first educational loan and
proposed in this loan. During the course of project identification, prepara-
tion, and appraisal of these two projects, many government decisions were
taken that will profoundly alter the education system for the better. In a
sense, therefore, many of the benefits of the proposed project, particularly
those related to the institution building, have already been realized. The
more important of these decisions are the following:
-    The rationalization of the network of excessive numbers
of small primary school teacher training institutions
into fewer, but more efficient and higher quality insti-
tutions. This was initiated under the first education
loan and would be completed with the financing requested
for seven such institutes under this project.
-    Agreement to establish the first faculty of education to
provide more systematic and improved quality pre-service
training of secondary school teachers. This will be
accomplished with the assistance of this project.
-    The establishment under law of committees with appropriate
representation from industry and agriculture to advise
continuously on the relevance of curricula in the engineer-
ing technician institutes and the agricultural technician
institutes, respectively. These are expected to become
operative in 1981.
-    The creation of a strong General Directorate in charge of
post-secondary non-university education.
-    The decision to reduce degree engineering enrollments and,
with the help of this project, to transform three engineer-
ing universities into technician training institutions.
-    Restructuring and reorientation of secondary education to
introduce practical studies for all students and to provide
students in previously all vocational secondary schools
with more academic schoolLng. This project would help to
initiate this transformation by financing the construction
and equipping of science 'Laboratories and vocational work-
shops in 31 secondary schools.



- 27 -
Other benefits that will accrue upon completion of the project are:
-    expansion and upgrading of rural extension service and
farmer training;
-    an additional annual output of about 900 industrial tech-
nicians (20% women), 220 agricultural technicians (30%
women), 1,900 commercial and 2,800 industrial skilled
workers, and increased level of skills for about 10,000
adult famers (25% women); and
-    improvements in the quality of university graduates in
the priority areas of agriculture, engineering, science
and secondary teacher education.
Risks
4.02      No undue risks are anticipated with this project.  This is due
principally to the extent of the discussions that have taken place between
the Portuguese education authorities and Bank staff over the past three years
and the steps that the authorities have consequently already taken; some of
these are described above. Others include (i) the completion of curricula
revisions satisfactory to the Bank and commendable progress in revision of
other curricula after comment by the Bank, (ii) advanced state of preparation
of architectural designs and equipment and furniture lists, (iii) agreement
on project implementation units and their staffing, with appointment of proj-
ect coordinators, architects and equipment officers already made, and (iv)
the appointment of additional staff to manage the large technical assistance
component of the project to ensure timely recruitment of specialists and
placement of trainees in appropriate institutions abroad. A risk remains
that budgetary procedures for the release of counterpart funds and the freeze
on hiring of new personnel (architects, accountants, etc.) could delay imple-
mentation of some items. The understandings reached on project implementation
staffing, however, and the required budgetary allocations for this purpose and
to meet overall project costs, should reduce this risk to a minimum.
Key Implementation Dates
4.03      Expected completion dates are listed in the following table for the
listed critical activities in project implementation. Such dates are achiev-
able with the proposed project management arrangements and will serve as a
basis for project implementation monitoring. The government has provided
an assurance that it intends to implement the project in accordance with
Schedules 1.1 and 1.2 of Annex 1.



- 28 -
List of Critical Activities
New /1
Construction                    Furniture
A          B   Renovations   Equipment Only
Civil Works
Completion of preliminary
designs                            3-80      3-80        -
Completion of final con-
struction drawings                 6-81      2-81        -
Commencement of construction        1-82      6-81       9-80
Completion of construction          6-83       1-83      9-81
Furniture and Equipment
Completion of preliminary
lists                              3-80      3-80       1-80            1-80
Completion of final lists
with complete specifica-
tions                              1-81      1-81       3-80            3-80
Completion of installation
of major furniture and
equipment                          6-83      1-83       9-81            9-81
Technical Assistance
Commencement of fellowship
programs                           9-80      9-80       9-80            4-80
/1   A - ME project institutions.
B - MAP project institutions.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(i)  a follow-up system to trace graduate placement and job perform-
ance would be developed and operational by the time the first
classes graduate from the agricultural and engineering tech-
nician training institutes (paras 2.07 and 2.11);
(ii)  a detailed plan and schedule for in-service training of teachers
for the agricultural technician training institutes and the
diversified secondary schools would be prepared and sent to
the Bank for review and comment within six months of the Loan
Agreement (paras 2.08 and 2.16);



- 29 -
(iii)  a follow-up study of the secondary diversified school graduates
to trace their entrance into further studies or job placement
and subsequent performance in each would be developed and opera-
tional by the time the first classes graduate (para 2.17);
(iv)  the recruitment of consultants on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank and the Borrower, and the arrangements for
fellowship training would be carried out substantially as
scheduled in Annex 1, Schedule 1.1 (para 2.34); and
(v)  the project would be implemented in accordance with Schedules 1.1
and 1.2 of Annex 1 (para 4.03).
5.02       Subject to the above conditions, the project is suitable as the
basis for a loan of US$40.0 million to the Republic of Portugal for a term of
15 years including a grace period of three years.



- 30 -
Chart I
PORTUGAL
DEVELOPING STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL SCHOOL SYSTEM, 1978-79
Basvc                                                    Secondary                                                    H,ghe,
1        2         3         4         5         6               7        8         9         10        11
Compulsrey
Pine Ans Programs
V,sual Amt Schooh
Agr.cult.rl. SChoolS & Inst.t.ts
CO-meC1.1 Schoos
T*chn,C.l Seco.1d.rv                                       PoiaVechn,cs
siP,eparato,v             D,vemsfied Secondary.
Pre-Schrol               Prry                      Coplemen-arv             General Lycees                                              U-et 
| Un.6eid S-cod-r Schools                                       lltr
E.pe-emnai s--odarv                                        Technical In-mlutes
*   Term-nal E.amwnar,ons
I Optiona1 or Iflernsh,                                                                                      Other Courses
2   Being phased owt or conegned to di.e,sified
2   Newv denelopmenen or including Peciect Institutions                                                                                        TahrTann
No.-I                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TeuChier Traiin
Ages   5        6         7         a         9         0o       11        12             13        14        IS        16        17        18        19        20        21       22        23 
Worad Baiik - 17767



-31 -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INCICATORE                                             Annex  1
........... a..* ......Table  1. 1
LUSh? 21. ~~~~~                              Page  l  of  2
*         : % S      :1 TVTAL:%  OF PtIMLIC                : :PRt. :AV.PNIt.                        :          SIC
*  :CAPITA: OEYOTCO:PUBLIC : EUCATION    :LITER-: PR!. :COUPLE- :STU- : 1CH. TgA:.H: PQORESU,: SEC. :STU- :141563:
*    AT  :TO IOU.:  UXP. :REC1*IRENT   :AC            :614OLLMTON       :OENTS:SA$LARY IN:10M RATE :fNnOLL:OENTS:1MNft.L;
N MARET  (PIJSLIC:OE[V0VEO:9X1P ALLOCATED):  ONATI  RATrio  SATE 006 PER.  R1LATION :1ROM0 PRI.:RATtO :02W  RnATIO 
POP. :PRICES: UxP.   :TO   :           TO:       (%, 0F  :MNET  :031.5C14.:TEACH: TO 01W  :T0 SEC.    MINT  :TEACH-  ROWSS:
VR:MILLS.: (USE): ONLT)        RJ. :PSI. MEC. HI.:AOUITS): 1%T  :CTCLAM%:ER    :CAPITA    "(SY)                 M E%   E :1    :  %)
AUSTRIA         74   7.66 1.6206    S3.Y   6.1EV  341  SlY  13Y   99            264      63       260      2.00      960      $to     190   10.651
CANADA          71  22.6  7.106       7.3   16.7    20   27   21   966          96        7       I9       2.0,      SO6      t0       lo     eo0
GERMANY 0.SI1P.72  Et.6  0.670        3.0   tO.2    31EY 64.- 26EY  SO          90       6g       23EV     ...       061      64V    I2C   20.2EV
JAPAN          75 111.6  4.410        4.31  20.71   4GUV 37UV tiUY  06          910      9C       21       2.06      SWC      0641    20C   24.60Y
NETHERLANDS   73  I1.T  1.42S         6.4   22.40   21   31 21    to            93                23       2.0       9l       60      20     12.00
NEW ZEALAND   72   3.IQ 4.2000    5.2   ...           31   24   23              SS2      21,      26       ...       It       67      ts    24.00
NORAY          76   4.0  1.042       7.2   14.4    14   24   13    06          06        oI      is       I.$       06n      62       is    11.00
SWgOON         76   2,2  1.110        3.6   14.0    23   IS   12.   99          60       06       6g       ...       607      *SC    12    20.OCC
U.K.            73  1M.0  3.730       7.1   12.9    26   41   16 a       6      6         .       24       2.0o      ...      6o      1 7    21.O02X
U.S.A.          76 2t4.6  7.660       3.4   11.6   ,...   72.. 26       "IE              to       22       ...       19,      92      169   24.00
GRtEEC          is 76 .1  2.160       2.6   10.4    27   26   21   6an          II       120      31      2.0        70t-    60       27     11.00
IRILMOI        74   3.tG 2.6200    1.1   12.30   431  41V  141   66    106211            "A       36      ...        9SA      6541    I I    t1.47Y
PO6TUGAL        77   6.7  1,10M       2.6   13.4    41   21   1s    700          62      600      11      2...)      71-      31      12      1.00
mNOMIA         71  21.2  t.240        4.0    6.4    36   1t   12    63          10121    ...      21      ...        26       49      22     10.00
SPAIN          74  21.60 2.1900    1.40  11.2A   43V  22Y  ISV   94A   11141             ...      35A.  .            ...      7SXV   30    17.62V
APRIRCA
ALGEUIA        76  17.2  1.11014    7.4   14.2FV  34   26   21    377    as              41       33       4.0       13       31      27      6.00
lENIN           74   2.20   1600    7.2N  26.01   470  230  IOD0  110    44XY   .706              13Y    21.06       433      1141   266    0.741
BOTSWAMA        73   0.6    140       6.0   22.0    12   23   1 4    35         s0x     .70       31       1.0       46       14      22      2.00
suGUiQi         76   4.1    120H4   2.7   22.13   463  333  213   21            23X1    41        32       9.0       22        24    I6       0.1
CANEROmg        741  7.7    214       3.7   21.1    33   42   20    ..          s        41       52      4.0        20        60    24       0.9001
C.A.11.         74   1.20   2200      2.00  17.00   Su   ISO......    71X1    21                  6oy    ...         I a       6211   276V   0.211
CHIC            71   4.0    120)      2.0-  10.0    76   22             11    .294B1   20         Sony   11.0         a        24.61  30      0.0161
Comad(s)        74   1.2    1100IO    6.0   16.3    A0   32   21    107   13321          63       63       6.0       43       324    22       3.40
gEYPlt         76  26.2    310        5.914   ...    30   32   21    44         76       s0       31       .         76       41      20      12.00
ETIOPIA        77  21.0    tOO        2.4   12.1    44   31   1 4    10         26       ...      so       ...       63        8      26      ..
CASON          74   0.3SP 2.5400t   S.1.    20.60   250   90  110   1..          01o     21C      460      1.0       IIA      311     21C    0.291
"INIA       76   0.1    170       3.3   l1I. I1    46   21    6    10       27       s0       33      ...        62       II3    21
GHANA      ~~~74   9.2sr  360     ...   12.7V   43Y  22Y  20V0  ..           OXY    623       30V     ...        146      35X1    1601    1.01
GUJINEA        76   4.7    160O0    4.3N40 ...        30   31   3.0    ..       304      64       45      12.0F       66       1321    26      4.00o
IVORY COAST   76   7.0    610         6.3   23.1    33   46   13         IAk   so       of       42        7.0       47       17211   26      1.641
KENYA          76  13.8    240        .2.   26.0    67   23  '10    40          607      607      24       6.0       20       16      27      1.0
LESOTHO         76   1.2    160    12.OP  22.0    46   la   20    40            6s       10       32       ?.0ON     SI       10      24      1.00
LIBRInA        71   1.3    410        2.4   13.2    27   lo   20    73          6o       ...      21       2.0       ...      12      26      It.OAY
MAAGA"SCAR    77   6.0    240         4.0   24.0    13   26   Is   .50.    10            23       44       6.0       36       14      23      1.70
MALAWt         77   1.6    140        2.2    6.3    40   17   22    21          16x      21       6I       1.0        6        121    21      0.47
MALI            71   1.70    60       4.204  33.00   45F  370  13F   top    22A0         ...      460    1.10        100      6ox    21
MAURITANIA    71   1.30   3200    4.11  20.01  ....04..                         17211    ...      22A      ...       ...       341   24A       .
NAURItTIUS      76   0.61L   660      4.7   12.1    10   26    6    30m    94            99       24       4.5        90      43      32      1.10
MOROCCO        76  11.2    120        6.3   11.2    21n  483  133   26          61X      32       40   ~ ..          33       1721    22      4.00
NIGERIA         74  71.09   3400    4.101 24.201  231  1Ey  421   ...    42XY            ...      3401     ...       ...      10O11   20CV   0.43Y
RWANDA         73   4.10    10OO0    3.2C  26.00....... 23                      52       ..       I        ...       ...       2      13      0.2301
SENEGAL    ~~77   S.2   .4*2      5.0   23.0   *46   34   20    10  .32              ..       49 .     0.       20        10      21      1.1
SIENNA LEN    1 3.00   2000           2.4   23.4    3             0' 1?         3X       41       3        4.01                3X     2       0Y.13Sf
SOMALIA         76   3.6    110       1.0   12.0    66   31   21    607    312X          60       27      .12.0      76               14      0.10
SURAN          76  11.0    210        4.1   16.6    48   36   6f   20           34 .     74       33       3.3       33       14      24       1.24
SWOZILAND      76   0.1    14         7.1   12.2    37   33   23    61         922       41       37       4.014     66       32X1   20        2.OOX
TANZANIA       76  13.1    1SO        6.6 . 17.4    42   21   12    66          764     IIt       41       3.0       tO        4-    1s       0.34
TOGO           77   2.4    300        1.5   26.1    30   23   21    Is          74       40       16       6.0       12        -      44      2.00
TUIJASIA        73   1.70   s00w      6.3   23.4    37   43   is    11          72       S1       41       6.0       31       14      21      3.00
UGANOA          71  11.6    220       3.401 11.70Y  34EV 40EY 22EY  25A    13XY1   ...            34EY    ...        14A       62101  21A    0.561
UPPER VOLTA   77   1.8    its         3.4   23.1    31   16   32         SC    13        22       II      24.0   .16           2.    21       1.0
ZAIRE          76  21.6    140        6.0   22.0    'O   26   25    is          664      44       42X      2.0       41       1321    27      1.0021
ZAISIA         76   1.1    440        6.6   11.1    14   22   22    31          97X1    so        49       7.0     * 21       la      23      1.10
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CA111SUEAN
gARIADOS        74   0.2  1.620       6.1   22.1    43   31   16    99         1064      so       21       3.0       go       14X     17      ..
COSTA RICA    71   2.0    960         5.25  22.73   573  213  126   616   10141    652            216      3.06      sag      1241   216    17.111
CUBA            76   9.1  1.100       6.0   11.0 ... .....96                    Io       96       22       2.7       26       83     I11    11.00
DONMIICAN 330.72   4.80   7100    3.0   13.1    42   24   22    5I              s0       17       14       3.00      63       14      24      7.00
EL SALVADOR   77   4.1    170         4.0   27.2    64    6 27    62            634x     32       36       2.2       41       23      21      7.00
GUATEMALA       73   6.202  7000      1.6  1160    11   23   14    47           64       26       31       3.0       II        a      21      4.09Y
H4AITI          76   4.7    200       1.0    6.0    St   21   Is    206    210           13       SWU      3.0       62        4      .. .     0.7
HONDUJRAS       71   2.10 . 400G    4.20  13.10   62G  11G  190   13            76       30       21       3.0       so       is      17      4.00
.JAMAICA        76   2.1  1.070       1.9   16.2    37   33   22    o60    Si            12       31       4.5       14       64      21      7.16
'MEXICO         71  12.6  1.010        3.1DO 12.000  11Y  261  121   76    112XY    31            46       3.0       63       3141   234    0.9711
NICANIA0UA      74   2.20   7000    2.1   14.2    St   13   13    17            61       21       37       2.0       23       1 7     24      7.00
TRINIDAD A T. '7   11.i  2.161        4.1   14.1    43   32   20    Is          go       61       30       2.0       41       62      24       ..
SOUTH AMERICA
BOLIVIA        76   1.8    3110       1.0   17.5F........   36                  178      290      2'       10        ...       43    too
BRAZIL          71 110.00 1.3000    1.0   12.4    421  20E   37E  64B    360             ...      27CY    ..          ...      260    lIdc    6.006
CHILE           71  10.30 1.0100      3.831 13.91ty  23Y  tO SO10    .. .   11111y    . .         21.        . .      .. .     46X1   .. .   16.551
COLOMEIA        74  24.30   6100    3.301 21.201  4401 220Y IIY   73    jOlly    20               33Y      4.0       90        3641    I4A    6.67Y
ECUADOR         71   7.30   7000    3.70  27.7C........ 66g    i02?Y                      ...     36C      ...        ...     3641    14C      ...
GIUYANA         74   0.60   110F    5.8N  14.70   47   31   14    83A    92X             36       33       6.0:       19       6221    24      1.00
PARAGUAY        74   2.60   6100       1.6   11.0    11   13   22    St         32       26       30        1.9      6e        17      12      1.00
PERU            71  16.00   340G    4.201 21.70Y  40Y  221  III   72    111211    36              3901    3.0I       70        4241   2301  14.41Y
fU(IGUAV        73   2.30 1.3700       2.1   11.3    46   34   20    64         934       ...      24       ...       23       ...    10       ..
VENEZUELA       73  12.30 2.1400    4.6   11.9    300  260  310   77A    SI               ...     33       2.4        ...      33      ...   t2.63C1



- 32 -                                    ~~~~~Table 1.1
32                                  ~~~~~~Page 2 of 2
COMARAIV  EDCATONINDICATORS  (CONTO)
........... ...
AUGUST 21., 1979
GNPI   % GS ON        TOTAL:%  Of PUBLIC                          :PRI. :AV.P11.                       :Sac
:CAPITA: OIVOTMDPUSLIC : EOUCATION   :LITrf-   Pat. :COMPLE- :STU- : SC4. TArH4:PROWRESS--- SE. :STU- :IHIER:
AT  : TO IU. :  EXP. : RECURRENT   :ACY    :ENROL.L:TION         :OIENTS:SALARY IN:ION EATSE *EONLL:OENTS:9JAL.L:
MOARKET: (PU6LI.C:OEVOTEO:EXP ALLOCATEO:  RATE :RATIO :RATt FOR:.PIR  :6ELATI0II -FROM P4t.:*ATIG :Pfn  :RATI10
POP.  PRItCES: SIP.       TO :         TO:      (51 OF    N ET  :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO  M9  :TO SEC.    NET  :754CN- GROSS:
YW:MILLS. : (USS): ONLY)       ECU. :PRt. SELC. HI.:ADULTS): (I   :CYCLSCI():ER.       CAPITA       (1M 5    :56    : M
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN   77K 14.3    1600    1.6   11.6    47   19   15    12             29X      69      27       3.00       62       ox    17       1.00
BANGLADESH    73  60.40    900        1.2   20.2    44Y  22Y  21Y   22D    sox           .      460      ...        ...     23X0   26        .
CH.INA(TAIWAN) 73  16.303 f.0500    3.2   14.0    26   41   22    62           IEC     94       40      14.0       64       64C    26.  20.OCC
INDIA          75 620.40   1400    2.6VY  ...         .. ....: 296    SUITy    ...              43A      ..        *..      29XY   2OAV   2. 341Y
INDONESIA      76 130.90   2600    3.0   11.0    26   32   16    S0S    ?9EX    435             30E      2.0       62E5.    I9EA   145    2.00
IRAN           73  22.602 2.0600    3.3   12.6    SOI6  16   126   s0         77       74A      22       6.06      GOA      24      22      4.32C7
IRAO           76  11.50  1.290      6.7C  16.30  ....... 26C    93AY    ...                    22       *. ..              2517   26c    S.477
JORDAN         77   2.3    997       4.5K   7.1K   266  606   36   70         97)1     61       22       2.0 *     91       68      22    10.60
KOREA          78327.0  1,242         2.6   17.9    35   29   36    923    t023        94       49       2.9       91       60      45    16.00,
LEBANON        72   2.20 1.0700    3.6   16.0    39   40   10    66           66       66       19       2.0       62       26U    2       23.00
M4ALAYSIA      76  12.6    g60       6.7   26.0    42   34   is    soc    96           92       22       2.7       73       46      26      3.00
NEPAL          76  12.6F   IOF        1.1   10.0    29   20   41    19         59      26       31       2.3       64       14      24      0.6
OMAN           72   0.IF 2.200F       lY7N   2.6    96    -   -        20      24X     99       27F      7.0        ...     0.4X    9        .
PAKISTAN       76  71.30   1600    1.6   16.2    46   26   to    21            47)1    s0       39       2.0        ...     17X    t6       6.00
PAPUA N.G.    76   2.80   4600    6.6   16.1    36   16   24    22             677     73P      21      11.0       90       1217   24       0.907
PHILIPPINES   74  43.20   4200    2.6   14.9    72   Is   12    67    1041              ...     24      11.0       ...      461     ...   21.00
SINGAPORE      74   2.30 2.6800    2.7Y   9.2Y   297  39y  177   764   1091Y    72A             217      ...       994      44XY   24       7.667
SYRIA          75   7.60   6300    3.6    6.9    39   26   26    63           s9       70       36       2.0       92       45      21    12.00
TH4AILAND      77  44.1    410        4.0V  20.0    65   30   15    64F    63          20       36       6.Ou      70       26      26      2.00
TURKEY         73  40.90 1.0100    S.SCY 2O.6CY .....6...                     $Y        ...     347      ...       ...      24Y    270Y   6.627
YEMEN          73   6.40   3000    0.6    4.0    45P  21P  23P   10            165X    Is       26       6.0       75        2X    19       0.0667
YEMEN P.0.6.  76   1.7    260        6.6    ...    67   26    a    20         691      46       20       5.0       94       211    24       0.10
SUMMARY FOR OEVELOPtNG CoUFwRIES:
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES:                  94    90      66   68   55    87       96       74       96         65      77       94      91       64.
RANGE:                            (0.5-  (3.6-  (25- (6-  (2-   (3-    (14-    (13.    (19.            (1.9-   (7-       (.4-   (9-       (.of-
12.0) 23.0)   96 ) 47)  44)   96)    13311)   99 I          1       26.0 I    9)       60      3 9)   23.0)
OUARTILES:UPPER                    6.1   21.2    64   32   22    73         94       76       46         7       62       26      26      7.0
MEDIAN:                 3.1   16.3    46   23   is    so         76       s6       26         4       62       17      22     2.2
LOWER :                 3.0   12.4    36   la   12    20         53       30       32         3       43        5     20        .9
SYMBOLS: ..  D ATUM UNAVAILABLE             A.1970 OR BEFORtI          M.CURRENT PRICES                       OCURCES:
-MAGNITUDE NIL DOR NEGLIGIBLE 6-1971                       N'0C----
7QOUESTIONABLE-                   C-1972                     P-INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                COLUMNS:1 AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0.1973                       04CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                      OR low0 MISSIONS
..COMBINED WITH PRIMARY          E-1974                    R-MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY               3 TO 14 15R0 MISSIONS
UNDER REVIEW                   P.1975                    S-MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                AND/DR UNESCO
0q1976   .                T.EXCLUDING-CENTRAL GOVT.                                 STATISTICAL
H1i977                    U-PMLIC ONLY                                              YEAR600K
K.1976                    V-INCLUING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
1-INCLUDING OVERtAGED STUDENTS
Y-UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OP VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS Or RELATIVE STAGES OP EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER.ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT OATA.CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD SE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE SANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERFENT SOURCES: THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE SEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS. TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS.SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE SAWE I WORKING TO IMPROV THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE. USE OF THESE DATA. THE FOLLOWING. OUALIFICATIONS SHOUiLD SE soRNE IN
MIND:
(I)EDUCATtON' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORPO,L:
(2)PPRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS T7" ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL. TECHNICAL. AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)'LITERACY RATESI(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOtINTRIES THEY ARE '.NLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY;
(4P'PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION'(COLS.3.4 AND 6) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION ST
PU8iLIC AND QUASI-PUB6LIC AGENCIES:
(S)'ENROLLMENT RATIOS'(COLS 7. 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELtGI'LE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUB.JECT TO A WIDE MARJ.N OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY.-OF BASIC OATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREOUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUIDENTS WHO F INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



PORTUGAL II
Unit Capital Costs - and Areas Per Student
Cross Area Per        Site Works       Furniture        Equipment       Total
Type of Facility                          Student: M2          & Building
-- - -    - - -  -    - us  --   - - -    -- -  - --USs-
Vocational/Science Blocks to
existing Secondary Schools (ME)                                /2                  /2              /2               /2           /2
Agricultural Technician Training Institute (ME)                 83                     /3
Academic and Communal                                        18.3               5,700 -            500            1,900         8,100
Engineering Technician Training Institute (ME)               Existing                                 -             1,300/4       1,300
/4
Primary Teacher Training Institute.  (ME                     Existing                -                                500-          500
Faculty of Education
Faculty of Agriculture
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine            (ME)               Existing; supplemental equipment only.
Faculty of Fngineering
Faculty of Scienice_ 
Farmer Training Center (MAP)                                    8.5               2,600             200               600         3,400
Academic and laboratory areas only -
Demonstration Center (KAP)             /5                      12.15              2,900             300               600         3,800
Academic and laboratory areas only -
1/ Excluding professional fees and contingencies.                                                                                                 >
2/ ho meaningful unit area and unit cost can be determined because of extreme variances within these institutions.
3/ Excluding farm buildings.                                                                                                                      a
4/ New equipment only.
5/ Excluding farm buildings and farm equipment,



P 0 R T U G A L I I
Contingencies Allowances
(in US5 Millions)
Building             Furniture             Equipment           Prof. Servcs.          Fellowships          Experts                 Total Project Costs
Local  Foreign       Local  Foreign        Local  Foreign       Local  Foreign        Local  Foreign       Local  Foreign        Local    Foreiin        Total
Contingencies (as % of
project cost):
Unforeseen                      10.0       10.0       10.0      10.0        10.0      10.0       10.0      -            5.0       5.0        5.0        5.0
Price escalation-'              23.7      23.7        27.6      27.6        27.6      27.6       23.7      -           15.8      15 8       21.0      21.0
Project cost (without
contingencies):
Millions Escudos              495.42   212.32        15.33      6.57      118.63 1,067.66       11.43      0          16.67    66.67        5.33     21.33    662.81    1,374.55  2,037.36
Millions UJS$                  10.41      4.46        0.32      0.14        2.49    22.42        0.24      0           0.35      1.40       0.11       0.45      13.92       28.87      42.79
% Foreign Exchange                          30.0                 30.0                  90.0               0.0                     80.0                  80.0                    67.5
Contingencies (amilounts):
Unforeseen
Millions Escudos              49.54    21.23         1.54      0.66       11.86   106.77        1.14      0           0.83      3.33       0.27       1.07      65.18      133.06      198.24
Millions US$                   1.04      0.45        0.03      0.01        0.25      2.24       0.03      0           0.02      0.07       0.00       0.02       1.37        2.79        4.16
Price escalation
Millions Escudos             129.16     55.36        4.65       1 99      36.02    324,14       2.98      0           2.77     11.06       1.17       4.70     176.75      397.25    574.00
Millions USS                   2.71       1.16       0.10      0.04        0.75      6.81       0.06      0           0.06   . 0.23        0.03       0.10       3.71        8.34       12.05
Subtotal
Millions Escudos              178.70    76.59         6.19      2.65      47.88   430.91         4.12      0           3.60     14.39       1.44       5.77     241.93      530.31      772.24       1
Millions US$                    3.75       1.61       0.13      0.05        1.00      9.05       0.09      0           0.08      0.30       0.03       0.12       5.08        11.13      16.21      W
$ Foreign Exchange                          30.0                 30.0                  90.0               0.0                     80.0                  80.0                   68.7
Total project cost (with
contingencies):
Millions Esctidos             674.12   288.91        21.52      9.22    166.51 1,498.57         15.55      0          20.27    81.06        6.77      27.10     904.74   1,904.86  2,809.60
Millions tlS$                  14.16       6.07       0.45      0.19        3.49     31.47       0.33      0           0.43      1.70       0.14       0.57      19.00       40.0Q       59.00
b Foreign Exchange                          30.0                 30.0                  90.0               0.0                     80.0                  80.0                    67.8
Total contingencies:  As 7. of total project cost, 27.5; as % of project cost without contingencies, 37.9
I/ Price escalation computed on basis of (a) annual price escalation rates:
(b) project completion 6/1984  or 4-1/2 years frova l16an sigring;
(c) estimated progress of work per year and corresponding price increase rates;
(d) project cost including the physical unforeseen contingency.
Price escalation rates
1979               1980             1981              1982             1983-85
Civil works                     o.0 'b              9.('/,           8.0%              7.07.             7.0%7
Furniture and equipment        10.0%               14.0X            12.0%             10.0X              8.07                                                                  t
Technical assistanice            7.0%              10.07.            9.0%       3       .0%              7.0%                                 i-X
Kate of exchange:  US$1.00 - 47.6 Escudos                                                  ,



PORTUGAL
EDUCATION II
Schedule for Technical Assistance
Total Man/Months and Recommended Beginning Dates
Project Item and Type of
Technical Assistance Required                              Experts         Date        Fellowships        Date
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MEC)
Faculty of Education
Fellowships                                                                                10             4-80
Teaching Faculty (36@2 months)                                                           120              9-80
20            4-81
22            9-82
Teaching Faculty (12@18 months)                                                          4108             9-80
L108            9-81
Technical Teacher Trainers (5@24 months)                                                  120             9-80
Industrial Technician Training
Experts
Program Development (6@3 months)                             18            9-80
Fellowships
Directors of Institutes (3@4 months)                                                       12             1-81
Sr. Theory Instructors (17@4 months)                                                       68             1-81
Sr. Lab Shop Instructors (17@4 months)                                                     68             1-81
Agricultural Technicians
Training Institutes                                                                                              n
Experts                                                         .                                                D
Program Implementation:                                                                                          e 
Rural Engineering (2@6 months)                            12            9-82                                  n
Home Economics (4@3 months)                               12            9-82                                0 t: x
Crop Production (2@3 months)                               6            9-82
Animal Production (2@3 months)                             6            9-82
Field Programs Cnordinator (1@6 months)                    6            3-83



Total Man/Months and Recommend Beginning Dates
Project Item and Type of
Technical Assistance Required                             Experts         Date         Fellowships    Date
Fellowships
Rural Engineering:
Agri. Machinery (2@18 months)                                                           36          9-80
Irrigation (4@18 months)                                                                72          9-80
Home Economics (4@24 months)                                                               96          9-80
Crop Production (6@9 months)                                                               54          9-80
Animal Production (4@9 months)                                                             36          9-80
Farm Management (1@12 months)                                                              12          9-80
Directors of Institutes (2@3 months)                                                        6          9-80
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine
Fellowships
Mobil Clinic (1@6 months)                                                                   6          9-80
Animal Production (1@9 months)                                                              9          9-80
Livestock Management (1@6 months)                                                           6          9-80
Faculty of Agriculture
Fellowships
Crop Production (1@4 months)                                                                4          2-81
Animal Production (1@4 months)                                                              4          2-81
Mechanization (1@4 months)                                                                  4          2-81
Horticulture (1@4 months)                                                                   4          2-81
Plant Pathologist (1@4 months)                                                              4          2-81
Pest Control (1@4 months)                                                                   4          2-81
Faculty of Engineering
Fellowships
Laboratory Professors (9@2 months)                                                         18          9-80
Project Administration                                                                                         . X
Fellowships                                                                                18          680     0
Administration personnel



Total Man/Months and Recommend Beginning Dates
Project Item and Type of
Technical Assistance Required                                Experts         Date          Fellowships        Date
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE (MAP)
Farmer Training Centers
Experts
Program Planning (1@2 months)                                 2              + -80
1-81
Program Evaluation (1@2 months)                               2                 81
.                                                   -~~~~~~~~~~182
Agriculture Cooperatives (1@2 months)                         2             . -81
Home Economics Trainer (1@2 months)                           2               9-81
Nutrition Education (1@2 months)                              2               9-81
Adult Literacy (1@3 months)                                   3             _4g-81
9-82
9-83                                       _
Fellowships
Program Development (2@3 months)                                                                 6            9-81
Planning & Administration (1@3 months)                                                           3            9-81
Evaluation (1@3 months)                                                                          3            9-81
Curriculum Development (1@3 months)                                                              3            9-81
Nutrition Education Program
Experts
Food Economics (1@ 2 months)                                  2              6-80
-_81
Nutritionist (1@2 months)                                     2             . -80
t681
Fellowships                                                                                                         P m
Nutrition (1@6 months)                                                                           6           10-80 0 
Food Economics (1@6 months)                                                                      6           10-81  O  
Food Policy (1@6 months)                                                                         6           10-82 " '"x
Nutrition Field Coordinator (2@3 months)                                                         3           10-80 4 
3           10-81



Total Man/Months and Recommended Beginning Dates
Project Item and Type of
Technical Assistance Required                           Experts         Date         Fellowships      Date
Agricultural Inforuation Facility
Fellowships
Technical Illustrator (1@18 months)                                                        18          10-80
Project Administration
Fellowships
12          6-80
Project Administration Personnel
OQO{
00
('D P
O 0
c~~~~~~~~~~~~ O,
I-b- X
I-' ~ 
(p    'S~~~~~~~~~~~v



PORTUGAL II
Implementation Schedule
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE (MEC)                        19918 -.18                                                                                                          9318
1     2       3      4      1       2      3      4      1      2       3     4       1      2      3      4      1       2      3      4      1      2      3       4
1. Agricultural Technician
Training Institutes
Design and Construction:
Consultant Architects Selected
Site Acquisition and SurveyI 
Preliminary Design
Design Development Drawings
Bid Docsments
Final Construction Drawings and Cost
Estimates
Bid Announcement, Evaluation and
Contract Awards
Construction
Guarantee Ferid-                                                                                                                                                                           -
Furniture and Equipment:
Preliminary Lists
Final Lists
Specifications and Costs Estimates
Bid Documents
Bid Announcement. Evaluation and
Contract Awards
Manufacturing, Delivery and Installation                                                                                                                                                                                    S
Guarantee Period                                                                                                                                                                m       -       
1I. Vocational/Science Blocks so existing
Secondary Schools:
Design and Construction:
Preliminary Design
Desgin Development Drawings
Bid Documents
Final Construction Drawings and Cost
Estimates
Bid Announcement. Evaluation and
Contract Awards
Construction                                                                                                                                     --
Guarantee Period-                                                                                                                                                                         m       -
Equipment
Preliminary Lists 
Final Lists 
Specifications and Costs Estimates
Bid Documents
Bid Announcement, Evaluation and
Contract Awards                                                                                                                                                                                                          t
Manufacturing. Delivery and Installation                                                                                                                                                                               l-5%
Guarantee Period                                                                                                                                                                                  m
*Indicates Bank Approval/Review'                             NeotationsfClosing Date
World Bank - 20392



PORTUGAL II
Implementation Schedule
MINISTR  OFEDUA1979                                                     1980                       1981                       1982                       1983                       1984
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
AND CULTURE (MEC)                 1     2      3      4      1     2      3      4      1     2      3      4     1      2      3      4      1      2     3      4      1     2      3      4
!(a Engineering Technician Training
Institutes
(b) Primary Teacher Training
Institutes
ic) Facultv of Education
(di Faculty of Agriculture
(e) Faculty of Veterinary Medicine
if) Faculty of Science                                                                                                                                                                                    4
Igi Faculty of Engineering                                                                                                                 0.
Equipment:
Preliminary Lists
Final Lists
Specifications and Costs Estimates
Bid Documents
Bid Announcement, Evaluation and
Contract Awards
Manufacturing. Delivery andI
Installation                                                          l
Guarantee Period                                             _                                                           -               mg _ 
NegoitationsT                                                                                                                             Closing Date
0 Indicates Bank Approval/Review
World Bank - 20393
0   l
F0.f
0-I
I- 
O) XP
Fh )
o      -



PORTUGAL II
Implementation Schedule
1 979                      1 980                       1 981                      1 982                       1 983                      1 984
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES (MAP)                                                                                           
1     2      3      4      1     2       3     4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3     4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3     4
1. (a) Farmer Training Centers
(b) Demonstration Farms
Design and Construction:
Site Acquisition and Survey
Preliminary Design
Design Development Drawings
Bid Documents
Final Construction Drawings and Cost
Estimates
Bid Announcement, Evaluation and
Contract Awards
Construction                                                                                                                                _              _ 
Guarantee Periodm                                                                                                                                                 --
Furniture and Equipment:
Freliminary Usts
Final Lists
Specifications and Costs Estimates
Bid Documents
Bid Announcements, Evaluation and
Contracts Awards
Manufacturing, Delivery and Installation
Guarantee Period                                                                                                                                        _      _      _        -
ia) Mobile Training Units
Ib) Agricultural Information Facility
(c) National Nutrition Education Program
Equipment:
Preliminary Lists
Final Lists
E~n
Specifications and Costs Estimates                                     _
Bid Documents
Bid Announcement, Evaluation
and Contract Awards
Manufacturing, Delivery and                                                                               _D
Installation
Guarantee Period                                                                                          _      =_                                -
Negotiations                                                                                                                                Closing Date     I    D
* Indicates Bank approval/review
World Bank - 20391



-42-                              Annex 1
Schedule 1.3
PORTUGAL II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ million)
Accumulated      Undisbursed
Calendar      Fiscal        FY          Disbursements       Disbursements       Balance
Date        Year      Semester 1/    Amount       %       Amount      %     Amount   %
1/1/80  --   1980
2          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      40.0   100.0
7/1/80
1          0.5      1.2       0.5      1.2      38.8    98.8
1/1/81  --   1981
2          1..8     4.5       2.3      5.7      37.7    94.3
7/1/81
1          3.6      9.0       5.9     14.7      34.1    85.3
1/1/82  --   1982
2           7.0    17.5      12.9     32.2      27.1    67.8
7/1/82
1         11.2    28.0       24.1     60.2      15.9    39.8
1/1/83  --   1983
2          9.2    23.0       33.3     83.2       6.7    16.8
7/1/83
1          4.5    11.3       37.8     94.5       2.2      5.5
1/1/84  --   1984
2          2.2      5.5     40.0    100.0        0.0     0.0
7/1/84
1/1/85  --   1985                                                                                4
2
1/ Beginning from the Date of Loan Agreement (anticipated at March 1980).



- 43 w                            ANNEX 2
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Reports and Studies Relating To Education
Republic of Portugal, the Education and Training System: Issues,
Strategies and Priorities. World Bank Report No. 1545-PO, March 10,
1975
Portugal: Evolucao do Ensino Superior dos Escolas, Ministerio da
Educacao e Cultura, 1978
Portugal: A Escolaridad Obrigatoria em Portugal, Ministerio da
Educacao e Cultura, June 1978
Portugal: Organizacao do Sistema Educativo e Formacao de Professores,
Ministerio da Educacao e Cultura, 1978
Iguerito Niveis de Qaulificacao 1977, Ministerio do Trabalho, Lisbon,
February 1979
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Project Requests. Government of Portugal, February 1979
Recent Laws and Decrees Affecting Project Items, Government of Portugal
Portugal:  Project Brief - Proposed Second Education Project, IBRD,
December 12, 1978
C.   Selected Working Papers of the Project
Republic of Portugal: Second Education Project, Educational and
Architectural Working Papers, May 1979






!24 i ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    4 I
/  A                                                        AI 
'V  08NC



