Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2674-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
December 20, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978                   November 1979
Currency Unit = Portuguese Escudo (Esc)            Esc
$1 = Esc 43.9                           50.0
Esc = $0.023                             0.020
Exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report $1 = Esc. 47.6
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EC        European Communities
EFTA      European Free Trade Association
EIB       European Investment Bank
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IMF       International Monetary Fund
WHO       World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Portugal
Amount:              US$40 million equivalent
Terms:               15 years, including 3 years of grace, at 7.95 percent per
annum.
Project
Description:         The project would help meet urgent needs for trained man-
power in the priority sectors of agriculture and industry
through (i) the expansion of agricultural and industrial
technician training, (ii) upgrading of university engineer-
ing, agricultural and science teaching, and (iii) expansion
of practical and vocational training in secondary schools.
It would also assist in upgrading teacher training and
help increase farmers' skills. The project would include
construction, furniture and/or equipment and technical
assistance, as required, for forty-three science laborato-
ries and vocational workshops in secondary schools; two
agricultural and three industrial technician training
institutes; seven primary teacher training institutes;
seven farmer training centers and three demonstration
farms; two mobile agricultural training units; a nutrition
education program and an agricultural information center;
and university faculties of agriculture, veterinary
medicine, education, science and engineering. The project
faces no undue risks. The budgetary procedures and a
freeze on hiring personnel may cause a delay in implementa-
tion of some items (para. 59).
Estimated Cost:                                                            % of
Local   Foreign   Total   Baseline
-------$ million-------      Cost
Technician Training Institutes                 4.05     6.44    10.49      24.5
Vocational/Science Blocks                      6.39    11.93    18.32      42.8
Primary Teacher Training Institutes            0.11     0.99      1.10      2.6
University Faculties                           0.45     4.13      4.58     10.7
Farmer Training/Agricultural Information)   2.46        3 53      5.99      14.0
Center/Nutrition Education Program          2
Technical Assistance                           0.46     1.85      2.31      5.4
Specialists and Fellowships)
Baseline Cost                                 13.92    28.87    42.79    100.0
Physical Contingencies                         1.37     2.79      4.16      9.7
Price Contingencies                            3.71     8.34    12.05      28.2
Total Project Cost                            19.00    40.00    59.00
Thi documont hs a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                                       Local   Foreign   Total
…------ million-------
Bank loan                                               -      40.0      40.0
Government contribution                               19.0        -      19.0
Total                                                 19.0     40.0      59.0
Estimated
Disbursement:                 Bank FY          1981      1982      1983      1984
---------- $ million ----------
Annual                                          2.3      10.6      20.4       6.7
Cumulative                                      2.3      12.9      33.3     40.0
Appraisal Report:   No.:   2519-PO.
Date: December 7, 1979



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Portugal for the equivalent of US$40 million to help fi-
nance an education project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
3 years of grace, with interest at 7.95 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "An Updating Report on the Portuguese
Economy" (No. 2214-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 8, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Between the revolution of April 1974 and September 1975, Portugal's
political and economic systems were radically transformed. The colonies were
given their independence. There was movement towards a representative politi-
cal system which became a reality in mid-1976. There was nationalization of
the banks, insurance companies, power companies, major transportation agencies
and the large industrial groups. A comprehensive land reform was carried out
in the central and southern parts of the country. Trade union activity was
legalized and workers' rights safeguarded. Minimum wages were established and
restraints were put on the highest salary levels. Prices were controlled.
Unemployment and social security benefits were increased. This was a very
different Portugal from two years earlier. There was a new relationship
between management and labor, and at first there was lack of discipline,
absenteeism and reduced productivity. Perhaps most important of all for the
longer term, the revolution created expectations of a substantial increase in
consumption. Such an increase did indeed take place initially, financed in
large part through the substantial foreign exchange reserves which had been
accumulated before 1974. During 1976 and 1977 there was an increasing aware-
ness that such growth of consumption could not be maintained without seriously
prejudicing the country's medium-term growth. The governments which have held
office since the elections of 1976 have had the unenviable task of persuading
the population to accept stagnant or declining levels of real consumption.
4.        In terms of the world economy and its impact on the domestic situa-
tion, the Portuguese revolution could not have found a time more likely
to complicate the adjustment and impede future growth than April 1974. The
oil price increase brought with it a substantial worsening of the country's
terms of trade, while the economic downturn in Western Europe meant the
slackening of demand for Portugal's exports, less earnings from tourism and,
1/   Substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report for the
Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Development Loan, which was distributed
to the Executive Directors on May 8, 1978.



-2-
perhaps most serious of all, the levelling off of the demand for Portuguese
workers. The Portuguese labor force in Western Europe had risen to 745,000 by
1973. Combined with the growing colonial army this had meant very low levels
of open unemployment in Portugal. After 1974 the increase in the labor force
could no longer be absorbed by other European economies. To this was added
the once-and-for-all impact of demobilization and the return of about 500,000
people from the colonies. At the end of 1978 about 350,000, or about 8 per-
cent of the labor force, were unemployed; in addition there was widespread
underemployment in several sectors (particularly agriculture).
5.        This is the background against which the management of the Portuguese
economy in the years since the revolution must be viewed. In trying to des-
cribe the events of that period, one is faced with the problem of portraying
sequentially a series of simultaneous adjustments. One should not, however,
infer a chain of causality from this. The convenient starting point is the
rapid increase in money wages which took place after the revolution. Sharp
increases in money wages combined with loss of productivity in many enter-
prises as labor relations deteriorated. The take-over of industrial and
commercial enterprises and farms was often associated with an initial loss of
production. In addition, demand was sluggish for enterprises producing for
export or for domestic middle and upper-middle class consumption. The conse-
quence was that a large number of firms were in severe financial difficulties
and the Government, rather than risk a spate of bankruptcies with associated
unemployment, used the nationalized banking system to provide liberal credit
facilities to these firms. The fiscal system was also used to provide direct
subsidies to public enterprises and to subsidize basic food items.
6.        The evidence is that, by end 1977, real consumption per capita rose
by about 10 percent over the 1973 level. In the context of virtually stag-
nant GDP per capita over the period (i.e. it kept pace with the 10 percent
increase in resident population which was due to returnees from the colonies
and natural growth in population, not compensated by emigration as in the
past), the increase in consumption was at the expense of domestic savings.
The increase in demand did not have a major impact on production in the
short-run for a number of reasons. First, Portugal's structure of production
did not fit the new structure of demand, which was oriented towards items of
lower middle-class and working class consumption. Second, even in industries
operating at full capacity, entrepreneurs were reluctant to invest when such
investment meant hiring additional labor. Third, with the increase in popula-
tion came a proportionate increase in demand for food products, most of which
had to be imported because of sluggish agricultural growth. Fourth, the
availability of foreign exchange constituted a constraint for domestic produc-
tion, as restrictions were placed on the import of certain intermediate goods
at various points in time. As a consequence of these factors, much of the
increase in demand showed up in the 23 percent per annum average rate of
inflation and/or in the increasing trade deficit.
7.        Tnhe expansion of domestic demand put severe pressure on the balance
of paymer.ts, which- gradually began to loom as the dominant feature in the
economhc policy mix. Portugal's export receipts (both goods and non-factor
services 3uc'C5 &s ou-rism earnings) fell by about 30 percent in real terms



-3-
between 1973 and 1975. There was a combination of factors which led to
this: the loss of the colonial markets, the recession in Western Europe, the
deterioration in Portugal's competitive position, lower production in some
industrial enterprises, and the diversion of some production to meet the
expansion in domestic demand. In addition, there was a severe terms of trade
loss. As a' consequence, the current account surplus of $348 million in 1973
turned to a deficit of $817 million in 1975, $1.24 billion in 1976 and $1.5
billion in 1977. It should be noted that it was the decline in exports and
the terms of trade loss which produced this effect, rather than any sharp in-
crease in imports which were only 6 percent above the 1973 level in real terms
by 1977. Sustaining deficits of this magnitude has meant the depletion of
Portugal's previously ample foreign currency reserves, and substantial borrow-
ing against its gold reserves.
8.        The task that successive governments in Portugal have faced was that
of reducing domestic demand and imports and increasing savings and exports.
There has been little or no disagreement on the need for such measures--the
art has lain in stabilizing at a pace which was politically realistic. It
should be recognized that the prevailing conditions in the country, especially
for the first two years after the revolution, were not conducive to achieving
quick results. However, efforts in the right direction were initiated by the
first elected government of Portugal, but conditions remained difficult--the
expectations of the population were still high, and the principal sectors of
the economy were still feeling the lingering effects of the radical political
and social changes of 1974 and 1975 (para. 3). Numerous measures were intro-
duced to reduce consumption--higher taxes, ceilings on increases in real
wages, rise in utility prices, reduction of price subsidies and relaxation of
price controls, etc.--but governments have not found themselves able to deny
to enterprises and agricultural cooperatives access to credit at levels which
have sustained the rate of employment, and which have largely negated the cuts
in other areas. Various direct methods have been used to try to improve the
balance of payments--depreciation of the escudo (by 62 percent between end
1973 and end 1977), surcharges on imports, interest rate subsidies for exports,
etc.--but as of end 1977 these had had limited impact in the face of buoyant
domestic demand. Obviously deficits at the 1977 level could not be continued.
The IMF diagnosed the need for even more stringency, and in mid-1978, agree-
ment was reached on a stabilization program aimed at bringing the deficit down
to $1 billion in the 12 months ending April 1979. This implied smaller GDP
growth than in the previous two years and the shaking out of the less efficient
units in the manufacturing sector as well, with some consequent increase in
unemployment. In 1978 the current account deficit was about $780 million and
the GDP growth about 3 percent. The measures taken to achieve this included a
6.5 percent devaluation and the continuation of the crawling peg depreciation
of the escudo over the period, and a 3 to 4 percentage point rise in interest
rates. The evidence indicates that these measures have been particularly
effective in reducing the very high rate of expansion of stocks of imported
goods in 1977 which was brought about by the expectation of further devaluation
and the substantially negative level of real interest rates. The measures
also resulted in a 20 percent increase in the value of merchandise exports and
a rise of about 40 percent in tourism earnings and workers' remittances in
1978, as compared with 1977.



9.        The current account deficits since 1974 are in one sense a function
of the decline in the savings rate, but can also be looked at as a consequence
of maintaining the level of investment at around 20 percent of GDP, in spite
of the savings decline. A high level of investment is crucial to Portugal in
the long run and ordinarily the maintenance of this level during a difficult
period such as the past six years would be a cause for satisfaction. The
composition of investment is disturbing however. Of net fixed investment a
large proportion is construction not related to industrial expansion; some
of this has been for the Sines port and new town. Much of the rest of the
investment is related to the heavy industry which is being located at Sines.
The composition of investment also reflects the predominance of the public
sector, while private investment has not recovered to pre-1974 levels. Since
the private sector still accounts for the major share of export capacity, in-
vestment to create new capacity is needed to assure long-term export growth.
10.       If the Portuguese economy is to support even a modest growth in
private consumption in the medium-term and come to terms with the very serious
unemployment problem, increased investment and output will be necessary in two
major areas: export-oriented manufacturing and agriculture. The restructur-
ing of the Portuguese economy requires a vast improvement in agricultural pro-
ductivity and the rapid recovery and expansion of exports. The investments
which have been undertaken in the past four years have not for the most part
contributed much to the achievement of these objectives.  The stabilization
program, which ended in April 1979, will only have an impact on improving
Portugal's long-term prospects to the extent that increased public savings can
be built into the fiscal system, and insofar as the composition of public
investment addresses important structural problems. Through its stabilization
program Portugal is buying time till both private and public sectors are in a
position to undertake investment in new capacity for export and till the insti-
tutional changes have taken place which can improve Portugal's agricultural
production. There are indications that the encouraging results of 1978 have
been sustained in 1979 and a modest beginning in reflating the economy could
perhaps therefore be made sometime in late 1980. By that time private invest-
ment can also be expected to gather momentum. Over the long-term (1980-85),
Portugal should be able to achieve and sustain a growth rate of about 5
percent per annum. The outlook for this is encouraging, given the good
economic management in 1978 and 1979.
11.       Agricultural growth in the past has been sluggish and this has neces-
sitated increasing imports of agricultural products. The problem in agricul-
ture is not only one of investment. It is a matter of correcting deficiencies
inherited from the period prior to the revolution, of reorganizing the ministry
and strengthening its inadequate field services. Extension is weak in terms of
personnel and of the links with the research effort on the one hand and small
farmers and cooperatives on the other. The training and education of agricul-
tural manpower and farmers has been very insufficient in the past and the more
recent efforts in this area need to be further intensified. Credit to the
rural sector has neither been adequate nor production-oriented. Fertilizer
application rates are low. Investment alone will achieve little without sub-
stantial advances in these other areas as well. Measures towards improving the
conditions in the agricultural sector are underway.



12.       The industrial sector will obviously remain the leading sector in
Portugal's future growth. Here, the problem is that the export of manufac-
tures is mainly done by the private sector which has been reluctant to invest
for reasons quite unrelated to the profitability of exports. These include
the general uncertainty and the difficulties of dismissing labor once it has
been hired on a permanent basis. The Government has made a substantial effort
to restore the confidence of the private sector. Thus provision has been made
for compensation for nationalized assets, the law on dismissal has been eased,
and profitability has been improved through lowering real wages in 1977 and
1978, depreciating the exchange rate and providing special incentives. The
private sector is likely to be the major contributor to the economic growth
rate foreseen for the 1980s. Restoring private sector confidence may require
further incentives and clear evidence of a government commitment to private
initiative. For the rest, it is partly a matter of time, as increasing con-
fidence develops in the stability of democratic government in Portugal, and
as a new relationship evolves between management and labor similar to that in
other Western European countries. The Government could perhaps do more to
try to orient the manufacturing units in the public sector in the direction
of exporting from their present capacity, and investing in new capacity for
export production. It would also need to improve and adjust the education
and training efforts in disciplines relevant to industry, to the longer term
manpower requirements of the sector.
13.       The focus of economic management in Portugal since 1975 has under-
standably been on the short-term. The time is long overdue to analyze the
medium- and long-term needs. At the aggregate level, the domestic savings
rate needs to be restoreci to levels which permit adequate sustainable rates of
investment without crippling balance of payments deficits. At the sectoral
level, there is a need to restructure investment in a way that will permit
rapid growth overall and a slow resumption in the growth of private consump-
tion. A medium-term plan was prepared in 1977 but was not finalized due to
political difficulties. Government changes since that time have prevented
agreement being reached on the framework for a new medium-term plan; work in
that direction is expected to recommence after elections in the fall of 1980.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
14.       The Bank has an important role to play in Portugal at present in
helping the Government focus on the implications of short-term actions for
medium-term development, in making the Government more aware of the role that
institutions play in the growth process, and in assisting the government in
evolving a set of functioning institutions. It will continue to assist the
Government in its efforts to restructure the economy, and to bring about the
long overdue institutional reforms which will be necessary preconditions to
rapid and more balanced development in the future.
15.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded well to Portugal's
need for external assistance, both for balance of payments support and for
long-term project loans. With gold as collateral, the Bank of Portugal has
obtained short-term loans for balance of payments support from the Bank for
International Settlement and European central banks. In addition, as of mid



-6 -
1979 total disbursed and outstanding IMF assistance to Portugal amounted to
$253 million. The EC, EIB, EFTA, as well as bilateral agencies have committed
significant funds to Portugal in emergency concessionary aid and for long-term
projects. The Bank's contribution is summarized in Part II below. In 1977,
Portugal received $750 million in medium- and long-term aid commitments from
14 countries, with the US, Germany and Japan being the main contributors, as
balance of payments support. Commercial banks were relatively inactive in
Portugal until May 1978, because of the Government's prolonged negotiations
with the IMF and the general uncertainty. But in August 1978, the Government
was able to attract two medium-term loans from consortia of commercial banks
in the Euro-currency market for a total of $450 million at an interest rate of
1 percent over LIBOR for a term of 7 years, including 4 years grace, to
restructure its short-term debt. In July 1979 a further $300 million was
borrowed for ten years at an average interest rate of about 0.7 percent over
LIBOR. However, Portugal will continue to require sizeable external inflows
for the investment necessary to restructure its economy. The multilateral
lenders, and in particular the EC/EIB, EFTA and the World Bank, will have to
continue to play a vital role in meeting Portgual's capital requirements.
16.       Portugal's public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term
debt (disbursed and outstanding) was about $1,304 million at end 1977, with a
debt service ratio (debt service/earnings from exports, non-factor services
and workers' remittances) of 3.7 percent.  Total (public and private) medium-
and long-term external debt reached about $2,230 million at end 1977 with a
debt service ratio of about 11.9 percent. By the end of 1978 the public debt
increased by $700 million 1/ and private debt by some $420 million. In
addition Banco de Portugal converted about half of its $1.9 billion short-term
liabilities into medium and long term debt. Portugal's total debt outstanding
including borrowings in the first half of 1979 however, still remained at
manageable levels, and presented an improved maturity profile. Portugal
maintains a gold stock of about 22.11 million fine troy ounces (September
1979), which serves as a safety net. Portugal's total medium- and long-term
debt service ratio, now about 13 percent, is expected to be around 17 percent
during the 1980-85 period. In the light of these facts, of the stabilization
efforts made by the Government, and of the prospects for growth, Portugal can
be considered creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL 2/
17.       The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal was during the period
1963-66 and lending was concentrated in the power sector, in line with Govern-
ment priorities which reflected the power needs of a rapidly developing indus-
trial sector. Five loans totaling $57.5 million helped finance three thermal
and two hydropower projects, which were successfully completed to meet the
country's increasing power requirements.
1/   Excluding Banco de Portugal.
2/   Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for the
Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Development Loan, which was distributed
to the Executive Directors on May 8, 1978.



-7-
18.       The events of the more recent past and the ensuing dislocation of
human resources have created special problems and the transition to an open
political system has reveaLed social and economic weaknesses which are unusual
for a high-income developing country. The governments which have held office
since 1976 were preoccupied with these weaknesses; after some degree of social
and political peace and stability was achieved, they addressed themselves to
restructuring the economy and the social services, and to carrying out the
wide-ranging institutional reforms required for that purpose. The dual task
of tackling the short-term problems and restructuring the economy over the
medium-term for integration within Europe will continue to require far-reaching
efforts from the Government and the people of Portugal. Meanwhile, to overcome
pressing short-term economic problems and to eliminate the structural deficien-
cies without postponing developmental efforts, Portugal will continue to
require sizeable external assistance, both financial and technical, in the
years ahead.
19.       The Bank has responded to Portugal's needs through identification,
preparation and financing of projects and through economic and sector work.
The proposed loan would finance the Bank's fifteenth project in that country,
the tenth since the resumption of lending in 1976. At that time, demand for
power had outstripped supply once again and a power project was selected as
the Bank's first new operation in this familiar sector. A loan to finance a
portion of Electricidade cle Portugal's investment program for 1976-86 was
approved on June 24, 1976. The subsequent Bank operations involved two high-
way projects, two industriLal finance projects, water supply, education,
agricultural and fisheries credit, and fertilizer modernization. Total Bank
loans since the resumption of lending amount to $384 million. Disbursements
under the 1976 and 1977 loans are behind schedule due mainly to the Portuguese
agencies' initial lack of experience with Bank procedures and slow action on
procurement. These difficulties are now being overcome. The 1976 and 1977
loans are substantially committed, and procurement action (such as hiring
engineering consultants, awarding of major civil works contracts) has started
comparatively early under some 1978 and 1979 loans. Nevertheless, total Bank
exposure in Portugal is still small. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans as of November 30, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.       In an intensive parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral
levels, the Bank assisted the Government in reviewing policy and management
issues. Economic missions and the discussion of their reports have pro-
vided a basis for a review of policy at the macroeconomic level. Reviews of
the water supply (together with WHO) and the education sectors were carried
out and were discussed with the Government in March 1977. Agriculture and
manufacturing export industries were also studied, and were reviewed with the
Government in November 1977. The report entitled "Manufacturing Export Indus-
tries in Portugal" (No. 1695a-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on January 13, 1978, and the report entitled "Portugal - Agricultural Survey"
(No. 1689b-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 24, 1978.
As a major problem unemployment has received particular attention; a report
which sums up the results of a Bank survey, entitled "Unemployment in Portugal:
Causes, Prospects and Policy Options" (No. 2285-PO), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on MaLy 10, 1979. A survey of the public medium-term



- 8 -
investments was carried out in June 1979 and a report is under preparation; it
will be particularly helpful in deciding investment priorities.
21.       In the light of the economic and sector discussions mentioned above,
agriculture and industry have been identified as the areas of concentration for
Bank lending. In the industrial sector there is need for major structural
improvements such as merging firms, eliminating uneconomic enterprises and
modernizing equipment. Improvements in these areas are being introduced in
the fertilizer subsector and are being studied for the metalworking, pulp and
paper and the textile subsectors with Bank support and advice. Another
important constraint is insufficient financial and technical support to small-
and medium-size enterprises; the FY79 small- and medium-scale industry develop-
ment loan (SMI) will address this need. The importance of developing the
industrial sector cannot be overemphasized, since this sector will be the main
force in the Portuguese economy, primarily for the urgently needed export
expansion and to maintain competitiveness in the European common market, but
also for efficient import substitution. The main objectives of Bank lending
to industry are structural reform, export promotion and employment creation
(or preservation). In agriculture, a sector beset with major problems, there
is considerable scope for stepping up growth. The major constraints are the
still unsettled land tenure conditions, institutional weaknesses and a short-
age of trained technicians for promoting improved technologies. The Bank has
assisted the Government in creating a sound agricultural credit institution
and future operations in this sector are likely to foster forestry, fisheries
and rural development. The trained manpower requirements of the industrial
and agricultural sectors, which constitute a serious bottleneck particularly
in agriculture, would be addressed through the proposed project as a follow-up
to the FY78 first education project. The improvements in transportation
required to sustain the increased output of the agricultural and industrial
sectors are being addressed by the FY76 first highway project and, the FY79
second highway project, and a third transportation project in railways is
being prepared.
22.       Thus, essentially through its involvement in industry and agricul-
ture, the Bank would continue its efforts aimed at: (i) easing the immediate
foreign exchange constraint and unemployment; (ii) improving the longer-term
balance of payments situation by supporting projects aimed at export expansion
and selected import substitution; (iii) assisting public investment in
previously neglected social areas; and (iv) supporting Government efforts
toward the institutional and policy reforms needed to restructure the economy.
23.       Sizeable and timely long-term external assistance is crucial if
Portugal is to deal successfully with the problems that confront its economy.
It is the Bank's objective to contribute to this effort while providing advice
on developing the new institutions and reforming old ones, an institutional
effort which is indispensable if Portugal is to achieve its overall long-term
economic objectives.



- 9 -
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Background
24.        Prior to 1973 Portugal's education system was traditional, rigid and
underdeveloped; education and training opportunities were unevenly distributed,
creating a high rate of illiteracy. While a major reform was initiated
in 1973, the revolution prevented the implementation of the new programs.
Moreover, under short-term revolutionary governments, inefficiency in routine
management coupled with a high degree of politicization brought the system
near chaos. Starting in 1976, the successive governments have been able to
bring stability to the sector and to start implementing the most urgent
reforms. However, Portugal's development efforts, especially in the areas of
agriculture and industry, will place considerable demands on the education and
training system which is not adequate, either quantitatively or qualitatively,
to meet this demand. While progress is being made in improving the system
and increasing the relevancy of education and training to social and economic
development needs, much remains to be done.
25.        The formal education and training system is administered by the
Ministry of Education and comprises four years of primary school, two years of
preparatory, 1/ three years of lower secondary and two years of upper secondary
(this latter level is being increased to 3 years to bring total schooling to
12 years). Post-secondary education consists of three-year technician train-
ing, which is currently being introduced with Bank assistance under the first
education project (Loan 1559-PO), and five-year university training.  Post-
graduate studies are available in a limited number of disciplines. Vocational
training programs at the secondary level are of long standing and are being
expanded to help meet the needs for skilled workers. The Ministries of Labor,
and of Agriculture and Fisheries are also involved in training semi-skilled
workers and farmers respectively. Government-owned industries have extensive
formal apprenticeship programs for training workers, mainly to the semi-skilled
level.
Education Policy
26.        In recognition of the economic development role of education and
training, and to address problems of equity, the Government has formulated a
broad strategy focused mainly on: (a) extending compulsory education from
four years to six years initially and then to nine years, and generalizing its
provision by redressing current disparities in educational opportunity among
regions; (b) improving thLe internal efficiency of schooling, thereby reducing
costs and increasing capacity, by reducing repetition rates which in 1973-74
averaged a high 20 percent at the basic and secondary levels; (c) reducing and
eventually eliminating adult illiteracy through the development of a national
plan of action; (d) improving the quality of education by upgrading and extend-
ing teacher training; (e) meeting critical agricultural and industrial manpower
1/   These two levels wiLl be referred to as "primary schooling."



10
needs, first through restructuring the secondary education system to provide
practical studies for all students and in-depth skills training for half of
the students at the upper secondary level, secondly by expanding post-secondary
agricultural and industrial technician training, and, finally, by upgrading
university agriculture, engineering and science instruction while limiting
university enrollments to manpower needs (para. 29); and (f) expanding and
upgrading industrial management as well as farmer training to improve produc-
tion and management capabilities in these vital sectors.
Issues and Problems
27.       In implementing these policies, the Government faces a number
of problems. The net enrollment rate in the first four grades is about 94
percent (49 percent of enrollments are girls), but drops to a low 57 percent
(47 percent girls) in grades five and six. Furthermore, about 30 percent
of those completing grade six do not continue their education. The incidence
of dropouts after grade four affects particularly the rural areas where in
many places primary schools continue to have four grades only and education
at grades five to nine is not available. Effective measures to provide such
education in these disadvantaged areas await the results of a school mapping
exercise which is now nearing completion, and development of a construction
program based upon these results. Similarly, educational opportunities are
inadequate to meet the needs of the 25-30 percent of adults who are function-
ally illiterate. Although private and public industry conducts a range of
evening courses for both literate and illiterate workers, much remains to
be done, especially in the rural areas where illiteracy is the highest. A
January 1979 law aims at a rapid reduction in adult illiteracy but strategy
in this respect has yet to be developed.
28.       The initiatives already taken by the Government, as a result of
Bank involvement in implementing a rationalization plan for primary teacher
training, are encouraging. Under the plan the present 21 teacher training
schools are being consolidated and upgraded into 15 post-secondary teacher
training institutes, each serving a geographical region. The quality of
primary education has been seriously handicapped in that only a minimal number
of the teachers in grades one through six have had more than 11 years of educa-
tion and none has had adequate preparation in teaching methodology because of
inadequate numbers of qualified teacher trainers and an almost complete lack
of modern teaching equipment. The extensive upgrading of the total primary
teacher training system required because of these deficiencies is being
addressed under the first education project and under the proposed project.
At the secondary level, the training of both general and vocational teachers
has been unsystematic and largely ad-hoc in nature. With the exception of
some of the science teachers who have had a limited amount of pre-service
pedagogical training in recent years, secondary school teachers have had no
such training, and adequate in-service training provisions are not available.
The steps being taken under the first and proposed second education projects
will significantly upgrade the quality and help assure the required numbers of
fully qualified teachers of all types.
29.       One of the more critical issues faced by educational planners is
to make the education and training system more relevant to the country's man-
power needs. Estimates show an annual surplus in the output of engineers;



- 11 -
however an equilibrium is expected by the late 1980s, due to enrollment
controls introduced in 1978 and the conversion of the three engineering
colleges into technician training institutes. Most other university enroll-
ments which have also increased excessively are being reduced. At the same
time, a study under the first education project revealed a serious need for
modernizing instruction in the faculties of agriculture, engineering and
science. Deficiencies exist in the training of agricultural, industrial and
health technicians. The expected average annual demand during 1980-90 for
industrial technicians cannot be fully met through formal technical training
although the two Bank projects will help reduce the deficit. An ongoing study
will determine the needs for health technicians.
30.       Farmer training is seriously inadequate.  The fragmentation of land
in the north and the presence of many cooperative and collective farms in the
south necessitate joint action by farmers, for which training is essential.
The rural extension service has only four farmer training and three demonstra-
tion centers reaching only about 3,500 farmers annually; an additional 5,500
farmers are reached annually through on-the-farm visits. These programs
combined reach only about one percent of all farmers. The Government plans
to establish a minimum of 30 farmer training and demonstration centers by the
late 1980s which would annually train about 25,000 farmers and reach indirectly
another 100,000 or more per year. The proposed project will assist in this
endeavor.
Education Finance
31.       The implementation of the Government's current educational develop-
ment programs would place no undue strain on the budget. The improvements
being implemented or proposed would require an average annual increase of
about 4.5 percent in real terms in recurrent costs up to 1985. This is some-
what lower than earlier estimates due to a slowing down of expansion programs
over the period. Yearly capital expenditures are expected to average approxi-
mately $80 million up to 1985. On present trends, public capital and recurrent
expenditures on education in 1985 would represent over 3 percent of projected
GDP as contrasted to about: 2 percent in the early 1970s and 4 percent during
1975-77. At the same time, education's share of central government expendi-
ture, which increased from about 1I percent to about 15 percent during the
1971-77 period, is likely to decline somewhat to about 14 percent. This is
comparable to other European countries and is well within the Government's
ability to meet.
Bank Assistance to Education
32.       After the revolution, the Government had generally decided to reform
the formal education system (and was seeking advice and external assistance
for that purpose). However, it had not worked out the practical details of
the envisaged changes. This latter task, although substantially underway, is
taking longer than expected due to the significant political and social impli-
cations of the proposed reforms. In these circumstances, and encouraged by
the Government's responsiveness to Bank advice, the Bank adopted the following
strategy: (i) to help the Government choose between alternative technical
solutions and accelerate institutional reforms; (ii) to recommend and finance



- 12 -
studies to determine rationalization needs, and the directions of future
development; and (iii) to help meet immediate manpower needs and improve the
formal education system in circumstances where deficiencies are obvious and do
not require further studies. To this end, the Bank's $21 million first
education loan of June 6, 1978 is helping to improve the quality and scope of
management training, introduce post-secondary technician training, provide
pre-apprenticeship skills training to unemployed early school leavers, and to
substantially improve the quality of teacher training. While the civil works
are behind schedule, equipment lists have been completed, bids for equipment
have been invited, the manpower study is underway, and the study on the
teaching of science and engineering has been completed.
33.       The institutional improvements adopted or achieved (with the Bank's
technical advice) within as well as outside the first project, some of
which would be enhanced as a result of the proposed project, are significant
and involve the following areas: consolidating training institutions for
primary school teachers, with cost savings and increases in efficiency;
creating a faculty of education to give higher training to secondary school
teachers; creating mixed committees of faculty and industry (or agriculture)
to monitor the relevance of curricula in technician training institutes;
reducing engineering output to match future demand; focusing attention on the
urgent need for, and initiating action on, new types of training which did not
exist in Portugal, such as post-secondary technician training in industry,
agriculture, and health sectors; policy decisions on restructuring and giving
a practical orientation to secondary education; and strengthening administra-
tion, project preparation and implementation capability within the Ministry of
Education.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project History
34.       A Bank reconnaissance/identification mission in July 1978 and prep-
aration missions in October 1978 and January 1979 helped the Government in
formulating the project; it was appraised in March 1979. Negotiations were
held in November 1979 with a Portuguese delegation led by Dra. Isabel Mota,
Ministry of Finance. A staff appraisal report entitled "Second Education
Project, Republic of Portugal" (No. 2519-PO), dated December 7, 1979 is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features
of the loan and project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary and in
Annex III.
Project Objectives
35.       The project is designed to be complementary to the first project and
to assist the Government in training manpower to meet the urgent needs of the
economy and in improving the quality and efficiency of the education system.
For these purposes the project would assist in expanding post-secondary agri-
cultural and industrial technician training; upgrading primary and secondary



- 13 -
teacher training; upgrading science teaching and in expanding vocational and
practical training at the secondary level; expanding and improving farmer
training and the capabilities of the rural extension services; and upgrading
university science, engineering and agricultural instruction.
Project Dcccription and Content
36.       In support of the above objectives, the project would consist of:
(a) construction and furniture and/or equipment for (i) two agricultural tech-
nician training institutes, seven farmer training and three demonstration
centers, two mobile farmer training units, a nutrition education program, an
agricultural information center, and faculties of agriculture and veterinary
medicine; (ii) 43 vocational workshops and science laboratories (vocational
and science blocks) to be added to secondary schools, three industrial technician
training institutes, a faLculty of engineering and a faculty of science; and
(iii) seven primary teachLer training institutes and a faculty of education;
and (b) technical assistance for fellowship training and consultant assistance
in curricula and institutional development. The proposed institutes would
provide about 54,000 new training places and would upgrade an additional
11,000 places.
37.       Agricultural Technician Training Institutes.  To help reduce the
serious shortage of medium level technicians required by the agricultural
extension, research and farmer association services, currently under expansion
by the Government, the project would include two new agricultural technician
training institutes (grades 13-15). These institutes would be located in the
East Central and North Eastern regions of the country where major governmental
emphasis is being placed upon agricultural development. The program would
comprise two and one-half: years of school-based study, including about 75
percent technical theory and practice (laboratory/shop and farm), and one-half
year of on-the-job internships in the agricultural extension, research or
farmer association servic:es. The institutes would have a combined enrollment
of 720 (30 percent women'J and an annual output of about 220 (about half of
average annual demand) from programs of crop production, animal production,
rural engineering and home economics. When combined with the outputs of
agricultural technicians from institutes under the first project, nearly
all of the average annual demand during 1978-90 would be met. The new home
economics program, as well as the enrollment of women in other programs,
reflects the growing recognition of the increasingly important role of women
*          in agriculture.  The Government has agreed that a follow-up system to trace
graduate placement and job performance would be developed and operational
by the time the first classes graduate (Loan Agreement, Section 4.05). No
difficulty is expected in recruiting the required instructors from among
university graduates in science, agriculture and engineering. As most of
these would not have received any pre-service teacher training, the Government
intends to conduct training courses for these staff members, and has agreed
that a detailed plan and timetable for training of teachers will be prepared
and sent to the Bank for review and comment within six months of the date of
the Loan Agreement (Loan Agreement, Section 4.05). The timetable would ensure
availability of qualified instructors at school opening.



- 14 -
38.       Farmer Training and Demonstration Centers.  In view of the low level
of technology in Portugal's tradition bound and inefficient agricultural
sector, and in response to the high priority the Government is placing on
improvements in productive capacity and in expanding and upgrading the role
of the rural extension service in the dissemination of new technology, the
project would include seven regional farmer training centers, three demonstra-
tion farms and two large mobile units for training farmers in tractor and
machinery maintenance. In addition to accommodations for classes, group meet-
ings and field demonstrations, the seven centers and three demonstration farms
would each include offices for local extension personnel, a farm machinery
workshop and space for instruction in soils and fertilizers, animal production
and for home economics. The centers are located in the seven agricultural
production regions and would assist in upgrading the productive and farm
management capabilities of about 10,600 farmers (25 percent of which would be
women) annually through a sequential series of both day and evening classes,
ranging from one day to six weeks, field demonstrations, and agricultural
services.
39.       Nutrition Education Program.  The proposed loan would finance educa-
tional and transport equipment and technical assistance for the headquarters
and four existing field teams of the National Nutrition Education Program and
equipment for 14 additional teams. The teams provide in-service training to
school teachers in the preparation and use of nutrition education materials
for integration into the school curriculum, demonstrations to students and
rural families on improving food diets using local products; and, in collabora-
tion with the agricultural extension personnel, improved methods (such as
variety selection, fertilizer use, irrigation, pest and disease control) of
food production in the household and village (garden production, small-scale
animal husbandry), food preservation and preparation. The objectives of the
program are to upgrade the nutrition education capability of about 20,000
primary school teachers (50 percent of the total) in five years, and to
involve annually about 2,000 rural adults (50 percent women) and 5,000 school
age rural students (50 percent girls). This would help reduce food deficien-
cies, improve nutrition and decrease imports of foodstuffs.
40.       Agricultural Information Center.  The project would include audio-
visual and printing equipment and 18 man-months of fellowship training to
establish an agricultural information center for the preparation and printing
of educational materials. These materials would be prepared by subject matter
specialists and illustrators and would annually provide information to the
some 18,000 farmers, rural adults and students who are participants in the
farmer training and nutrition programs, about 1,200 students in the agricul-
tural technician training and secondary vocational agriculture programs of the
project, and to 100,000 or more other farmers.
41.       Improvement of University Instruction.  In view of the high priority
placed upon improvements in the agricultural and industrial sectors, it is
particularly urgent that current deficiencies in university agriculture,
engineering and science instruction be corrected. The project would include
supplementary equipment and about five man-years of fellowship training to
provide more modern and practically oriented instruction in the Faculties of



- 15 -
Agriculture, Veterinary Medicine and Engineering of the Technical University
of Lisbon and in the Faculty of Science of the University of Lisbon. Cur-
ricula and course syllabi would be revised to reflect this new capability. A
high percentage of the professors hold recent advanced degrees from universi-
ties abroad and have the ability and motivation to carry out the improvements
made possible by the project. Most faculties, in accordance with a 1977
Government decree, are reducing enrollments to correspond better to available
accommodations and manpower needs. Enrollments, including evening classes,
will be limited to 750 in agriculture, 350 in veterinary medicine, 6,000 in
engineering and 1,600 in science and represent about a 30 percent reduction
over current enrollments (para. 29). Annual outputs will be about 120, 60,
800 and 280, respectively.
Vocational, Science and Practical Studies in Diversified Schools
42.       The project would assist the diversified secondary education system
(grades 7-12) which has reversed a serious decline in enrollments in secondary
vocational programs--the best source of skill training in Portugal. Upgraded
science instruction at both lower and upper secondary levels would have a more
practical orientation; programs at the lower level would provide four to six
periods per week of instruction in practical subjects (such as industrial arts
and crafts or commercial subjects in grade 9) for all students, to provide a
strong orientation toward the new practical options--industrial, agricultural
and commercial--being regrouped at the upper secondary level to complement the
existing mathemathics/science and humanities options. While all students in
upper secondary would take a minimum of four periods per week of practical
subjects, job-oriented students would take 10 periods of vocational subjects
per week.
43.       The Government is accomplishing the above transformation in urban
areas mainly by utilizing the existing 180 secondary technical schools as
centers in which academic school students could obtain the desired hours of
shopwork and improved science instruction. The academic schools would be
appropriately selected as satellites, within easy commuting distance of a
particular technical school. This system cannot be extended to the rural
areas unless suitable new workshops and science laboratories are constructed
for existing rural schools. The project would enable the new secondary diver-
sified system coverage to be extended by constructing and/or equipping suit-
able accommodations in 4:3 schools, the majority of which are located in rural
towns in the poorer regions of the country. While no difficulty is expected
in recruiting technically qualified vocational teachers, pedagogical training
will be required for many of them. The Government would prepare a detailed
plan and timetable for teacher training and send it to the Bank for review and
comment within six months of the date of the Loan Agreement (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.05). The timeitable would ensure availability of qualified instruc-
tors at school opening in the last quarter of 1982. Total enrollments (grades
7-12) in project schools would be about 49,140 (50 percent girls) and annual
outputs from grade 12 would be about 8,000. The vocational options would



- 16 -
produce about 4,700 skilled 1/ workers annually of which about 2,800 would be
in the industrial field; the best graduates would receive preferential treat-
ment in the admission to technician training programs. To provide information
on the efficiency of the training (as measured by the numbers employed in
their fields of training) and to obtain feed-back from employers and employees
that would provide a sound basis for refinement of the curricula, the Govern-
ment has agreed that a follow-up study to trace the entrance of graduates into
further studies or job placement and subsequent performance will be developed
and operational by the time the first classes graduate (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.05).
44.       Industrial Technician Training Institutes.  To meet the urgent need
for engineering technicians and to expand further the technician training
system initiated under the first education project, the proposed project would
include the conversion of three engineering colleges into technician training
institutes (grades 13-15). The colleges are located in the cities of Lisbon,
Oporto and Coimbra. The plan provides for two and one-half years of study,
followed by one-half year of internship in industry, and would include pro-
grams in electricity, electronics, chemical technology, mechanical production,
civil construction, design drafting and data processing. To assure a proper
balance of theory and practice, the students' instructional day would be
about equally divided among general subjects, technical theory and technical
practice. The combined outputs of about 900 graduates (20 percent women)
would correspond to about one-fourth of the 1978-90 average annual demand
for industrial technicians and, when combined with the annual output of about
1,050 from institutes under the first project, would provide about 60 percent
of the average annual demand during the same period. The Government has
agreed that a follow-up system to trace graduate placement and job performance
would be developed and operational by the time the first classes graduate
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.05).
45.       Primary Teacher Training Institutes.  To improve the quality and
internal efficiency of primary school education through improvements in the
professional competence of the teaching force, the project would assist the
Government in completing the implementation of its plan for rationalizing and
upgrading primary teacher training, which was developed during the appraisal
of the first education project. That project provided for the construction
and/or equipping of eight upgraded teacher training institutes. The proposed
project would provide equipment for the conversion of the remaining seven
institutions in the regional network into post-secondary institutes with the
new curricula and training methodology. Both full-time and ad-hoc in-service
programs would also be provided to upgrade the quality of existing teachers.
The institutes would have a combined enrollment of about 2,200 (70 percent
women) with annual outputs of about 600 from pre-service and about 420 from
full-time in-service courses. The ad-hoc courses would cater to the needs of
about 3,000 additional teachers each year. The outputs of the 15 institutes
would meet the annual need for fully qualified primary teachers through the
1980s.
1/   While the Portuguese statutes classify graduates as skilled workers, they
would reach full skill levels only after some on-the-job training.



- 17 -
46.       Faculty of Education.  Pedagogical training of new secondary school
teachers is inadequate, and largely ad-hoc in nature. With few exceptions,
pedagogical training for new teachers consists of occasional assistance from
supervising teachers during their first years of teaching. Under the project,
secondary school teacher training would be upgraded to full university status
with the establishment of a Faculty of Education in the University of Lisbon.
The faculty would provide one year of pre-service pedagogical studies for
selected fourth year students from other faculties of the University of Lisbon
and to selected graduates of the three-year technician training institutes; it
would also supervise the f'ifth (internship) year. The university licenciatura
degree would be awarded at: the end of the internship year. Additionally, both
part-time and full-time in-service courses and out-reach programs would be
provided and may, in time, lead to the award of the master's degree in educa-
tion. The faculty would cater to about 500 teacher trainees annually. Fully
equipped model teaching laboratories, including specialized ones for vocational
teacher trainees, would be provided to assure that training methodology would
be relevant to the curricula and equipment being made available in diversified
secondary schools.
47.       Technical Assistance and Training.  A substantial technical assis-
tance component has been included. In summary, about 25 consultants would be
employed for a total of albout six and one-half man-years to assist in institu-
tional organization and operation, curriculum development and upgrading agri-
cultural extension programs. Additionally, fellowships for about 82 man-years
of teaching and administrative internships or formal studies abroad would be
provided for about 142 selected faculty and staff of project institutions and
about two and one-half years for project administration personnel.
Project Cost and Financin
48.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about $59.0 million
($40.0 million in foreign exchange) of which about $40.5 million would be for
construction, equipment and furniture, about $2.3 million for technical assis-
tance and about $16.2 million for physical and price contingencies. The
project would be exempt f'rom taxes and custom duties. Physical contingencies
are about 10 percent of the baseline cost and price contingencies are about
25.7 percent of the baseline cost increased by physical contingencies. These
estimates assume that all civil works and furniture contracts will be awarded
to local firms and, based upon previous experience, that all equipment will be
directly imported. The proposed Bank loan of $40 million would thus cover 100
percent of foreign costs and about 68 percent of the total cost of the project,
with the balance being provided by the Government. In line with recent experi-
ence, technical assistance cost estimates are based upon average man-month
costs of about $6,900 for experts (consisting of fee and per diem) and about
$1,600 for fellowships and on average travel costs to and from home office or
study base abroad of about $750 per individual.
Recurrent Costs of Projec:t
49.       When fully operational, the project institutions (except farmer
training centers, the nutrition education program, and the agricultural
information center, whic'h belong to the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries)
are estimated to require about Esc. 870 million annually in recurrent costs or



- Is -
about 3 percent of projected public recurrent expenditure for education in
1985. However, as many of the institutions in the project already exist,
the marginal recurrent costs would be about Esc. 530 million. The marginal
recurrent costs of about Esc. 22.4 million for the rural extension service
programs will be be met by the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. These
costs would not impose an undue burden on the budgets of the two ministries.
Implementation
50.       The Ministry of Education component would be implemented through a
Project Coordination Unit working with the technical secretariats of the
General Directorate of Higher Education which is implementing the first
education project, and of the General rirectorate of School Facilities which
has had experience with bilaterally financed projects. The Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries has organized a project implementation unit under
the General Directorate of Rural Extension. Both ministries have appointed
project coordinators, architects and equipment officers who are satisfactory
to the Bank.
51.       The curricula and equipment lists for the primary teacher training
institutes, agricultural and industrial technician training institutes and
the faculty of education are prepared. Preliminary equipment lists for the
improvement of university teaching have been reviewed by the Bank and are
being revised by the respective faculties, in accordance with on-going revi-
sions of curricula and course syllabi. The curricula and preliminary equip-
ment lists for the science and vocational blocks are substantially completed.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries equipment lists are quite simple and
the preliminary lists are substantially completed.
52.       The construction, furnishing and equipping of all schools is expected
to be completed by about June 1983, and the technical assistance component by
about June 1984.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       Civil works contracts for the two agricultural technician training
institutes (amounting to $2.9 million each, including contingencies) would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB). Civil works
contracts (averaging $320,000 each, and amounting to a total of $10.4 million
including contingencies) for the proposed vocational and science block addi-
tions to the secondary schools (schools now under construction or about to
commence construction) would, with prior Bank approval, be negotiated with the
original contractors through extensions to such contracts, which provide that
any addition to the original school could be built during the construction
period on the basis of a previously agreed unit cost. The original contracts
for the construction of the secondary schools (funded by the Government) were
awarded following local competitive bidding for which no foreign bids were
received. In view of the dispersed nature of the works and the relatively
small cost of individual items (averaging $400,000 including contingencies),
civil works contracts for the remaining project items ($4.1 million in total,
including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of local competitive



* 19 -
bidding under normal government procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank
and do not exclude foreign bidders. The local construction industry is well
developed and competitive and it is therefore expected that civil works
contracts will be awarded to local contractors. Furniture and equipment items
(total cost of $35.6 million including contingencies) would be grouped to the
extent possible into large packages to permit bulk procurement and contracts
in excess of $100,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB and are expected to
be awarded to foreign suppliers. Small items or groups of items estimated to
cost less than the above figure, or items of specialized nature for which ICB
would not be practical, and items which must be compatible with other equip-
ment procured under ICB, would be procured under normal government procedures
which are satisfactory to the Bank and would include to the extent possible
quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers; the total value of
these items would not exceed $5 million equivalent (about 14 percent of total
furniture and equipment costs). Local manufacturers of furniture and equip-
ment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of
customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15 percent of CIF price,
whichever is lower. It is expected that furniture contracts (1 percent of
baseline cost) will be awarded to local bidders. Detailed lists and specifi-
cations of furniture and equipment would be presented to the Bank for review
and approval prior to procurement.
54.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against:  30 percent of civil
works; 100 percent of foreign expenditures and of local expenditures ex-factory
for furniture and equipment and 80 percent of local expenditures of imported
equipment procured locally; 100 percent of foreign expenditures for fellowships
and foreign consultants; and 80 percent of expenditures for local consultants.
Retroactive financing up to $200,000 is recommended on account of payments
made for civil work expenditures after January 1, 1980.
Benefits and Risks
55.       The Bank's industry and agriculture sector reviews (para. 20) have
identified trained manpower deficiencies as an important constraint to devel-
opment in these key sectors. While the Government has increased efforts to
remedy these with the help of external assistance, development objectives in
industry and particular:Ly in agriculture cannot be attained within a reason-
able time period withoult adding substantially to the quality and quantity of
selected training and education programs. In this respect, the major contri-
bution of the project would be in (i) improving the training and supply of
agricultural and industrial professionals, technicians, skilled workers and
farmers to meet the urgent manpower needs for these vital sectors; and (ii)
upgrading teacher training as necessary for the attainment of the above objec-
tives, and to improve the quality and efficiency of basic education. About
$10.5 million of the baseline cost would benefit the secondary school graduates
who enroll in technician training; about $18.3 million, the secondary students,
mostly in rural areas; about $6 million, the farmers and farm population;
about $4.6 million, the university students; and about $1.1 million, the
primary teachers and teacher candidates.



- 20 -
56.       The improvements in university science and engineering courses
would provide better-trained scientists, veterinarians, agriculturalists and
engineers for key functions in industry and agriculture. In addition, the
project would benefit 10,600 adult farmers (25 percent women) by increasing
their skills. Joint or coordinated ventures by farmers would be required
for the development of Portuguese agriculture due to fragmentation of land
in the North and collective and cooperative farm management in the South; in
this respect, training would be a valuable instrument for promoting policies
and methods addressing these particular types of development.
57.       The general preference for academic education which essentially
prepared students for the university has created problems.  First, demand for
university training surpassed capacity and need; secondly, unsuccessful
students had no alternative training opportunities and dropped out; thirdly,
school leavers and graduates who could not enroll in the universities were
not sufficiently prepared to enter the labor market. The technical schools
which were important sources of skill training were being increasingly under-
utilized. With the regrouping of both types of training a few years ago this
trend was reversed. The diversified secondary schools to be expanded under
the proposed project would represent another step towards remedying the above
problems. They combine academic and technical training, and offer a wider
range of opportunities to students. In addition, they would provide most of
the skilled industrial workers in the less developed areas of the country and
about one-fourth of the total annual requirements; project schools would
meet about 5 percent of the annual requirements.
58.       The proposed second education project would serve to advance or
consolidate the institutional reforms initiated in connection with the first
project (para. 33). In particular, it would support the major reform repre-
sented by the introduction of the diversified secondary education (para. 43),
improve the project preparation and implementation capability of the Ministry
of Education, in general, and of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
in the areas of extension and farmer training. It would also contribute to
increasing the quality of teaching in secondary schools through better train-
ing for secondary school teachers.
59.       No undue risk is associated with the project.  The Government's
preparation is at an advanced stage (paras. 50, 51). However, budgetary
procedures for the release of counterpart investment funds and the freeze
on hiring of new personnel (architects, accountants, etc.) could delay imple-
mentation of some items. These matters and specific measures for improvement
have been reviewed with Government officials and we expect that special atten-
tion will be given to safeguard the project from the above constraints.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Portugal, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.



- 21 -
61.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. There are no special conditions for the effectiveness of the proposed
loan.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 20, 1979
Washington, D.C.



Annex I
-22 -                                               Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
POtTUCAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PoRtUGAL                   REFERENCt GROUrs (AOUJSTED A!JfRACES
LAND AEA (THOuSAND sQ. EM.)                       I- ?ST RECENT JSTINATE) -
TOTAL             92.I                                                    SAME        sAKE      NEXT HIGHER
AGICULTUL.AL      41 .3                                MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPRIC   INC0IC       INC01E
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /I
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  350.0       930.0    2020.0           2906.3     1942.6       3075.3
ENERG! CONSUTRTI0N PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    382.0         754.0    1050.0           2033.2     1646.7      2518.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,  _D-YZAR (KILLIONS)      9.0          9.0       9.6
IUJN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.5          26.2      28.2             56.3       51.2        72.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR  2000 (MILLIONS)                      11.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION 1  REAtZD                   2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Km.                       98.0         98.0     104.0            81.5        28.2        33.5
PER SQ. KM. ACRICULTUIAL LAND    218.0        218.0     232.0            138.8      100.5        91.3
PoPuLATIoN ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         29.2         28.5      26.0             25.6       35.4        33.3
15-64 YLS.                         62.8         61.8      63.0            62.9        56.3        57.5
65 YrS. AND ABOVE                   8.0          9.7      11.0             10.2        5.1         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH tATE (FERCNT)
TOTAL                              0.7/f        0.0/f     0.8             0.9         1.7         2.1
UR3AN                              1.4          1.5       2.3             2.6         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    24.0          21.0      19.0             18.5       27.5        31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      11.0        11.0      11.0              9.2        9.1         8.2
GRoSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.6         1.5       1.2              1.2        1.8         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          .
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    .            ..        ..               ..
FOOD AND NURrITION
INDEX OF FOOD PlODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          80.8        106.0      87.0            115.7      102.0        98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOI.ES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRE(ENTS)                  107.0        118.0     141.0           134.2       120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)          77.0         85.0      94.3             95.4       80.9        70.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       33.0         40.0        ..            45.4        31.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      7.0          4.0       2.2              1.3        5.1         2.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.3         68.2      68.7            70.0        65.6        68.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           77.5         58.0      39.0            31.5        45.5        20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..      65.0               ..       69.4        73.9
URrAN                                ..          ..      90.0               .        85.1        94.6
RURAL                               ..           ..      56.0               ..       43.0        64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
MOTAL                               ..           ..        ..               ..      70.1
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..               ..       88.3
RURAL                               ..           ..        .                ..       33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1200.0/k    1100.0    800.0            661.6      1343.2       981.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     1430.0/k    1000.0      520.0           677.1       765.0       397.8
POPUL ATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                            190.0        170.0     170.0            180.1      197.6       240.6
URBA:                                ..          ..        ..              ..       260.2
RURAL                               ..           ..        .                .      1055.0.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        10.0      12.0             15.3       17.3        19.2
ROUSITG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL.                             3.9          3.7        ..               ..        4.7
URsAN                              4.0           ..        ..               .         4.4
RLRAL                              3.9           ..        ..               .         5.1
AVERAGE NU7{BER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.1          0.8        .         .      .         1.1
URSAN                              1.0           ,.        ..               ,.        1.2
RURAL                              1.1           ..        .                ..        1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLISGS)
7o7AL                             40.5         64.2        ..              ..        66.0
URSAN                             88.5           ..         .                -       85.*
RI;URAL                           27.4           ..        ..



-23-                                             Annex I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
PORTUGAL                          - HoST  RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 131.0         98.0      1.0              105.7      101.7        107.6
MALE                 132.0         99.0      13.              107.1       110.0
FEMALE               129.0         96.0      1".0             104.5        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0         57.0       3e0              65.9       51.2         39.7
MALE                  24.0         63.0       5t.0             70.3        56.4
FEMALE                16.0         51.0       3.0              62.2       43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 46.0            32.0       40.0             20.4        18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             34.0         34.0      27.0             26.7        27.1
SECONDARY                           19.0         17.0       14.0              ..        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         62.0         71.0       70.0              ..        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          17.0         54.0     107.6            105.5        53.4         68.1
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          95.0        142.0     173.0            233.7       225.9        210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.0         40.0      65.0            148.0       102.6        117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   63.0         84.0       70.0               ..       78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0            3.0       4.1               6.4        3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3398.0       3388.0    4100.0/g
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    17.9         24.8      25.5             32.3        24.5         27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               44.1         35.3      27.0             25.8        28.9         23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  29.0         33.2      36.0             33.1        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 38.5         39.3      44.6              37.6       33.8         40.1
MALE                                  66.0         62.3       56.4             57.0        51.3        55.7
FEMALE                                13.2         18.5       32.3             28.0       16.3         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.0        0.9              1.0         1.3         1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUJSEHOLDS    ..          56.1/h i  56.3/h           47.9        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          6.2/      7.3T1             5.0        3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         20.6/h,i  21.4/hj           15.4       11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     480.0               ..       550.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     480.0            436.1       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCCNT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjasted group averages for each iodicator are population-weighted geometric means, exclading the eotreme
values of the iodicator and the most populated coantry in each group. Goverage of countries among the
indicators depends on aailability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unleos otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
aod 1971; aod for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
Ic    Europe;  /d   Upper Middle Intone (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /e  High Income  (over 52500 per capita,
1976);   /f  Due to emigration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;   /g  Estimates
based on inquiry of employment conducted by Institute of National Statistics;   /h  Highest 25% and lowest
25Y and 50  of ho-seho'd;   /i  1968;   /j  1973-74;   /k  1962.
August, 1979
*NOTE:  Most recent estimate.  Primary school years 1-4, age group 7-10.
Secondary school years 7-11, age group 13-17. Preparatory
school years 5-6, age group 11-12 are not included. Enrollment
data not comparable over time due to different basis in age
groups.



- 24 -                                                            AnnexlI
RE~INIION  01 .8CIA    MIATOISPage   3   of   5
Aoes    lth-.gb t,he hat. are drans  frol ure  ge-e-lly judged the  eet  uthoritative end reliable, it should also be azted that the)' may not be intler.-
tionally4  -oeaoalv becaus  If toe mok of otad-dirod lefinitbot- ad o--cpta used bl hI"ferIt conrisitclleottog  the data. The data are, toethelese,
oaeltlf  to  e-olhbe orders qf  agoit-ude, inboc-te trete, and charaterize  certin eayr d:feevahtmenvutii
Thjduj   o   rupaergsfo   ac   thvto   r  polto-eeighted g...metr1c means.1,I, ,~t,      ~~l  ecoludleg the exttreme valuesofl the indicto  and.the meetpouae
htevoa, Iautcco  boneDietrlutv.tc ecu boc- y for Itoer country groups are PopIetio-oightod geometic menntot eluotof the sotreerlusad
the tot popoletdconr.iithtedveteofowtre  aegth   niotr  Oonsnaatahit   fAaaan.sno.nfomWaulo                                                                 duth   enerc tie
InIao   taoel smo  tIc            t.oto  and reference gepupa t-b
LA= -AREA (thnsand iq.h. )Aoe... to boKretalilpsl(ena   fsashm      oe.sts   a  ua
f_t      Total surfanIre -oPrinlg  and eraed oalsnd eae,fue   fpol   noa,ubn   a   em)seedb    aeadsoa 
liFER fAPIoA                                                                                anuest-ete  by mate-tbre mYstem  or the use of pit Wiesj                 a  sad_
CAPI-tAd 'St          P  Ir peroapita estiatee at oureet sakht peioe,                  Ppit t.mtionpel.dua       nuaindridh   ue    fpntnsgpwil
EleiiIihdly.s    oscoeeiur  seiod anWorlid Penn Atlas. (1976-li basi);                                                   diseaeddatsmirrsityhee f
1960, 1970, soh 1978 dnta.                                                               ivsltn   r   fsin  Pe_nt-jt.ltijdebedhymaerofpeotot                                  al
jIMYIITC:SePTtdOl rPE  CAPITA 6-uoa   osmto    fomeoa   nrradfml  gau te s                                               -res  pr-"tina -ae   an~d b            ,oalitmtt smi_e
(ca  adlcvte, petrolncm    eunlgsadtyr-,   tcla  adt--                              ne,atn  etnmia  bd - ttuned   rase  sa    cid  -  OJptltoe(td.san
t90,sdd90   as.hpulldndpint-gnra   nd-pealed   ntptl  oddhatittteetem
197 7dta                                                                            by   pte:a  (h thiyamdolnmsat   uer    iaf,ec)t                                  fe
secgcutcc;  -Ia   9),ac  9   ht.                                                            optalo  dlcded b  h         ue  of bedbu.Mlb   i
POPULATIO too   VITAnL SAo   TLS:.c                                                                    dPi.. .n  ~-              -.j,dh.pt1-drhblt
Irooto  toteciroc lif  voprotavo   hr Oceob  ooecat.ng   tti countr Idbo    atarb        ore  or ,1.  pjlo,dger maydj or m        _p not h   oncus d inthe
t     Iromiatoo  fro t iy        vr,yroof-r  r-cto                             Aprut-Petevt  (ecetofdelhg)     otl  ubn  adrua -tt
"t d it   r-             c-P.-bility If            ~           coonl  ocltgn   lt  eevriit it  lvagAuates  e  cecetId 
'.PI.tEA?,, lIh-ateti eqad tothe dathyate,and-aan i   ag
stesetus ras   saimat  Th   isanbree  ost    y fte   fsr tilityrtes            SiEAT,l                       P,hCPcl)    -tI  --
asbasato    f    a replaces i'tsel  snan--9 the -tt   rs   oes                  rmryIfha-ttl  mt  n  fesi i,i..1 rAss thl   emadfaeeath-. 1i
of the poplation inthe year SilE, mod  he rate-o  darllme o  fetility          sh.di-ag   tnoto.ati-aI ap_ma_Ia  meoim  ehldm   agd6uye                  o
gosito   esa                                                                      lenras  noo  -tta,maedn  f eP                      ~tepid n   hce   eod
per aho   Me              . Otuour  (seeti -' Oidree, (0-u yeas)    trigag               on arbosoe        d enrllen  dpeeoeegt of-psdao  -o.tj_nlinttulas                 ld
poeltio; .       1977,-tsad  i97  data,        departents  f tenndney    etittisas
nIaslati    doth' "Petleret) Itta  -iAnat rot   aeso   oa  mid- Ppcdl-teagh_r ratio-piay   n   s                                        7-Ttlauet   aoldt
Crud .Irh R te   _ ipe   thousand) -wo Anua  live hirto  pee thusn  o  ad                 aprct f ftotaljadult poultin  ge  1  y ar end  eer.                          j_
yea  pultion  19.t, 1970, and 1977 data.'.U    -jd.   bid- ,d  -1    _:b
1970, k-  -Wd-e sod 1975.p                                                               broedoast  to generl           .Ihtvpe  thdsoand o                 Ioeltba   ezouds    lerse
r t'ty iaog-Aretr,Wuua  thouands ki-tOsnu  tomiert_.. of                                 dre tiresi  coutresm-         o  year  abe  Cegttrtinoratotoabn
planotog program,     Id                                                          abolished itreneingt.l-I-d17 ;
Pa-Pann-            JnaIecc  0'mrideem)-Pretgeo.are                                     t   -rcev1r  (toe thosn                t.ibolatics) -  ft_eor_er tfr boadau  to generl
1__6___1970___d_197of tunOly geerld-tlatere    aeeppe  , deinedmm    perio ical tinltcmtzon                                                                               .
INde   f  odPedob    e  Ca_t Inh-1-iRhtidr o7prdapt.                                        devndprimarlyt     t  recordinggnea  nees              P . I t I  cmIndependetohrSalyI
feedanti d ino   alna  vnrbasi -  Ooadtoooe    rmrygooCneadtu.lAhnec-prCptooena  -   ne-  cc  tanneothclc
(e.g. -- cofecac- e   e   o 19 uded)-7. I gnst od      upoonofetcWvun-y Ic,t
is~j bae   n  a         6ol  rrg  pour  pr 7ve                                             Adeiglihto-t
Per capita suppl-o  calrio  icecro  ofrtutrertt(   Cdpotdtfom                                                                                 IIIP   Of
ePor1ta,   n  190e1n-d chneiotc.N    upliesblt 00 tud        -det   -fcd  sid-,       icroaoore    r   o   u                  te
doDtloRotp and    , bath cvloo    b.   setltmeaue   oyoigt,                             foign   ecnaeo   oa   ao    oe
ob..tn  boucobod170  -dol  19ociip,etr  n  oo00prendgeotttlIno  fre
crep-v-to    - ouo t o  vo-vi     -b-n Ifc hey: t- Croieoorr.  ee                    lrh  painlt (perctheth  -ptotal,mal  sod female. l-wrtioip tio   o
h"it  vt -   opi  o  fo -PI-i   peridsp tf_ot suppfly of_ccO  Snilldbas                ai      lte thoae npi edaet        oa,sl,odfee  nh---- forc  aslpee
-eininsief bllosh-etoo (Ograt of  otiProeo  pe  day and 20 groa  of                     .4. 19 n1   -tic   -dT oath   Thn- aren110fpat                  -dpac   eaten refectng
F  cinni  nob.ocpoel,o1eib11g.hohudbealadpoen.                                            ueor   tucueo  teppualn,adlognn  ted   Afeetiae
Ths  sadad    rcine   ha   hseo  7   reoo  total peotet  and                             are fro  ontin sucs
27gescf ohf d-bml-g  grtl o  nsepcfo   h   cl,pooe b104Yf- l P                       TV Ronie.io la pd-o  Ptiod -paltio          opoiaTio  unde  15end  -t antoert
lb the Third goeldbilfodeAtuvd-i.                                             the laoi     ocn  i   g   ru  of 15-4 year...I V-j-i                            tj
F PDrANDpiTaT Iroovl i.tly  roj-eonefnod  uoo.-ttrc   tupl  o-foo
henoedfrot niai  andfoiso i'gemh-orthy roriec oorltnooe
Otl   anoI.)  ctloyOs  (e   huoc,-Arud000zpr busco                                 Pretseo  Piaetaoa(ot  noshadhid       ecie   r  ihn
Itng   ru  1.1t.npas   ocide   ttI   o  group;  Ifo  etdci                               5pret  rcet0  pr.ptipoet    _pret  adpoetSpreti
oping covetrlco dots dertoed  frost life tafloo.                       of~~~~~~~~~t.  l-te hoshlda.  Ilcli    - ..1..   I   :p ideed  `  I'.1
pear of po   ert.-  n 110- b-to                                                           afodl--
laf  Bbr  - eroe  ofoouiblt(   tta   uran  nd rra  -      Roif ete  erlAto        Iety Coooar leel (Y1$ per cp ta)   urban sod coral
throrr  opl    nlu  tor'.d-cnrumeoo   ntetdhtpesnlicmeo hdouty   OOn  en 1   eeeinete  ia   en
so    aItfy      I  c                9oropotofteiercipe"d-toen ,o'inoon nbttmardPronotyro iboolute Poverty tooeLee  d,--nr                                 )-ubaan
pb ate   rn     ose01  he onnide-r  as be-igh  sitbioreagnunable-
nP.,u-fbba   hooe                                                                           itua    eoraoahecnooidol
bohtcounf   rnneoo  h   oucodc   o   net   pt                                                                                  iconunii  and modaltbata _ini.clion-.
loupeopoeti-otor pneh  C the OOy 10 fetohioc thy fanily ounteroeohlnt:   fhocootacoI .t-ld.gh . -oa-sit sden. Prjet boolepetieot
e:.d ~h-ge  in tt-k.  ~t -ppli-    -'.de -i-if-d,  eeft, in 1-i ...--trillone.ott 1)79



- 235
Annex I
Page 4 of 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Aoois  n Millions. of US Do1llar)
Acetol                           Estlastsd
1973         1974         197 5        197 6        1977          1978         1974    1975    1976    197 7    1978          1973   1975   1977   1978
NATIONAL OCCOOENTS                               (A--Ia Data at 1975 Price  nod Eochao  Rote of $D - E... 25.55)                          A-o-I Irdwth Does                        As Pere-t of GDY
Gr-as Dometic Poodoct                           15,273       15,340        14,773       16,117       17,920       17,565          5.7    -3.7      9.1      5.6      3.2        96.8  100.0  100.4  100.8
Gbo  Ero-  T-m  of T-oda                            506          385       ---  -_ 104                  -77          -137                                                        3.2     _-    -0.4 -0.6
Gr.e. D-,eaf  Icc--s                            15,739       15,725        14,773       16.013       16,953       17,428        -0.1    -641       8.4      5.9      3.4       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Imports (icl. 0fFf)                              6,170        6,464        4.738         5,567        6,296        6,195         4.6   -26.7    17.5    13.1    -1.6            39.2   32.0   37.1   35.3
Encore  (Dc. NFf)                                3.962        3.340        .2.s89        3,03         3.245        3.505       -5,7   -13.2        4.8      6.6      8.0        05.1   19.6   19.1   20.0
R..oo_c  GoP                                     2,208        3,124        1,839         2,529        3,051        2,690                                                        14.1   12.3   18.0   15.3
Coeocsption Enpeodit-res                        12,723       14,032        14,203       15,503       16,021       16,331        12.3      1.2      9.1      3.3      2.6        80.9   96.1   94.5   93.7
loves ic-c  IoEndlc-- (Dc-l. Stocks)             4,710        4,432         2,409        3,143        4,050        3,924        -6.1   -45.7    30.5    28.8    -3.1            30.0   16.3   23.9   22.4
D-teecl  S-nvlge,                                2,510        1,308           570          614          999        1,234       -47.9   -56.4       7.7    62.7    23.5          15.9    3.9    5.9    7.0
Nottlocl Do-lgs-                                 4,055         2,620        1,593        1,465        2,054         ..         -35.4   -38.2    -8.0    40.2         ..         25.8   10.6   12.1
Mg,CDISEIO  TRfAUi                                                 Aoaol leta at Cor-t Prcs0I rreo   f  oe
Inpital goods                                    601           761          565          607          693         ..                                                          2: .5   14.5   14.0
Inceemd iofo goodo                             1.769        2,632        2,185         2,431        3,043                                                                     5  8.4   565.1   61.3
-Pool  an d r-loted macoiole                             183          575           621          696          743         ..6.0   16.0   13.0
Co gse .c odo                              438          677          522          583          485          ..                                                         15.1   13.4    9.7   __
Total Mcc-h. Imports fcLOf.)                   5, 03-1      4,648        -3, 89 3     4_,32_9       4 ,9 64      0,300                                                      100-.0  100.0  i- 1.00   100.0
Agrlcnltnrl products                             547          369          324           312          334         ..                                                          18.8   16.8   16.5
Wood aed Cork ,Prodoti                           273           366          506          331          364         ..14.8   15.8   17.9
.Teaces   clothing 6 foceeo                      560          684           577          533          602         ..30.4   29.8   19.6
Machinary and tranpor- qaet                      243           290          254          230          301         ..13.2   15.1   14.8
other                                            420           569         474           396          426          .02.6  524.5   01.2   __
Total Mooch. Imports (f.o.b.)                  1,843        2,278        1,935         1,822        2,027        2,433                                                      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
MPS08IDDE TEAS  USD1015                                                  1975   100
DeotPIce Tadon                                NE          107          100           90          94            102
Import Price I=x                                  61           8'7         100            95          97           106
Temof Teed. laden                                131          118           100           95          87            96
Import Val1s,  Isden                             119          114           100          105         ill           120
VALUE ADDED BY SECTO                               Ana  sea   95Pis   c   mbaeRt   f0      e.2.5
Agelooltore                        ~~~~~       ~~~~2,3  2,189  2,131       213          1,947        2,044        .1.8    -2.7       1.5  ~10.0        5.0        16.3   15.9   12.6   12.8
Indoste                                        6,080        6,322        5.731        5,978         6,601        6.883         4.0    -9.3       4.3    10.4      4.3        44.3   42.7   42.9   43.1
Serl.s.                                      5.419          5.462        5.348         6.423       6.A4          7 ,051        0.8      1.6L    15.8      6.6      3.0       58.5   41.4   44.5   44.1
Total                                         13,730       13,973       52,418        14,504       15,386        .13,78        1.8    -4.0       8.6      5.7      3.8      100.8  100.0  180.0  100.0
1975   1976   1977   1978
PUBLIC P201001                                                             Corcea  Prices.A Psectnef GP/lskt Pelee
Ceerst ...osipts                                            1.657        1,836         2,256        2,456        2,991                 10.8    22.9       8.9    21.8         1.4   14.3G ~14.8A  16.5
OseCat mepsslt-e                                            1,740        2,493         2,901        2,908        3,484                 43.3    16.4       0.2    18.8         16.9   18.3   17.6   19.2
E,seet sn-pla/deficit (-   f
the.  Rate                                                  -83         -657         -643          -432         -493                                                        4.5    4.0    2.8    2.7
-aec  a   oaa o  Ponds and
Seri_cesn                                                    55          278            89          324          142                                                        1.9    0.6    1.8    0.8
Cum-st Deficit of Ceateal Goot.                               -20         -379          -556         -128         -331                                                         2.6    3.5    0.6    1.9
Idwsss of Loce1 GoveccW                                        81          106            16           1            49                                                        0.7    0.1    0.1    0.5
Baleen, of ESelel fecoity fystos                              -12          -84          -3 27        -152          -14                                                        0.6    2.1    0.7
EsCest D.fielt ofPblic Sa.tt                                   5          -367          -867         -220         -36                                                          2.5    5.5    1.3    1.7
Eapleel Ep.mde-r                                             _457          _042       _178a4    I   1,040        1,042                 40.5    22.1    32.7    01 2           4.3    5.8    6.3    5.8
Or_eal Defieit                                                327         -681       -1618         -1,168       -1,507                                                        4.6   10.2    7.8    8.3
USSR flEE ARID 017PITEP    0(ORK8.                                 TOTAL, LABRE FORC T                                   VALUE ASSES PER  OsE  (1975 PRICES AD00((2RTE$    Es.23.55)
In Thonand             Percent of Total         Aannal                    le US 5011cc.          Pecat  f  veea               A-e-age Anel Groh Race
1974         177          1974         1977        Grnvth Rate                 1974    1877              1974    1977                       1974-77
Asmiaalinrs                       1~~~~~ ~~~~,50  1,219       34.5         32.2            -2.1                   1,684   1,097                45       39                        -1.8
.eduose                                       1,207        1,276         34.7          33.7           -0.8                   4,837   5,173                130     127                          2.3
RSrwi...                                      1,160        1.291         30.8         34.1             3.6                   4.709   5.303                127    .130                          4.1
ToteD                                         3,767        3,786        500.0         100.0            D.2                   5,709   4,866                180      100                         3.1
37 tatltio.l disorpa-y Is included in the --esption date.
IEaludes  -k-her' roitets.. 
./  TlaceD    playd  ahor farce emldis8  . okera abrod nod  -eployed.
o    shaege Rtate  1975:  $1 - fEc.. 24.67; 1974:  71 *  25.408; 1975:  $1 - Es.. 25.55; 1976: $1 - RE.. 30.23; 1877:  $1 - Ee.. 38.278; 1978:  $1 - Eec. 45
lint -vileble
NggligObls



- 26 -
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERIAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(A-aount. in Millions of U.S. Dollars at Current Prices)
Actusl                          Estimted
1973         1974         1975         1976         1977         1978
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exportu (F.0.B.)                              1,843        2,278        1,935        1,823        2,027         2,433
ltporta (F.O.B.)                            2L745          4.277        3.605        3.932        4.533         4,748
Trade BaLance (X-M)                            -902       -1,989       -1,670       -2,109       -2,506       -2,313
Net Non Factor  Services                         67          -74         -169            26          352          233
Tourisr RecelPts (Gross)                     (550)        (513)        (360)        (332)        (403)         (431)
Resource Buloaoe                               -835       -2,063       -1,839       -2,083       -2,454       -2,
Net Invest-ent  8nconeR'                         86          129          -14         -133         -179          -329
Net Tra_efe_sb'                               1,097        1,111        1,037          972        1,134         1,635
oAlDn1o nnc~v, L ....... r-n,eron r  e          348         -823         -817       -1.24        -1.499          -776
Direct Foreigo Tnvsst-ont                       110          109          122            75           57           62
Public MLT Loans
Diabursessents                                158          153          231          249          387           589
Atortisatio-                                   74           67           77           68           93            80
Net Disburseaeete                                84           86          154          181          294           509
Other MLr Loans
Net Disbsrsasntsnt                            ..           ..           ..           ..           213           249
Short-Ter= Capital and Errors and
Onistsei.                                     135          -82          -89          206
Other Capital (N.E,I,)                        -332           156          -58          641        1,046           331
Ch-nges in Official Liquid
Foreign Exchange Reserves
( - - Increase)                           -345          554          688           141         -111         -375
Offittal Reserv.s
Gross End of YearS1                         2,813        2,292        1,535        1,335        1,450         1,845
Of Which:  Gold A/                         1,149         1,181        1,137        1,125        1,025        1,010
Fereign Exchange               1,633        1,079          391           250          361          835
GRANT AN(D LOAN CCHI1M)ENTS                                                                                      DEBT AND DEBT SERVICEP          1973    1974    1973    1976          1977
Official Create 6 Grant-like                    -            -              3          -             -         Public Debt Outstanding
And Disbursed                 609      723      826   1,005       1,304
public M6LT Lanes
IBRD                                         -             -            -             36           74        Interest on Public Debt           24       22      35       38         56
IDA                                                                                  -            -          Repay.ents on Public Debt         74       68       78      67         93
Other Multilateral                            -            -            -            126           88        Total Public Debt Service         98       90      113     105        149
G-vers.nta                                    -             20           45           96          113        Other MALT Debt Service          ..       ..       ..      ..         332
Suppliers                                      28           27           35           49           39        Total M6LT Debt Service .-        .        .       ..       .         481
Finano.il Markets                              23          413           83          152          121
Public Louas n.e.i.                           -            -            -            -            -          BURDEN ON EXPORT, NON FACTOR
Total Public MALT Loans-                         51          460          163          453          435        SERVICES AND WORCERS
RD4ITTANCES (7)
public Debt Servise           2.4      2.0      2.9      2.9        3.7
Total MALT Debt Service       ..       ..       ..      ..        11.9
Actual Debt Oustandins On Dec. 31, 1977
EXTERNL  DEBT                                                Disbursed Only                    Percent           Average Teens of Public Debt
I0R8D                                                            32                            2.4
IA                                                               -                             -                 ITterent an 2 Prior Year
Other IMalti-leteral                                            163                           12.5                  WD6                         4.8      3.6      4.8     4.6         5.6
G-vecn.te                                                       321                           24.6               Anort. as 7 Prior Year
Suppliers                                                       388                           29.8                  D06D                       14.9    11.2    10.8       9.1        9.3
Financial Markets                                               400                           30.7
Public Debts a.e.i.                                                                            -               IBRD Debt Out. & Dieboreed   45.2    42.2    39.0    35.6            32.2
Total Public M6LT Debt                                        1,304                          100.0             IBRD D06D as 7E Public
Debt Out. 6 Dibursed         7.4      5.8      4.7      3.5        2.5
IBRD Debt Service as 2
Public Debt Service           6.3      6.9      5.6      5.8        4.7
a:  Largely interest pay ..eta.
b/ Largely markers' resittances.
cf Gold is valued at official prices.
d/  Natioenl valuation:  Special Draving Righte, 35 per fine troy ounce and coamerted ts US dollars
at current rates. September 1979 stock of 22.11 million nunces vould give about $8.8 billion,
valued at $400 per sunce.
el  Debt -ervice as.actio of -eornige fnus eaporte, uno-facttr aervi.es and workers
rdtta,nces .
f/ DOe. set include Central Bask borrosings.
Europe, Middle East end Bath Africa Raglan
Not available                                                                                                                                             Dss..dr 7, 1979



-27 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of November 30, 1979)
Amount (less cancellation)
Loan No.   Year         Borrower        Purpose        Bank            Undisbursed
Five loans for power development fully disbursed    57.5                      -
1301       1976    Electricidade de
Portugal            Power          36.0                16.6
1334       1976    Republic of
Portugal            Highways       24.0                20.8
1432       1977    Banco dle Fomento   Development
Nacional            Finance        50.0                35.8
1541       1978    Republic of          Water
Portugal            Supply         40.0                40.0
1559       1978    Republic of
Portugal            Education      21.0                21.0
1603       1978    Republic of          Agricultural
Portugal            Credit         70.0                70.0 Ia
1649       1979    Quimica de           Fertilizer
Portugal, E.P.      Moderniza-
tion          58.0                 56.1
1700       1979    Republic of
Portugal            Highways II   40.0                 40.0
1701       1979    Republic of          Small and
Portugal            Medium
Industry       45.0                45.0 /a
TOTAL                                      441.5               345.3
of which has been repaid                  33.4
TOTAL now outstanding                      408.1
Amount sold                         2.6
of which has been repaid           2.1       .5
TOTAL now held by Bank /b                  408.6
TOTAL undisbursed                                              345.3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of November 30, 1979)
None.
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Toan No. 1301 - Sixth Power ProJect; $36.0 Million Loan of Setember 24  1976;
Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
While the loan is now fully committed, project completion is
expected to be delayed more than one year because of organizational changes in
the Power Authority (EDP), revisions in the Project scope and in the list of
goods. These factors delayed procurement under the loan, and the start of
significant disbursements. EDP is being reorganized with emphasis on decen-
tralizing management and merging municipal and small private electricity
undertakings within EDP. Mergers are expected to be completed by 1981. After
a poor year in 1976, owing to bad hydrological conditions, EDP's earnings in
1977 improved. In 1978, EDP generated only 4 percent internal cash, in
spite of a 50 percent increase in tariffs, owing to large increases in
interest rates. EDP estimates that it will be able to generate 18 percent
cash in 1979 and reach a self-financing level of 30 percent in 1980. The
closing date has been postponed from the original date of June 30, 1979 to
December 31, 1980.
Loan No. 1334 - Highways I; $24.0 Million Loan of March 3, 1977; Effective-
ness Date:  July 8, 1977; Closin_ Date:  July 31, 1980.
Road rehabilitation is on schedule, but other project items are
behind schedule. The Government's decision to postpone bidding until the
effectiveness of the loan resulted in a 12-month delay in purchasing highway
maintenance and workshop equipment. Delays in land acquisition (which is now
completed) caused an 18-month delay in the construction of the Covilha
bypass road; the contract for this road has now been awarded. The railways
study and the transport master plan are also 18 months behind schedule due
to delays in the selection of consultants; however, work on the study and
master plan is now approaching completion.
Loan No. 1432 - Development Finance Company Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
December 19, 1977; Effectiveness Date:  March 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31,_1980
While loan signing was delayed due to legal questions raised by the
Attorney General's office, it is expected that project implementation will
catch up with appraisal estimates. Approximately 90 percent of the loan
proceeds were committed as of November 30, 1979. Subproject applications now
under review will absorb the remaining 10 percent.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Loan 1541 - Lisbon Reuion Water Supply Project; $40.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1978; Effectiveness Date:  January 19, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
The contract for the Castelo do Bode pipeline (about $33 million)
has been awarded. Works are proceeding. A solution is being sought for
municipal arrears, which remain a problem.
Loan 1559 - Education Projec_t_;_ _$21_.0O Million Loan of June 6,_ 1978;
Effectiveness Date:  September 6, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981.
Architectural designs for all project institutions, including man-
agement training centers are underway. Equipment lists are ready and procure-
ment of equipment is proceeding. All sites for project institutions (except
Lisbon Management Training Center) have been acquired. Technical assistance
is being recruited on schedule, the study on the teaching of science and
engineering is completed, the manpower study is underway. A general public
service moratorium on hiring personnel and consultants (to contain the growing
budget deficit) has delayed design work.  This combined with site acquisition
problems has caused a slippage of about one year. Recent remedial actions and
understandings however should improve implementation of civil works.
Loan 1603 - Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Project; $7_0 Million Loan of
September 28, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  (not effective); Closing Date:
June 30. 1984.
The staffing of the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (IFADAP)
and of project area offices of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
is practically completed. Consultants have been selected for the groundwater
survey, and are in the process of being selected for the fish stock assessment
survey for which contract negotiations are underway. Project implementation
is about a year behind the original schedule.
Loan 1649 - Fertilizer Modernization Project;, $58 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effectiveness Date:  June 1, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
The selection of engineering consultants is completed; detailed
engineering work is underway. Procurement of equipment has started.
Loan 1701 - Small- and Medium-Scale Industry, Development Project; $45 Million
Loan of June 27, 1979; Effectiveness Date:  (not effective); Closing Date:
December 31      .
Progress has been made towards meeting effectiveness and disburse-
ment conditions. Staff for the special unit in Banco de Portugal have been
identified. A revision in the Public Enterprise for Industrial Estates'
(EPPI) rental policy has been made to ensure better returns on investment.
Loan 1700 - Second Highwai  Project; $40 Million Loan of July 27, 1979;
Effectiveness Date:  November 13, 1979; Closin, Date:  June 30, 1984.
Engineering for highway rehabilitation is underway.



-30 -                            ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
PORTUGAL
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
S    I             bl
(a)  Time taken by Government to prepare project:   March 1977-June 1978
(b)  Agencies preparing project:                       Ministries of Education
and Agriculture and
Fisheries
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of first Bank mission to consider          Partially June/July 1977
the project:                                    and completed in July 1978
(d)  Date of appraisal mission:                        March 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:               November 21, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                    May 19, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
A start-up mission immediately following loan signing would review
the status of architectural plans, equipment lists and bid documents. Fre-
quent, but shorter, supervision missions would be scheduled during the first
year to review progress in construction, furniture and equipment procurement
and technical assistance arrangements.
Section III:  Special Conditions
(i) A detailed plan and schedule for in-service training of
teachers for the agricultural technician training institutes
and for the diversified secondary schools will be prepared
and sent to the Bank for review and comment within six months
after the date of the Loan Agreement (paras. 37, 43);
(ii) A follow-up system to trace graduate placement and job per-
formance would be developed and operational by the time the
first classes graduate from the agricultural and industrial
technician training institutes (paras. 37 and 44);
(iii) A follow-up study of secondary diversified school graduates to
trace their entrance into further studies or job placement and
subsequent performance would be developed and operational by
the time the first classes graduate (para. 43).



V. Yd,D'qV    ' ,, 3ODOHOW    --                                                                                  _         
SNIV           d S     _wLiJv=,, 3Le3malwolYY~ *
O            ,s'' X ~~/   'z{                                                                   ,                     3UOSa    _
-   ICM v7*           N02S                                                                                            StUO7 NII t><<BLE,   seloaw
-                ?-t3N  y a    E 0-         \                                                   t :LlaDl NWEWAN 
a~~ ~~~~~~~ft.'    LNVlM   ,,,  -       ,,SoONI
..,Z.  ../oQflwi 10 'N.../$ ,<  i                                                                      1 40100004  YO8PJ103O    754  W 
aw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 04± 00000 00(I0000000 I    /j 
'-&>    7 7                           VHYP0i
Cdt       a             -7,~  /  //- 
D~~~~~~~~~- 7- C'-p                                   S'1NO00O=;                                                       . 
O±OOoOo(  0 0'                                                                    /           |          0 
-                7         4fi'. 0 op      0±0                   '0 
if  >_ 1_ ~                        /         wr                          7     
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a____ r_,  ._______________________



