LOAN NUMBER 1793 PO
Loan Agreement
(Second Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 16, 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1793 PO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 16, 1980, between REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower or Portugal) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Ministry of Education" and "Ministry of Agriculture"
and "Ministry of Public Works" mean the ministries of the Borrower
at the time being responsible for education, agriculture and
public works, respectively;
(b) "Primary (Basic) teacher training" means the training
of teachers for students in grades 1 through 6; and
(c) "Project Coordination Unit" means the unit established
in the Ministry of Education in accordance with the resolution of
the Borrower's Counqil of Ministers dated October 31, 1979.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty million dollars ($40,000,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borr,wer shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A through
F of the Project through its Ministry of Education and Parts
G, H and I of the Project through its Ministry of Agriculture,
with assistance of other ministries as appropriate, in particular
its Ministry of Public Works, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate education, engineering, agri-
cultural and administrative     practices, and shall provide,


﻿-3-
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ appropriately
qualified and experienced specialists on terms appropriate to
their tasks for the purposes indicated in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement. In the case of specialists to be financed out of
proceeds of the Loan, their qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for sucih insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules, work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and docurents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-4-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.06. Before procuring any furniture for purposes of
the Project, the Borrower shall, through its Ministries of Educa-
tion and Agriculture, respectively, furnish to the Bank for its
review and approval detailed lists and specifications of furniture
intended to be procured, and procurement of the furniture shall be
substantially in conformity with the lists so approved.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01, (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,


﻿-5-
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any politic-l or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owr d or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall operate and maintain the
institutions and facilities described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement in accordance with appropriate educational, financial
and administrative practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
its comments the curricula referred to in Parts A (2), D (3), E
(3) and G (4) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 4.05. In connection with Parts A, D and E of the
Project, the Borrower shall, by the time of graduation of the
first enrolled class, establish and thereafter maintain a system
to trace graduate placement and job performance and, in connection


﻿-6-
with Parts A and D only, the Borrower shall, not later than six
months after the date of this Agreement, prepare and furnish to
the Bank for its review and comments, a detailed plan for training
of teachers, such plan to be carried out thereafter taking into
consideration the Bank's comments.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date July 15, 1980, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
being responsible for finance is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for.
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For th8 Borrower:
Ministerio das Finangas
Rua da Alfandega
Lisbon, Portugal
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINISTERIO DAS FINANqAS            12143 MINFIN P
Lisbon
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and DLevelopment
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7-
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
By                  gaa(      /~c
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /            4 /-aw
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
A.   Parts A through F
(Ministry of
Education)
(1) Civil works            4,500,000         30%
(2) Furniture and         26,000,000         100% of foreign
equipment                               expenditur j and
of ex-factory
cost of local
expenditures and
80% of expendi-
tures of impor-
ted items pur-
chased locally
(3) Technical              2,000,000         100% of foreign
Assistance                              expenditures
and 80% of local
expenditures of
local consul-
tants
B.   Parts G through I
(Ministry of
Agriculture)
(1) Civil works            1,100,000         30%


﻿Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(2) Furniture and         3,400,000         100% of foreign
equipment                              expenditures and
of ex-factory
cost of local
expenditures and
80% of expendi-
tures of impor-
ted items pur-
chased locally
(3) Technical               200,000         100% of fureign
assistance                             expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures of
local consul-
tants
C.   Unallocated               2,800,000
TOTAL           40,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement cr supply thereof;


﻿- 10 -
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$200,000 may be made on account of payments made for expendi-
tures in respect of Sub-category A.1 before that date but after
January 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
I.   Objectives
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) expand post-
secondary agricultural and industrial technician training; (ii)
assist in (a) meeting the need for basic cycle and secondary
teachers, including those for science and vocational training, and
(b) upgrading science teaching and expanding vocational and
diversified training at the secondary level; (iii) expand and
improve farmer training and the capabilities of rural extension
services; and (iv) upgrade university science, engineering and
agricultural instruction.
II. Project Description
The Project consists of the following Parts which shall
be carried out in accordance with the provisions set out below:
Part A:   Vocational, Science and Practical Training Programs
in Diversified Schools
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of about 21,330
places in science laboratories, vocational and other
practical training facilities for 43 secondary schools
specified in Annex 1 to this Schedule with a combined
enrollment of about 49,140 students.
(2) In connection with this Part A, the Ministry of Educa-
tion shall adapt upgraded vocational and science cur-
ricula and course syllabi.
Part B:   Primary (Basic) Teacher Training Institutes
Equipping of 7 teacher training institutes specified
in Annex 1 to this Schedule with a combined enrollment
of about 2,220 students.
Part C:   Faculty of Education
Assistance in the establishment of a Faculty of Educa-
tion at the University of Lisbon through:


﻿- 12 -
(1) equipping of model teaching laboratories including
one each for industrial, commercial and agricul-
tural training; and
(2) provision and installation of audio-visual and
other classroom, office and library equipment.
Part D:   Agricultural Technician Training Institutes
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of agricultural
technician training institutes at Braganca and Castelo
Branco with a combined enrollment of about 720 students,
including office facilities for 3-4 agricultural and
home economics extension specialists, laboratory and
workshop facilities.
(2) In connection with this Part D, the Ministry of Educa-
tion shall develop satisfactory curricula for agricul-
tural technician training.
Part E:   Engineering Technician Training Institutes
(1) Equipping of 3 engineering institutes converted from
engineering colleges at Coimbra, Lisbon and Porto with a
combined enrollment of about 3,400 students.
(2) In connection with this Part E, the Ministry of Educa-
tion shall develop satisfactory curricula and course
syllabi.
Part F:   University Undergraduate Instruction in Science,
Engineering and Agriculture
Provision and installing audio-visual and other instruc-
tional equipment for the Faculties of Agriculture, Veterinary
Medicine and Engineering of the Technical University of
Lisbon and the Faculty of Science of the University of Lisbon
witf a combined enrollment of about 8,700 students.
Part G:   Farmer Training and Demonstration Centers
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of seven regional
farmer training and three demonstration centers speci-
fied in Annex 1 to this Schedule including facilities


﻿- 13 -
for field demonstrations, offices for the local exten-
sion personnel, laboratories for soils, fertilizer,
seeds and home economics nutrition/foods, clothing, and
animal production, and a farm machinery workshop.
(2) Provision and operation of 2 mobile units for training
farmers in the maintenance of farm tractors, one each to
be attached to one of the farmer training centers in the
Alentajo and Beira Litoral Region.
(3) In connection with this Part G, the Ministry of Agricul-
ture shall adapt upgraded curricula reflecting the
specific needs of farmers in each region.
Part H:   Nutrition Education Program
Equipping of staff and central facilities under the Bor-
rower's National Nutrition Education Program and a total of
18 field teams consisting of 3 specialists each.
Part I:   Agricultural Information Center
Establishing of an agricultural information facility within
the Ministry of Agriculture's headquarters at Lisbon, includ-
ing the provision and installation of audio-visual and
printing equipment.
III.      General
A.   Parts A through I are expected to be completed by
June 30, 1984.
B.   Experienced and qualified persons including project and
deputy project coordinators will be promptly appointed
and employed during the Project implementation period in
the Ministry of Education's Project Coordination Unit
and its Directorates of Higher Education and School
Facilities and the Ministry of Agriculture's Directorate
of Rural Extension as well as the Ministry of Public
Works' School Construction Directorate in order to carry
out Parts A through F and Parts G, H and I of the
Project and assist in such carrying out, respectively.
C.   The institutions included in the Project are further
described in Annex 1 to this Schedule which may be


﻿-14-
amended by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank.
D.   Technical assistance and fellowships will be provided
in accordance with scheduling acceptable to the Borrower
and the Bank.


﻿- 15 -
ANNEX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2
Project Institutions
Capacity by
List of            Student Places
Institutions       Total     New            Location
43 Diversified     49,140 49,140    Ponte de Lima, Braga,
Schools                          Esposende, Santo Tirso,
Trofa (Santo Tirso),
Amarante, Paredes, Pacos de
Ferreira, Marco de Canavezes,
Vila do Conde, Cerco (Porto),
Peso da R6gua, Vila Pouca
de Aguiar, Mirandela,
Valadares (Vila Nova de
Gaia), Vila da Feira, Vale de
Cambra, Arouca, Oliveira do
Hospital, Arganil, Porto de
M6s, Cartaxo, Torres Ved-
ras, Vila Franca de Xira,
Alverca (Vila Franca de
Xira), Queluz (Sintra),
Monte da Caparica (Almada),
Laranjeiro (Almada), Baixa
da Banheira (Moita), Moita,
Lagos, Anadia, Quinta de
Marrocos (Lisbon), Amora
(Seixal), Torre de Moncorvo,
Moimenta da Beira, Albergaria-
a-Velha, Soure, Caldas da
Rainha, Azambuja, Damaia
(Amadora), Alges (Oeiras),
Tavira
7 Primary (Basic) 2,310     -      Santarem, Portalegre, Viseu,
Teacher Train-                   Braga, Guarda, Coimbra,
ing Institu-                     Lisbon
tions
1 Faculty of         500     500   Lisbon
Education


﻿- 16 -
Capacity by
List of            Student Places
Institutions       Total      New           Location
2 Agricultural       720     720   Castelo Branco, Braganca
Technician
Training
Institutes
3 Engineering      3,400   3,400   Coimbra, Lisbon, Porto
Technician
Training
Institutes
1 Faculty of         750    -      Lisbon
Agriculture
1 Faculty of         350     -     Lisbon
Veterinary
Medicine
1 Faculty of       6,000     -     Lisbon
Engineering
1 Faculty of       1,600    -      Lisbon
Science
7 Farmer             240     240   Vidago, Malhada, Quinta das
Training                         Relvas, Couta da Varzea,
Centers                          Tavira, Vairgo, Quinta dos
Currais
3 Demonstration      180     120   Peg3es, Barroso, Gafanha
Centers
1 Nutrition          -      -      Lisbon (Central Headquarters)
Education
Program
1 Agricultural       -       -     Lisbon (Central Headquarters)
Information
Center


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning July 15, 1983
through   July 15, 1994                    1,665,000
On January 15, 1995                             1,705,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                         1.60%
before maturity
More than three years but                         3.20%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                           5.85%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                        6.90%
not more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                          7.95%
before maturity


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, equipment and civil
works shall be procured in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For equipment and civil works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding under the Project, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the vehicles,
equipment and civil works in question. The Borrower shall provide
the necessary information to update such notice annually so long
as any vehicles, equipment or civil works remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Furniture and Equipment Lists
Detailed lists and specifications of furniture and equipment,
indicating the extent to which items can be grouped together for
bulk procurement, shall be submitted to the Bank for its review
and approval, and the equipment procured, and its grouping for
bulk procurement, shall be substantially in conformity with the
lists so approved.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for furniture and equipment estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent and specialized items available from few
suppliers may be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder after
local competitive bidding in accordance with the Borrower's
standard procedures, provided that the aggregate cost of contracts
let under such procedures shall not exceed $5,000,000 equivalent.


﻿- 20 -
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4 below hereof,
contracts for civil works under Parts A and F of the Project
may be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder after local competi-
tive bidding in accordance with the Borrower's standard proce-
dures.
3.   Local competitive bidding under the foregoing paragraphs
C.1 and C.2 shall permit the participation of foreign firms on an
equal basis with Portuguese firms.
4.   Contracts for civil works under Part A of the Project may
after agreement of the Bank be negotiated with the contractors
awarded with contracts for the construction of diversified schools
made prior to the date of this Agreement, through extension to
such contracts.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference
for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with the procedures described in the foregoing Part C: (i)
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port
of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for
domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on
domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost
to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures inciden-
tal to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or instal-
lation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Portugal may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Portugal if the bidder shall have established to


﻿- 21 -
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Portugal equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Portugal.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, e-cluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i): the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to contracts for civil works under Part D of the
Project and all contracts for vehicles and equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to


﻿- 22 -
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been rec-ived and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
ful,dis from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /   L.day of --   A, 1980.
FRSECRETARY


