Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7671 GE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Secondary and Local Roads Project) 
 
between 
 
GEORGIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 25, 2009 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7671 GE 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated March 25, 2009, between GEORGIA (
“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to the 
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Borrower and the 
Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seventy million Dollars 
($70,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Page  3
2
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through RDMRDI in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that as a 
result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan Agreement, an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program will be carried out
.
ARTICLE V - TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. T
he
Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
16 Gorgasali Street 
0105 Tbilisi 
Georgia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
995-32-261461 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written.  
 
GEORGIA 
 
By /s/ Kakha Baindurashvili 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Tamara Sulukhia 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) upgrade and rehabilitate the secondary 
and local roads networks
;
and (b) increase RDMRDI’s and local governments’ capacity 
to manage the road network in a cost effective and sustainable manner. 
 
The Project consists of the Original Project and the following additional parts: 
 
Part A
:
Rehabilitation of Secondary and Local Roads
Rehabilitating about 450 kilometers of secondary and local roads, carrying out 
drainage improvements and providing signage and access to adjacent properties. 
 
Part B:
Strengthening the Capacity of Road Sector Institutions
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of RDMRDI and its six regional offices in 
management and maintenance of the secondary road network through the provision of: (i) 
consultants’ services for data collection; (ii) consultants’ services to prepare a 
performance-based maintenance contract; (iii) computer equipment, laboratory 
equipment, vehicles and office furniture; and (iv) training. 
 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of local government units in management and 
maintenance of local road network through: (i) the provision of consultants’ services for 
assessing needs and resources of the local governments for roads’ maintenance and for 
designing a local road management and maintenance resource manual; and (ii) 
conducting workshops for local governments on local road management and 
maintenance. 
 
3. 
Provision of 
consultants’ services for preparing the Project audits 
 
Part C:
Designing and Supervising Road Rehabilitation
Designing about 150 kilometers of road rehabilitation and supervising 
approximately 450 kilometers of road rehabilitation works, through the provision of 
consultants’ services. 
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I
.
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
1.
 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project through RDMRDI with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
public utility, environmental practices and shall provide RDMRDI with the resources and 
staff necessary for implementing the Project.
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that adequate budgetary resources are made available 
for the Project 
in the Borrower’s annual budget. 
3. 
The Borrower shall require TRRC to carry out the financial management for the 
Project and assist RDMRDI in the procurement under the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Agreement. 
4. 
The Borrower shall permit the use of standards recommended by the European 
Committee for Standardization on construction, planning and design of roads and 
highways (in addition to the national standards) in the design, construction and 
maintenance of road works under the Project. 
5. 
The Borrower shall, through RDMRDI: (a) maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, the road conditions 
and achievement of other road sector objectives in accordance with Monitoring and 
Evaluation Indicators and the EF for the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; (b) strengthen the capacity of the regional offices of RDMRDI; 
(c) promote the development of the five year road program and monitor its 
implementation and impact; (d) ensure that for any contract for road works under this 
Project: (i) no land is taken or persons displaced as a result of carrying out the road 
works; (ii) procedures satisfactory to the Bank for ensuring protection of cultural property 
and/or chance finds are incorporated into the contracts; and (iii) an EMP satisfactory to 
the Bank is prepared in accordance with the provisions of the EF; and (e) publish an 
annual report within ninety (90) days of each calendar year outlining in sufficient detail 
RDMRDI’s previous year’s accomplishments and its forthcoming five year road 
program. 
Page  8
7
B.
 
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Safeguards
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the EF and the respective EMP, and that remedial measures are taken 
during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset or reduce adverse 
environmental impacts to levels set forth in the EF and the respective EMP.  The 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the EF or the respective EMP 
without the prior approval of the Bank. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) all civil works shall be conducted within the 
existing right of way; and (b) no activity shall be undertaken under the Project involving 
the involuntary acquisition of land or involuntary resettlement of occupants or owners of 
such land. 
 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Borrower shall, through RDMRDI, monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through RDMRDI, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five days (45) 
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Page  9
8
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works. 
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth 
in below: 
 
(i) 
“Open competitive procedures” (i.e. “public tender” rather than 
“tender”) shall be the default rule. A single envelope procedure shall be 
used for the submission of goods, works, or technical services (other 
than consultants’ services). 
 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely 
circulated national daily newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) 
days for the preparation and submission of bids. Advertisements 
published in foreign language newspapers shall 
be in compliance with 
Page  10
9
Procurement Method
such a 30-day-minimum in number of days for bids preparation and 
submission. 
 
(iii) 
Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms.  If 
registration is required, it shall not be denied to eligible bidders for 
reasons unrelated to their capacity and resources to successfully perform 
the contract (e.g., mandatory membership in professional organizations, 
classification, etc). Post-qualification shall be conducted to verify that 
the bidder has the capability and resources to successfully perform the 
contract. 
 
(iv) 
Government-owned enterprises in Georgia shall be eligible to 
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and 
financially autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a 
dependent agency of the Government. Government-owned enterprises 
will be subject to the same bid and performance security requirements 
as other bidders. 
 
(v) 
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate Bank’s/Association’s 
sample bidding documents, including pre-qualification documents, for 
the procurement of goods, works, or technical services (other than 
consultants' services), and shall contain draft contract and conditions of 
contract including clauses on fraud and corruption, audit and 
publication of award, all acceptable to the Bank/Association. 
 
(vi) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for 
submission of bids.  Bidder’s representatives shall be permitted to 
attend the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more 
than thirty (30) days.  No further extensions should be requested 
without the prior approval of the Bank/Association. 
 
(viii) 
Evaluation of bids shall be based on quantifiable criteria expressed 
in monetary terms as defined in the bidding documents, no merit point 
system and no domestic preference shall be used in the evaluation of 
bids. Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted 
the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid and no negotiations 
shall be carried out prior to contract award. 
 
(ix) 
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen (18) 
months) shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
Page  11
10
Procurement Method
(x) 
No bid shall be rejected purely on the basis that the bid price is 
higher than the estimated budget for that procurement.  All bids shall 
not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s prior 
concurrence. 
 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c) Direct Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Least-cost Selection 
 
(b) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(c) Single Source Selection 
 
(b) Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
Page  12
11
instructions as the Bank shall
 specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Goods, works, consultants’  
 
services and training for the 
 
Project 
 
69,825,000 70% 
 
(2) Front-end Fee 
   175,000 
Amount  payable  pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(3) Premia for Interest 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
 
Rate Collars 
 
0
Amount due under Section 
2.07(c) of this Agreement  
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
70,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made prior to this date but on or after March 10, 2009, for Eligible Expenditures under 
Category 1. 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is October 31, 2011. 
Page  13
12
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
Beginning July 15, 2014  
 
through January 15, 2039 
 
2% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
Page  14
13
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on 
or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  15
14
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“Environmental Assessment and Protection Framework” or “EF” means the 
Borrower’s environmental assessment and protection framework furnished to the 
Bank on
 
January 30, 2009, setting forth the mitigating, monitoring and 
institutional measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the 
Project to offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to levels acceptable to 
the Bank. 
 
5. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the Borrower’s 
environmental management plans acceptable to the Bank to be prepared in 
accordance with the provisions of the EF. 
 
6. 
“European Committee for Standardization” or “ECS” means an international 
association established and operating pursuant to the Statutes of 
Comit
Europ
en de Nomalisation
 (CEN) of 25
th
 October 1919, as amended on 
December 6, 1954, or any legal successor thereto. 
 
7. 
“Georgian Lari” or “GEL” means the currency of the Borrower. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through February 12, 2008), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
9. 
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 
RDMRDI and TRRC and referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement setting forth the obligations of both parties in relation to the Project 
implementation in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
10. 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance indicators 
set forth in a supplemental letter to be utilized by the Borrower under the Project 
Page  16
15
to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to 
which the objectives therefore are being achieved. 
 
11. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the Development Credit Agreement for 
the Secondary and Local Roads Project between Georgia and the International 
Development Association, dated, July 1, 2004 (Credit No. 3938 GE). 
 
12. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 18, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
15. 
“RDMRDI” means the Borrower’s roads department of the Ministry of Regional 
Development and Infrastructure responsible for managing the Borrower’s road 
network or any legal successor thereto. 
 
16. 
“TRRC” means the Eurasia Transport Corridor Investment Center/Transport 
Reform and Rehabilitation Center established pursuant to President’s Order No. 
N-161, dated April 21, 2000, or any legal successor thereto. 
 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid 
charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
Page  17
16
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. 
Suspension by the Bank 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution 
Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower 
and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, 
and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.”
 
