Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  01/29/2007 
Report No.:  AC798
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Georgia 
Project ID:  P086277 
Project Name:  Secondary & Local Roads Project 
Task Team Leader:  Tamara Sulukhia 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 30, 2004 
Estimated Board Date: June 24, 2004 
Managing Unit:  ECSSD 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Roads and highways (96%);Central government administration (4%) 
Theme:  Rural services and infrastructure (P);Infrastructure services for private sector 
development (P);Participation and civic engagement (S);Decentralization (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
20.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
7.14 
 
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED) 
0.30
7.44 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [X] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
1.  Improve the Economic and Social Well-Being of the Rural Population in Selected 
Areas Through Upgrading of their Secondary and Local Road Networks.  
 
Socio-economic surveys by the consultants have confirmed that road improvements will 
make a significant impact on the economic and social well-being of rural Georgia, where 
the majority of the poor are located.  The surveys covered a random sample of 400 
persons in five districts (Lanchkhuti, Gori, Kaspi, Gurjaani and Borjomi).  In rating the 
various problems they face, the condition of roads ranked second only to health services 
as a problem for rural residents, with 93 percent of respondents rating it an important 
problem.  Reduced transport costs, it was felt would increase the competitiveness of local 
produce, improve access to social services, i.e. schools and medical facilities, and to off-
farm employment opportunities, and in some cases spur tourism development which in 
the past was an important sector of the Georgian economy.  Indicators proposed for the 
baseline and follow-up surveys of villages in the zone of influence of improved roads are: 
(i) reduction in transport cost/time to access markets and social services, and (ii) 
increases in off-farm employment income.  
 
Page  2
2.  Strengthen Institutional Capacity of the Road Department of the Ministry of 
Economic Development (RDMED) to develop and maintain a cost effective and 
sustainable secondary and local road network.  
 
RDMED capacity to deliver an efficient road network will depend on the adequacy of 
their funding for maintenance and rehabilitation, and their ability to stretch available 
resources by introducing more cost-effective techniques.  Indicators proposed are: (i) 
reductions in the unit costs of road works, and (ii) annual expenditures on secondary and 
local road maintenance.   
 
3.  Develop RDMED?s capacity to interact with communities and increase its 
responsiveness to local needs  
 
RDMED responsiveness to local needs will depend on the extent to which local 
communities are made aware of road programs, and the extent to which their views and 
priorities are regularly expressed and taken into consideration. This requires well 
functioning participatory mechanisms, for which the following indicators are proposed: 
(i) Publication of an RDMED Annual Report informing on its activities including road 
condition, expenditures, and public participation; and (ii) Publication of a Rolling Five-
year Road Program in order to inform the civil works related industries and other affected 
interests.  
 
The project will also assist RDMED establish regional offices to allow closer linkages 
with local communities, and better monitoring of implementation.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project has three components: (1) rehabilitation of about 250 kilometers of paved 
secondary and local roads, including about 75 kilometers of local roads (US$ 22.54 
million); (2) strengthening the capacity of road sector institutions by improving 
engineering standards and data collection capabilities, establishing between four and six 
regional offices for network and works monitoring, development and implementation of 
regional road maintenance plans, improved interactions with local communities, and 
traffic safety enhancements (US$2.40  million); and (3) design and supervision of the 
road works, and to produce reports for the Mid-Term Review to evaluate the first year 
program (US$2.50 million).  
 
Trust fund support will be sought for the training of traffic police, through a twinning 
arrangement, in traffic safety enforcement, crash data recording and analysis, and traffic 
police work in general.  Required equipment will be acquired under component (2) 
above.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Group 1       Secondary Road: Tbilisi-Kojori-Tsalka-Ninotsminda (20km)  
 
Local Road: Partskhisi-Manglisi (23km)  
 
Group 2       Secondary Road: Tbilisi-Tianeti (20km)  
Page  3
Local Road: Khevsurtsopeli-Sioni (15km);  
 
Group 3      Secondary Road: Sajavakho-Chokhatauri-Ozurgeti-Kobuleti (18km).  
 
Local Road:  Ozurgeti-Natanebi-Tsvermagala  (22km);   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
There are no significant impacts.  All work represents road rehabilitation on existing 
alignments.  The long run impacts are positive; negative impacts will be minor and of 
brief duration as is usually associated with any road rehabilitation activity.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Mitigation of indirect impact is contained in the EMP.  Improvement in the condition of 
these roads will improve access to markets, reduce risk from accidents, and lower 
emission/pollution levels.  Quarries and asphalt stations will be required to have 
environmental permits.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
NA   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The borrower will be supported by an existing PIU that is well familiar with Bank 
projects and safeguard issues.  A liaison officer has been appointed in RDMID for 
environmental issues.  Contracts for the contractors have been appraised to ensure 
compliance with both Bank and Georgian requirements.   
Page  4
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The Ministry of Environment and National Resources (MENR), and the Road 
Department of the Ministry of Economic Development (RDMED) are the key 
stakeholders.  Liaison officers between the MENR and RDMED have been appointed. 
There has been and will be open public participation. Road Management Committees, or 
equivalent, have been established in local government entities (Raions).  These RMCs 
will assist in the selection and prioritization process.  Consultations have or will take 
place in conjunction with the preparation of the EA for each road segment.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/12/2004 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/14/2004 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/19/2004 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
Yes 
Page  5
policies? 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Tamara Sulukhia 
12/13/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Darejan Kapanadze 
12/13/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Satoshi Ishihara 
12/13/2006 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Motoo Konishi 
12/20/2006 
Comments:   
