                                         Document of
                                    The World Bank

                            FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                   ReportNo: 47293 GE -




                                    PROJECTPAPER

                                            ONA

                          PROPOSEDRESTRUCTURINGAND
                  A PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGLOAN


                        INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$70MILLION

                                             TO

                                         GEORGIA

                                         FOR THE

      SECONDARY AND LOCAL ROADS PROJECT(CREDIT N0.3938-GE)




                                     February 24, 2009




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
SouthCaucasusCountryUnit
Europeand CentralAsia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange RateEffectiveJanuary 2009)

                           CurrencyUnit = GeorgianLari (GEL)
                              1.667GEL = US$1
                                  1GEL = US$0.60

                                  FISCALYEAR

                             January 1    - December31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF     AdditionalFinancing
CPS    CountryPartnershipStrategy
DA     DesignatedAccount
EF     EnvironmentalFramework
EMP    EnvironmentalManagementPlan
ERR    Economic Rateof Return
FM     FinancialManagement
FMRs   FinancialMonitoringReports
GDP    GrossDomestic Product
HDM4   HighwayDesignandMaintenanceModel
IBRD   InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development
IDA    InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IFRs   InterimUnauditedFinancialReports
JNA    JointNeedsAssessment
LG     Local Government
MoED   Ministry of EconomicDevelopment
MoRDI  Ministry of RegionalDevelopmentand Infrastructure
MTR    Mid-termReview
NCB    NationalCompetitiveBidding
NBG    NationalBank of Georgia
PDO    ProjectDevelopmentObjective
PlU    ProjectImplementationUnit
RDMED  RoadsDepartment ofthe Ministry of Economic Development
RDMID  RoadsDepartmentofthe Ministry of Infrastructureand Development
RDMRDI RoadsDepartmentofthe Ministry of RegionalDevelopmentand Infrastructure
S L    SpecificInvestmentLoan
SLRP   Secondary and LocalRoadsProject
TA     Technical Assistance
TRRC   Transport ReformandRehabilitationCenter
TTL    Task TeamLeader
UN     UnitedNations
WE3    World Bank

                          Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                        Country Director:    Asad Alam, ECCU3
                         Sector Director:    PeterThomson, ECSSD
                  Acting SectorManager:      Olivier L e Ber, ECSSD
                Acting Country Manage:r      Van Roy Southworth, ECCU3
                      Task Team Leader:      Tamara Sulukhia. ECSSD

                                                                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                           GEORGIA
                    SECONDARY AND LOCAL ROADS PROJECT
                               ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                          CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                    Page

I. Introduction...................................................................................................................    1

11.         BackgroundandRationalefor Additional FinancingandRestructuring.....................                                       1

111.        ProposedChanges.........................................................................................................  4

IV.         Consistencywith CPS...................................................................................................    5

V.          Appraisal of Scaled-UpProject Activities....................................................................              6

VI.         ExpectedOutcomes....................................................................................................     10

VII.        Benefitsand Risks......................................................................................................  10

VII.        FinancialTerms andConditionsfor the Additional Financing..................................                               10

Annex 1      RevisedArrangementsfor ResultsMonitoring.........................................................                       12

MAP IBRDNo. 36737




This document has a restricted distributionand may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                                       ProjectPaperDataSheet
   Date: February 24, 2009                             Task Team Leader: Tamara Sulukhia
   Country: Georgia                                    Sector Director: Peter D.Thomson
   Project Name: Secondary and Local Roads             Country Director: Asad Alam
   Project Additional Financing (SLRPAF)               Environmental category: B
   Project ID: P114365

   Borrower: Georgia
   Responsibleagency: Roads Department of the Ministry of Regional Development and
   Infrastructure (RDMRDI)
   12 Kazbegi Avenue
   0160Tbilisi, Georgia
                                     Fax: (+995 32) 31 30 52
   Revisedestimated disbursements(Bank FY/US$m)




   Current closing date: October 31,2009




   Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes[Ifapplicable]
   The revised Project Development Objectives are to: (i)upgrade and rehabilitate the
   secondary and local roads networks; and (ii)       increase RDMRDI's' and local governments'
   capacity to manage the road network ina cost effective and sustainable manner.
   Doesthe scaled-up or restructuredproject trigger any new safeguard policies?
   No                                                                                 -
   5
                                       For Additional Financing
   [XI Loan [ICredit [ ] Grant
   For Loans/Credits/Grants:
            Total Bank financing (US$m): $70.0 million
            ProposedTerms: The additional loanwill be a Variable-Spread Loan inUS
            Dollars, with Commitment-Linked repayment schedule, Level repayment, 5 years




   Borrower
   [BRD
   Others


'Roads  Departmentof the Ministry of Regional Developmentand Infrastructure(RDMRDI) before February, 2009
was called the Roads Department of the Ministry of Economic Development (RDMED), and before July 2004 the
RoadsDepartmentofthe Ministry of InfrastructureandDevelopment(RDMID).

I. Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide Additional
Financing (AF) in an amount o f US$70.0 million to Georgia to scale up and restructure the
Secondary and Local Roads Project (SLRP) (Credit C3938-GE, P086277). The proposed AF
would help finance road rehabilitation for about 450 km o f priority secondary and local roads
throughout the country that currently are inpoor condition. The restructuring will be undertaken
to accommodate slight changes to the Project Development Objectives (PDO) and the Results
Framework to reflect changes in the policy and institutional environment for the roads sector in
Georgia.

2.      The project has been prepared inresponse to the after-effects o f the August conflict and
to help mitigate the impact o f the global economic slowdown and financial crisis. As a result o f
these shocks, economic growth in Georgia has slowed dramatically and unemployment and
poverty have increased. The Government i s therefore seeking urgent Bank support to scale up
road rehabilitation activities as a means to create temporary employment in road construction,
provide long-term economic benefits and improve local access through improved secondary and
local road infrastructure. The AF i s consistent with the recommendations o f the October 2008
post-conflict Joint Needs Assessment (JNA)2. All road rehabilitation works envisaged under the
AF are expectedto commence inSpringand Summer 2009.

3.      Georgia became a blend country in FY09, and this AF will be its first IBRD-funded
investment activity.

11.     Background and Rationale for Additional Financing and Restructuring

4.      Original Project: SLRP was approved by the Board on June 24, 2004 for SDR 13.8
million (US$20 million equivalent) and became effective on October 21, 2004. The Project's
original development objectives were to: (a) upgrade and rehabilitate secondary and local roads
networks; and (b) strengthen the Roads Department of the Ministry o f Infrastructure and
Development's (RDMID) capacity to promote community participation inroad management and
manage road networks in cost effective and sustainable manner.

5.      The original SLRP consisted of three components: (i) rehabilitation of secondary and
                                                                the
local roads; (ii)strengthening the capacity o f the road sector institutions; and (iii)design and
supervision o f the road works.

6.      In January 2007 the Financing Agreement was amended to reduce the investment
programto 250 km. The original SLRP design included rehabilitation o f 500 to 750 km o f local
roads, but by the November 2006 mid-term review (MTR) substantially higher costs had created
a funding shortfall. Cost increases resulted from the following: (i) cost o f some construction
                                                                       the
materials inGeorgia had tripled betweenproject appraisal in2004 and MTRin2006; (ii)        the post
Rose Revolution Government had increased its road sector budget substantially and has
accordingly very sensibly raised construction standards to higher quality and more sustainable

 A joint multi-donor needs assessment led by the World Bank and United Nations (UN) was completed and
presentedat a Donors Meeting inBrusselsinOctober 2008.

pavements; and (iii) extent o f deterioration o f the road network had increased the level of
                         the
rehabilitation required.

7.      Recognizing the importance of the transport sector to the economy, the Government
responded to this financing gap by using its own resources for a phased rehabilitation of roads
that had been designed but not financed under the SLRP. During 2007, the Government
completed rehabilitation of some 100km ofthese roads.

8.      Substantial implementation progress of the original SLRP is demonstrated by the
following: all works contracts have been finalized except two that are near completion; almost
100 percent of funds have been disbursedto date, more than six months prior to project closing;
and "satisfactory" ratings have been achieved for Implementation Progress and Development
Objectives inImplementation Status and Results Reports.

9.      The original project is having a significant developmental and institutional impact
through providing improved connectivity and access for rural areas and secondary towns; the
evidence also points to reduction inroad transport costs3.Under the SLRP, 260 km of secondary
and local roads have already been rehabilitated (whichis above the revisedproject target of 250
km; inaddition the Government rehabilitated 100km of roads with its own funds, using project
financed designs). SLRP has also developed the Roads Department of the Ministry o f Regional
Development and Infrastructure's (RDMRDI) institutional capacity to apply progressive
principles and patterns for road design, supervision, and management for the investments in the
project and this new capacity is extended to other activities financed by Georgia's own budget.
RDMRDIhas introduced new mechanisms and procedures resulting in greater transparency,
accountability and efficiency of its operations, including establishment of a road data bank, use
of modern planning and programming tools, and the adoption of international maintenance
standards, publishing its Annual Reports within a few weeks after each calendar year (the first
report was publishedin 2006 covering the calendar year 2005). RDMRDI has also established
six regional offices, to improve planning and implementation of road maintenanceprograms.

10.     Country Context: Over the last five years, Georgia has implemented far reaching
strategic reforms with impressive results. After more than a decade of poor performance and
widespread corruption, the peaceful 2003 Rose Revolution ushered in a period marked by
widespread anti-corruption measures and deep structural reforms which, inter alia, are
strengthening mechanisms of accountability and transparency cutting across all areas of
government. In 2004-07, average Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth was 9.3 percent per
year; per capita income increased from US$1,060 to US$1,990, and the public debt to GDP ratio
was halved from 35 to 17.5 percent. International market sentiment also improved during this
period and as a result, foreign direct investment increased from US$130 million in 2004 to
US$1.65 billion in 2007. To sustain this rapid pace of development, Georgia needs to address
the significant physical constraints caused by decades of neglect of basic infrastructure. The
transport sector i s a high priority for its economic benefits and for its impact on social cohesion
across all the regions of the country.



3The Beneficiary Survey financed by the RDMRDIis currently underway to assess the impact. The final report is
scheduledto be available in spring2009.


                                                  2

11       The impact o f the August 2008 conflict on the economy has been large and it is being
   I

exacerbated by the global economic downturn and financial crisis. The August 2008 conflict
resulted in a large increase in internally displaced people, damage to infrastructure and
worsening o f infrastructure bottlenecks, a shock to consumer and investment confidence, a sharp
contraction o f credit, and stress on public finances. A joint multi-donor needs assessment led by
the World Bank and United Nations was completed and presented at a Donors Meeting in
Brussels in October 2008, where the international community pledged some US$4.5 billion to
support to the public (US$3.7 billion) and private (US$O.8 billion) sectors to address the
immediate crisis needs and investments essential to support economic recovery.

12.      As a result o f the twin crises foreign direct investment flows and private investment in
the economy are expected to decline in 2009. Without countercyclical measures, the decline in
economic growth and rise inunemployment and consequently poverty would be larger and more
deeply rooted. Accelerating public investmentinhigh priority projects i s thus needed to address
physical infrastructure constraints to medium to long-term growth as well as reduce the adverse
impact o f the shocks to the economy inthe short-run. The proposed project addresses these two
key developmental objectives.

13.      Sector Context: Road rehabilitation has been a key Government priority since 2004.
Rehabilitation and maintenance budgets have increased substantially, and in 2007 they were
five-fold the 2004 figure. The Government's commitment to rehabilitation o f main, secondary
and local road networks (comprising of 5,446 km of secondary, and 13,386 km local roads) has
intensified in response to the August 2008 events and the global economic down-turn and
financial crises, as road rehabilitation will improve access to markets and services, and create
short-term employment through civil works. These results are consistent with the JNA, which
estimated the total short and medium-terminvestment needs for rehabilitation o f the main and
secondary roadnetworks at about US$700 million.

14.      Rationale for Additional Financing: The Government has requested the Bank to scale
up activities under the well performing SLRP by rehabilitating an additional 450 km o f
secondary and local roads, with a view to both increasing employment opportunities and laying
the groundwork for improvedproductivity inthe future.

15.      The rehabilitation of the secondary and local road network will generate substantial
employment. It i s estimated that about US$3,000 o f investment directly creates one person-
month4 and therefore the proposed US$lOO million program o f secondary and local road
rehabilitation would create about 24,000 person-months o f employment; given the nature o f the
program, this employment will be distributed in various locations throughout the country. In
addition, about US$27 million would return to the budget invarious taxes.

16.      The technical documents for about 65 % of the proposed 450 km program have already
been prepared under the original SLRP, and other state budget financed activities, so they are
ready for investmentand will ensure fast startup of civil works under the project.


  The estimate conservatively captures only direct employment effects (ie., people directly employed in
rehabilitation works). In addition, there would also be secondary employment effects (people employed in
productionof construction materials, such as crushed stone, transport of materials to constructionsites, etc...).


                                                        3

17.     Rationalefor Project Restructuring: The project restructuring is requested to slightly
revise the (PDO) and the Results Matrix to reflect changes in the legal and institutional
arrangements for the management and maintenance o f local roads in Georgia. Effective January
2007 the central Government devolved responsibility for management and maintenance o f local
roads to the local self-government units (LGs). RDMRDI is no longer directly involved in the
management and maintenance o f the local road network. It instead maintains a local presence
through its regional offices thus providing professional interaction, advice and guidance, when
necessary.

111.    ProposedChanges

18.     The proposed changes include the slight changes to the PDO, adjustment o f the results
framework to the changed policy environment and institutional setting, the scale up o f project
activities, and extension o f the closing date.

19.     The PDO: The revised PDO includes improving the capacity o f local governments for
local network management and maintenance. The revised project objectives are to: (i)    upgrade
and rehabilitate the secondary and local roads networks; and (ii)    increase RDMRDI's and local
governments' capacity to manage the road network ina cost effective and sustainable manner.

20.     Project Components: The project Components will remain unchanged, but their scope
will increase to reflect additional civil works and the technical assistance (TA). Therefore, the
project consists o f the original project and the following additional parts:

21.     Component 1: Rehabilitation of Secondary and Local Roads (estimated cost US$95.0
        million including contingencies).

        Rehabilitating about 450 kilometers o f secondary and local roads, carrying out drainage
        improvements and providing signage and access to adjacent properties.

        The 450 km include some 390 km o f secondary and 60 km o f local roads in six regions
        throughout Georgia (Guria, Samegrelo, Imereti, Kakheti, Shida Kartli, and Mtskheta-
        Tianeti). Designs have already been completed for about 320 k m s (some minor updates
        are requiredand already underway). These road sections are ready for tendering to ensure
        commencement o f works in spring2009.

22.     Component 2: Strengthening the Capacity of Road Sector Institutions (estimated cost
        US$1.2 million including contingencies).

        (a)   Strengthening the capacity o f RDMRDIand its six regional offices in management
              and maintenance o f the secondary road network through the provision of: (i)
              consultants' services for data collection; (ii)consultants' services to prepare a
              performance-based maintenance contract; (iii)computer equipment, laboratory
              equipment,vehicles and office furniture; and (iv) training.




                                                   4

        (b) Strengthening the capacity of local government units in management and
              maintenance of local road network through: (i)the provision of consultants'
              services for assessing needs and resources of the local governments for roads'
              maintenance and for designing a local road management and maintenance resource
              manual; and (ii)conducting workshops for local governments on local road
              managementand maintenance.

        (c)   Provision of consultants' services for preparingproject audits.

23.     Component 3: Designing and Supervising Road Rehabilitation (estimated cost US$3.8
        million includingcontingencies).

        Designing about 150kilometers of road rehabilitation and supervising approximately 450
        kilometers of road rehabilitation works, through the provisionof consultants' services.

24.     Implementation Arrangements:           SLRP implementation is being carried out by
RDMRDI, which is a well-functioning agency, assisted by the Transport Reform and
Rehabilitation Center (TRRC), the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The two entities work
closely and efficiently together and the AF requires no changes inthese arrangements.

25.     Effective February 1, 2009, Georgia has a new Ministry of Regional Development and
Infrastructure (MoRDI). The Ministry of Economic Development (MoED) will remain a policy
ministry for all sectors, while the new MoRDI will have primarily an implementation focus. The
Roads Department will now report to MoRDI rather than to the MoED. This i s not expected to
have much impact on their day-to-day operations.

26.     Results Monitoring: The Results Matrix is revised to reflect changes in the PDO. One
indicator is revised andtwo new indicators are incorporated. The AF will continue to monitor the
progress underthe originalproject indicators.

27.     Project closing date: Completion of expanded activities is expected within 24 months
from the current project closing date; the suggestedrevised closing date is October 31,20 11.

IV.     Consistency with CPS

28.     The AF is strategically aligned with the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The CPS for
FY06-09 was approved in August 2005 [Report No: 33295-GE] when SLRP was already under
implementation. The project directly complemented the main objectives and development
outcomes of the CPS by improving access to rural infrastructure and services. The AF will
further improve rural access through rehabilitation of more secondary and local roads invarious
regions of Georgia as well as improving connectivity throughout the country. The Bank has been
actively involved in the transport sector in Georgia since 1995 and has made substantial
contributions to its development. In addition to SLRP, two East-West Highway Improvement
Projects (the First and the Second East-West Highway Projects) are currently underway, and
another project along the East West corridor is under the preparation.




                                                 5

29.     InJanuary 2008, Georgia's Parliament approved a five-year economic program for 2008-
2012, "Georgia without Poverty", which emphasizes targeted infrastructure development
particularly in transport infrastructure and logistics. The Government plans to complete the
rehabilitation o f an additional 30% of the country's road infrastructure. SLRP directly
complemented the main objectives and development outcomes o f the CPS and the Government's
development agenda through improved access to rural infrastructure and services. The AF i s also
consistent with the October 2008 post-conflict JNA. The combined shocks o f the August 2008
conflict and the subsequent global economic downturn and financial crisis have made public
investment inhighpriority areas such as basic infrastructure and the transport sector inparticular
all the more central to Georgia's development strategy due to the impact on mediumto long term
growth and the need for countercyclical measures at this time. The AF will scale up the activities
on this front through rehabilitation o f more secondary and local roads in various regions of
Georgia, improving access and creatingjobs for the local population.

V.      Appraisalof Scaled-Up ProjectActivities

30.     Economicand financial: The economic evaluation was carried out by RDMRDIand is
based on analysis o f 377km o f the total 450 km o f secondary and local roads for which data i s
available, using2008 traffic counts and cost estimates derived from ongoing design works'. The
cost-benefit analysis was conducted with the use o f the Highway Design and Maintenance Model
(HDM4) which compares the economic costs and benefits o f the proposed investments with the
"without project" scenario, assuming that only a minimum o f routine and periodic maintenance
will be carried out to maintain the current condition. The quantified benefits comprised savings
in vehicle operating costs and passengers' travel times due to the road improvements. The
overall financial capital cost o f rehabilitating 377 km o f project roads i s estimated at US$86
million. The conversion factor o f 0.75 was applied to identify economic costs. The economic
evaluation confirmed the economic merits o f the project, with the Economic Rate o f Return
(ERR) for the different road sections ranging from about 10% to 92% above the 10 percent
threshold generally accepted for secondary or local roads. Overall, the proposed AF is expected
to generate a net present value o f US$114.6 million and an economic rate o f return at 30.7%.
The sensitivity analysis shows that the selected road sections still have acceptable estimated
ERRSwhen subjected to a reductionof 20% oftraffic or an increase of 20% incosts.

31.     Following the methodology applied in the original project, the number o f poor in the
zone o f influence o f project roads was assessed and then the numbers o f poor served per unit o f
investment inroad rehabilitation were computed. This figure, the number o f poor per US$l,000
o f project investment, was used as a measure o f project impact and cost effectiveness in
improving the accessibility for the rural poor. The economic analysis conducted at appraisal
suggests that more or less comparable numbers o f rural poor will be served per US$1,000 o f
investments under the AF as were under the original project - the cost effectiveness o f most
roads in the original project, when it was prepared, was expected to be around 50 poor persons
per US$l,OOO o f investments, except two outliers with the corresponding ratio above 100. The
cost of rehabilitation under the original project, however, turned out to be substantially higher
than was expected. The number o f poor served by the unit dollar value was therefore less than


5The detailed EconomicAnalysis paper is locatedinthe project files.


                                                     6

what had originally beenanticipatedand is expectedto range around 10 and 20, as i s the case for
most project roadstargeted under the AF.

32.     The proposed US$lOO million program of rehabilitating secondary and local roads is
expected to create about 24,000 person-monthsof short-term employment inrural areas, with an
estimated total value of cash transfer to rural workers in the amount of US$16.5 million. The
project will also create mid-term employment as the improved road sections become
maintainable and are incorporated inthe maintenance budget.

33.     Technical: The roads included inthe project are currently inpoor condition. Drainage,
which is vital for longevity of the road, is inadequate or missing in most locations. The project
will repair the road pavement on the existing alignment. This will include provision of safety
features such as guardrails, pavement markings, sidewalks inurban areas, ttc... The project will
also repair and/or upgrade the drainage facilities within the alignment as well as small
bridgedculverts ifnecessary.

34.     The Bank has reviewed the technical designs of the roads that will be rehabilitated under
the AF. No major issues were identified. Steps were taken to address some deficiencies
identified inthe roads constructed earlier under the project. The pavement surfacing will depend
upon the traffic loading and will be based on standards recommended by the European
Committee for Standardization on Design and Construction of Roads and Highways in addition
to national standards. The works will pay particular attention to drainage to ensure that the final
pavement is of appropriate quality.

35.     RDMRDI has adequate experience in this type of road construction and has proven
capacity to check and confirm that the information included is of sufficient detail for contractors
to bid on the works, and for the roads to be properly constructed. The Bank will work closely
with RDMRDI to ensure the adequate detail designs are in place for all roads to be financed
underthe project.

36.     Procurement:     Procurement under the AF will be carried out under the Guidelines
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, May 2004, Revised October 2006, and
selection of consultants will be carried out under the Guidelines Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, May 2004, revised October 2006. The WB Guidelines
On Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits and Grants dated October 15, 2006 will apply. Bidding documents containing the
latest formulation on fraud and corruption clauses will be used.

37.     The original procurement risk rating for the SLRP was High. The Bank Task Team
Leader is based in Tbilisi; the Bank Procurement Specialist i s based in Baku and the
Procurement Assistant in Tbilisi. The Bank will closely monitor the procurement process and
supervision of works. RDMRDIand TRRC procurementtrack record inthe ongoing project has
been satisfactory. Also the procurement unit o f RDMRDI has experience with World Bank-
financed procurement. Accordingly the residual project procurement risk is moderate, and the
overall procurement risk i s now reducedto Moderate. This makes the rating consistent with the
ones given to the Georgia First and Second East-West Highway Improvement Projects, approved



                                                 7

after the SLRP, and carried out by the same implementing agency. Based on this rating and given
the characteristics o f the project focused on secondary and local roads with scattered works in
remote areas and small packages that would attract limited interest o f foreign contractors (as has
been the experience with the SLRP), the National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procurement
threshold for the SLRPAF i s raised from US$600,000 to US$2,000,000 equivalent, which i s
within the limits recommended in the latest edition o f the Georgia Country Procurement
Assessment Report, dated June 2008. The rest o f the procurement arrangements for the Project
remains the same.

38.      Financial: The Financial Management (FM) functions under the AF including the flow
o f funds, staffing, accounting, reporting and auditing, will be handled by TRRC, on behalf o f
RDMRDI.There would beno changes inFMarrangements for the AF. The FMarrangements of
the original SLRP implementedby TRRC have been reviewed periodically as part o fthe project
supervision and have been found satisfactory. According to the latest FM supervision of TRRC
(January 2009), the FM arrangements o f the project continue to be satisfactory and the internal
control procedures are in place. The client i s in compliance with the audit covenant: the audit
reports on the project have been received by due dates and the auditors have given unqualified
opinions on the project financial statements with no internal control issues in the management
letters. The overall FMrisk for the project remains Moderate.

39.      Similar audit arrangements to the original SLRP will be adopted for the AF: the project
audit will be conducted by independent private auditors and on terms o f reference acceptable to
the Bank, and procured by TRRC. The annual audited project financial statements will be
submitted to the Bank within six months o f the end o f each fiscal year and also at the closing o f
the project. The cost of the audit will be financed from the proceeds of the loan. Project
management-oriented Interim Un-audited Financial Reports (IFRs) - previously known as
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) - will be used for the additional financing monitoring and
supervision. The existing formats o f the IFRs will be used and TRRC will produce a full set o f
IFRs every quarter throughout the life o f the project and will submit them to the Bank no later
than 45 days after the calendar quarter end.

40.      Disbursement:
                                Table 1: Allocation o f Loan Proceeds

       Expenditure Category                                Amount in       Financing
                                                           USD             Percentage
       (1) Works, Goods, Consulting Services and               69,825,000   70%
       Training
       (2) Front-end Fee                                          175,000
       (3) Premia for interest rate Caps and Collars                    0
      Total Loan                                               70.000.000

41.     To facilitate payment o f loan proceeds, a foreign currency Designated Account (DA) will
be opened and maintained by the Treasury Service of the Ministry o f Finance in the National




                                                 8

Bank o f Georgia (NBG)6. The ceiling o f the DA for the Additional Financing i s US$15 million.
Details on contracts which will require documentation are provided inthe Disbursement Letter.

42.     The Minimum Value of Applications for direct payments and for issuance of special
commitments i s US$2,000,000 equivalent. All other disbursement procedures,. including roles
and responsibilities, applicable under the original SLRP will remain unchanged under the AF.

43.     Social: The Project will rehabilitate 450 km o f secondary and local roads within the
existing alignments.      The project will significantly improve the basic access of the rural
population in Georgia by reducing the travel time to regional centers where various social
services and economic opportunities are available.               The project will also create short-term
employment through civil works, as well as mid-term employment in the form o f routine
maintenance.

44.     All civil works will be conducted within the existing right o f way. No acquisition of
private land, physical relocation o f households or closure o f businesses is anticipated. Thus
OP 4.12 will not be triggered.

45.     Environment: Based on the nature and scope o f the proposed project activities, the
project is classified through environmental screening as Category B. Expected impacts on human
health and the natural environment are minor, as the project will finance rehabilitation o f the
secondary and local roads only, excluding highways and other large infrastructure. Furthermore,
project activities will be confined to rehabilitation works on the existing alignment and will not
include construction o f new roads or widening. Therefore, the project does not carry any major
risk of affecting important habitats, damaging forest stands, or affecting other ecosystems inany
tangible and/or irreversible ways.

46.     Project activities will cause temporary disruption o f traffic in the sections o f roads under
rehabilitation. They may generate noise and dust typical for road works and lead to accumulation
o f construction waste. Pollution from fuel and lubricants associated with the deployment o f
transportation and construction machinery i s also possible. All of these possible negative impacts
are modest given the small scale of the planned works, the effects being confined to the
immediate area of project intervention, and will be mitigated through application o f standard
good environmental practices.

47.     An Environmental assessment and protection Framework (EF) was prepared for the
project in2004 and then updated without major changes during preparation o f the AF in October
2008. The updated version o f the EF was re-disclosed through RDMRDI 's web page on
November 26, 2008 and a consultation meeting was held on December 18, 2008. The EF with
attached minutes o f the consultation meeting was posted inthe Bank's InfoShop on January 30,
2009. Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) have been prepared for the majority of the
road sections to be rehabilitated under the AF, and the rest are beingprepared. A number o f the
EMPs have already been reviewed and cleared by the Bank. The EMPs will be disclosed
through the same media as the EF and will then be finalized in consultation with local
communities prior to the commencement o f works.

6The original SLRP Special Account has also been transferred to the NBG.


                                                       9

VI.      ExpectedOutcomes

48.      The original SLRP Results Matrix has been modified to reflect the additional scope,
achievements to date, and the changed context. The revised "Arrangements for Results
Monitoring" are provided inthe Annex 1.

VII.     Benefitsand Risks

49.      Risks: The overall risk is rated as Moderate. The original project indicated that
implementation risk was minimal as the implementing agency had experience in implementing
similar projects. It i s noteworthy that the implementing agency's capacity has substantially
increased since then. The primary risk identified at that time concerned the adequacy o f the
maintenance budget. Since then, increasing budget allocations have shown this risk i s greatly
reduced. The original procurement risk rating for the SLRP was High and i s now reduced to
Moderate. The financial management risk rating was Moderate and this remains appropriate.

50.      That said, the team considers that the sustainability o f local road investments still remains
a risk factor requiring close attention, for two reason: First in January 2007, local authorities
became responsible for local roads management and maintenance and they need considerable
capacity building and resources for this new function. Consequently, to reduce this risk and
ensure the sustainability of the investments in local roads, the AF will provide technical
assistance for local road management. Second; the remaining implementation period will take
place in a post-conflict setting with an economic slowdown that will in turn make the fiscal
situation more difficult. However, the international community i s responding with strong
financial and technical support to Georgia, and considerable attention is being paid to positioning
Georgia for a substantial recovery over the next couple o f years. Bank support inthe form of the
proposed AF i s envisaged as an important component o f this support in the transport sector, an
area where other donors expect the Bank to take the lead.

51.     Benefits: The operation is important to generate employment and support the recovery
of the economy from the impacts o f the August conflict and the global financial and economic
crisis. The AF will enhance the project's impact and development outcomes by increasing the
total number o f urban and rural communities throughout Georgia benefiting from project
activities. In addition, the project will continue to strengthen the capacity o f RDMRDI and its
regional offices and will start strengthening capacity o f local governments in management and
maintenance o f secondary and local roads.

VII.    FinancialTerms and Conditionsfor the AdditionalFinancing

52.     The lending instrument for the AF i s a Specific Investment Loan (SIL). The additional
financing loan will be a Variable Spread Loan in U S Dollars, with Commitment-Linked
repaymentschedule, Level Repayment, 5 years Grace Period and 30 years to maturity.

53.     All project covenants applying to the original project will apply to the additional
financing, with exception o f the dated covenants that were already met, and the two covenants
that are no longer relevant based on the project restructuring. These two are the covenants on:



                                                 10

(i)
  promoting public participation through involvement of the Road Management Committees in
the planning and monitoring of local roads program, and (ii)   promoting public participation in
the development of five-year road program.

54.    The following conditions were fulfilled prior to negotiations:


       0    Amendment of the Service Agreement betweenRDMRDIand TRRC, acceptable to
            the Bank, hasbeensigned;
            TRRC Operations Manual, acceptableto the Bank, has beenupdated;
            New Geometric Standards for Road Design (developed under the SLRP) were
            adoptedincountry.




                                              11

                                                                                          Annex 1
                    Secondaryand LocalRoadsProject Additional Financing
                                          Project Paper
                          RevisedArrangementsfor ResultsMonitoring
                PDO                    Outcome Indicators            Use of OutcomeInformation
(i) Upgrade and rehabilitate the Reduction intransit timehehicle  The information will be usedby
secondary and local roads        operating costs.                 RDMRDIto monitor the condition
network; and                                                      ofthe road network; for
                                 Increased annual budgets for     confirmation of effectiveness of
                                 road maintenance and             interventions; and to feed road
                                 rehabilitation.                  management policy.
(ii) Improve RDMRDI'sand
local government's capacity to   Number of person-months of       Improved allocation of resources to
manage the road network in a     jobs created.                    achieve broader impact on road
cost efSective and sustainable                                    conditions under budget constraints.
manner.                          Publicationof the annual report
                                 of RDMRDI.
      IntermediateResults          Results Indicatorsfor Each          Use of Results Monitoring
      One per Component                     Component
Component One:                   Component One:                   Component One:
Rehabilitation of approximately  Number of kilometers of          The information will be usedby
450 km of secondary and local    secondary roads rehabilitated.   RDMRDIto monitor roadsector
roads.                                                            policy implementation.
                                 Number o f kilometerso f local
                                 roads rehabilitated
Component Two:                   ComponentTwo:                    Component Two:
Technical assistancefor          Operating 5-year rolling         This will be usedto increase
strengtheningcapacity of road    maintenance plans.               engineering, planning and
sector institutions.                                              management capacity of road sector
                                 Adoption of new design and       institutions.
                                 maintenance standards.

                                 Adoption of new Geometric
                                 standards for roads in country.

                                 Regionaloffices operational.

                                 Traffic police trained.

                                 Guidebook produced and
                                 providedto LGs.

                                 Workshops for LGs conducted.
Component Three:                 ComponentThree:                  ComponentThree:
Designand supervision o f road   Rehabilitationworks of good     The information will be usedby
works.                           quality, completed on time and  RDMRDIto monitor
                                 within budget.                   implementation progress.




                                                  12

                                                           N 8 - 2
                                                                 N 0




                                0                0                 si2 $2           si2 s;
                                                                               .-                 .-
                                                                              Y  e0              +  C




                                                    z
                                 0             e            0 0    N     4   0         3      0 0



                                                                                        -
   0N    d m    m 0     m m       m     0         f
                                                      "I IL           I   0In               m




                 -                     -           -                   -                 -
  0     0                  c




0        m 0   9   0     E         !l    In   N 0 0               m m 0                    m m




 0        m0    m 0       m 0        IIm        2    0                  2 m               2    m

                 cl 08-         NQ  N 0         s



00          WE:                       W              W


                0



  i?           $                       $              $

    z"

      E

                                        $


                                         $



       0                  W 0IC1          r- m 0       I- m0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 36737

                 40° E                                                          41° E                                                                                          42° E                                                                   43° E                                                                               44° E                                                                   45° E             ID                                                ROAD SECTION  46° E                                                DISTANCE IN KM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1                          AKHMETA - KVARELI - NINIGORI (KM 30+000 - KM 129+000)                                         99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2                      ZAHESI - MTSKHETA - KAVTISKHEVI - GORI (KM 41+700 - KM 56+000)                                    14.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G E O R G I A                                                                                                                3                                 KAVTISKHEVI - KASPI (KM 0+000 - KM 10+000)                                             10
                                            R U S S I A N F E D E R A T I O N                                                                                                                                            S E C O N D A R Y A N D L O C A L R O A D S A F P R O J E C T S                                                                                                                                              4                            KASPI - METEKHI - AKHALKALAKI (KM 0+500 - KM 12+100)                                        11.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5                      DOREULEBI - KVEMO NAKALAKARI - GORANA (KM 0+000 - KM 17+500)                                      17.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6                                KUTAISI - GEGUTI - SAKULIE - BASHI (KM 19 - KM34)                                       16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT ROAD SECTIONS
            To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7                                    ZUGDIDI - JVARI (KM 0+000 - KM28+000)                                               28.5
           Sotchi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                   8                                 ABASHA - MARTVILI (KM 0+000 - KM 32+000)                                               32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9                     AKHMETA - TELAVI (KM 0+000 - KM 16+800 - KM25+00 - KM 30+200)                                      22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SECONDARY ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10                              TSALENJIKHA - NAKIFU - LETSURTSUME (KM 3 - KM 12)                                         9.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RAILWAYS                                                                                                                    11                            INGIRI - OKTOMBERI - KAKHATI (KM 0+000 - KM 10+300)                                         10.3
                                GagraGagra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RIVERS                                                                                                                      12                               KAKHATI - KOKI - ORSANTIA (KM 0+000 - KM 5+300)                                          5.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     13                    BERDZNISTSKARO - KOKHNARI - SERI - ZEMOKHETI - (KM 0+000 - KM 5+700)                                5.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                            14                         CHOKHATAURI - SUREBI - TOBAKHCHO (KM 0+000 - KM 4+800)                                         4.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAIN CITIES                                                                                                                 15  AKHMETA - BATSARA (KM 0+000 - KM 13+500 - KM 14+000 - KM 14+500 - KM 17+500 - KM 22+500)                              19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     16                                    KUTAISI - KHONI (KM 1+000 - KM 7+000)                                                 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     17                                        KUTAISI - TSAGERI (KM 23 - KM34)                                                10

43° N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                18                      ZAHESI - MTSKHETA - KAVTISKHEVI - GORI (KM 24+300 - KM 41+700)                                    17.4
                                                                                 SukhumiSukhumi                                                                                                                                    MestiaMestia
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Enguri                                                                                                                                                                                                                    19                                           KASPI - AKHALKALAKI (3 KM)                                                     3       43° N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20                                ACCESS ROAD TO KARELI (KM 0+000 - KM 4+500)                                             4.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21                                               GORI - SKRA (9 KM)                                                         9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     22                                    QARELI - SAMTSVERISI - OSIAURI (23.4 KM)                                            23.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To Vladikavkaz                                       23                                             SKRA - QARELI (14.4 KM)                                                    14.4
                                                                                                                                            TkvarcheliTkvarcheli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     24                       GURJAANI - CHABUKIANI - AFENI - KABALI (KM 0+000 - KM 29+700)                                    29.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25                    RUFOTI - ALISUBANI - SAZANO - TUZI - KITSKHI - QVATSIKHE (KM 19 - KM 29)                            9.4
                                                                                                                                                                                   Dzvari
                                                                                                                                                                                   Dzvari
                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     26                          KHARAGAULI - KITSKHI - ZETAFONI (KM 0+000 - KM 21+000)                                        21
                                                                                                                                                                   7                                                                                                                                                                                                          KazbegiKazbegi
                                                                                                                                                                                               10                                      i                                                        OniOni
                                                                                                                                           12                                                                                                                                       Rioni
                                                                                                                                                                 ZugdidiZugdidi                                              Chenisckal                                   AmbrolauriAmbrolauri

                                                                                                                                            11                                                    Martvili
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Martvili                17          Rioni
                                  B l a c k                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Aragvi                                                                                                                                   R U S S I A N
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Khoni
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Khoni                                                                                SachkhereSachkhere Kvirilk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tskaltubo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           skaltubo                      TkibuliTkibuli  25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           F E D E R A T I O N
                                                                                                                                                                                   SenakiSenaki     8                 16        KutaisiKutaisi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tskhinvali
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    khinvali                                                                                 i
                                          S e a                                                                                                                       Rioni                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ior
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SamtrediaSamtredia  6                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15
                                                                                                                                  Poti
                                                                                                                                  Poti                                                                                                                                                                                               20
                                                                                                                                                                                                     13                                         Zestaponi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Zestaponi
42° N                                                                                                                                                                             Chokhatauri
                                                                                                                                                                                  Chokhatauri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KharagauliKharagauli                                         KareliKareli                                                                              AkhmetaAkhmeta                                        1                                                                               42° N
                                                                                                                                                                                                       14                                                            26                                                                                 Gori
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Gori        4                                                                                                        Alazanl

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Khashuri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Khashuri    22       23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21                    IgoetiIgoeti                                                             9
                                                                                                                                                                               OzurgetiOzurgeti                                                                                                                                                             2                          3                                  5                                    Telavi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                elavi                                                       LagodekhiLagodekhi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BorjomiBorjomi                                                                19                              MtskhetaMtskheta
                                                                                                                                   KobuletiKobuleti                                                                                                                                                                                                                      18                            Zagesi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Zagesiagesi                                                                                         24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (Kura)                                                                                                TBILISITBILISI                                                                            GurjaaniGurjaani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                               BatumiBatumi                                                                                                    AkhaltsikheAkhaltsikhe      Mtkvari                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Zagatala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ponitchala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          onionitchala                          Iori

      40° E                                                               41° E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Rustavi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Rustavi
                                                                                                                     SarpiSarpi

     U K R A I N E                                                      KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MarneuliMarneuli            GardabaniGardabani                                                             Dedoplistskaro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Dedoplistskaro

                                                                                                                      To Trabzon

                                                                                                                                    Choroki                                                                                                                                                             AkhalkalakiAkhalkalaki                                                                                                          Vakhtangisi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          akhtangisi
                                  R U S S I A N
                                F E D E R A T I O N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Gazah             Mtkvari                                                                                                  l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (Kura)
   B l a c k     S e a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Iori                           Alazan
                                                                   C a s p i a n                                                                                                                 T U R K E Y                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                           GEORGIA                    S e a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To Tashir                               Alaverdi
                                          TBILISITBILISI
                                                ARMENIA                                         TURKMENIST                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To Gyumri                                                                                                                                                                                                                              41° N
                                                           AZERBAIJAN                                           41° N

                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
              T U R K E Y                                                                                 AN           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                   0          15              30                  45
                                                                                                                       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                  A R M E N I A
                                                                                                                       Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                       endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                    KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A Z E R B A I J A N

                  SYRIAN ARAB REP.          IRAQ              ISLAMIC REP. OF IRAN                                                                                42° E                                                                            43° E                                                                                   44° E                                                                          45° E                                                                             46° E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FEBRUARY 2009

