OFICIAL     J LOAN NUMBER 1923 ZA
Guarantee Agreement
(Second DBZ Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated           tA, 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1923 ZA
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         4 0,                       , 1981,
between REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Development Bank of Zambia (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such Than
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee;
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any 'f
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor


﻿-2-
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obJigor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium,
if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets


﻿-3-
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any
of its agencies including the Bank of Zambia or any agency of any
such political subdivisions to take, any action which would
prevent or interfere with the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations contained in the Loan Agreement and will take or cause
to be taken all reasonable action necessary or appropriate to
enable the Borrower to perform such obligations.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take all actions necessary
to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under Section 3.08
of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall not charge the Borrower
fees or demand any other payment in consideration for the issuance
of its guarantee as set forth in this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of the Guarantor at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addressed as specified for the
purposed of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Republic of Zambia
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address                        Telex:
MINFIN
Lusaka                               ZA. 42221


﻿-4-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By   /    /4w              t-('    -     c
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By           10    .    -1
Bc'   Regional Vice President
'Z   g       Eastern Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   &      day of GA-/?t, 198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


