OP,IClAL
DCUMNTS          LOAN NUMBER 1923 ZA
Loan Agreement
(,-qcond DBZ Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
Dated                  ., 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1923 ZA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    OA         , 1981, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DE LOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a statutory corporation established and operating under
the Development Bank of Zambia Act, 1972, as amended to the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loar and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made .y
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit Sub-loan"
means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(b) "Investment" means an investment, other than a Sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an Investment.
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment.


﻿-2-
(e) "Kwacha" and "K" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(f) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(g) "Act" means the Development Bank of Zambia Act, 1972,
as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(h) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and Investments Policy approved by the Directors of the Borrower
on August 15, 1975, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(i) "Prior Loan Agreement" means any outstandIng loan
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower dated before the
date of this Agreement and "Prior Loan" means any loan provided
for therein.
(j) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiarip of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
(k) "subordinated debt" means indebtedness of the Borrower
or of any subsidiary, expressly subordinate in right of payment
as to principal and interest to all other indebtedness of the
Borrower or of any subsidiary, as the case may be, whether exist-
ing at the time subordinated debt is incurred or incurred there-
after, other than to other subordinated debt.
(1) "Special Funds" mean funds as set forth in the Bor-
rower's Act, from time to time placed at the disposal of the
Borrower but kept separate from the Borrower's other funds and not
creating, at any time, a charge or lien upon the Borrower's
funds.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan or
Investment to meet the reasonable foreign currency cost of goods
and services required for the Investment Project in respect of
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; provided,
however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a Sub-
loan or Investment unless (i) the Sub-loan or Investment shall
have been approved by the Bank, or (ii) the Sub-loan shall be a
free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account.
For the purposes of the above, except as otherwise agreed
between the Bank and the Borrower, withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall be authorized by the Bank in respect of expenditures
under a Sub-loan or Investment:
(i) in a foreign currency for the c.i.f. cost of goods
procured, or for services supplied from outside the
Republic of Zambia;
(ii) in Kwacha on account of not more than seventy-five
per cent (75%) of the invoiced price for goods
previously imported into the Republic of Zambia;
(iii) in Kwacha on account of not more than sixty per
cent (60%) of the price of equipment produced in
the Republic of Zambia from components previously
imported; and
(iv) in Kwacha on account of not more than forty per
cent (40%) of the contract price of construction
works to be carried out in the Republic of Zambia.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $400,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or
of an Prior Loan for such Investment Project or (ii) $5,000,000
equivalent, when added to all other free-limit Sub-loans financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time as
determined by the Bank.


﻿-4-
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the
Bank's approval or in respect of an Investment if such expendi-
tures shall have been made more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such Sub-loan
or Investment the application and information required by Section
2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan the
request and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment, including
the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan or of repayment to
the Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the Investment,
and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description
of the' expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before December 31, 1983 or such later date as
the Bank shall establish.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to Sub-loans and the
schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of Investments,
which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the
Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due
hereunder shall be made on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments to the
table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
Investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i)
shall not extend beyond 15 years from the date of approval
by the Bank of such Sub-loan or Investment, or in the case
of a free-limit Sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii)
shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more fre-
quent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or approxi-
mately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.


﻿Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or an
Investment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred,
assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the
Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the
Bank on the next following interest payment date, together with
the premiums specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any
amendment thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the
amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such Sub-loan
or Investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to
the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (I) in the case of a Sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding
to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of
the Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of; and (ii) in the case of
an Investment, pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
reflecting amounts to be repaid on account of such Investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in the financing of such productive facilities and
resources in the Republic of Zambia as will contribute to the
economic and social development of the country. The Project
consists in the financing of specific development projects through
loans to or investments in enterprises in the Republic of Zambia
in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Act and Statement of Policy.


﻿-7-
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be
made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, including, in the case of any Sub-loan and to
the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any Enter-
prise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records; (i) require that: (1) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of
the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of the parties rendering them; and (2) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (ii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plarts and construction included in
the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iii) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (iv) obtain all such information as the Bank or
the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from
the Investment Project; and (v) suspend or terminate the right of
the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obli-
gations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.


﻿-8-
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than January 31,
1981, implement a comprehensive plan for project supervision, as
agreed to between the Bank and the Borrower, in order to formalize
supervision procedures and preventive supervision techniques.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall not later than January 31,
1981 include in its Policy Statement a provision, acceptable to
the Bank, specifying the conditions under which it will administer
Special Funds established after the date of this Agreement.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree the
Borrower shall, before committing itself to provide financing
of K 200,000 equivalent or more in an Investment Project, calcu-
late the econcmir rate of return on such Investment Project by a
method acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.06. The Borrower: (i) shall charge an interest
rate of at least twelve per cent (12%) per annum on all its
Sub-loans; and (ii) undertakes that (A) it will review annually
its interest rate structure and (B) it will, based on such
reviews, take all measures necessary to maintain an interest
rate structure that is positive in real terms.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including Kwacha) used in its lending and borrow-
ing operations.
Section 3.08. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall take
all measures within its power to secure not later than June 30,
1981, or such other date as the Bank and the Borrower may agree,
K 4,000,000 in local currency resources for the funding of its
lending program over the period 1980-1982.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, the Sub-loans and Investments and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the


﻿-9-
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplisbment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations in agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor
or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.11. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the bene-
fits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts


﻿- 10 -
ana financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment
in advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of
the Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of
such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its


﻿- 11 -
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
four times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or
any subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement and any
Prior Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the amount of
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of Kwacha debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its sub-
sidaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries, excluding (i) any debt owed by the Borrower
to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any
other subsidiary, and (ii) the amounts of subordinated debt
referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) of this Section; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of: (i) the unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary
or of any subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subsidiary; and
(ii) such amounts of subordinated debt as shall be repayable
after the latest of the dates of all outstanding maturities of
sub-loans, of the schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of
the investments.
Section 4.07. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration,


﻿- 12 -
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Borrower and its subsidiaries.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to inspect the records referred to in Section
4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Act which would
materially and adversely affect the operations or the financial
condition of the Borrower;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Statement of
Policy without the Bank's consent;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or
paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 shall occur; and


﻿- 13 -
(b) the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of     R h         19     , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Development Bank of Zambia
P.O. Box 33955
Lusaka
Zambia
Cable address:                      Telex:
DEVBANK                            45040
Lusaka, Zambia
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 14 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   S       cU4
Ic,-~c~ Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF ZAMBIA
By   /S               thorid R t  4 rst(
Authorized R1presentative


﻿15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
February 15, 1984                                255,000
August 15, 1984                                  265,000
February 15, 1985                                280,000
August 15, 1985                                  290,000
February 15, 1986                                305,000
August 15, 1986                                  315,000
February 15, 1987                                330,000
August 15, 1987                                  345,000
February 15, 1988                                360,000
August 15, 1988                                  370,000
February 15, 1989                                390,000
August 15, 1989                                  405,000
February 15, 1990                                425,000
August 15, 1990                                  440,000
February 15, 1991                                460,000
August 15, 1991                                  475,000
February 15, 1992                                500,000
August 15, 1992                                  520,000
February 15, 1993                                545,000
August 15, 1993                                  565,000
February 15, 1994                                590,000
August 15, 1994                                  615,000
February 15, 1995                                640,000
August 15, 1995                                  665,000
February 15, 1996                                695,000
August 15, 1996                                  730,000
February 15, 1997                                755,000
August 15, 1997                                  790,000
February 15, 1998                                820,000
August 15, 1998                                  860,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable
in a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                    1.40%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                    2.75%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                                    5.00%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                                    7.40%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen years
before maturity                                    8.30%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                    9.25%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.04:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.04."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the woids "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the
Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied, or
(c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this        -day of 4a/, ,198 /
FOR SECRETARY


