Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rq_t No. P-4079-MOR
PRPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$28.4 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDCM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 15, 1985
Tis document has a rstried distibution ad may be used by recipientb   y in the perfo ee of
their officid dutes Is contests may o oterwise be disdosed withou World Bnk authoriztion.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Calendar 1984     Aoril 19, 1985
Currency Unit  - Dirhams (DH)    DR
US$1.00        = DE  8.90         9.47
DR 1.00        = US$0.112         0.106
FISCAL YEAR
Sanuary 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CNSS      Caisse Nationale de la S6curite Sociale
(Social Security Fund)
CP        Central Pharmacy
DAT       Direction des Affaires Techniques (MOPH)
Directorate of Technical Affairs
DICP      Division de 1'Infrastructure Chargee de la
Planification (Department of Infrastructure in charge
of Planning)
DSU       Drug Supply Unit
ENAP      Ecole Nationale d'Administration Publique
(National College of Public Administration)
FP        Family Planning
IEC       Information, Education, and Communication
MOPH      Ministry of Public Health
ONEP      Office National de 1'Eau Potable
(National Office of Water Supply)
PHC       Primary Health Care
PIU       Project Implementation Unit



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:    The Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:      US$28.4 million equivalent.
Terms:       Payable in 20 years, including five years of grace at the Bank
standard variable interest rate. The Borrower would bear the
foreign exchange and interest rate risks. The loan would include
tne refinancing of a PPF of about US$0.075 million equivalent.
Project
Description: The Project would assist the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) to
shift from an urban-based hospital-oriented health system to a
more cost-effective system of primary care. The project would
include: (a) the strengthening of primary care and basic health
services, including family planning, in three provinces; (b) the
improvement of MOPH management; (c) the strengthening of
training and Information, Education, Communication (UEC)
programs; and (d) the improvement of the supply of basic drugs.
The main benefits of this first project in the health sector are
to provide the Government with a cost-effective model for primary
care and family planning, while raising the capacity of the
central MOPE to improve the logistics and control the costs of
the health care delivery system. The main risk of the project
relates to the stringency of the HOPH recurrent budget. This
risk is reduced by minimizing incremental operating costs while
reducing unit costs of the services, and by the strong Government
commitment to the project.
Project Cost Estimate: a/                             (USS million)
LocaL.-I  Foreign    Total
A. Development of Basic
Health Services              12.5        10.6     23.1
B. Strengthening of MOPH
Management                    0.8         0.9      1.7
C. Strengthening Training
and IEC Capacity              0.5         1.1      1.6
D. Improvement of Drug Supply
System                        2.4        4.4       6.8
Total Base Costs                     16.2       17.0     33.2
Physical Contingencies                1.2        1.6      2.8
Price Contingencies                   5.9        5.7     11.6
Total Project Costs                  23.3       24.3     47.6
a! Includes US$7.1 million equivalent in taxes.
Thisdocument h«as a rce ditibto an ma be used by    onl in the pefomac
of thc offkicddutie&Its contents maynot otherwiscbe dilosed vntho Wodd Su& autionzauon.



FinancinR Plan:
(US$ million) -
LocalA'  Foreign     Total
IBRD                  4.1       24.3      28.4
Government           19.2        -        19.2
Total                23.3       24.3      47.6
Estimated Disbursements:
(UTS$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Years
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991  1992
Annual               1.3    3.7    5.4    6.0    6.0    4.5    1.5
Cumulative           1.3    5.0   10.4   16.4   22.4   26.9   28.4
I'!aps:  IBRD Nos. 18651, 18652, 18653
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 5440-MOR dated May 15, 1985.
a/ Includes $7.1 million equivalent in taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$28.4 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$28.4 million, to help
finance a Health Development project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the Bank standard variable interest rate. The
Government of Morocco would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks
on the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY"'
2.      An economic report, entitled "Morocco: Priorities for Public Sector
;Investment (1981-85)" (No. 4156-MOR), was issued on June 15, 1983. Another
economic report entitled "Morocco: Industrial Incentives and Export Promotion"
was distributed to the Board on January 11, 1984. An economic mission on
financial intermediation was in Morocco in September 1983 and its report was
issued on December 12, 1984. The following section reflects the findings of
an economic updating mission that went to Morocco in July 1984 to prepare a
paper, entitled "Morocco: medium-term Adjustment Policies and Prospects", for
presentation to a meeting of the Consultative Group for Morocco in Paris in
January 9-11, 1985. Country data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.      Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed with
natural resources.  Morocco has the world's largest and most easily
recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the phosphate sector a key export
sector. Other minerals such as iron ore, manganese, lead and zinc are also
exported, but in much smaller amounts. Coal and hydropower plants satisfy
only a small part of the country's energy requirements, but Morocco has some
uranium and oil shale resources which could become significant energy sources
in the long term. There are moreover preliminary indications of natural gas
reserves. Morocco also has a relatively good agricultural potential. In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
migration with the EEC countries.
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated iD Morocco, and CDP increased at an
average rate of 4Z a year in the 1960s. A relatively weak savings effort and
It Part I is substantially the same as Part. I of President's Report
No. P-3965-MOR of February 27, 1985 for the Jerada Coal Mine Modernization
and Expansion.



- 2 -
conservative external borrowing policies permitted only a slow rise ia the
share of resources allocated to investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s
with no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.       During the mid-1970s, economic policy became more ambitious.  In
1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate prices, phosphate export earnings more
than quadrupled, and although the petroleum import bill also quadrupled, the
current account of the balance of payments remained in surplus. The
Government launched a massive public investment program which brought about a
significant acceleration in the rate of growth to 7.5% per year between
1973-1977. There was also a major expansion of expenditure on social
services, which have however until now been relatively inefficient in reaching
the lower income groups, particularly in the rural areas.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived and phosphate exports
started falling in both volume and value as early as mid-1975. Markets for
other exports as well as for tourism and labor migration were also negatively
affected by the world recession. Accelerated investment, rising social
expenditures and increased defense spending in response to growing tensions in
the Western Sahara, soon created strong pressures on both the balance of
payments and the Government budget. The Treasury deficit reached 15.8% of
GDP, and the current account deficit of the balance of payments, 16.5% of GDP
in 1977. To help finance the gap, Morocco borrowed heavily from the
international capital market, which led to rapid increases in external debt
and the debt service burden.
7.       In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a stabilization program, with the aim
of reducing internal and external deficits to sustainable levels. The program
centered on reductions in investment outlays and stricter import controls but
was not sustained long enough and did not address the fundamental structural
weaknesses of the economy. By 1980, both fiscal and external imbalances were
again substantial: the Treasury deficit remained at about 11% of GDP and the
current account deficit of the balance of payments at 8% of GDP. By the end
of 1980, the external debt had risen to $7 billion (not including military and
short term debt) and the debt service ratio was 27% of exports of goods and
services in 1980.
Recent Economic Developments
8.       GDP growth has slowed down since 1978 to 2.8% a year on average,
barely enough to keep per capita income from falling.  Agricultural value
added, which rose rapidly in the sixties, has stagnated since the seventies.
Despite substantial public investment, value added in manufacturing also
stagnated in recent years. Construction, which had experienced intense
activity during the mid-seventies, started declining steadily with the slow
down in public investment after 1977. Government services have been the main
source of growth since 1978.
9.       in 1980-82, renewed efforts were made to stabilize the Moroccan
economy with the help of the IMF. In October 1980, the IMF approved a



-3-
three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) in the amount of SDR 810 million. The
EFF was suspended in 1981, however, and replaced in April 1982 by a one-year
Stand-by, which was implemented as planned, but had relatively little impact
on Morocco's financial performance. Throughout this period, Morocco's
attempts at stabilization were severely hampered by a series of exogenous
shocks: a) the 1979 increase in oil prices which aggravated an already
substantial petroleum import bill ($1.2 billion in 1982); b) a severe drought,
followed by a succession of poor harvests, which reduced agricultural output
by about 20% in 1981 and led to substantial imports of cereals every year
since then; c) the rise in international interest rates which contributed to a
steep increase in debt service; and d) the international economic recession
which contributed to a 30% decline in 1982-83 in the dollar price of rock
phosphates, as well as to a fall in workers' remittances, Morocco's two
principal sources of foreign exchange in the early 1980s.
10.      At the same time, however, expansionary public spending policies
continued to be a major source of both fiscal and external imbalance.
Adoption of the 1981-85 Development Plan, which aimed at an ambitious GDP
growth rate of 6.5% p.a., led to a substantial increase in public investment
expenditures in 1982 and the Treasury deficit rose from 10.7% oE GDP in 1980
to 14.5% in 1981 and 12.3% in 1982.
11.      The combined impact on the balance of payments of external shocks and
expansionary fiscal policies was an overall increase in the current account
deficit from $1.4 billion in 1980 to $1.9 billion in 1982 (or from 8% to 13%
of GDP). While there were some positive factors on the export side, such as
the continued growth of manufactured exports, the emergence of some
non-traditional exports and renewed growth in the tourism sector after the
adoption of a flexible exchange rate policy in late 1980, these were more than
offset by the fall in phosphate earnings and workers' remittances and the
continued growth of petroleum and capital goods imports.
12.      To finance its current account deficit and meet its debt amortization
payments, Morocco continued to rely heavily on external borrowing. By
December 1983, total external debt, including military and short-term
commercial debt but excluding IMF obligations, reached an estimated
$12 billion. As a result of growing debt and the rise in international
interest rates, Morocco's debt service averaged $1.2 to 1.3 billion in 1980-82
(medium-and long-term debt only, not including military debt and IMF debt).
The debt service ratio in 1982 rose to 34.7% of exports of goods and
services. Loan commitments in 1980-82 averaged $2 billion a year of which
$0.9 billion from official multilateral and bilateral sources (not including
grants). Currently debt contracted with the Bank represents about 9% of total
external debt, and debt service payments to the Bank are about 10% of total
debt service.
The 1983 Adjustment Program
13.      In early 1983, the financial situation deteriorated rapidly and net
foreign assets declined sharply, prompting tie Government to tighten import
restrictions in March. With freely usable reserves virtually depleted, and
the high level of external debt entailing an unsustainable debt service burden



-4-
for the next few years, the Gov,ernment became aware of the need to put
together a package of policies, including stabilization and structural
adjustment measures, which could warrant support from both the EMF and the
Bank, and form the basis for a debt rescheduling operation.
14.      A program prepared in mid-1983 was supported by an IMF stand-by
arrangement covering the 3econd half of 1983 and calendar 1984 in an amount
equivalent to SDR 300 million. Its principal objective was to reduce the
current account balance of payments deficit from $1.9 billion in 1982 to
$1.3 billion in 1983 and $1 billion in 1984 through limits on monetary
expansion, reduction in the Treasury deficit and continued use of a flexible
exchange rate policy. Subsidized food prices were increased by 17Z to 601 and
increases were made in the prices of fertilizers, electricity, water and
petroleum products, with the result that budgetary outlays on subsidies would
be cut in half in 1983-84. Budgetary investment appropriations were also
revised downward, substantially in line with the recoumendations of the Bank
report on Priorities for Public Sector Investment, so as to limit actual
Treasury investment expenditures to DE 8 billion in 1983 (compared with
DH 12.5 billion in 1982). The objective of the 1983 adjustment program was to
reduce the overall Treasury deficit from DR 11.1 billion in 1982 to about
DH 8.8 billion in 1983. to
15.      To reinforce the adjustment process,  the flexible exchange rate
policy initiated in 1980 was continued in 1983. The real effective exchange
rate index calculated on a trade weighted basis declined by 91 between July
1983 and May 1984. In addition, a process of debt rescheduling was started in
order to improve the debt profile and restructure it in the light of the
estimated resources available for debt servicing. The Government asked for,
and was granted by the Paris Club and the banks, a rescheduling of its
external public debt maturing in September 1983 - December 1984. In addition,
at a meeting of donors in Paris in November 1983, additional
balance-of-payments assistance of about $500 million was pledged for 1983-84
and it was agreed that a Consultative Group for aid coordination would be
convened a year hence.
16.      Finally, along with its stabilization effort, Morocco is making a
significant start on the structural reforms needed to restore a viable
balance-of-payments position in the medium term, with a package of measures to
restructure incentives in order to eliminate the bias in favor of import
substitution which has in recent years handicapped the growth of the export
sector and hampered efficient use of resources.  In January 1984, the Bank
approved a $150 million Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPA) to
support the first phase of this program, which included actions to reduce
import protection and promote exports, in particular: a continuation of the
exchange rate adjustment initiated under the IMF Stand-by, coupled with a
reduction of the special import tax; reductions in import tariffs and an
easing of quantitative import restrictions; broader access to duty-free inputs
for exports and the rationalization of border-tax adjustments on external
1/ Report No. 4156-MOR, Priorities for Public Sector Investment
(June 15, 1984).



-5-
trade under the domestic sales tax; improved administrative procedures; the
elimination of export licensing ir. agriculture and manufacturing; improvement
of the export credit and export credit irsurance systems; and a significant
reduction in the scope of price cc,ntrols on manufactured goods. Most of the
measures under this program have now been implemented. The first tranche of
the Bank loar '$75 million) was drawn in June 1984, and the second tranche in
October 1984. A follow-up loan has been recently negotiated. The second
phase of the adjustment program would continue the industrial and trade policy
reforms initiated in 1984 and would extend the reform program to the financial
sector.  Other phases of the adjustment process would address further fiscal
refcrm and initiate reforms in public enterprises, education and in
*        agricultural policy.
17.      The information available for 1983 and early 1984 confirms that the
results of the Government's adjustment program thus fare have been largely
positive. Exports increased by about 10% in real terms in 1983 and an
estimated 8% in 1984. Tourism receipts and workers' remittances also
increased sharply. On the import side, a significant contraction was achieved
in 1983 as a result of the stabilization policies.  In 1984, imports rebounded
to some extent, partly as a result of the trade liberalization policies
adopted under ITPA. There was also a considerable increase in food and
petroleum imports as a result of the continuing drought. The current account
deficit of the balance of payments was sharply reduced, from $1.9 billion and
13.2% of GDP in 1982 to $1.1 billion and 8.0% in 1983 (before debt relief).
In 1984, despite the growth of imports, the current account deficit is
estimated to have remained at about $1.1 billion, rising to 10.8% of GDP (as
against IMF initial program targets of $7.5% of GDP, the latter being based on
expectations of substantially higher rates of GDP growth and inflation).
Significant improvement was also recorded in the government budget deficit,
which declined from 12.5% of GDP in 1982 to 8.5% in 1983 and 7.8% in 1984, as
planned under the IMF program. Simultaneously, 1984 marked the fourth
consecutive year of drought with its serious consequences not only for the
balance of payments but also on employment, since the agricultural sector
accounts for approximately 50% af total employment. The combined impact of
stabilization policies and poor harvests kept GDP growth low (2.2% in 1983 and
2.4% in 1984).
Medium-Term Policies and Prospects
18.      A Consultative Group meeting was held in Paris in January 9-11,
1985. The Consultative Group focused on Morocco's medium-term adjustment
policies and prospects. A joint Bank-IMF economic updating mission visited
Morocco in July to prepare a background paper for this meeting. Both the
Bank's and the Government's presentation to the consultative Group reflected
the view that a fundamental stabilization effort needs to be sustained over
several years and combined with a strong program of structural adjustment in
order to restore a viable external payments position and resume a satisfactory
rate of growth, in view of the high external debt burden. Such a program will
have as its basic aims:



-6-
(i) to reduce the deficit,of the balance-of-payments over the short- and
medium-term through continued trade policy reform and appropriate
development strategies in the productive sectors, particularly
agriculture and industry, that would increase production and promote
exports and efficient import substitution;
(ii) to improve the allocation of capital and the efficiency of
investment, both in the public sector (through appropriate changes in
investment policies) and in the private sector (through reform of the
protection system and of interest rate policies);
(iii) to increase the level of public sector savings through reductions in
the Treasury deficit and improvements in the efficiency of public
enterprises;
(iv) to improve the mobilization of private savings through a reform of
the financial sector involving interest rate increases, diversifi-
cation of financial instruments and greater competition in the
banking sector; and
(v) to accelerate the rate of employment creation through better manpower
planning and a revision of the protection and incentives system so as
to encourage investment in labor intensive activities.
19.      The medium-term projections for Morocco. based on the policies
outlined above depict a scenario of transition from inward-looking import
substitution to outward-oriented export expansion. Due to the large external
imbalance, the restructuring policies designed to achieved this transition
must be accompanied by continued efforts to reduce domestic absorption.
Policies to promote exports and increase domestic savings can be expected to
bear fruit only gradually in Morocco's circumstances. This will severely
limit the level of investment that can be financed for the next several years,
given the constrained net amount of external financing available to Morocco,
with a resulting deflationary impact on domestic demand. However,
implementation of the adjustment measures, including improved export
incentives, would induce an expansion of exports and a gradual acceleration of
output growth toward the end of the period.
20.      Export growth plays a crucial role in the projected adjustment
scenario. As a result of improved export incentives and the revival of
foreign markets, exports of manufactured products (including phosphate
derivatives) would grow at 13Z p.a on average in 1985-90. Exports of rock
phosphates and phosphate derivatives would grow at about 9g p.a.. The overall
growth rate of Morocco's exports of goods and nonfactor services in this
scenario would accelerate to about 8Z p.a. in constant prices in 1985-90.
With respect to imports, the change in the structure of incentives in
conjunction with the depreciation of the dirham would improve the efficiency
of import substitution and reduce the reliance on imported inputs. Overall,
import growth of goods and nonfactor services in this scenario would be
limited to about 22 p.a. during 1985-90.



-7-
21.      Given the strong constraints on the resources available, gross
investment is projected to decline in the short-term from about 22.92 of GDP
in 1984 to 18.5Z towards the end of the decade. It is assumed that the
Government uauld start fewer large capital-intensive projects and restrict the
allocation of investments to priority subsectors so as to improve the sectoral
allocation and the efficiency of investment. Priority is to be given to
projects that are export oriented, less capital intensive and which use a
greater proportion of domestic resources. In addition, particular attention
would have to be paid by the Government to manpower planning and to the
employment effect of investments in order to prevent unemployment from rising
to excessive levels.
22.      An essential aim of the adjustment process would also be an increase
in domestic savings. As a consequence of policies aiming at a reduction in
the Treasury deficit and at an improvement in public enterprises efficiency,
public savings are projected to increase significantly. In addition,
improvements in the mobilization of private savings would also take place
through interest rate increases and reform of the financial sector, so that
the overall domestic savings rate in this scenario would rise from about 12%
in 1984 to about 17Z by 1990.
23.      The acceleration of export growth relative to import growth in
conjunction with an increase in the savings ratio relative to the investment
ratio would result in a steady improvement in Morocco's external payments
position. Assuming that the growth of workers' remittances can be sustained,
the current account would be approximately in equilibrium by 1989. Until
then, however, Morocco would continue to require substantial amounts of medium
and long-term capital to cover the continuing current account deficits and
meet the heavy schedule of debt repayments coming due in the next few years.
Total gross capital requirements would average close to $3 billion annually in
1985-87. A substantial portion of these requirements could come from debt
relief along the lines of the debt rescheduling obtained by Morocco from its
creditors in 1983-84. The remainder could be obtained through normal medium
and long-term inflows of new capital, if new commitments from Morocco's
orficial lenders can be maintained at their current rate. Under these
circumstances, local cost financing of investment projects would be
appropriate for the next few years.
PART II - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO-1'
24.      Bank lending to Morocco has supported 63 projects, financing a total
of $2,408 million (net of cancellations), of which $25 million from a Third
window loan. IDA credits, totalling $45.2 million, have been made available
for five projects. IFC investments have amounted to $99.1 million. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits, and of IFC
investments, as of March 31, 1985.
I/ Part II is essentially the same as Part II in the Jerada Coal Mine
Modernization and Expansion Loan (Report No. P-3965-MOR of
February 27, 1985).



-8-
25.      Until 1983, performance in project execution has been satisfactory
overall, although in some cases management problems have caused delays in
project implementation, and in others insufficient tariff adjustments have
affected project entities' financial performance. However, during 1983, as
budgetary constraints became more severe, projects relying on the Government
budget for a substantial part of financing have been seriously delayed because
of inadequate budgetary allocations. The appreciation of the dollar via-&-vis
the dirham in recent years has reduced considerably reimbursable expenses in
dollar terms, thus lowering disbursements vis-a-vis appraisal estimates. The
ratio of disbursements to appraisal estimates averaged 492 as of September 30,
1984, low in comparison to other countries in the region.
26.      The objectives of Bank Group activities in Morocco are to support (a)
investments and policy reforms aimed at structural adjustment and
strengthening the balance of payments; (b) measures to reduce the Treasury
deficit; and (c) efforts to redress poverty and improve income distribution,
particularly through lowering the unit costs for the delivery of basic
services, in order to increase access by lower-income groups. :Important
structural reforms must be undertaken in the coming years, in order to return
to a path of reasonable economic growth compatible with a sustainable external
payments position. A major objective of Bank economic and sector work is to
provide the analytical basis for the development of specific proposals for
structural reform, which in several cases may later be supported by Bank
lending. The Government has requested that, in addition to ongoing work on
the public investment program, the Bank assist in developing reform proposals
relating to the financial sector, public enterprises, and the education and
agricultural sectors. Because severe budgetary constraints are likely to
persist over the medium-term, projects nov under preparation are being
designed to minimize reliance on budgetary funds, and in some cases, to
finance part of the costs in local currency.
27.      Agriculture continues to represent the most important sector in Bank
lending for Morocco. Past Bank lending has primarily supported rural
development or irrigation projects focusing on particular geographical
regions, as well as a highly successful agricultural credit program. In the
future, increased attention will be given to agricultural support services at
the national level, which are essential for backstopping regional development
projects and would be more appropriate vehicles for addressing sectoral policy
issues. Projects are under preparation in agricultural inputs distribution,
research and extension services, cereals storage and marketing and irrigation
management. In view of limited budgetary resources, special attention would
be paid to maximizing non-budgetary financing and improving cost recovery.
Sector work on agricultural incentives - fiscal, financial, pricing and
institutional policies - has provided recommendations on structural reforms
which form the basis for a recently negotiated agriculture sector adjustment
loan.
28.      Energy and :Aining.  The Government has given high priority to
reducing the oil import bill, a major factor in the current account deficit,
through development of domestic energy supplies. The Bank has supported this
effort through loans for the exploraLion and appraisal of petroleum (primarily
natural gas) and oil shale resources as well as for power generation and



-9-
transmission. Future projects would assist in the development of domestic
energy supplies, including gas, coal and hydropower. Through these projects
as well as in our sectoral policy dialogue, efficiency in energy development
and use would be promoted through attention to pricing, cost recovery and
management issues. A pilot project to support small-scale, export-oriented
mining activitips in a remote, low-income region will be monitored with a view
to its possible extension.
29.      Bank lending for infrastructure and utilities has helped to build a
number of technically competent agencies in the fields of road transportation,
electricity, water supply, housing finance, and community infrastructure
finance, as well as to expand the provision of essential services. Future
projects will place greater emphasis on improving the productivity and
efficiency of existing infrastructure through improved financial and
management performance. Mobilization of private and non-budgetary financing
as well as improved cost recovery in these subsectors through tariffs should
help reduce the Treasury deficit. In addition to continuing support for the
above-mentioned subsectors, projects are under preparation fbr ports, severage
and telecommunications.
30.      Industrial development in Morocco has been supported primarily
through strengthening the financial and institutional resources of the Banque
Nationale de D6veloppement Economique (BNDE), the major source of industrial
medium-term credit. In addition, policy changes were introduced to widen
access to credit by small-scale labor-intensive industries. Other projects
Eocused on phosphate processing and cement production. The Bank's efforts are
now focused on the development and implementation of medium-term policy
reforms aimed at encouraging exports and improving incentives to domestic
production. The first phase of such reforms is supported by the first
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPA) loan, and a second sectoral
adjustment loan to support subsequent phases of the medium-term ITPA program
adopted by the Government has been recently negotiated.
31.      Education, health and urban development projects will increasingly
concentrate on lowering unit costs in order to widen the access by low-income
groups. Policy dialogue in these sectors continues to encourage the shift
away from capital-intensive investments benefitting limited clientele and the
development of more cost-effective delivery systems for basic services. While
previous Bank-financed projects have supported technical education, rural
primary education and improved teacher training, these should be complemented
by efforts to expand basic education and skill training, as well as
restructuring of the formal education system, which has represented a major
drain on the recurrent budget. The proposed health development project would
be the first in the health sector and would test new health care delivery
systems in order to improve basic health services in rural areas. Finally,
the experience of projects in urban upgrading will be continued and expanded,
with increased efforts to mobilize private financing in order to reduce
budgetary costs.



- 10 -
PART III - THE SECTOR
Background
32.      Morocco is the most populous of the Maghreb countries, with a total
population of 21.4 million in 1984, of which about 421 were l1ving in urban
areas. Population growth averaged 2.61 p.a. between 1970-1982. Crude birth
rates and total fertility still remain relatively high at an average of 46 per
1000 and 5.8, respectively. Contraceptive prevalence has increased to about
25.5%, but due to the high proportion of the population below 15 years of age
(42%) and the consequent expected increase in the number of women of
reproductive age, in the absence of an accelerated expansion of contraceptive
use, population would more than double by the year 2000.
33.      While basic health indicators have improved since independence, life
expectancy as well as infant and child mortality compare poorly with countries
with similar GDP and geographic settings, and maternal mortkality is still a
cause for concern. Infant mortality is particularly high in rural areas and
periurban shantytowns (110-150 per thousand and about 170 per thousand,
respectively, as compared to 60 per thousand in "modern" urban areas).
Disease patterns in Morocco indicate an epidemiological transition whereby
while parasitic diseases have virtually been eradicated: (i) infections
diseases (such as respiratory infections and tuberculosis) continue to prevail
in rural areas; (ii) so-called intermediate pathology diseases characteristic
of modern societies (such as gastrointestinal dysfunctions, accidents, and
neuro-psychiatric disorders) are increasing in urban areas; and (iii) chronic
and degenerative diseases are rising in relation to longer life expectancies.
The high rates of infant and child mortality are related to poverty,
malnutrition and poor environmental sanitation, especially as regards the
quality of water supply. Only 71 of the rural population have access to safs
water. A nutrition survey carried out in 1971 indicated that while average
levels of caloric intakes were satisfactory, malnutrition was prevalent in
rural areas and among low-income groups. Malnutrition was most severe among
infants and children, and among preguant and lactating women and has possibly
deteriorated in recent years due to a relative decline in food production,
unsatisfactory food consumption patterns, deficient infant feeding practices
and poor environmental sanitation.
Existing Services
34.      The Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) is the largest health service
provider and the only source of preventive care and public health programs.
MOPE services are free or low-cost and represent the main supply of health
care for lower-income groups. The National Social Security System (Caisse
Nationale de Securite Sociale - CNSS) has recently begun to provide medical
services through health insurance and on a fee-for-service basis. CNSS
services are available primarily to the more affluent urban populations,
competing actively with privately provided medical care. Pharmacists,
herbalists and traditional healers also offer limited health care in both
urban and rural areas. The Moroccan Government strongly supports family
planning, despite a reluctance to adopt explicit demographic policy



- 11 -
objectives. Family planning (FP), Health, and Maternal and Child Health (MCH)
care including Information/Education/Communication (IEC) programs are
integrated and delivered through all MOPH outpatient facilities. Training in
contraceptive delivery is provided as part of medical and paramedical training
programs. In addition, the private Moroccan Association for Family Planning
provides training, IEC and family planning services. A successful pilot
outreach project, Systematic Home Motivation Visits (Visites a Domicile de
i4otivation Syst6matique (VDMS)), which began in 1979 in Marrakech with the
help of USAID and UNFPA, is progressively being extended to additional
provinces. Under this program, paramedical personnel periodically visit rural
households and provide family planning and nutrition information and services,
as well as contraceptives. Contraceptive prevalence has risen from 24% to
between 41% and 52% in VDMS served areas and the Government intends to expand
this program as part of its primary health care system (para. 45). Nutrition
surveillance, education and rehabilitation for pregnant and lactating women
and children is provided through MOPH health facilities and others, including
the ministries of Social Affairs, Education, and Agriculture. However,
because these are "passive" detection and treatment approaches, placing the
burden of treatment on patient initiative, the programs have not been
cost-effective and require better definition and targeting. Information,
education and communication (IEC) activities in support of family planning,
nutrition and preventive health programs are the responsibility of the Health
Education Unit of the MOPH Population Division, which also produces teaching
materials for MOPH training programs. The limited number of IEC materials
produced by the over-burdened unit are poorly designed and ineffectual,
particularly for rural target groups. Moreover, MOPH mobile IEC units are
ill-adapted for outreach to remote rural communities. Minimal health,
population and nutrition education is also provided in the public school
system and through women's training programs offered by the Ministries of
Social Affairs and Youth. IEC support to primary care and family planning
would be strengthened under the proposed project (para. 49). Environmental
sanitation and water supply are the responsibility of the municipalities in
major urban areas, but in rural areas these responsibilities are dispersed
among the National 'dater Supply Office (Office National de l'Eau Potable -
ONEP), the Ministry of Agriculture and local communities. MOPH is responsible
for water quality control and treatment, but can attend to only about 10% of
estimated needs. The proposed project would seek to improve coordination as
regards both planning and delivery of health related services among the
various agencies, and would seek to increase community involvement.
Physical Resources
35.      Morocco's relatively small hospital network which absorbs a high
proportion of the HOPH's operating budget would be sufficient if better
utilized. With improved management and equipment maintenance, it could
provide acceptable and cost-effective services. Measures to strengthen
management performance and improve cost recovery would be examined under the
proposed project (paras. 39 and 48). Outpatient services are provided
through health centers and dispensaries which are thinly and unevenly
distributed, poorly equipped, and frequently lacking basic drugs and medical
supplies. Maintenance of facilities and equipment has been neglected and much
of the existing infrastructure needs to be upgraded. Rural areas are served



- 12 -
primarily by itinerant male nurses based in each dispensary, who are expected
to periodically visit every household in the community to provide health
education, immunization, and basic health care. These outreach services rely
heavily on transportation, requiring high recurrent expenditures for fuel and
maintenance. The lack of transportation severely hampers the affective
delivery of basic health services to the dispersed rural population.
Alternative types of vehicles and approaches to maintenance need are being
explored under the proposed project.
36.      Responsibilities within the MOPH for drug supply are scattered among
several units, resulting in an inefficient, unreliable and costly drug supply
system. About 90% of MOPE drug supplies are uEed in hospitals, so that
outpatient facilities and particularly outreach services are chronically short
of drugs and basic medical supplies, severely limiting their effectiveness and
reducing their credibility among the public. The MOPH prepares about 40 basic
drugs for its own use in its Central Pharmacy (CP). The CP's formulation
laboratory, packaging and storage facilities are dilapidated, disorganized,
and unsafe, creating serious health risks. Drugs are not properly packaged
and labeled and their distribution in bulk to dispensaries greatly limits
patient compliance. The urgent need to reorganize and upgrade the entire
basic drug supply system would be addressed under the project (para. 50). In
addition, the MOPE has recently made arrangements with the local
pharmaceutical industry to undertake "toll formulation", whereby the more
complex and high cost basic drugs would be formulated by private industry
under long-term contracts; MOPH would assure supply of intermediate materials
and subsequent packaging and distribution.
Human Resources
37.      Health personnel are generally well-qualified and adequate in numbers
and include: 4,000 doctors, 16,000 basic nurses, 6,000 certified nurses and
technicians who provide intermediate staffing; 400 specialized nurses or
"cadristes" who fill key positions in management and research; and 170 health
administrators. The MOPH now employs about 50% of the nation's doctors and
80% of paramedical and administrative staff; however, budgetary constraints
have recently curtailed MOPH recruitment, and this situation is likely to
prevail in the near term.
38.      Health training programs in Morocco are generally of good quality,
though greater emphasis needs to be given to training in preventive health and
primary health care. A special program in health management was set up at the
National School for Public Administration (Ecole Nationale d'Administration
Publique - ENAP) in 1983. In view of limitations on public sector recruitment
as well as the need to review the relevance of training in all fields, the
Go.arnment is planning to carry out a comprehensive analysis of health
manpower needs within the context of an overall review of education and
training strategies. In the meantime, the quality and practical orientation
of certified nurse training, which is carried out by the College of Public
Health, needs to be improved. The Bank financed the construction of new
facilities for the College under the Third Education Project (Loan 1220T-MOR)
but due to administrative problems and unfamiliarity with Bank procurement



- 13 -
procedures, the equipment planned for the new College was not acquired. The
proposed project would address this need (para. 49).
Health Financing
39.      Expenditures on public health in Morocco are very low in relation to
GDP (1.2x) compared to other middle-income countries. The MOPE budget has
been steadily declining as a proportion of total Government outlays (3.0% in
1983 compared with 7.8% in 1965) and of public investment. As the HOPH
provides 90Z of the funds for public health services, this decline in
financial resources has serious implications for the quality and coverage of
health care. In addition, until 1982 hospitals accounted for a
disproportionate (although recently reduced) share of investment expenditures,
while salaries absorbed a growing share of recurrent budget funds (about 75%
in 1984). These trends have had a particularly severe impact on rural health
services, especially the outreach services where insufficient investments to
upgrade and maintain facilities and the lack of recurrent funds for
transportation, drugs, and medical supplies have resulted in a deterioration
in quality and coverage (see para. 40). Coordination of budgetting for
investment and recurrent expenditures is hampered by Government budgetting
procedures and by poor MOPE planning. Moreover, resource allocation among the
various health providers is carried out on an ad hoc basis. The Government
recognizes the inadequacy of the present health financing system and is
willing to explore alternatives, including cost recovery for health care
services. Measures to improve the mobilization and allocation of financial
resources of the health sector would be studied under the proposed project
(paras. 35 and 48).
Health Management and Planning
40.      Given the present inefficient utilization of the existing health
infrastructure, the actual coverage of public health programs is low. MCH and
family planning reach less than 30% of their target populations; prenatal care
covers only 5.4% of all pregnancies; only 1lZ of births are supervised; less
than 20% of infants from 0 to 2 years of age are monitored by child health
clinics; nutrition programs reach only a small percentage of the population at
risk; health contacts per person/year declined from 2.45 in 1976 to 1.8 in
1982; and immunization programs have covered only 36Z of the target group.
The low coverage and quality of the public health service stems in large part
from poor planning and management by the MOPH. The MOPH is organized into two
Directorates under a single Secretary General: the Directorate of Technical
Affairs (Direction des Affaires Techniques - DAT) is responsible for health
programs, and supervises the Divisions of Planning (Division de
l'Infrastructure Chargee de la Planification - DICP), Population and
Epidemiology; and, the Directorate of Administrative Affairs is responsible
for MOPH day-to-day management, and supervises the Divisions of
Infrastructure, Budget and Administration. Actual delivery of health and
family planning services is carried out under the Provincial Medical
Directorates. Decision-making, however, remains highly centralized within the
Ministry. Due to cumbersome administrative procedures, the MOPE has been
chronically unable to properly allocate, utilize, and even monitor the limited
budgetary resources it has been allotted, and has not taken adequate



- 14 -
responsibility for coordinating the inputs of other agencies providing health
related services. Health planning is also hampered by unreliable
hospital-based health statistics, which do not permit the diagnosis,
monitoring and evaluation of health care performance. Procurement and
accounting systems do not facilitate effective cost control. A USAID-financed
technical assistance project which has helped to initiate a management
information system for the MOPH, will form the basis upon which the proposed
project would address health planning and management issues (para. 47).
Government Strategy
41.      Increased access to basic health services, particularly in rural
areas and among disadvantaged groups, is a major Government policy objective
which the Bank supports. However, in view of current financial constraints,
it is unlikely that significant new resources would be available in the near
term to expand health care coverage. Improvements in health, nutrition, and
contraceptive prevalence can therefore only be achieved through improving the
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the public health system. The Moroccan
Government has recognized this and has, since the late 1970's, been exploring
alternatives to the current health delivery system, particularly as regards
outreach activities for primary health care and family planning in rural
areas. The 1981-85 Development Plan marked a sharp departure from previous
policy: the proportion of investments allocated to hospitals was reduced from
80Z to 55Z, and increased importance was given to the improvement of basic
health services and to the development of more cost-effective health
strategies. The preparation of the proposed project has provided a focal
point for such a significant shift in health policy, which is strongly
supported not only within the MOPH but throughout the Government. The
implementation of the project will allow the Government to monitor and adapt a
new health delivery system in a limited geographical area with a view to its
eventual replication throughout the country, and to identify further policy
reforms necessary for a subsequent expansion of health and family planning
services.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background
42.      The project was first identified in September, 1979 and after lengthy
discussions on its scope was prepared by the Government with assistance of
consultants funded by a Project Preparation Facility of US$0.075 million.
Project appraisal took place in September/October 1984. Negotiations took
place in Washington on April 15-19, 1985; the Moroccan delegation was led by
Mr. Hassan Belkoura, of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and included the
Director of Technical Affairs of the MOPH, Professor M. T. Alaoui. The main
features of the project are outlined in the Loan and Project Summary at the
beginning of this report, and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet, a Basic Data.
Sheet, and Maps Nos. 18651, 18652, and 18653 are also attached. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 5540-NOR, dated May 15, 1985) is being circulated
separately.
Project Objectives and Description
43.      The overall objective of the project is to assist the MOPH in
shifting emphasis away from an urban-based, hospital-oriented health system



- 15 -
benefitting a limited segment of the population, towards a more cost-effective
system of primary care emphasizing outreach activities in rural areas. The
proposed project would deploy a new primary health care (PHC) delivery system
including family planning in three provinces and strengthen the KOPH in order
to permit the eventual replication of the PHC system throughout the country.
44.      The project consists of the following four components:
(a) deployment of a primary health care and family planning system in the
provinces of Agadir, Settat, and Taroudant; (b) improvement of overall health
planning, management, and evaluation sytems; (c) reinforcement of the MOPH's
capacity to train paramedical personnel and to produce and disseminate
effective IEC materials; and (d) establishment of a coordinated basic drug
supply system.
Primary Health Care (PHC)
45.      This component would support the deployment  and operation in a
limited geographical area of the new primary care delivery system envisaged,
eventually, for all of Morocco. Six core programs - Immunization, Family
Planning, MCH Care, Nutrition, Front-line Curative Care, and Basic Sanitation
- would be carried out in Agadir, Settat, and Taroudant (population
1.9 million), three provinces considered to be representative of the country.
The programs would: Ci) expand immunization by a change in strategy from
periodic vaccination to continuous vaccination through mobile units and at
fixed health facilities; (ii) increase contraceptive prevalence through the
implementation of the VDMS approach to family planning; (iii) increase
monitoring of pregnancies and of infant and child health by extension of KCH
services to peripheral areas; (iv) improve the nutrition of women and children
by pursuing the active detection and rehabilitation of malnutrition through
outreach activities; (v) expand and improve curative care by strengthening
support and resources for diagnosis and treatment; and (vi) improve
environmental sanitation through services designed to improve drinking water
quality control, treatment and conservation, and to improve snlid waste
disposal.
46.      In order to address varying local conditions, six different types of
services or strategies, each employing different mixes of fixed facilities and
outreach techniques, have been identified and would be deployed in the project
areas. Project preparation was based on extensive field surveys and on
consultations with MOPH provincial staff and local authorities.
Implementation of this component would be closely monitored and evaluated
under the Health Services Monitoring Study to obtain guidance for the future
replication of the PHC system in other parts of the country (paras. 48 and
56). The project would provide: (a) construction of 98 rural dispensaries, 10
rural and 2 urban health centers, 2 small rural hospitals, with staff housing
facilities, and (b) upgrading or extension of 74 rural dispensaries, 32 rural
and 8 urban health centers, 2 urban maternities and 3 rural hospitals. To
support these facilities, the project would also provide furniture, equipment,
office and medical supplies, basic drugs and a variety of vehicles for
outreach activities as well as refresher training and continuing education for
paramedical and medical personnel.



- 16 -
Management
47.      This component would improve the management and policy-making
capabilities of the MOPH by strengthening its planning, monitoring, and
evaluating capacity, carrying out a number of key studies for future policy
decisions, and improving its administrative procedures. Planning would be
improved by the creation of appropriate task forces for the MOPH's Planning
and Infrastructure Division (DICP)(para. 11); the development of policies and
procedures for health and manpower planning, introduction and adaptation of
medical technology and research and evaluation systems; and by providing:
office equipment, furniture and supplies, and vehicles to DICP staff; 29
months of fellowship abroad in health care economics and management; and
22 m/m of local consultant services in planning to supplement ongoing
technical assistance from WHO and bilateral sources. Assurances were obtained
that the DICP would continue to carry on its operations with full-time
qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01 (b), Schedule 5, para. 1(b)). The project would continue the development
by DICP of management information systems previously initiated with assistance
from USAID and WHO. It would also impove MOPH's management by improving
programming and budgeting; procurement, infrastrucutre maintenance; and
personnel management. Under the coordination of the Secretary General, MOPE
staff aided by consultants would carry out a study of these management issues,
outline suitable interventions, and prepare terms of reference for the
required technical assistance also to be financed by the project. Assurances
were obtained that action plans based on this study would be prepared for Bank
review by December 31, 1986 and that the Borrower would, after an exchange of
views with the Bank, implement such plans as shall be agreed with the Bank
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b), Schedule 5, para.2).
48.      To support the planning and management process, office equipment and
supplies would be provided to MDPH and a program of three other studies would
be carried out under the project. The first, a Health Services Monitoring
Study, would include the introduction by the NOPH of a comprehensive
monitoring and evaluating system for all health services and for the testing
of alternative delivery systems under the project. On the basis of the
results of this system, conclusions would be drawn as to the replicability of
the PHC system which would be incorporated in the end-1987 mid-term evaluation
(paras. 46 and 56). The second study, Financing of the Health Sector, ik'uld
analyze and evaluate present and altern:aive health financing schemes,
including increased health cost recovery (para. 35), as input for the
development of the next Development Plan. To ensure wide discussion within
the Government, assurances were obtained that the Borrower would appoint by
December 31, 1985, an Interministerial Steering Committee for the Sector
Financing Study; the Government would also furnish to the Bank by December
1988, the final results and reccmmendations of the Financing Study and,
exchange views with the Bank with a view to adopting appropriate strategies
for the development of the sector (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b), Schedule
5, para. 3). Finally, a Hospital Management study focussing on hospital
performance, cost containment, and cost-recovery measures to reduce hospital
operating costs would be undertaken. Assurances were obtained that the
Borrower would furnish to the Bank the findings and recommendations of the
Hospital Management Study by December 31, 1988, and, after an exchange of



- 17 -
views with the Bank, would implement the agreed recommendations (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01(b), Schedule 5, para. 4). To assist in the
implementation of these studies, the project would provide office and computer
equipment, and supplies, 72 months of fellowship training in research
methodology ahroad, 194 m/m of local and foreign consultant services, and
local costs of related transportation, seminars, data processing and
publications.
Training and IEC
49.      This component would improve public health instruction of certified
nurses; the design, production and use of IEC materials; and IEC dissemination
in rural areas. The component would include the provision of: (i) training
for instructors; and educational equipment, training materials and vehicles
for the College of Public Health (para. 38); (ii) staff training, equipment
and supplies for the production of IEC materials; (iii) lighter and more
versatile IEC mobile units and other vehicles; and (iv) consultant services
for the design and pre-testing of IEC materials. The IEC program under the
project would be closely monitored and evaluated and required periodic
adjustments would be made. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Borrower would prepare each year and submit to the Bank for approval by
December 31, a detailed program, including targets and timetables, for the
production and dissemination of IEC materials for the following year and
thereafter carry out the program taking into account the Bank's comments (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01(b), Schedule 5, para. 6).
Supply of Basic Drugs
50.      This component is designed to reorganize the MOPH basic drug supply
system under the authority of a Central Drug Supply Unit (DSU) to be created
within the MOPH. The Central Pharmacy would be renamed and would become a
Central Supply Unit dealing exclusively with furniture and medical equipment.
Responsibility for most drug supply activities now scattered among the various
services of the MOPH would be centralized under the DSU to improve drug
management, formulation, and cost-effectiveness (para. 36). To this end, the
DSU would be established and maintained with terms of reference and staff
acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (a), Schedule 5,
para. l(c)). Assurances were obtained that the Borrower would provide, each
fiscal year, through separate budgetary allocations, adequate funding for the
DSU's operation over the duration of the project (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02 (b)). Supply of basic drugs would be improved by the development and
implementation of improved budgeting, procurement, storage, handling,
formulation, packaging, and distribution procedures. The project would
provide for the construction, equipping and furnishing of an administrative
office building for DSU and facilities for drug storage, packaging and
formulation. It would also provide equipment, and vehicles for reception,
storage, an-d distribution of drugs, and initial ingredients and packaging
materials for drug formulation and packaging. In addition, 18 months of
fellowship training in drug formulation abroad and 6 m/m of foreign consultant
services would be provided. Finally, the safety and efficiency of basic drug
packaging would be improved by exploring new forms of packaging and
accompanying IEC materials, easily understandable to illiterates. To this



- 18 -
end, the project would provide 6 months of fellowships and 5 m/m of foreign
consultant services.
Project Implementation
51.      OveralL responsibility for the project will rest with the MOPE
through its DAT. To ensure effective financial management for the project,
the Director of the DAT has been granted by the MOPE full authority to commit
all project resources and to authorize payments accordingly. Responsibility
for implementation of project components would be as follows: (i) the Health
Services Component would be implemented by the Medical Directorate in each of
the three project-related provinces; (ii) the Management Component would be
implemented by the DICP; (iii) the Training and IEC Component would be
implemented by the Population Division; and (iv) the Drug Supply component
would be implemented by the newly created Drug Supply Unit. All units
involved in the project would report on project-related matters to the newly
created Project Implementation Unit (PIU) (para. 55), which would be directly
attached to the Director of the DAT. The PIU staff is comprised of a Project
Coordinator (also Chief of the DICP), an administrator, a physician, an
economist and two chief supervisors of health services, and support staff, all
of whom are well-qualified and who have participated in the preparation of the
proposed project. MOPH construction units in Rabat, Agadir and Settat have
each been reinforced with a civil engineer and a full-time civil works
supervisor to supervise the provincial civil works under the project. An
additional architect or engineer would be assigned to the PIU at the central
level to oversee all project-related civil works activities. Assurances were
obtained that the Borrower would maintain for the duration of the project, the
PIU with such organization, staff, and terms of reference, satisfactory to the
Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (b), Schedule 5, para. l(a)). In addition
assurances were obtained that the Borrower would furnish to the Bank for
approval proposed fellowship training programs under the Project as well as
the list of candidates for such training (Loan Agreement, para. 3.01(b) and
Schedule 5, para. 7).
Project Costs
52.      Total project costs including taxes ($7.1 million) and contingencies
($14.4 million) are estimated at S47.6 million. The foreign exchange
component is about $24.3 million or 60.5% of total project costs (net of
taxes). Total base costs (as of March 28, 1985' are about $33.2 million.
Civil works costs are based on architectural drawings and on unit costs of
comparable construction in 1985. Costs of furniture, equipment, vehicles, and
drug-related materials are based on the costs of similar items procured in
1984. The costs of training and technical assistance are comparable to
similar local and foreign services currently being offered in the country.
Physical contingencies ($2.8 million) have been estimated at 10% of the costs
of civil works, furniture, equipment, drugs and medical supplies. Price
contingencies, totalling $11.6 million, have been estimated on the following
basis: (i) for local costs, 10% in 1985/86, 7% in 1986/87, and 6% p.a.
thereafter; and (ii) for foreign costs, 7% in 1985/86, and 8% p.a.



- 19 -
thereafter. Annual incremental recurrent costs of the project would increase
from t0.9 million in 1985/86 to $2.8 million in 1989/90. Since these
represent only a small proportion of the MOPH recurrent budget, the project
would be highly replicable, and the eventual expansion of the PHC system
throughout the country would be feasible. Incremental recurrent costs to be
generated by the project over its duration would include: (i) salaries
($2.9 million); (ii) drug and medical supplies ($3.1 million), (iii) office
supplies ($0.3 million); (iv) water sanitation supplies ($0.2 million); and
(v) fuel and travel ($1.8 million).
Project Financing and Financial Reporting
53.      The proposed Bank loan of $28.4 million would be made to the Kingdom
of Morocco at the Bank standard variable interest rate with a 20-year
maturity, including a five-year grace period. The proposed loan would finance
70Z of total project costs, net of taxes, including the refinancing of a
Project Preparation Facility equivalent to about $0.075 million (para. 42),
and $3.9 million in incremental recurrent costs (excluding salaries) on a
declining basis. Given the current financial and balance of payments
situation of the country (paras. 21-23) and the fact that the health sector is
particularly vulnerable to temporary budgetary constraints, $4.1 million of
the proposed loan would finance project costs in local currency. The
Government would provide the equivalent of $19.2 million, including
$7.1 million in taxes. The Government intends to include the project in the
forthcoming Development Plan. It would make adequate allocations in the
annual investment and recurrent budgets over the duration of the project.
Assurances were obtained that the Borrower would establish and maintain
separate accounts for all project-related expenditures which would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and that the audit
reports would be provided to the Bank for review within 6 months after the end
of each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01).
Procurement and Disbursement
54.      Due to the remote areas in which civil works would be located and to
the relatively small size of these works, it is unlikely that they would
attract foreign contractors. Therefore, civil works under the proposed
project would be procured as follows: Ci) competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank would be applied
to most contracts, totalling $12.6 million (net of taxes), with foreign
contractors eligible to participate; (ii) remodelling or construction of small
health facilities cobting up to a total of $2.0 million (net of taxes) could,
with prior approval by the Bank, be carried out by force account.  Of the
total cost of equipment, furniture, vehicles and drugs ($14.9 million, net of
taxes), $11.1 million is expected to be procured through ICB and domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference of 15Z, or the
applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Most equipment and furniture for
small health facilities, estimated at $1.3 million (net of taxes), would be
procured through UNICEF. Contracts for goods would, to the extent
practicable, be grouped in packages of more than $100,000 each; goods costing



- 20 -
more than $15,000 but not more than $100,000, up to an aggregate amount of
$1.5 million, would be procured through competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Small
contracts for miscellaneous goods of less than $15,000, up to an aggregate
amount of $500,000, would be procured through prudent local shopping requiring
at least three price quotations. Prior Bank review would be required for:
(i) all civil works contracts in excess of $200,000 equivalent; and, (ii) all
contracts for goods in excess of $100,000 equivalent. Other contracts would
be subject to ex-post review by the Bank in the course of project
supervision. Consultants would be employed in accordance with Bank
Guidelines, and would have qualifications, experience, and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Section II).
55.      Disbursement of the proceeds of the Bank loan would be made as
follows: (a) 702 of total expenditures for civil works; (b) for materials,
equipment, supplies, furniture, ingredients and vehicles; 100% of foreign
expenditures; 100Z of local expenditures (ex-factory), and 60Z of total
expenditures for other items procured locally; (c) 100% of total expenditures
for consultants' services, fellowships and training, and (d) 68% of
incremental recurrent expenditures for drug supplies, transportation and
vehicle operation costs, and travel allowances up to $0.3 million in project
year (PY)l, $0.8 million in (PY)2, $0.7 million in (PY)3 and $0.6 million in
(PY)4, and $0.2 in (PY)5. Disbursements for packaging materials and
ingredients would be limited to $1.5 million. An amount not exceeding
$2.0 million is proposed to be made available to retroactively finance
eligible project expenditures (mostly upgrading priority facilities and
launching the training component) incurred on or after December 4, 1984, the
date of signature of the Decree creating the PIU (para. 51) (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, para. 3(a)). Full documentation would be required for all
disbursements from the loan account, except for civil works on force account
and local training expenditures, where disbursements would be made against
certificates of expenditure. No disbursements against the drug supply
component would be made until the DSU has been established with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 36, 50 and 55) (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02(a) and Schedule 1, para. 3(a)(ii)). The proposed loan is
expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1991.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation
56.      Overall project monitoring and semi-annual progress reports would be
the responsibility of the Project Coordinator of the PIU (paras. 51 and 55).
Outcome indicators and targets for each of the six PHC subcomponents have been
established on the basis of baseline surveys in the project areas. The DICP
would be responsible for the continuous evaluation of the project's PHC
component to gain guidance as to its replicability (paras. 46 and 48).
Assurances were obtained that the Bank would receive by December 31, 1987, a
mid-ternm evaluation report which would examine the results of the project and
the possible extension of the PHC system to other provinces in the country
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (b) and Schedule 5, para. 5) and that after an
exchange of views with the Bank, the Borrower would implement such
recommendations as are agreed with the Bank.



- 21 -
Project Benefits and Risks
57.      The proposed project would bring direct benefits to 10% of the
Moroccan population of which a sizable proportion is estimated to be below the
absolute poverty level. Improvements in family planning, health, and
nutrition services, and IEC programs in the project areas are expected to
increase the contraceptive prevalence rate in the project area from 24% to 37%
in 1992 and consequently reduce total fertility rate from 5.8 to 4.6 in 1992
and crude birth rate from 40 per 1000 in 1985 to about 30 per 1000 in 1992;
improve the health of mothers, infants, and children and thereby restore
confidence in rural medical services; and reduce child malnutrition. In the
longer-term, testing of the new PHC system under the proposed project would
eventually benefit the entire Moroccan population by providing a basis for the
establishment of a more cost-effective country-wide PHC system.
58.      The project would improve overall health care management in Morocco.
In this respect, the project would strengthen MOPH internal management and
improve planning and policy-making for the health sector. The project would
also (i) improve health care resource allocation between rural and urban
areas; (ii) contain hospital costs and reduce their proportion in the MOPH
budget; (iii) improve the availability and cost effectiveness of basic drugs;
(iv) upgrade paramedical training; and (v) provide more cost-effective basic
health services.
59.      The project is subject to the technical, financial and implementation
risks attendant on a first project in the health sector. The technical risks
of the project relate to the relatively novel nature of the PEC system in
Morocco and to the maldistribution of central and provincial health staff.
These risks have been reduced by: (i) pre-testing of the PUC system during
preparation and ensuring its continuous monitoring and evaluation (paras.
46-48 and 56); and (ii) reinforcing relevant health personnel by providing
upgraded training and support, and ensuring that overall staffing for the
project implementation is adequate (para. 51).
60.      Financial and implementation risks associated with the proposed
project are interrelated in that problems in project financing would create
implementation delays. Tnese risks are reduced by: Ci) early project
start-up for which retroactive Bank funding would be made available
(para. 55); (ii) strong Government commitment to the project's timely
implementation and to its funding (para. 53); and (iii) establishment of a
strong PIU to coordinate all project activities and to ensure their timely
completion (para. 51).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.      The Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.



- 22 -
62.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Disbursements against the drug supply component are conditional
upon the saL_sfactory establishment of the Drug Supply Unit (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02 (a) and Schedule 1, para. 3(a)(ii)).
63.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 15, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                              ANNEX I
T AI8L L  1^3A 
RO                   -WCIAL I1IDICATORS DATA SHUT
(MOT  UCIT STnmuAT)
RECINT        MIDDLE 1RUffl          31U013
..olk    1970&±      g37t         V.. AiCA A N  ED T      LAT. MUICA& *CA
AM  (TIuUAM                                                                                    __.  _
TOTAL                              446.6 IC   446.6  s    44   4                  .
AIUIC.rTOLm                        1$2.7 /1    20L I       2L9                    ,
CW   M  CAlPTA (S)                    '10.0       300.0    * 70.0               1149.6                 2106.6
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)       116.0      174.0       25.0               622.1                  995.5
IIUSuAn    MI  SIL   C STMC
POPULATI0H.MIb-TEAR (THOUSAN)   11121.0    14913.0       20269.0
URAN ePUATnION CZ OP TOTAL)        29.3        34.6        41.9                 .266
POPULATION PRoJCTIONS
POPUIATION IN TEAR 2000 (HILL)                            31.2
STATIONAAr POPDLATION (ITLL)                              70.4
POPUILATION HO1NTm                                         1.9
POPUATIO  DEnsm
PER SQ. I3.                       26.0        33.5        44.2               36.3                   35.7
NMi sq. ID. ACRI. LAPD            60.3        74.8        94.5              461.7                   92.4
POPULATION AGIE STRIUCTURE (X)
0-14 RS                           4.6        47.6        45.4               45.6                   39.9
15-4 iS                           S2.6        4B.3        51.6              53.1                   56.0
65 AM ASOE                         L.          4.2         3.1                3.3                    4.1
PO?IJToNU GROWTI  RATE CR)
TOTAL                              2.6         2.5         2.5                2.8                    2.4
URUAN                              3.7         4.2         4.1                4.5                    3,b
crP'DE BRmTH DATE (PER TNOUS)       50.3        47.5        40.'               40.4                   31.3
U114  DEATH RATE PEIR INCUS)       Z.2         10.9        14..               11.5                    8.1
CROSS REPROUDCTIOl RATE              3.5         3.5         3.0                2.3                    2.0
rMALY P1ANNINE
ACCEPTmoRS ANIUAL (TOUS)           ..        25.1        78.0 d.
USERS (C OF ARIER WM )              ..          ..        19.0               22.2                   40.3
FOUD SI NEZITIO
INDEZ OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       99.0        96. n       S.0                97.3                  114.3
ED CAPIlA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREIINTS)     101.0       106.0       115.0              110.1                  110.6
PREIS (CRAMS PFR DAY)             64.0        67.0        73.0              70.1                   67.3
OF WSHCII ANlIAL AND PULSE       14.0       13.0        14.0 _*            17.8                   34.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE         36.8        26.0        22.0               14.6                    5.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT DIR  (YEARS)        66.7        50.6        51.9               57.5                  64.7
INFANT Ho. RATE (PER THOUS)        160.5       134.0       125.0              101.5                  60.6
ACCESS T0 SAFE SATEt (IFOP)
TOTAL                             30.6        51.0        55.0 /d            59.7                   65.4
URBAN                             58.7        92.0        oo.0 7a'          44.5                   78.1
RURAL                             19.0        28.0        25.0 /d            38.4                   46.2
ACCESS Tl EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPLATION)
TOTAL                               *         290           _.                 _.                   52. 9
"                                   ..        75.0          ..                ..                   67.0
RURAL                               ..         4.0          ..                ..                    24.5
POPLATION PEt PHYSICIAN           9410.0    12790.0      10750.0 /f         4345.1                 1917.7
_  POP. PER )iURSINC PERSONl          __      2740.0      1830.07;          1831.1                  815.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL 3E1
TOTAL                            630.0       6SO.0       750.0 Ie           632.9                  367.2
URBN                                ..       450.0       610.0 7           545.5                  411.5
RIMAL                               ..      5310.0      3010.07;           2513.5                2636.3
ADMISSONS PER HOSPITAL  ID            ..        15.5        17.9 1           26.2                   27.3
AERAIX SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOMAL                              4.8         5.5           -
UIN                                4.3         4.9      ,  ..                  .
RURAL                              5.1         5.8
AVERAGE V0. OF PERSOQSJROC
TOTAL                              2.2         2.4
URBAI                              Li          L1.
RURAL                              Z.3         2.6          ..                 .
ACCESS TO ELECr. (: OF vELLINcS)
tlAL                                ..          ..          ..               46.2
-URA1                               ..        68.4        65.0 :;            77.7
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..               16.1



-24-                                                ANNEX I
TABLK  314                                        PACE 2
MOCCO                 - bOcAL ISOICaTos      A DATA Aum
IocCCO                              mpiir anmp (UICTID LVYRAS) to
MST                 (IDST 33013  ESTSAnT) lb
1900b    i97.    2INT%                NIDOL NSU   S         IDiSdTNCOimi
U. ARICA & MD EAT    LAT. AMUCA 6 CAR
ADJUSTED IIOLLUNT RATIOS
fnRDt   TOTAL                     47.0       52.0         75.0              66.3                   105.4
N"I.!                   07.0       67.0 a       7.0              102.5                  106.3
Tows                    27.0       36.0        G0.0               73.0                  104.5 
SECOaRts TOTAL                     5.0       03.0         25.0              43.0                   43.2
W                        7.0       18.0        31.C               52.3                   42.3
rf4L.                  2.0         7.0        20.0               33.0                   44.3
VOCATIONAL (1 or SCONDY)            30.2        2.3          L.S              10.3                   33.6
PUPIL-TSACEI RATIO
P11Y8*1                           42.0       34.0         36.0              30.1                   30.1
SEaXlNDART                         6.0       20.0         20.0              23.1                   16.0
ADULT LITRACT bATE (2)              13.8       21.4         28.0              43.5                   79.5
PASSINCER CARSITIIOSA  POP          10.7       14.9         21.5 .A           17.S                   46.0
RADIO RECEIVZRSITUOUSAND Pop        45.8       62.5        153.9             138.8                  225.6
TV RECEIVESITNOUSAND POP             0.4       11.6         38.9              48.1                  107.2
NEISPARE  (-MAL  GENfRAL
xufrmuzr- CIRCULATION
PER TOUIISAND POPLUTION           22.1       16.2         12.3 /f           31.2                   63.5
CINEW% ADIUL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       1.5        1.5 lb        2.0 7           1.7                    2.8
TOTAL LAMOR FCE TouS)             3389.0     3939.0       5361.0
FIALE (PERCEIT)                   10.0       14.1         16.0              10.8                   23.2
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             62.0       57.0         52.0              42.4                   31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.0       17.0         21.0              27.9                   23.9
PAUTIClPATION RATE (PERCEN
TOTAL                             29.1       26.3         26.5              26.2                   32.2
KALE                              52.1       45.2         44.4              40.4                   69.3
FEKALE                             5.9        7.5         6.5                5.6                   15.2
ECODNDIC DEPEND EC  RATIO            1.6        2.0         1.H                1.8                    1.4
PERCENT OF PKIVAE INCOME
RECEIVED U
HIGHEST 51 OF HOUSEHOLDS          1S.0 J     20.0 /I
HIGHEST 201 OF NOUSEItLS          43.3 3t    49.0 7i       ..                  .
LOWrEST 20 OF HOCSEHOLDS           7.0 71     4.0 71        .
LOMEST 402 OF HOUSEIIOLDS         18.0 71i   12.0 W.
POVERTY TARGT GROUPS
ESXIHATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                            107.0      157.0        3B9.0 /f          274.3                  268.2
NWtAI                             66.0      101.0        23.D rf           177.2                  154.0
ESIUTED RELATIVE POV.RTT INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAI                               ..         ..        242.0 /f          402.6                  522.8
RURAL                               ..         ..        157.07!           2B4.9                  372.4
ESTIKATED POP. SELW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY IEOIIE LEVEL (21
URBIA                             51.0       3B.0        28.0 If
RUlAL                             49.0       45.0        45.0 7.
XDT AVAILALE
POT APPLICABLE
NOTE S
la  The grop averages for eacb tndicator are pops1atinu-mabted aritbmetic scn. Cverage of coetrie  mong the
indicators dependb on avallablity of data and In met unifor.
/b  Unless tberuiee noLed. -elta for 1960D refer to an year beeoan 1959 and 19G1; -Dea for 1970- betren 1969 and
1971: end data for -fjgt sj ecent Eetie. betvee  1960 an  1982.
Jc  Excludes the ex-Spanilh Shara; /d 1976; /a 2977; /f 1979; & t978: b 1972; /1 CGA wtion ezpenditure of
boueaolds.
E1984



ANNEX I
- 25-
mitaiion. Op Wtld. lmutram!L
bese    &llaea  Ib  ds... eie    I         ate    neIpjde   b                 ts.betete*deh.1¼ *...ld  mIl   Ie   el   m.1.  lt.? -t. se,t be Iaw.-ieslty11
e.epiebt  b.eeeo.1  the lee  .1  !tmdpdll".-.lIsI  pde                   t.t e.d by 6ttioPel  eceIe   .  mt.la1kdn.    l. is.. e.                                  lees   sltI
deegatei)ews..    eemd, I.e   sped. ot  pteteld                               -tilAi  mi.1 dillte.e- -     ede      seI-te
-b een.4 ..e..  a..p £1   kBesr.e                 .asp .1 lb  sckj-.ta.-alr  aSl £2)   esal   Im...p silk  .e.[t   lkl   ..'.lrn   oh.  l. F                          sel         -p stlt
esle   t.e.  le.-T. tat 'Uip.            flit ht.prPe   *.         emb,. Ilddle  tee,se  kilt Attlee s."  ll.iil. a te        I. the b-e...    c-qrees.Is.
stIch .1410.  I, Ih.  W -e,e.  p.-riseIt   ee..  at.P.P pep lelI   -in.."d  at1bllsa . ease                            .  twed l....cctheml..l                             dth    anttm b
getep. a..is. te*15   ed.l.   SImeI tI. ell             eiel   S      -I t     iSsip  Lb  ted tete... aIpld. .       t.sslt  IlAt.l    .  l   *elIt~   ate    llb
esserlseed 1. el.a.1S   ...,ego-  .1        trdtrl-.i C. eesk.  TI . ....... a-eIe.l    etlI   pPl51    55    1S.tdrtte   Its.t-.'  te osIyaidi
IA  tb ebaede.b.
esi,  .eLasdtlw          .ase    .i    I  t.l.e.litogg                              sellt  seellweletles.                                                     peaLelm
tilts te  1151  4.e.                                                                                   Pees  e    tkels   e        11 ..  sa   -see  - Pepelwamlee (aIslet.
e'b.o   --    dl.de.lby Itet. *epnIe           f1k..  bseptet beds
te rlecited  5e lefl  l..,t All.. 119-l kIte;                                  eb."lll.lebeagle Ipiet..                         eb"l,t.ebe.cd. pr.-ieteal   s tatEod
11111. lilt. cadl ltUE  S...                                                                               by .i I-            ..1 Ibttts    tscbtsImetwll  P.etlIt ! WSlc1Psiy 1           -.ia
eIl        11-ed    it.   t.piee    ese  1ttd   ft.e1thlb sd
tnaveo limn. ee   IL. *s*s7         s,,-e b-ptte    Icled -a-Lgtlllcrtlsebyterej                                                                                        g besytlelc1  .    petalul
beulee.i-I            I  sl~llssd   dlIsldee-rlcTClOs
dill-oet ei ltmesIsm   eeee   es    l..emp.lIIle  dtms                                               attiell
-e1`t  set.     l.    Ct.-I.re Ill.               e'elletl    7uePO.5                                        I' m  ppwel.  i=ees Cc  l   ekc1  -    .ele.pad..eeeee
legatetli re     lpe         - n    lesel F el ese rsellIaat7.                                          elli.reeeel.be   ea.c ee-lpesstteiece 
pee...  Th         -Wtear   le Fat.11   eteabe   tie.l-.tt.                                             se b'pll      p  lts.    ..   I-1k
sttele   II1ptetst. Ile JbF  deL.t te&-, esS sine. I-l. It.                                       phICCWmlI1
sek    rete p.1 etip.emlsl   lsIy                       i  ele.  es.etI-ie  teed lPell5eme    It" %. pPsi  le    5pil..gle    eseie
pepelete,  m-nts R      ,tse             b   el    il.ieelde. .l.e-                                      re-elI  -.b.e-sp        .eelel    eslpt'ea  etlds  se  I
lclesc   lb   ppell lm   I i. y..  11l  sd Ie  lls.1  releeem                sep  tl e lele  Is  Sllepel1511b151prterysib.les;le
teem  Itly   els  t lspa'.cee  leps .Ieee  La.elI Ieel elesledeta til ecee tee    cap   sist  105  teoc
leeeps IsarotItIst1.  I.ieetec- iIp   es. .e   mll leet           mIe -ins.  -rII.  ia  els  e   b.em   t.  i tmletstel  me
Pet -   be.mItlsIlesI leS -tcepl..dII ec.. lnt eit..ll..-lee             p-  teml  e  ed-t
e       -y e..111 led  it., C.                                                                mneee   ecitlee   l                __om   et ceellsl, .- -tyielllelet
m. pim...     dr..    r    m¶ret  .'.,p1e                                                                               M.iIeetldi.  ll-      rslel..... .lI.dp telleel
PstiIectrel Mt  (a.F. -.5'                   IetalltI,tp                       Il                     IIciedeeee.Icel   ltIt  .eeeer                                                 L sllt   le
tetbms.l  Im. (t,~ il-k,  I..'-e    t.l.emcsmt   eeI
ppemlecIp0          %.t.I        ,.ect'l.5  eteei1.s    el   .r.e  s L-                                                                                    Z  eTep  5i  ste.1-         --
tied  111k Pte  tme  beele . .. .as.,.....                                                                         lelll' ote.ltle....e   It mId-
test pettlielmee. Icc'   lilt. ed  lIe. ds,c.               (entice:  ..~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ale,b.                                                 L.  -
Fcrl II-irt  e..  Ic   ptdI  peepp...pi Lcleee.  u.ll-                                                  at*.  leaterclsle   I..dtelptt-altpem                                   VWatep   ists, te
.pll.Id-...    1,t,e¶. liIp-.-   e~ls.  cI-.  ..tle.11.ee                                            det             Cs  Wft-  "att"t pe    t 5    S         awietla    mele. I    -
liti.                                                                                              Ilessad  ieetucre lset.am lee  gaagItlsap. Oeewo                        S.etm   cIrdl
mleerse.                                                                                        Ttbeelee-.-esteomjsi.,edeltaI -IlvLi-sslueCa i. beaba    -
tIde si  elsPied  Ili p1(stle I115-I II - -l.ce..I-plr-   sr  epllel                                    ble        nllyI   eelt               wtlw             1    e Jaldee`d
basd  -semeee   Leos   peSt..   Ie-Is'.te   lel-dy  ItIl.tedIlk
MiTIelt'ite  eeCl 5I -. Iltl  ll   mI. MGe   .c..     d... emtc                                       ILc=I Itsl. elI        -  51.  stop.. ,c  em  pioets5ea el     ILLs tetu  t-
P.,  mLae.l    e-eIel dI   d   .-dC  . ......ll.t  "sI.  c                                                    ..!..I±zt.1     2  I     ..    c.   e  ese.liee.-mp                        e
it.   Eelssal:1     tIlItit.1 tIc5:4-il le.ds     -  eII   eIC   Ite   t1ea< sIl
sEtM  meete   ie   e    5'    I.p     1IS  cSlcds   m-.Pee I Ittl..  te                                                         sc,)      es   sl1sdile.-%ttlete
eaei-II    e    l   cFIe.   cetltp    . .ereleltc.I..                                                       .tI.il.t   ep'ldeac.     sp   idIul   spitpee
sleseeit        bets   . MITtItl e;SestCtpe.e  sla  et                                                    et  cee  Itlt    eemd   ei cdlt..  Pelt5cteeate.
Iss   liel,  1  'il  II  pe   elp-db  ee;ls         pI.ee       tipItI.lt.-I lise                                                   Itce tesede   tl : peL_ LbteIml                e
ft  -e-e   pietil U.      .ceePIc   I    et.  epedI  tpt   k                                               peelIee   epIe   e lslset
des.twti *'ftttLt
LId  e..IkbbltPteI. -II)esased1 I,  -  ped   eI.eye.                    met[-..I~ncset.se   tl.  tcs  eld 1..l1-Ueled                                                           by itie.      
555 5ip1 p1m    eiltetI   15  a   Ic.list    alctl                                                       pstle-   ii-,tdl  etect.pecee--U:..eeP.Ld  ee-s   to ya ete
WALlet                                                                                           PIlirfl1  758 Matr  ..                       PREe III1-
etblol  lit, l lted dit jets.I.- ,tw- p,..                                                          epeld l      lti,edei   sedlai   edle
el4Pgad   -  pe,,bIteasetfdie  eellae,   llst-  Ittolecdtill  de.                                         eceepeel             e     ldlm  ts           le   sa    eIthd e  mls
beeCl 5 letilatci sure      , ef .lpmLte.l -  llieis.md  me                                       insil le-te   deee' d-I   Ie  seselm   te-ted   eetr.e. m                     mm
eapiel pstl  (tes         bytt l,.sa.-baiet I elt   tse,sbhe -ipu op VId.                       e-lt.etdstVle.
Islet ese-aewd             [etdopease-c-eIeld-[IuldseeteltlptI afotI)  -l teplImD .  tb.s.    ee



- 26 -
Population    : 20.8 Million (Mid-192                                                                                     Alms=
GNP Per Capita: US5 750 (1932)                                                                                        Page 4 of 7
AMOLint-Kome  MOrW8
(million US$ atnal Grwth htg 
current prices)                      Aetual                            Proimetd
rndicator                   198          1123   197   lS8    1081   l9S2   loS3  1.931 8/ l5   1936   19S7
MATTOIAL A_OU
Gross do mtic product a?    13301         2.2    4.8    3.6  -1.3   6.8    2.2    2.4        4.3   2.7    2.8
Agriculture                2247       13.0  -1.7    6.1  -22.9   19.9  -4.6    2.1        5.1    2.0   2.0
Industry                   4247       -0.9    7.7  -2.5  -0.1    2.2   3.1    0.8         3.0    3.0    2.0
Services                   5911        4.0   5.1    6.4   6.1    6.4    5.0    3.2        4.7    3.0   3.0
Consumption                  11794        4.2    5.8    2.5    1.9   6.0    0.5    1.1       4.2    1.6   1.7
Gross investment              2737      -25.9    1.3  -7.3  -9.6    7.0  -14.4    6.0        0.5  -3.4  -1.6
Exports of GUFS               2993        2.3    0.9    3.6    2.2    5.3    7.6   4.8       4.2    8.7   9.2
Inports of GNFS               4222      -17.4    3.3  -9.3   4.1    3.7  -11.0    3.9        0.4  -0.1    2.0
Gross national savings        1863      -16.4    3.2    6.0  -33.4    3.9   21.9  14.5       4.7   8.1    8.5
GDP deflator  lU98S = 100)      .        55.4   91.7  100.5  110.8  121.8  125.0  139.9
Exchange rate (USS per ON)      .        .240   .256   .254   .03   .166   .141   .114
Share of GDP at Market Prices (1)                          Aveure Amual Increase (XI
(at current orices s /             (at constant 1969 prices)      (at constant 1930 prices)
i1a   T9i0  1975s0i7 l9R07 198S   T4       1907
Gross domestic product                                                  4.0       4.3       5.3            2.7         2.8
Agriculture            29.1  19.9  17.9  18.1  14.4  14.0            3.S      -1.4       4.4           -0.7         2.3
Industry               23.S  27.0  3S52   32.3   31.0  31.3          4.7       7.1       4.1            1.6         3.0
Services hl            47.4  53.1   46.9  49.6  54.6  54.7           4.1       S.S       6.2            4.4         2.8
Consumption               89.2  85.5  83.5  88.5  88.1  84.2            4.1       4.8       5.0            2.3         1.9
Gross investment          10.3  18.5  25.4   22.6  17.4  14.7           8.0      12.2      -1.1           -2.7        -0.7
Exports GNFS              27.4  17.6  22-5  18.4  20.7  26.3            1.3       0.0       4.8            3.2         7.9
Imports GNFS              26.9  21.6   33.4   29.4  26.2   25.2         3.5       7.9       1.7           -0.7         2.1
Gross national savings    11.0  14.8  19.3   14.6  12.2  1S.9           3.5      14.2      -4.5           -1.4         8.4
As X of GOP
Man   nn    nn    nn   ma    nu
.-UBLIC FINAIICE
Current revenues                              16.5      16.1      23.3      21.6      22.7      22.2
Current expenditures                          15.6      14.5      20.2      21.8      22.6      22.7
Surplus Ce) or deficit (-1                     0.9       1.6       3.1      -0.2       0.1      -0.5
Capital expenditure                            3.8       5.7      12.2      12.2      13.8       8.4
Foreign financing                               ..       1.3       3.7       5.6       7.2       3.6
1960 70  1970 75   1975-8  l0    85--   1985 90
OTHER INDICATORS
GSP growth rate Ct)                            4.0       6.0       4.9       2.3       2.6
GNP per capita growth rate 1t)                 1.6       3.1       1.8      -0.2       0.1
Energy consumption growth rate Ct)             3.8       6.7       5.6       3.2       2.8
XCOR                                           3.09      3.0       4.1       8.3       5.7
Marginal savings rate                          0.10      0.38     -0.15      0.13      0.42
Import elasticity                              0.95      1.84      0.13     -0.25      0.75
AV  Components are expressed net of Import-taxes and will not add to the total due to this exclusion.
l/ Import taxes included in services.
fi  Projectd years at constant 1980 prices.
_/ Estiate.
Mtay 2, 1985
EMENA CP 114E
ID 01808lU



- 27 -
Population    : 20.8 million (mid-1983)                                                                                        MIEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 750 (1983)                                                                                            Page S of 6
tilRD - tlXTENAL TRADE
Amount
Indicator                 (million USS at                  Annual Growth Rates (XI (at ronstant 190Q prices)
current prices)                        Actual                                Proiected
1983              E         198Z        1983      IIim JIm 1i5               8
EXTERNALITRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)             2086              4.0        1.1        10.2         8.4          3.6        8.       9.4
Primary products                   1251            -2.9       -11.8         4.7        8.S           3.6        3.4       3.4
Phosphate rock                  496             -5.4       -10.6         4.8        5.8           4.0       3.0        3.0
Others                          755             -1.0       -12.6         4.5       18.5           3.2       3.7        3.7
Intermediate & manufactures        835             25.2        32.0        19.1        8.1           3.6       16.3      17.0
Merchandise imports (CIF)             3626              4.4        6.1        -7.5         7.5         -0.4        0.4       1.9
Food                               534             22.9       -18.8        -5.3       21.9          -9.6      -5.4        0.5
Fuels                              988             10.6        -1.8         0.7        9.6           0.0       0.0        0.0
Machinery and equipment             682             -3.3       30.0       -26.2        4.6           0.0       -4.6      -3.2
Others                             1422            -3.2        13.3        -3.3        2.2           3.2       4.9        5.3
PRICES (1980 = 10e)
Export price index                                    119.4      123.1       134.6      159.1         181.3      203.5     226.6
Import price index                                    128.2      139.8       149.3      187.0         207.0      228.7     2S1.5
Terms of trade index                                   93.1       88.0        90.1       85.1          87.6       89.0      90.1
Composition of merchandise Trade (Z)                      Averae Annual Increase (%I
tat current prices)                  tConstant 1969 prices)           fConstant 1980 prices)
47       95      9Q     195      19         1970-7S       1-975-80             128eR=K     1985-go
Exports                                                                         -1.3            6.8                  5.8       7.9
Primary products                89.4    86.9    75.5    58.5    47.1          -2.8           5.3                   0.3       3.3
Intermediates & manufactures   10.6    12.9    24.5    41.5    52.9            7.6          12.8                  17.8      13.2
Imports                                                                          8.6            0.7                  1.-       2.1
Food                            16.9    25.0    16.8    16.0    14.1          13.1           2.9                 -0.1       -0.2
Petroleum                        5.5    10.8    23.5    25.7    25.0           9.1           5.2                   3.4       1.6
Machinery and equipment         24.1    24.0    18.8    16.6    14.1          12.0           -7.3                 -1.3      -1.3
Others                          53.5    40.2    40.9    41.7    46.8           5.2            2.8                  2.5       4.4
Share of Trade with             Share of Trade with           Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries tS         Develomina Countries (t)  Capital Surolus Oil Exporters (tS
JIM0      112!      111!        1960       1970      JIM         ian       312! J1980I
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                        72.3       73.7      76.5        27.7       25.4      21.6                   0.9           1.9
Imports                        76.7       74.9      72.9        23.3       25.1       8.3                                18.8
zi Esti1ate.
May 2. 1985
EMENA CPIIB
IO0180Bp3
'1



- 28 -
Population    : 20.8 million (mid-1983)                                                                            MuEX r
GNP Per Capita:  USS 750 (1983)                                                                                Page 6 of 6
Imencr  -. BIAOLANEO  PyEi.    EA  CAPITAL AND DIEBT
(million     at curr nt prices)
Indicator                                             Actual                                   Protected
1221   1§92   1931   198.1   ISI2   19[3   III!"'   1281   1931   1987   1398
BALANCE Of PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services         295S   3694   4364   4132   3843   3921   4070         4523   5319   6264   9730
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.    14t8   1936   2414   2283   2043   2036   2153           2437   2977   3628   6066
InPorts of goods and services         4353   5268   5912   6095   5912   4888   5147         5412   59"3   6708   9325
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.    2628   3245   3770   3840   3815   3298   3586           3783   4196   4700   6637
Net current transfers                  s5      44    128    102    170       94      97        70      74     77     89
Current account balance              -1348  -1510  -1420  -1861  -1899   -873   -981        -419   -600   -367    494
Net Direct Foreign Investment           45      37    199    73    102       47      51        56     62      68     91
Official Grants                        260    420      96    313    204      44      16         -       -      -       -
KLT loans (net)                        890   1017   1036   1103   1354    230    606         1087    997    909   -427
Official                            388    341    722   1033    740    340    389          661    713    693   -216
Private                             502    676    314      70    614   -110    217         426    284    216   -211
Other capital (net)                    215      -4     79    291    323    541    424        -209   -368   -312   -107
Change In reserves                     -63     61   18       81    -84       11   -115      -116    -90   -298    -51
International reserves                 772    917    814    S10    540    376    440          556    646    944   1025
Of which:  Gold                     154    360    415    280    322    269    217          217    217    217    217
Reserves as onths imports              2.1    2.1    1.7    1.0    1.1    0.9    1.0          1.2    1.3    1.7    1.3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND OEM
Gross disbursements                   1446   1826   1711   2047   2310    884   1208
Official Grants                     260    420      96    313    204      44      16
Concessinal loans                  325    294    761    889    557    209    284
DAC                               91     77    100    126    125       49    145
OPEC                             189    168    584    746    401    115       79
IDA                                -      -       1      1       1      1      3
Other                             45     49      76     16      30     43     57
Non-concessional loans              861   1112    854    845   1549    631    906
Official export credits            3      2      12     54    103      50    144
EBRO                              7Z    137     64      99    134    174    240
Other multilateral                53      7      13    123      70     23     23
Private                          732    965    765    570   1243    383    s02
Suppliers credits              10      8      12     26     52       8     16
Financial credits and bonds 722    957    753    543   1191    375    486
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed   5144   6204   7189   79e3   9054   9445  10S12
Official                        2476   2853   3496   4373   5004   5894   6596
Private                        2668   3350   3612   3610   4049   3552   3916
Undisbursed debt                   2284   2403   Z154   3146   Z467   3638   3318
Debt service
Total service pavments              S48    801   1193   1266   1334   1120   1189
Interest                         ZS3    41Z    614    634    581    S10    603
Payments as t exports of G+S       18.5   21.7   27.3   30.6   34.7   Z8.6   29.Z
Average interest rate on new loans CSM  7.0    8.2    8.2    8.4   10.1    7.4    8.1
OfFicial                               4.9    S.2    3.8    3.7    6.9    5.5    6.8
Private                                9.7   11.1   13.4   13.7   11.8   10.5   11.6
Average maturity of new loans lyears)  13.2   15.7   13.7    9.5   11.0   15.9   15.7
OfFicial                              16.3   21.7   18.6   11.6   19.7   21.1   19.3
Private                                9.1    9.8    7.9    7.1    6.3    7.6    8.1
As S of Debt Outatandina at End of Mast Recent Year 11983)
Miturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                               48.8
Maturities due within 10 years                              80.4
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                               5.9
g/ Estimate
Hay 2. 1985
EMDIA CP 114C
10 alfl8p4/5



- 29 -
STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS
A.  STATEIENT OF BANK LOANS ANp IDA CgEOITS A.'
(AS of March 31. 19853
Loan or                                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Credit                                                               USS Million
kMa    That          Blro                 Purpose           lank               Undtsbursd
Thirty four Loans rully disbursed                          897.08
Five Credits fully disbursed                                         45.16
1416    1977    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          41.0                  IS.39
1602    1978    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           50.0                 36.60
1681    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Education             58.0                 63.94
1695    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Power                 42.0                 2S.02
1724    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply          49.0                 13.6B
17S7    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           E8.0                 31.55
1830    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways              62.0                 14.2B
1848    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           24.0                 17.01
1943    1981    CIN                    Tourism             100.0                 42.09
1944    1981    Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development  25.0                    21.46
2006    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    water Supply          87.0                 69.46
2037    1982    8NDE                    DFC                 70.0                 49.10
2038    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SS3              40.0                 38.35
2082    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           24.0                 22.43
2109    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                 9.S                  8.69
2110    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Forestry               7.S                 25.19
2114    1982    ONAREP                  Oil Shale           11.2                  S.00
2149    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Education            S.0                  46.21
2217    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           30.0                 29.02
2245    1983    CIN                     Housing Oevt.       60.0                 57.30
2253    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           42.0                 41.31
2254    1983    Klngdom of Morocco    Highways              85.0                 83.25
2271    1983    ONAREP                 Oil Exploration    75.2                   44.32
2272    1903    Ktngdom of Moi cco    village Infrastr.  16.0                    1S.B0
2367    1904    CNCA                   Agric. Credit       115.4                 77.6B
2277    1904    Kingdom of Morocco    Indust. & Trade
Policy Adjust.   150.4
2477    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Voc.Training          27.1 A
2487    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Elec.& Mec.Ind        25.1 A
2508    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Jerada Coal min.   27.0 A
Total                                               2408.48    45.16
of which has been reoaid                          4AL59        2.19
Total now outstanding                               2002.99    42.99
Amount Sold                       20.11
of which has been repaid        20.11                0-0       0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      2002.99    42.99
Total undisbursed                                                          89L.72
j/ Not signed as at 3/31/85.
B. STATEMENT OF [FC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31. 1983)
USS Million
Fiscal Year                                                   LouM      Eguatv   Total
1963/197B/1984  ONDE                Development Bank          37.6      2.7       40.3
1966            CIL                 Canning Factory            0.9      0.5        1.4
1976            Marrakech Cement   Cement Factory               -       1.3        1.3
1977/1980       Temara Cement       Cement Factory            4.7       3.6        8.3
1979            Agadir Cement       Cement Factory            12.5      2.2       14.7
1980            SOMIFER             Copper Mining             13.0      2.3       15.3
1981/1983       Casablanca Cement Cement Factory              iS.B      2A        17.a
Total Gross Commitments                                     84.5     14.6       99.1
Less cancellation. tenrmnations. repayments and sales  4L4          L3.       4S 2
Total commitments now held by IFC                           41.0     11.1       52.2
Total Undisbursed                                                     0.3        0.3
* Agadir Cement has been cancelled.
10.04790 p2/3
OS/07/85



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Pag81 of 2
KINGDOH OF MOROCCO
BHALTH DEVEWPMMNT PROJECT
SUPPLMNTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project;                About 4 years
(b)  Project preparation responsibility:           Ministry of Public Health
with the help of consultants
(c)  Project first identified by Bank              September 1979
(d)  Bank Appraisal mission                        September/October 1984
Ce)  Negotiations                                  April 1985
(f)  Board presentation                            June 1985
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:                 October 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Disbursement:
(i) Disbursements against the drug supply component would not be made
until the Borrower hds established the Drug Supply Unit with terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para. 55).
(d) Other Conditions:
(i)  The Borrower would prepare for Bank review by December 31, 1986,
an action plan for improving MOPH management, and would implement
such plan as shall have been agreed with the Bank (para. 48).
(ii)  The Borrower would appoint by December 31, 1985, an
Interministerial Steering Committee for the Health Financing
Study, furnish to the Bank for_review and comments by December
1988, the final results and recommendations of the study with a
view to adopting appropriate strategies for the development of the
sector (para. 48).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iii) The Borrower would furnish to the Bank for review by December 31,
1988 the findings and recommendations of the Ho3pital Management
Study, and would implement such recommendations as shall have been
agreed with the Bank (para. 48).
(iv) The Borrower would furnish to the Bank for review by December 31
of each year the following year's detailed program for the
production and utilization of IEC materials, and thereafter
implement such program taking into account the Bank's comments
(para. 49).
(v)   The Borrower would maintain, through separate budgetary
allocations, adequate financing for the Drug Supply Unit over the
duration of the project (para. 50).
(vi)  The Borrower would ensure that DICP would continue to carry out
its operations with the assistance of full time, qualified and
experienced staff-in adequate numbers over the duration of the
project (para. 47).
(vii)   The Borrower would maintain, for the duration of the project, the
PIU with powers, orgacization, staff and terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 51).
gviii)   The Borrower would submit to the Bank, by December 31, 1987, the
mid-term evaluation report of the project including an evaluation
of the replicability of the PUC system and would implement such
recommendations as shall have been agreed with the Bank (para. 56).



a  -                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IB ID 1165
10      9,                                  9"0                                      MOROCCO                  '
7. ,a.r*.                                                flw                        HEALTH DEVELOPMENT
ESSAOUIRA                                        V    $:                         PROJECT I                  i
r4ow m of foe Wow~ &-AAGADIR PROVINCE
VW kkwmh.mO r.uw
. . ........                       am &W .Iww  ohmSING              °O      Heolth Facilitiest
......                                     4n IN NO do rot*-~  M> Cn re, , ,*  *      Basic Dispensaries
)W    I  001 /  _-X  **_  0r  *    *      Dispenscries
- ,,.  - !ff  T  D _d   /   *   Health Centers
,/| r           c | Hospitals
(                          fKJI.'O° 10TERS13                                                              Extension of a Hospital
Imm.uzrer Ida au Tonr                                                                      om    WW  >/ FKIlOMETERS  t     r  )Ww V r d   bw l   &w  _    w   S
ATLAS  Phsical Features
Eletions in rnmters:
2000
\k      OwdY  1° O ed_lS00
1500
30130'            Tomraght                                       to di Boi                                            O
An         ed  SOUSI                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
AnzrJ90*4  /   L°d m"j,_           _ /                            _    Urban Area
Main Roads
Daba11e,.1  Y;   T A R O U D A N T    : t                   _. _            'SecondaryRoads
lloul  Do  TAROUDANT                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Provincial Boundaries
International Boundaries
Intemational Boundary
(opproximate) -
Ocean                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Indicates the Territory of the
. - Imi Moorn .  -           _                       Former Spanish Sahara
d 1  2  2  Ail Am'ro   G   * c- -s;xi,.c   ',                                (Western Sahara)
* - : / rl~~nchoden                  . . :C 
SPAIN47
I    /}*¢J    xCe47    !    r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II'
, b rwsw ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                     -.  *I . S   
''TlHZNAITD\;;@  \          -- OcMALIan0
3000'   ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~      ~~~~~~S57TAT~~~~~~~~~3,0
Canar Is.AGD 
.  Sai MAURITANIA   |
10 0'                               9  '                                   o                       '  '



SIO                                                            ,,,           riovMOROCCO
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT I
MARRAKECH                                                                                                  TAROUDANT PROVINCE
H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,,                                                                                         Sasir Dl,zpuuwhs!^  1
;,-*    S       Dispensawima
0          ~~~Health Cnton
oj'eT                                                                      Physical F-atlm
Eleratien in m.twur
S<.               mg Ao                                            T         A                                   | |            -   n            B        .|
V'.                             4 -                                                     ProAr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nicate BI. Abrriaya  h
Aous                                                                           0                        Intmotional B&A*  N  0k2
Aem moqwA ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~ ~       *e~A~Id  
El 904AG                                                                                                                             Indicates the TaM   of theIII_____
W~~ - ~  IP ~~b me I
AGADIR                                                                              . .  ..............                              At W nfWy p   wn         .
Ocean.
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0'
'SETTAT 
|z   IIZNT        <                                                                                                        {t          MAUiTANIS          M AU
~~~~~6                                                                                                                     .\  a                       AlGER



ku, -c'..                                                               1vaa  OO  OROCCO
j,:   ':   :;  :                                                                                                                         . :            :  .  ,    .  :  .
&;jV wo                                                                    HEALTH DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT I
SETTAT PROVINCE
*  *    ~~~~Basic Dbspenuariha
BEN                I                      S     Dapamores
;' |  '   />(  y/@   \ SLIMANE  M m    | *    *      HeltiCrs
rri            *n< .a MX bike - .m  ,
JJ.     'E^E§ vati s"    in meters:
- 7  /        2_ Urbvn Area
di MeAte    0  ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~       ~        -    Main Rod
-Sewariary Roads
Abbou   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--Provincial Boundaries
in. t60 1w0 ar ti' :na-
C: \ \ I A Oe \ .~~ ^yirdiates " elenriterof th
UJ * \W>a    -ste,m,.
<                                                                            0/ _
\" Abbtu                  @                  5 _S                    Ocean
Arbo d" OuW 11VAN                 MOROC9
cw_l~ AGADh
r.    t  j         S   jx Obd  x         ~ ~~~~~~~~B E NI  |     .ALGERLA
EL KELAA  D)ES SRARHNA                                         Krok_  J    ELA              JsMA
r?D'~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  MAURrTANIA  -N 6-;_
arrn-  KTM



