Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14675
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2572-MOR)
JUNE 26, 1995
Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At appraisal:
US$1 = Dirham (DH) 9.47
DH1 = US$0.106
1986-1994 Period Average
US$ 1 = DH 8.4
DH 1 = US$ 0.120
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   African Development Bank
FP     Family Planning
IEC    information, Education and Communication
GDP   Gross Domestic Product
MCH Maternal and Child Health
MOPH Ministry of Public Health
PPF Project Preparation Facility
SIAAP Service d'Infrastructure des Actions Ambulatoires Provinciales
(Division in charge of ambulatory services at provincial level)
UAM Unite d'Approvisionnement en Medicaments (Drug Supply Unit)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D C 20433
U.S.A
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 26, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Morocco
Health Development Project (Loan 2572-MOR)
Attaclhed is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Morocco Health Development project
(Loan 2572-MOR, approved in FY85) prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office.
Part 1I was prepared by the Borrower.
The main objective of the project was to accelerate the transition from an urban based and
hospital-oriented health system to a more cost-effective system of primary care services emphasizing
outreach in rural areas. To achieve this objective the project was to (a) strengthen primary health care
delivery, including family planning, in three provinces; (b) strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of
Public Health (MOPH) in planning, training, research, evaluation and health service administration;
and (c) improve the supply, distribution and control of drugs.
Implementation of primiary health care activities in the three pilot provinces was successful as
demonstrated by improvements in the accessibility of services and service utilization. Efforts to
strengthen the support system were less successful partly because the MOPH was reorganized several
times during project implementation. Moreover, the training and health education activities included in
the original project design were absorbed into projects financed by other donors and were not evaluated
in the PCR. Studies of hospital management and health financing were delayed, but eventually proved
useful to the borrower. The drug supply component was a source of considerable discussion
throughout project implementation, and resulted in little apparent impact on drug policy.
The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. Improvements in the approach to primary
health care delivery piloted under the project are being extended to non-project provinces. However,
the financial sustainability of the primary health care approach established by the project is uncertain,
and is the subject of a continuing dialogue with the borrower. Sustainability is therefore rated as
uncertain. Institutional development is rated as modest as systems for assuring local adaptation of
service delivery models remain dependent on continued prodding from the central administration rather
than on improved organization and better incentives in regional and local administrations.
The PCR provides an adequate account of project implementation. An audit is planned.
Attachment                                          <T
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface..
Evaluation Summary   ..........................................
PART I. Project Review from Bank's Perspective  ......                  .................. 1
- Background ..........................................1
- Project Objectives and Description  ...........1.....................  I
- Project Design .......................................... 4
- Project Implementation  ........................................   5
- Project Results and Outcome ..................................... 5
- Project Sustainability and Future Operation ............................  8
- Bank Performance  .........................................    9
- Borrower Performance ........................................ 10
- Key Lessons Learned  ........................................   10
PART lI. Project Review from Borrower's Perspective  ....... .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
PART III. Statistical Information   .................  ...  ....  ...  ....  .                    .   19
- Table 1:   Related Bank Loans/Credits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
- Table 2: Project Timetable .20
- Table 3: Loan/Credit Disbursements .21
- Table 4:   Selected Monitoring and Impact Indicator in the Project Area .21
- Table 5: Studies Included in Project .22
- Table 6A: Project Costs ..............................                                          23
- Table 6B: Project Financing . ..............................                                    23
- Table 7:   Status of Legal Covenants  ............................  .  24
- Table 8:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  ...........................   .  25
- Table 9:   Bank Resources: Missions  ..............................  26
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2572-MOR)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Health Project in the Kingdom of
Morocco, for which loan 2572-MOR in the amount of US$28.4 million equivalent was
approved on June 6, 1985 and made effective on July 29, 1986.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1993 after two extensions from its original closing
date of December 31, 1991. Final disbursement took place on April 12, 1994, at which time
a balance of US$ 2.6 million was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by Claire Voltaire, MN1HR of the MENA region and reviewed
by Roslyn G. Hees, Division Chief, MN1HR, and Rene Vaurs, Acting Project Adviser,
MN1DR.
Preparation of this PCR was begun during the Bank's final completion mission in May
1994. It is based on material in the project file, on the Borrower's financial completion
report and on its impact evaluation of the basic health component which was carried out by
the three pilot provinces and the Institut National d'Administration Sanitaire. (See Annex).






- iii -
MOROCCO
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2572-MOR)
Evaluation Summary
Project Obiectives and Description
1.  The project aimed at accelerating the shift from an urban-based hospital-oriented health
system to a more cost-effective system of primary care emphasizing outreach activities in the
rural areas. To that end, the project included four components which aimed at improving: (i)
primary care delivery in three pilot provinces by strengthening the infrastructure and
equipment as well as the logistics and monitoring of the programs delivery, and the training
of medical staff; (ii) the management capacity of the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) at
both central and provincial levels, in terms of planning, training, research and evaluation,
and health service administration; (iii) training and IEC programs; and (iv) the supply of
basic drugs by establishing a coordinated system for the procurement, storage, formulation,
packaging, distribution and control of drugs for the public system.
Summary of Findings
2.  The project has mixed results. Two of the four components were completed:
a.  The Primary Health Care component was fully implemented in its physical and
"software" aspects though a large share of the new facilities only became functional at
the veiy end of the project; to date 29 health facilities out of the 126 (more than 20%)
built remain closed due to insufficient staff to man them. In contrast, reorganization of
service delivery, planning, supervision and monitoring methods were put in place at the
start of the project and are well assimilated by staff in all three provinces. The project
has indeed permitted to improve population coverage.
b.  It is difficult to measure the extent to which the project has strengthened MOPH
management capacity as the ministry underwent several reorganizations during project
implementation. While management of civil works certainly improved, procurement,
program budgeting and resource allocation remain serious issues for the MOPH. The
outcome of the two studies on the financing of the health sector and on hospital
management which were carried out is uneven: (i) the health financing study was of
good quality and served as a basis to the discussions on health financing reforms which
have culminated with the preparation by the Government, with Bank support, of a
health insurance reform proposal; (ii) the Hospital Management Study output is more
difficult to assess as its diagnostic phase was never followed by the prospective one that
was intended to specify and test the options for reform.
c.  Training and IEC Component: Only 25% of the funds allocated to this component
were disbursed, due to the availability of bilateral funds to finance training activities.
d.  Improvement in the supplv of basic drugs: This component remains incomplete.
Equipment for the drug Unit built under the project has yet to be purchased and, despite
some improvements, the Central Pharmacy organization, procedures for the
procurement and distribution of drugs remain an issue for the MOPH.



- iv -
4.   Several factors adversely affected project implementation. In particular: (i) the lack of
counterpart funds as a result of the economic situation, delays in allocation and release of
funds and the weak capacity of MOPH to manage commitments and disbursements; (ii)
frequent organizational and staff changes in the MOPH which resulted in a lack of continuity
of the dialogue; and (iii) the relative passivity of the Bank contribution in its comments to
studies and progress reports and in proposing remedial actions. The main findings of this
post-evaluation are the following:
a.   The financial sustainability of the system needs to be addressed without delay. The
MOPH has already integrated this lesson in its dialogue and indicated its intention to
proceed with new investments only when the sustainability of the sector has been
addressed i.e, when adequate investment and more importantly recurrent resources can
be secured. To that end, the preparation of the proposed FY96 Health Management and
Financing Project has been halted. If project does not proceed, the health sector
sustainability should be addressed through the FY96 Social Priorities Project.
b.   The overall organization of the pharmaceutical sector and the provision of drugs to the
public sector need to be reviewed. A thorough review of the pharmaceutical sector and
the development of a drugs policy for the public sector should be carried out prior to
any further financing of drugs in a project.
c.   The policies and proiect activities cannot be divorced from their implementation
structure: The current organization of the MOPH and of the medical provinces is ill-
adapted to the objectives pursued by the MOPH and discourage efficiency and
accountability. While MOPH is fully aware of this issue and has prepared a new
organizational chart more in line with its objectives, it has not yet been implemented.
Implementation arrangements for future projects should be an integral part of their
design and should take into account the overall organizational structure of the Ministry,
or should not proceed without addressing needed changes.
d.   The impact of the strategies deployed to deliver basic services (fixed facilities outreach
techniques and better organization) should be assessed carefully to facilitate the
development of a cost-efficient approach, adaptable to the specificities of each region.
e.   The Bank should have a more pro-active attitude in its comments and proposals for
remedial actions (ie. restructuring of the project, increasing the supervision of
"pilot/demonstrative" aspects of the project). The preparation of new projects should
not start before the results of the previous project can be built on, and lessons learned
so as to be integrated into the new design.
5.   Overall assessment. The project results are partly satisfactory. The improved approach
to the delivery of primary health care is being adopted in non-project provinces, although the
financial sustainability of the approach remains uncertain and is being examined as part of
the Bank's dialogue in the country.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2572-MOR)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
BACKGROUND
1.    In the late 1970s, Morocco faced major economic and financial difficulties. While
the population was increasing rapidly, GDP growth slowed down, fiscal and external
imbalances reached peak levels, in particular after the 1979 drought and unemployment
increased, varying between 22 to 30 percent. In 1980, with Bank and IMF support, the
Government adopted an ambitious plan for recovery aimed at liberalizing the economy and
redressing fiscal imbalances. The prospect of a period of financial constraints resulting
from these reforms induced the Government to examine the possible impact of dwindling
average family income and food availability on the population health status. At the time,
Maternal and Child Health (MCH), Family Planning (FP) and nutrition programs reached
less than one-third of the target population, transportation costs for outreach activities were
soaring and budgetary allocations for drugs were grossly insufficient. The MOPH endeavored
to review its strategy, placing emphasis on the expansion of primary health to the entire
population. Such strategic thinking was integrated in the 1981-85 National Economic Plan.
2.    The Government's medium- and long-term objectives for the population, health and
nutrition sectors, which project objectives derived from, included:
a.   in population, to control demographic growth so as to limit size to 30 million
or less by 2000 by stepping up population activities and raising contraceptive
prevalence;
b.    in health and nutrition, to minimize the impact of the economic crisis on the
health of the population, to improve MOPH's management and hospital
performance, and identify cost-effective alternatives to the current health and
nutrition programs. Because of its heavy dependance on external funds, the
Government's long-term objectives were to secure an adequate financing
scheme for health care activities and eliminate pockets of malnutrition by
raising domestic food production.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.          The project objectives, as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report, were to assist
the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) in strengthening and accelerating its on-going shift
from an urban-based hospital-oriented health system to a more cost-effective system of
primary care emphasizing outreach activities in the rural areas.
4.    The project consisted of four components which aimed at:



2
a.     strengthening primary health care in three provinces as a means to test a new
delivery scheme before its implementation countrywide. Special attention was
given to six core programs: immunization, FP, MCH, nutrition, front-line
curative care and basic sanitation. The organization of the system was
conceived to deliver these programs through polyvalent purpose staff,
according to several types of strategies adapted to local conditions (terrain,
population density..) by using a different mix of types of facilities, outreach
techniques and staff. To achieve this objective, the following activities were to
be implemented: upgrading and expanding the physical infrastructure;
providing equipment; training of health staff; improving logistics and
monitoring implementation to allow continuous adjustments. To that end, the
project financed construction and rehabilitation of buildings, equipment, drugs,
per-diems and vehicles;
b.     strengthening the management capacity of MOPH at central and provincial
levels. The objectives were to improve capacities in terms of health sector
planning, staff training, research and evaluation, and public health service
administration, as a necessary condition for a large scale extension of the
health care delivery experience to the rest of the country. Specifically, this
component was to: (i) strengthen the planning capacity of the MOPH
Infrastructure and Planning Department, in which the Project Unit was based;
(ii) improve MOPH administration in particular in the areas of program
budgeting and resource allocation, procurement and bidding procedures, civil
works and maintenance, and management of personnel; and (iii) support the
implementation of a health services monitoring and evaluation system and the
realization of two studies on the financing of the health sector and hospital
management. To that end, the project financed technical assistance and expert
services, training and equipment;
c.     strengthening training and IEC programs; specifically this component was to:
(i) strengthen the capacity to train paramedical personnel by completing the
pedagogic equipment of a college of public health which had been financed
under the Bank Third Education Project; and (ii) increase the capacity of the
MOPH Health Education unit to produce IEC materials by providing audio-
visual, printing and graphic equipment as well as technical assistance and
fellowships for the production and dissemination of IEC materials; and
d.    improving the supply of basic drugs by (i) improving procedures and
establishing a coordinated system for the procurement, storage, formulation',
packaging, distribution and control of drugs for the public health system; and
/f   Formulation is the fuial stage of drug production, from intermediate ingredients to final or finished form. It consists of simple
mechanical operations such as mixing, solving or dispersing and fragmentation into dosage forms.



- 3 -
(ii) redefining the respective roles of the Pharmacie Centrale, the National
Drug Control Laboratory and the Drug Supply Unit (UAM) to be created
under the project. Disbursements on this component were conditioned upon
the creation of the structure in charge of managing this unit. To this end, the
project was to finance the construction of storage, packing and shipment space,
a packaging unit and a small formulation laboratory as well as the related
equipment, training and technical assistance.
5.    Clarity of Objectives. Overall, the project objectives were well defined and were an
integral part of the Government objectives which were also supported by other donors and
international organizations involved in Morocco (UNICEF, USAID, WHO). They were
consistent with the Bank assistance strategy in the social sectors which included improving
basic social services in rural areas and encouraging a shift from capital and foreign exchange
intensive hospitals to expanding basic health services.
6.    The degree of Government commitment to the project varied between components:
a.    The extensive preparation work carried out by the MOPH over the period
1979-1984 for the Primary Health component with the support of a project
preparation facility (PPF), ensured a good understanding of the concepts and a
strong ownership especially at provincial levels;
b.    The second component -- Management -- responded to the perceived needs of
the MOPH and was meant to support its on-going structural reorganization.
With regards to the studies, addressing sector financing and hospital
management issues was rightly perceived by the Borrower as a means to
develop a sustainable system in the medium and long term.
C.    The third component --Training and IEC-- aimed at completing activities
started in the Third Education Project (Loan 1220T-MOR), and as such its
objectives were not reassessed and its implementation not expected to be
problematic.
d.    While the objectives of the last component -- the improvement of the supply of
basic drugs - were shared by all involved, the means to achieve them seem to
have been ambiguous from the on-set of the project. There has been no doubt
that the creation of the drug unit and the reorganization of the drug supply
system were fully justified from a public health perspective. However, the
scope of this component and the private pharmaceutical sector seem to have
evolved early in the project, increasing doubts as the economic viablility of the
approach adopted.



-4 -
PROJECT DESIGN
7.    This first Bank project in the health sector in Morocco initially included two
components: basic health services and management capacity. Its design aimed mainly at
creating a replicable model of basic health care while at the same time, strengthening the
MOPH management capacity. It was also aimed at building a knowledge base, in particular
in the areas of sector financing and hospital management which would have helped increase
sector sustainability and would have permitted to build on initial achievements. The IEC and
drugs supply components were added at a later stage of preparation, and their integration in
the main concept of the project was not as strong.
8.    The design of the project aimed successfully at improving the technical aspects of
basic health care delivery, as well as the management of programs. The health planning
activity which took place was a bottom-up effort in which each provincial unit defined its
problems, goals, management modes and monitoring tools. However, the functional links
between this unit (Service d'infrastructure des actions ambulatoires provinciales, SIAAP) in
charge of ambulatory care and inter alia of the six core programs supported by the project,
the medical province and the different departments at the central level were not redefined to
ensure the coherence of the project with the overall organizational structure of the system .
This may be explained by the fact that the MOPH was, at the time of appraisal, under-going
a structural reorganization to eliminate the existing dichotomy between the administrative and
technical functions. As a result the provinces had to concentrate their efforts in
implementing as best as they could, directives from the central level, sometimes to the
detriment of the more pro-active approach promoted by the project, in which they defined
their objectives and strategies according to local priorities.
9.    In the early 1990s, the MOPH underwent another reorganization which increased the
number of departments at central level and provided them with increased autonomy. The
provinces found themselves faced with an even greater number of interlocutors. Basic core
programs were rightly being delivered by the same multi-purpose medical staff, and their
supervision, monitoring and evaluation done by the same persons at provincial level.
Nevertheless, at central level, program guidelines, training, monitoring and financing
remained vertical, creating some overlaps and/or conflicting messages which made
integration and coordination at the provincial level more difficult and cumbersome. The
transfer of the Project Unit from the Direction des Affaires Techniques (Division de la
Planification), to the Direction de la Prevention et de l'Encadrement Sanitaire created an
additional discrepancy between functions and structure.
10.   Finally, with regard to the drug supply component, the project design foresaw the
need for a close collaboration with the pharmaceutical private sector. However, it failed to
set in place the mechanisms which would have ensured its collaboration.



-5-
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
11.   All project components were completed with the exception of the Drug Supply Unit
and of the Training and IEC component which were executed only partially. Several factors
influenced project implementation, causing significant delays:
a.    Lack of counterpart funds: Insufficient budgetary allocations as a result of the
economic situation, delays in allocation and release of funds, political
resistance to favor these provinces over others, and weak capacity of MOPH
to manage commitments and disbursements, resulted in important delays from
the project inception. In particular, the initial lag between Board presentation
(June 1985), loan effectiveness (July 1986) and the first disbursements (March
1987), which was due to the lack of budgetary allocation, was never caught
up. As a result, the loan closing date had to be extended twice (from
December 31, 1991 to December 31, 1993).
b.    Frequent changes in the MOPH and in the Bank: Both institutions encountered
several structural reorganizations and changes in individual responsibility.
This resulted in additional delays as new mechanisms had to be designed and
new managers had to become familiar with the project before taking action.
This loss of momentum affected the levels of funds allocated to the project, as
"lobbying" for the project was weaker. The transfer of responsibility for civil
works from the MOPH to the Ministry of Public Works also caused delays in
the construction of facilities.
C.    Relative passivity in the Bank's contribution:  The frequent changes in task
management described above and the conflicting priorities due to the
simultaneous preparation and implementation of the Health Sector Investment
Project (Loan 3171) led to a relative passivity of the Bank. It was slow or
even silent in commenting on the two studies (Health Financing and Hospital
Management) carried out by the Borrower, or on the project mid-term review
prepared by the MOPH. The persistent misunderstanding in the realization of
the last component -- improvement of the supply of drugs, which remains
incomplete is another example, as explained in paragraph 19.
PROJECT RESULTS AND OUTCOME
12.   Primary Health Care. This component was fully implemented in its physical as well
as its "software" aspects though a large share of the new facilities only became functional at
the very end of the project; to date 29 health facilities out of the 126 (more than 20%) built,
remain closed due to insufficient staff to man them. In contrast, reorganization of service
delivery, planning, supervision and monitoring methods, were put in place at the start of the
project and are well assimilated by staff in all three provinces. As illustrated by the MOPH



- 6 -
mid-term review and final evaluation of the component, progress has also been achieved by
the provinces in evaluation of outputs and outcomes.
13.    The global management and planning methods put in place during the project have
enabled the efficient deployment of staff which in turn permitted an improved population
coverage in the three provinces. The Health service monitoring system put in place as part
of the project has facilitated the decision process and provided a number of monitoring and
impact indicators. However, as illustrated by the MOPH evaluation report (see examples in
Table 4 in Annex to this PCR) the selection of these indicators does not always permit to link
coverage and impact.
14.   As shown in the table below, access to a health facility has been greatly improved.
The ratio of population to health facility has evolved greatly during the project period from
one basic center for 75,000 in 1985 to one for 44,000. While the number of general
practitioners allocated to the project area doubled during the 1985-92 period (from 33 to 61),
the number of para-medical staff only progressed for the same period from 717 to 841.
Percentage of Population with access to
a health facility in the project area
1985            1988            1990           1992
< 3Km           28              31              33              38
3 to 6 Km        14              15              17              14
6 to 10 Km        22              23              22              23
> 10 Km          36              31              28              25
15. Before being fully assessed, the deployment strategies for basic health care delivery
developed in the project were generalized to all provinces, with external support from: (i) the
Bank through the Health Sector Investment Project (Loan 3171-MOR), though with an
evolution of the six core programs supported and, (ii) since 1992, the African Development
Bank (ADB) in ten provinces. Considering the importance of the investments realized, in
particular with regards to the construction of new centers, the achievements of the project
have to be assessed in the context of their cost efficiency. This analysis should:
(i) distinguish the earlier phase of the project during which improvements in service coverage
were registered, though the new centers had not yet been constructed, suggesting that the
reorganization of the provinces alone contributed to a large extent to the results obtained; and
(ii) the cost-efficiency of the centers constructed cannot be assessed over the period of the
project alone.



- 7 -
16.   Strengthening of MOPH Manaeement Capacity. The MOPH underwent several
reorganizations during project implementation which did not always seem to be technically
motivated. The project design did not take into account the then upcoming reorganization.
Under these conditions, it is difficult to measure the extent to which the project improved
central management as it was intended (see para. 4.b). While management of civil works
certainly improved, procurement, program budgeting and resource allocation remain serious
issues for the MOPH. This is compounded by the "balkanisation" of the MOPH
Departments characterized by overlapping and scattered responsibilities which prevent
measuring output and efficiency, and promoting accountability.
17.   The health service monitoring system was put in place in the provinces, as described
in para 13 above. The outcome of the two studies on the financing of the health sector and
on hospital management which were carried out, is uneven:
a.    The health financing study was of good quality, considering the lack of
information available at the time. It resulted in a thorough data collection and
analysis. The study served as a basis to the discussions on health financing
reforms which have culminated with the preparation by the Government, with
Bank support, of a health insurance reform proposal. This study has however
not yet translated into concrete results in the financing of the system. An
indirect benefit of the study was a transfer of know-how between the foreign
firm and the teams of local consultants, jointly in charge of its realization.
This fruitful association led to the emergence of a group of young Moroccan
experts who has since then contributed significantly to the debate on health
issues. This study also led to the creation, within MOPH, of a Health
Economics Unit.
b.    The Hospital Management Study output is more difficult to assess. The
diagnostic phase to which each hospital included in the study actively
participated, was never followed by the prospective one that was intended to
specify and test the options for reform. Also, due to a lack of counterpart
capacity or a shift in MOPH priorities, the results of the initial phase were
insufficiently discussed.
18.   The results of the Training and IEC component are less clear. Only 25 percent of the
funds initially allocated were actually disbursed. Half of this amount financed the equipment
of the College of Public Health and the balance financed the production and dissemination of
IEC materials. The lack of disbursements on this component is due to the availability of
bilateral funds to finance the training activities. Though no formal amendment to the loan
agreement was made, this component seems to have been dropped and was therefore not
supervised.



- 8-
19.   There is a discrepancy between the initial design of the last component - Improvement
of the drug supply - described in paragraph 4.d, and its actual implementation, which
remains unexplained by existing documentation and is probably at the origin of the
misunderstanding between Bank and the MOPH. This was compounded by the fact that,
until recently, the Bank's position with regard to drug sector policy was unclear. The UAM
was built, though with three years delay, and with a design which does not correspond to its
initial more modest concept. However the equipment remains to be purchased and, more
importantly, the legal structure of UAM and the terms of its relationship with the private
pharmnaceuticals sector are still undefined. Despite some improvements, the Central
Pharmacy organization, procedures for the procurement, distribution and control of drugs
still need to be improved.
PROJECT SUSTAIN4ABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATION
20.   Technical Sustainability. The global management methods and deployment strategies
developed in the project to deliver the six core health programs have become an integral part
of planning practice and are unlikely to disappear. However, some of the key features of
this strategy, such as the travelling nurse who greatly contributed to the increase in
population coverage, are being put in question as this category of staff who is more likely to
accept this function has been eliminated in favor of more qualified nurses. It may therefore
prove more difficult, especially in the mountainous provinces with dispersed population, to
attract new candidates. Signs of low morale are already evident in this category of staff,
whose working conditions have deteriorated (lack of maintenance of motorcycles, delays in
payment of per diem,..). Similarly, unless drugs and contraceptives, and means of
transportation for the mobile teams remain regularly available, it is unlikely that the
provinces will be able to maintain their coverage level. This situation is the more
problematic that the population expectations have risen with the educational level and the
previous availability of services.
21.   Financial Sustainability. The operating budgets of the provinces had a line item
specific to the project. However, no provision has been made to ensure an appropriate level
of operating budget after project closing to continue financing the drugs, per diems, and
other consumable items necessary to ensure the functioning of the programs. It is therefore
expected that the project investments will not be preserved and that the achievements realized
in terms of population coverage will not be sustained, unless a sufficient allocation for
recurrent costs is maintained.
22.   Both the Bank's on-going Health Sector Investment Project and the ADB recent Basic
Health Project which finance operating costs, have equally failed to integrate mechanisms to
ensure the progressive sustainability of the health system which would reflect the priority
given to basic health services by the Government. On the contrary, the inclusion in the
Health Sector investment Project (Loan 3171 -MOR) of a significant component for the
provision of drugs was an imnplicit acceptance that the financing of these operating costs
would continue to depend on external financing.



- 9 -
23.   The low level of national resources available in the public health sector and the
related heavy reliance on external funds to finance not only investments but, increasingly,
operating expenditures, considerably limit the MOPH capacity to articulate its operational
priorities and control allocation of resources. All resources are already pre-allocated and
pre-spent and the margin of maneuver is limited.
BANK PERFORMANCE
24.   During the 15-year period between project identification and loan closing, the Bank
performance can be characterized by its irregularity, in terms of (i) the frequency of its
missions and exchanges with the Borrower, and (ii) the quality and emphasis of its
contribution and of the high turnover of its project managers, compounded by its
organizational changes. Two phases can be distinguished:
a.    The first phase (preparation - early implementation) from 1979 to 1987, during
which the project was handled by a specialized non-regional PHN Department.
Field visits and correspondence, although infrequent, were very focussed and
led to a systematic and thorough review of each of the project components, a
broad discussion of all issues and agreement on the remedial actions and next
steps.
b.    The post-Bank's reorganization phase, which scattered available health
specialist resources. During this period, and even more after the start of the
Health Sector Development Project (Loan 3171-MOR) which overshadowed
the first project, supervision became less systematic, of shorter duration,
concentrating on a limited number of themes -- mainly disbursement
procedures and budgetary allocations -- which were rightly perceived as
obstacles to timely implementation. As a result, difficulties in the realization
of some of the components remained unseen or unaddressed for a long time.
Bank documentation reflects this situation and progress and difficulties on
some of the components remained unreported. Overall, Bank's attitude during
the supervision period was rather passive and resulted in a number of missed
opportunities to deepen the dialogue with the Borrower as illustrated by the
following examples:
The Borrower's mid-term review report of the project was received but
not commented on. Similarly, it is only after the strong insistence of
the MOPH that the Bank commented on the study of health financing
and there is no record on any written comment made to the MOPH on
the hospital management study.
The implementation of the component aiming at improving the supply
of drugs is another case in point. While the appraisal documentation
clearly defines the drug Supply unit as a "procurement, packaging,
distribution and limited formulation unit, with a close collaboration



- 10 -
with the private sector", this unit seems to have evolved -- at least in
its building design --into a full production unit. This evolution which is
not documented in the files, has resulted in a misunderstanding between
the MOPH and the Bank. Despite its skepticism that a public
production unit was economically justified considering the rapid
evolution of the Moroccan private pharmaceutical industry, the Bank
failed to clearly state its position or to provide the necessary support to:
(i) undertake a full assessment of the economic feasibility of this unit;
and (ii) develop a coherent drug policy. At the same time, the Bank
sent opposite signals that the component could proceed by giving non-
objection to the procurement documents for the construction and
equipment of the UAM, and providing informal advice on its status.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.   Overall, Borrower's performance was excellent with regards to analyzing issues and
conceptualizing strategies. However, the project suffered from difficulties in operationalizing
the policies defined and the implementation capacity of the MOPH remains weak as a result
of its structural organization. During the second half of implementation, the project seems to
have been put on "automatic pilot" and activities were being carried out -- though at a slow
pace-- without a thorough review of their impact. This is the more surprising that this pilot
experience was meant to lay the ground work for broader reforms countrywide, and that the
technical aspects of service delivery were indeed generalized.
26.   With regards to the realization of the health financing study, the Borrower's
performance was commendable. The report was produced, discussed extensively within the
health sector (through workshops, seminars...) and more generally in the Government. The
MOPH was very successful in mobilizing external support (USAID, WHO..) on the topic,
and translating the study's recommendations and implications into operational activities, such
as the health insurance proposal.
27.   Although difficult to assess in the absence of records, the Borrower's performance on
the Hospital Management Study was not as good. Counterparts do not seem to have
reviewed the study's findings with the consulting firm and very few discussions of the report
took place. It is only with the preparation of the Hospital Management Project that the
dialogue with the Bank on that subject was renewed.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
28.   Both the Bank and the MOPH should make more systematic use of the findings of this
project to build on their future operations. Though a good opportunity was missed with the
on-going Health Sector Investment Project (Loan 3171-MOR), since it started before the
lessons of the previous one could be fully drawn, its implementation has permitted a better
understanding of the issues which should be addressed. The areas of focus of future
operations should be:



- 11 -
a.    The financial sustainability of the health system needs to be addressed without
delay. The MOPH has already integrated this lesson in its dialogue and has
indicated its intention to proceed with new investments only when the
sustainability of the sector as a whole has been addressed ie. when adequate
investment and more importantly recurrent resources (staff salaries, drugs... )
can be secured. To that end, the preparation of the proposed FY96 Health
Management and Financing Project has been halted although it attempted to
support health financing and hospital management reforms identified through
the two studies supported by the project. If the Health Management project
does not proceed, the health sector sustainability should be addressed through
the FY96 Social Priorities Project.
b.    The overall organization of the pharmaceutical sector and the provision of
drugs to the public sector need to be reviewed. The continued financing of
drugs through external funds has been a disincentive to exploring more cost-
effective alternatives and to rationalizing the procurement of drugs. This has
been ultimately detrimental to the development of a fair and transparent
competition within the private sector and very costly for the Government, as
the prices of drugs produced in Morocco are high and foreign exchange is
mobilized to finance what should be local costs. A thorough review of the
pharmaceutical sector and the development of a drugs policy for the public
sector should be carried out prior to any further financing of drugs in a
project.
c.    The policies and project activities cannot be divorced from their
implementation structure: The current organization of the MOPH and of the
medical provinces is ill-adapted to the objectives pursued by the MOPH and
discourage efficiency and accountability. While MOPH is fully aware of this
issue and has prepared a new organizational chart more in line with its
objectives, it has not yet been implemented. Irnplementation arrangements for
future projects should be an integral part of their design and should take into
account the overall organizational structure of the Ministry. or should not
proceed without addressing needed changes.
d.    The relative impact of the strategies deployed to deliver basic services (fixed
facilities, outreach techniques and better organization) should be assessed
carefully to facilitate the development of a cost-efficient approach, adaptable to
the specifications of each region.
e.    The Bank should ensure that appropriate mechanisms are included in the
project design or, whenever possible, implemented prior to effectiveness to
meet intended objectives. While the project design clearly stated that UAM
should collaborate with the private sector, this failed to happen. The Bank
should also have a more pro-active attitude in its comments and proposals for
remedial actions (ie. restructuring of the project, increasing the supervision of
"pilot/demonstrative" aspects of the project)  The preparation of new projects
should not start before the results of the previous project can be built on, and
lessons learned so as to be integrated to the new design.






- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2572-MOR)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
INAS' mandate is to evaluate the Health Development Project in three provinces: Agadir,
Taroudant and Settat. This project was implemented in these provinces in 1986 and comprises
4 main components:
1.    Development of health services at the provincial level;
2.    Management, research and evaluation at the level of the Ministry of Public Health;
3.    Health training/education at the national level; and
4.    Basic drug supply at the national level.
The project covers 2 million inhabitants and includes all levels of the system. Our evaluation
mainly concerns the first component of the project: The development of basic health services.
This evaluation was carried out by INAS, UGP and teams from the three provinces. There has
been no foreign technical assistance. Funds were allotted for the purpose of this evaluation from
INAS' general budget and was about DH 50,000. This amount financed three three-day
workshops in Rabat for a dozen participants. The evaluation was delayed from original schedule
for logistical and human reasons (change of directors and staff responsible for health services
in the provinces, weak research capacity of provinces).
An implementation progress report was attached to this evaluation to inform managers at central
level on the dysfunctions identified during this crucial phase of the project, and in particular the
status of implementation of the infrastructure and equipment components and, the ending of the
project budgetary allocation. The proposed corrective measures are forwarded to all central
managers.
The principal limitation of this evaluation is the time frame 1985-1992. In 1992, the newly built
infrastructure was not quite functional. We therefore expect an under-estimated view of the level
of health coverage in terms of access, availability and use.
To validate this evaluation, it is recommended to update this data through a second evaluation
in 1996.
The main point of this evaluation is that local teams have been trained and involved in all stages,
specific training on research methodology was taught to some participants.



- 14 -
The province presently has a detailed data base by sector and district which will serve for the
planning of health services and the management of programs at the local level.
Evaluation of the Resources put in place.
Infrastructure:
Infrastructure in the project area increased from 137 to 192 basic health services
facilities. Architecture is satisfactory and well received by staff and population.
Facilities are large, but nurses quarters are found small.
Completion time of a random sample of 51 health facilities shows that 50% were
built with within one year (3 months in Settat and 4 years in Taroudant).
Equipment:
All facilities are sufficiently equipped and equipment remains in stock in
provincial storage pending the opening of the recently completed facilities.
In Settat, there is equipment in stock for peripheral laboratories that should be
redeployed for the national level.
The quality of equipment is adequate and appreciated by professionals. The
Radiology units suffer serious problems with the relationship user-supplier
(breakdown, absence of corrective maintenance and installation problems).
- Budget:
Public works and equipment used 60% of the budget allotted to the project. In
1992, the project represented between 81 % and 18% of the operating budget
depending on line items. This budget covered transportation expenses, office
supplies, hygienic products, gas, drugs. The portion allotted to rural areas is
important for all provinces.
The project management unit produced a financial evaluation report on the
project.



- 15 -
-     Human resources:
In the three provinces, a total of 134 nurses were assigned between 1985-1992. The ratio
nurses/health services facilities (all categories) reached 4.44% in 1992 compared to
5.25% in 1985.
Staff assignments do not correspond in parallel to the needs of the 50 new completed
facilities which started operations in 1992. The situation will be worse if the other
completed facilities are open (another twenty centers).
Process Evaluation:
Project Implementation mechanisms represented an experiment for the Ministry of Public Health.
Management structures were implemented and terms of reference were identified and set at all
levels (central and provincial). However, the following problems were identified: lack of
coordination, lack of synchronization central/peripheral, set up of the various project components
and mobility of operational and supervisory staff.
All project components under consideration were set up according to a plan which differs from
one province to the other (see documents from provinces).
Due to project size and requirements, the management component has become a priority over
research.
The study of this process is a lesson for everyone planning a similar project. This study on the
process is documented in each province's specific report.
Impact Evaluation:
There has been a marked improvement of all priority health programs. In 1992, the
immunization completion rate was 82%. The rate of recruitment of women in obstetrics reached
38%. Childbirth in supervised environments reached 35% (of which 45% in ambulatory
environment). There is improvement in tuberculosis screening and a decrease of the 5 target
diseases in the 3 provinces.
Indicators in these provinces are slightly above national averages.
According to the Ministry of Health's Office of Information and Statistics, infant mortality has
significantly decreased between 1985 and 1992 for the 3 overall provinces. This decrease is
similar to that of the national level.



- 16 -
RESULTS
Service Delivery:
-     Access:
The 1992 situation showed that, on average, every citizen, may find a clinic within 14
km. This distance varies depending on the province.
Population located farther than 10 km from a clinic dropped from 40 to 28% (extremes
vary between 23 and 37%).
40% of inhabitants have access to a basic health center (35 % minimum, 48 % maximum).
-     Availability:
Basic health services (CPN, immunizations, PF, corrective, etc.) are available in most
of the basic health services facilities.
Delivery Strategy:
60% of population was covered by the urban and rural fixed site (1992):
12% by outreach teams.
19% by outreach personnel by contact point.
5% by house visits.
It is expected that the fixed site strategy will predominate over other delivery after the opening
of about 20 centers.
The outreach strategy is hampered by difficulties at : viability, logistics, management and
efficiency.
Integration:
In all newly completed health facilities, a model of integration of health services has been
developed, particularly for the SMI/PF/Childbirth. The same polyvalent staff ensures the care
of beneficiaries in its entirety in the same space and for different needs. This experiment has
every chances of being successful. It will be interesting to study it after a while.
Efficiency:
In the fixed strategy, the improvement of diagnostic tools, technology, allocation of essential
drugs were accompanied by an improvement of care.



- 17 -
Use of health services:
All health facilities are under-utilized. In some centers, it is way beneath all acceptable norms
despite availability of required resources. The rate average occupation rate of certain childbirth
units varies between 22% in Settat and 42% in Agadir. This is quite low.
OTHER ISSUES:
1.    Traditional midwives: The experience is positive and replicable. Its limits reside in the
difficulty of maintaining motivation and ensuring continuity of supervision by the health team.
2.    In-service training: The in-service training program is presently solid at the level of
these provinces. Skills and attitudes are improved for overall personnel, particularly technical
personnel of SIAAP. The decentralization of the training process started at the level of these
provinces to extend to the national level. The managers of these provinces designed the training
modules on the management process and participated in the revision of health programs
structures at the national level.
3.    Peripheral laboratories: There is a wide gap (as to performance and output) among
laboratories. The problem of these laboratories is supervision and management of these units.
Staff and population are satisfied with this technology.
4.    Community participation: The population, through local authorities and groups, has been
informed and solicited to participate in the design phase of the project. The actual role
of the population could not be assessed in this study. It remains that its contribution is
punctual and consists of mainly the allocation of required resources (land, fuel, etc.) and
not the decision-making process. The project did not identify one preferable approach on
which professionals could build on.
S.    Competence of management personnel
There is improvement in the managerial and programming capacity of all higher level staff of
SIAAP and health districts. This situation may deteriorate if it does not resist the changes in the
local political and administrative environment (partitioning, change of responsibilities, mobility
of staff, lack of motivation).



- 18 -
RECOMMENDATIONS
1.    A second evaluation covering 1993 and 1994 is required to confirm the trend observed.
2.    The achievements of the project must be sustained by local authorities.
3.    The dysfunctions observed and reported to the central authorities will need to be
considered for this and future projects.
4.    The after-project financing needs must be assessed so that inadequate budget be provided
in order to prevent the rapid degradation of the project's assets.
5.    Any project must be preceded by a strategic evaluation. Decisions should remain subject
to modifications during the life of the project and design should not be considered as
immutable.
6.    It is important to ensure the stability of key-personnel of the project at least until the end
of the implementation phase.
7.    The Health Development Project was a good vehicle for increased exchanges of views,
communications, challenges between and with the local and central team. It spread the
philosophy of basic health services which all teams adhered to and defended. What are
the alternatives to create today in its place? Provincial teams are already discussing the
"funeral of the project".



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2572-MOR)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan Title                                    Purpose                              Year of             Status
I                                                             I Approval
Preceding Operations
This loan was the first Bank loan in the sector in Morocco. Prior to this loan, Bank involvement in the health sector was limited to a
schistosomiasis component in the agriculture development Doukkala I Project (Loan 1201-MOR) and to a health manpower training
component in the Third Education Project (Loan 1220T-MOR) which consisted in the construction, furnishing and equipping of a college of
Public Health in Rabat, a school of medical technicians in Casablanca and three nursing schools in Oujda, Fes and Agadir.
Following Operations
Health Sector Investment    To support the Government strategy to reinforce (a) basic health;  FY90  Under supervision. 21%
Project (Ln 3171-MOR)      (b) referral, emergency and diagnostic services provided at regional      disbursed. Closing date:
and provincial hospitals, and building and biomedical equipment           December 31, 1996
maintenance capabilities; (c) administration and management of            (likely to be posponed).
services provided by the MOPH in order to increase efficiency, and
facilitate the implementation of administrative reforms designed to
decentralize the management of health services; and (d) sector and
policy reforms which address longer term issues related to the
evolution and structure of the public and private sector health
services delivery systems, financing mechanisms, and the
mobilization of resources in support of the sector.
Social Priorities Project  The proposed project would assist the Government in the        Planned
implementation of its social strategy to help the least advantaged  FY96  Under Preparation
groups of Moroccan society play a full role in the country's
economy, thus contributing both to increased productivity and
enhanced equity. The basic health and nutrition component of this
project would support the implementation of the medium-term
action plan aiming at improving access of the target rural
population to a package of essential services. To that end it would
implement a number of intertwined actions: (a)
rehabilitating/expanding the health infrastructure, while providing
the necessary material, drugs (including contraceptives) and
equipment; (b) promoting outreach and demand promotion
strategies for the delivery of essential clinical and preventive
services in remote areas; (c) strengthening and expanding FP
services, and stimulating further demand for FP services (e.g. IEC
programs); (d) improving the nutritional status of high risk groups
and implementing programs to reduce the prevalence of
micronutrient deficiencies; and (e) supporting actions aimed at
redeploying and retraining the medical and paramedical personnel,
in particular in the area of supervision and monitoring at the
provincial level.
Health Management          The project would support Government efforts to (i) address major    Planned
Project                    hospital intemal efficiency issues to contain costs while improving  Fy 96  Under preparation
quality of services; and (ii) introduce new health financing reforms,
able to increase the level of resources available and promote equity.     Borrower asked to delay
The proposed project would include the following components: (a)          project preparation until
development of hospital management capacities; (b) improvement            sector ftnancing issues
of service quality; and (c) development and implementation of new         have been addressed at
financing mechanisms and institutional development.                       the Govenmmental level.



- 20 -
TABLE 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                              Date Planned*       |       Date Actual
Identification                                                                  n/a                   September 1979
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                                            June 83
Preparation                                                                     n/a                April 1980, June 1981
Appraisal                                                                       n/a                    October 1984
Negotiations                                                                    n/a                     April 1985
Board Presentation                                                              n/a                    June 6, 1985
Signing                                                                 Before October 1985          January 17, 1986
Effectiveness                                                              October 1985                July 27, 1986
Midterm review  carried out by the Borrower                               December 1987                November 89
Project completion                                                         June 30, 1990
Loan closing                                                             December 31, 1991          December 31, 1993
As provided in Project Brief for processing steps up to Board Presentation, and in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for steps occurring
after Board Presentation.
**AIl components were completed by June 1993 with the exception of the Drugs supply unit which remains incomplete to date.
(see para. 19) and the IEC component which was dropped.



- 21 -
TABLE 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS:
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL (US$ million)
FY86    FY87 I FY88 [ FY89 | FY90  I FY91 [FY92  I FY93 | FY94
Appraisal Estimate            1 3     5 0     10 4    16.4     22 4    26.9      28 4     =
Actual                         0    0.13      1.13    3.54     7.93    13.98    19.33   23.52    25.84
Actual as % of estimate        0    002       0.1    0.21      0.35     0.52     0.68    0.82      0.90
Date of final disbursement  April
1994
TABLE 4: SELECTED MONITORING AND
IMPACT INDICATOR IN THE PROJECT AREA
1985        1988         1990         1992
IMMUNIZATION
- Vaccinal Coverage (BCG)
(Recruitement rate of children less than one
year old)                                          66%         83%         84%           92%
- Incidence of declared cases
* Whooping-cough                                393           11          10            14
* Measles                                       149          120         46            537
* Polio                                           4            0          0              0
FAMILY PLANNING
* Rate of new acceptors (pills)                   7%           9%         14%           13%
* Rate of new acceptors (IUD)                    0.25%        0.56%        0.65%         1.7%
* Contraceptive prevalence rate*                 NA           NA          NA             NA
BASIC HEALTH SERVICES
* Drop-out rate for tubercolosis treament         26%          16%        7%             4%
MCH
* % of assisted deliveries                        21%         24%        28%            35%
* % of assisted deliveries occurring in BHC       22%         26%        32%            45%
* Infant Mortality**                              NA          57%o        52%o          48%o
* Nimber of neonatal tetanus cases                23           15          2            0
SANITATION
* % Water points treated                          75%         71%        81%            87%
* Incidence of Typhoid                            37           15         12             9
Source: MOPH Project Evaluation Report (August 1994).
*  The 1992 DHS estimates the national prevalence rate at 41.5%. Only new acceptors and recruitment rates
were monitored at province level
** Estimates, for two of the 3 provinces.



- 22 -
TABLE 5: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                 Purpose                     Status               Impact of Study
1. Health Service   MOPH was to implement    A service monitoring        Data collection remains
Monitoring         a comprehensive            system was put in place in   oriented towards services
monitoring and evaluation   the provinces which has  provided by the centers
system for the present    facilitated the decision   and is not often related
project, including family    process and permitted the    to the total population.
planning programs as a    mid-term review and post-  It is unclear whether
first step toward         evaluation of this project.   these statistics, which
monitoring the progress of                           represent a heavy
the Health Development                               administrative burden for
Plan as a whole. Data                                the staff are fully utilized
collected by health                                  in decision making.
facilities was to be
processed and
complemented by
operational or evaluative
research.
2. Study on the    Its purpose was to analyze   Study completed in       The study's
Financing of the    the availability and      October 90. Was followed   recomnmendations are
Health Sector      allocation of funds, and   by several seminars and    being implemented, and
the efficiency and equity  workshops to mobilize     have resulted in
of the present and        external support and led to  particular in the
alternative financing     the creation of a Health   development of a health
schemes.                  Economics Unit within      insurance scheme.
MOPH.
3. Study on        Since hospitals absorb     Diagnostic completed in    While the diagnostic
Hospital           72% of MOPH's operating  June 89. The assessment    phase was carried out
Management         budget, the study focused    focussed on 5 areas:     and provided insight on
on hospital performance,    Structural and physical  hospital management the
cost containment and      characteristics of the     prospective phase
possible methods of cost    hospital sector within   intended to specify and
recovery, in accordance   MOPH, human resources,   test options for reform
with the alternatives of the  financial resources and  was not carried out.
study on financing.       organizational structure.  This phase is however
expected to be developed
as part of the Health
Management project
preparation.



- 23 -
TABLE 6A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)              Actual/latest estimate (US$M) 1/
Local   |  Foreign   |    Total        Local   |   Foreign          Total
Item                       costs        costs                     costs 2/       costs 2/
Development of basic health services            12.5         10.7          23.2        20.7          17.6       38.3 3/
Strengthening of MOPH Management                 0.8          0.9           1.7         0.7           0.9         1.6
Strengthening of training and EIC Capacity       0.5          1.1           1.6         0.1           0.3         0.4
Improvement of drug supply system                2.4          4.4           6.8         4.7           8.2         12.94/
Total Baseline Costs        16.2         17.1          33.3        26.2          27.0        53.2
Contingencies                                    7.1          7.2          14.3
PPF                                                                                                                0.06
Total Project Costs        23.3         24.3          47.6        26.2          27.0
53.3 5/
1/ Exchange rate used corresponds to 1986 - 1993 average (US$ I = DH 8.4)
2/ Share of foreign costs in total calculated on the basis of appraisal estimates.
3/ Increase in cost of this component is due to the cumulative effects of:
(i)   an increase in the number of centers built;
(ii)  delays in implementation; and
(iii) increase in the square footage of the center following the adoption of modular plan.
4/ Estimated cost of completing component. Expended to date : US$ 4.8M.
5/ Estimated cost of completing the project. Expended to date: US$ 41.9M.
TABLE 6B: PROJECT FINANCING 1/
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign  |   Total        Local  1  Foreign  |  Total
Source                         costs   J   costs                    costs   j   costs
IBRD                                                   4.1        24.3        28.4         1.5         24.0        25.5
Government                                            19.2          -          19.2        16.4           -        16.4
Total        23.3        24.3        47.6         17.9        24.0        41.9
1/  This table reflects the financing arrangements for expenses already occurred. Financing source to complete the project
(US$ 11.4M) has not yet been determined.



- 24 -
TABLE 7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Ori*Ina     Revised
Coven.   Present    FuWl           fulfill.              Description of covenant
Agree./Sect.     Type      Status       date          date                                                                Cornuents
3.02 (a)        7          CP                               Establish & maintain a drug supply unit to      Only construction was completed.
undenatke Tesponsibility for the carrying out of  The legal status of the unit remainsl
the drug supply program included in Part D of   to be defned and equipment to be
project.                                        ordered.
3.02 (b)        4          CP       Each FY                 Each fiscal year DSU is provided, through       Counterparts funds were
separate annual budgetary allocations, with funds    insufficient for timely
suWficient to enable it to meet the estimated   implementation.
expenditures required for the carrying out of such
a program.
Sc. 5.la         5         C                                Maintain & continue to operate PIU.
Sc. 5.la         5         C                                DIPC continues to carry its operations with
assistance of qualified staff in adequate numbers.
Sc. 5. ]a       5          CP          -                    DSU is vested with responsibility for drug supply
operation.
Sc. 5.2a        5          C        12/31/86                Fumish to Bank proposed action plans for
strengthening MOPH management.
Sc. 5.2b         7         C                                Thereafter carry out such plans.                 Implemented 1990.
Sc. 5.3a         8         C        12/31/85                Establish & maintain theteafter an interministerial
committee to coordinate study on health sector
financing (part B.3b) & review results of the
study.
Sc. 5.3b         7         C        12/31/86                Fumish to Bank detailed report on progress in    Report completed October 1990.
carrying out study.
Sc. 5.4a        5          C        12/31/87                Fumish to Bank detailed report on progress in    Delayed by delay in project
carrying out study on hospital management (part    effectiveness. Report received
________  _________        ~~B.3                                            6130/89.
Sc. 5.5a        7          C        12/31/87                Fumish to Bank detailed report on progress
implementation of project, including findigs and
recommendations of health program study (pan
B.3b).
Sc. 5.6a         7         NC       by 12/31    dropped    Furnish to Bank detailed program of production    This project component has been
of each                and dissemination of IEC material during the year   dropped because of the availability
year                 following calendar year of health education      of concessional funding for health
materials (part C.2).                           education programs.
Sc. 5.6b         7         NC                               Thereafter carry out such a program.             See above.
Sc. 5.7a        7          NC                               Fumish to Bank for approval proposed programs    See above.
of fellowship training (parts B, C. D) and lists of
proposed candidates for training.
Sc. 5.7b         7         NC                               Thereafter carry out such programs.              See above.
Status
1. Account/audit                                                             C    - Complied with
2. Financial Performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries                 NC  - Not complied with
3. Flow  and utilization of Projects funds                                   CP   - Complied with Partially
4. Counterpart funding
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6. Monitoring review and reporting
7. Implementation
8. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
9. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary/institutional action
10. Other



- 25 -
TABLE 8: BANK RESOLTRCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned                         Actual
Stage of project cycle         Weeks       1    US$         Weeks   (        USS
Through appraisal             n/a                          85.6
Appraisal - Board             n/a                          79.6
Board - Effectiveness          n/a                           n/a"
Supervision                n/a3'                        110.8
Completion                  n/a                          7V
TOTAL                                                  283
i/ Period Board & effectiveness cumulated with supervision.
2/ Estimate
3/ Data on planned staffweeks only exist for the period 89-94 and correspond to 85.5 sw (or average of 14.2
per year) which compare to an actual time of 76.2 sw for that period (or 12.7 average per year).



- 26 -
TABLE 9: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
A. PREPARATION
M/Y              |   No.         Days in                    Skills               |            Comments
persons      Field                                          j
- March 1979 (Identification)   5           11           PH Specialist
11          Loan Officer
11          Education Specialist
11          PH Specialist
11          PH Specialist tlNFDA
- September 79 Preparation      4           10           RH Specialist
10          Education Sp.
10          Loan Officer
10          PH Specialist
- April 80 Preparation          4           11           PH Specialist
11          Economist
11          Loan Officer
11          PH Sp. Consultant
- June 81 Preparation                        5           Economist
- June 83                       5            5           Economist           Iw
10          Architect           2w
5          PH Specialist       1w
5          PH Specialist       1w
5          Imp. Specialist     1w
- October 24 - Nov. 5, 83       2           12           PH. Specialist
8          PH. Specialist
March 84                        1           20           PH. Specialist
July 84 (Pre.appraisal)         1             3          PH. Specialist
Sept. 84 Appraisal              9           20           PH. Specialist
20          Health Economist
20          Economist
20          Architect
20          PF. Consultant
20          Pharmac. Syst. Consultant Research
20          Assistant
?          Division Chief
?          Loan Officer
March 85                        I           7            PH. Specialist                        Review of project timetable and
its budgetary implications



- 27 -
TABLE 9 CONTINUED
B. SUPERVISION
M/Y                No.        Days in             Skills                    Project                 Problems
persons      Field                                        Rating
Overall      Dev.
rating      rating
- June 86 (29 to 9)          3           12      PH. Specialist
12      PH. Specialist
15      Economist
April 87                     3           12      PH. Specialist                                       Reviewed new
12      Operations Assistant                                 organizational Structure
12      Health Economist                                     of MOP & IEC
component slow to start
- February 88                1          ? I/    Disbursement Officer                                  Discussions on opening
of Special Account
- August 88 2/               3           8       Health Specialist               2            1       - Lack of operating
8      PH. Physician                                        resources
8      Architect                                            - Restructuration of
tuberculosis program
- January 89                 4            8      PH. Specialist                  2            1
8      PH. Physician
8      Pop. Specialist
8     Hospital Ad. Sp.
- October 89 2/              4           5       Health Specialist               2            1       - Mid-term review
5      PH. Physician                                        carried out by MOPH
5      Architect
5      Education/Training Sp.
- June 90 2/                 3           5       Health Specialist               2            1       - Delays in payments to
5      Financial Analyst                                    contractors; funds to be
5      Architect                                            delegated to provinces
- Bids for UAM to high
- November 90 2/             2           9       Health Specialist               2            1       - Slow implementation
9      Financial Analyst                                    - Projects costs to be
updated
- February 91 2/             1            9      Financial Analyst                                    -Health Financing repor
received
- New bid document for
UAM reviewed
- May 91 2/                  3           9       Health Specialist               2            1       -Discussion on
9      Financial Analyst                                    feasibility of UAM
9      Architect
I/ Multi purpose missions. Share of time allocated to project not available.
2/ Starting August 1988, all missions covered both the Health Development Project and the Health Sector Investment Project. Mission
time has been apportioned equally to each project which is likely to overestimate time actually spent on the first project.



- 28 -
TABLE 9 CONTINUED
B. SUPERVISION (LTD)
M/Y                 No.        Days in              Skills                  Projec               Problems
persons      Field                                       Rating
Overall    Dev.
rating    rating
October 91                    4           8        Sr. PHN Specialist             2          1      - Disbursement Issues
8       PH. MD                                           - lack of counterpart
8       Hospital Administ. Sp-                            funds
8       Architect                                         - Request for
postponement of
closing date
- May 92                      2           5       Financial Analyst               2          1      - Limited budget
5       Implementation Specialist                        allocations
- November 92                 3           9       Financial Analyst               2          1      - Some centers ready
9       Implementation Specialist                        but not staffed
9       Health Specialist                                 - Status of UAM to
be defined
- MOPH Negotiating
with the
Pharmaceutical
private sector
- April 93                    2           3       Project Officer                 2          I      UAM equipment and
3       PH Specialist                                    status
- May 94 (PCR)                1            6       Project Officer                 -         -






IMAGING
Report N o:       14675s
TYpe: FCP



