Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8419
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
LOWER EUPHRATES DRAINAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 1682-SYR)
FEBRUARY 28, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offldal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ib
ACRONYMS
CP             Cooperative Program
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FAO            Food and Agricultural Organization of the United
Nations
GADEB          General Administration for the Development of the
Euphrates Basin
GERSAR         Groupment d'Etudes et de Realizations des Societes
d'Amenagement Regional
GOEDEB         General Organization for Operation and Management of
State Farms
GOLD           General Organization for Land Development
GOS            Government of Syria
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
LEDP           Lower Euphrates Drainage Project
LEV            Lower Euphrates Valley
MAAR           Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
MOI            Ministry of Irrigation
0 & M          Operation and Maintenance
PCR            Project Completion Report
SAR            Staff Appraisal-Report
SCET           Societe Centrale por l'Equipment du Territoire
(International)
SPC             State Planning Commission
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
CURRENCY EXCH ANGE RATE
Name of currency (abbreviation) Syrian Pound (LS)
Currency Exchange Rate:   US$l.OO= LS3.93
GOVERINENT OF SYRIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



WFOR OFFICIL US ONLY
THE WOIILD SANK
Washinton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O0ke dW Derzet-ea
0puatomw Ivawluatu
February 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Syrian Arab Republic
Lower Euphrates Drainage Proiect (Loan 1682-SYR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Syrian Arab Republic Lower Euphrates Drainage
Project (Loan 1682-SYR)", prepared by the Europe, Middle last and Nort.i
Africa Regional Office.   No audit of this project has be, . made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performacme
of their official duties. Its contents may not othterwise be disclosed witttout Wotid Bank autboriztbn.



FOR OFFiCUIL USE ONLY
SYRIA
LOWER EUPRATES DRANAGE PRO.JECT
(LOANV 1682 SYRI)
PROJECT CONIPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
PREFACE                            .... . . ..
BASIC DATA SR?VET. .i. . ... . ... ..                            ..      .
EVALUATION SU;"MARY .     ...                      ...............  .          iv
I.        INTRODUCTION ....... .........                    .... ...     ...  1
II.       PROJECT FORMULATION AND'DESCRIPTIONS  ...           ............  2
Project Identification and Preparation ...............  2
Bank Objectives at Appraisal              ...                   3
Project Description               ........                     4
Project Cost and Finance                  .. ..   4
Appraisal and Negotiation                 .    ..              5
Ii.       IMPLEMENTATION ............ ...             ..... .... . 6.. ..6
Plan of Operation .. . .........                     ....  6
Agricultural Research and Extension Training .....  7
Civil Works .................... ***   a
Operation and Maintenance (O&M). ......, 8. .......             S
Mo nitoring ............8.......................
Consultants .....8...O.*...
Disusemnt .....                 .... O* .........   9
Procurement...                                                  9
R*pptio&* ...*.                                                10
Accounting and Auditing ............................... 10
Compliance and Covenants............................. 10
Performance of M       bagement ............................ 10
IV.       PROJECT                                          .... * .. CTo  11
Physical Develop ent ................1...... ......... 1I
V.        CONCLUSIONS AND BANK'S ROLE IN TPE FUTURER................  12
Project Exectin.............. ..*.....  12
Institutiozal Development ............................ 13
Performence of the Baak.............................. 14
Conclusion...........................................  14
Lessonw  Lea      sned...................................... 14
table 1
Table 2
MAPS
IBRD 13259R
IBRD 13260 R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



. i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
LOWER EUPHRATES DRAINAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 1682-SYR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Lower
Euphrates Drainage Project (LEDP) for which Loan 1682-SYR in the amount of
US$30 million was approved on April 10, 1979.   The loan agreement was
signed on May 4, 1979. On June 8, 1983, the Bank cancelled US$5.31 million
of the loan.   The closing date was extended four times and the final
closing date was August 1987, more than three and a half years behind
schedule. The undisbursed balance of US$4.11 million was suspended on June
1, 1986 because of arrears and was finally cancelled on August 27, 1987.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division,
Country Department III of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal and President's
Reports, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.
The PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and
sent to the Borrower for comments on December 7, 1989.  No comments were
received.



- ,ii -
SYRIA
LOWER EUPHRATES DRAINAGE PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 1682 SYR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Basic Data Sheet
KEY PROJ[CT DAT
Appraisal                     ApprAiaat                   Actual or       Actual as X of
Item                          Eatlut.                      satlst.        Istlmtod Actual
Total Project Cost Original               52.S                     60.S                115
(USS Million)
Credit Ameunt                             30.0                     20.5 A/               68
(USS Million)
Date of Board Approval                    04/10/79                 04/10/79             -
Date of Effectiveness                     10/11/79                 10/11/79             -
Date of Physical Components Completed  12/31/82                    04/30/87             -
Proportion then Completed                 100%                     9oS                  -
Closing Date                              12/31/83                 08/27/87 1/          -
Economic Performance                      1S                       NA                   -
Financial Performance                                              Fair                 -
Institutional Performance                 -                        Mixed                -
Technical Performance                     -                        Good                 -
Number of Direct Beneficiaries            23.000                   NA                   -
(Farm families)
A/ ODsbursements at time of cancellation
IV Cancellation date
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY                                    Zf      AR    IL    AZ   Al   A        Ai  Ii    Az
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)        5.2  11.1  20.7 27.7 30.0
Actual (SS M1illion)                    -      -    -    1.2  2.3  3.0   4.02 11.80  17.13
Actual as % of Estimate                                   6    8   10    14   39         68 1J/
Date of Final Disbursement              06/30/86
IL       USS 4.114.502.72 was car'celed en Qe/2a /8
MlSSION AA
Date      No. of   Man-days    Specializations         Performance                 Types of
Mission              (mo/yr)   Persons  in Fields   Represented &/           Rating b/       Trends SI  Problems d/
Identification      Early 1970s
Preparation 1       1973
Preparation II      05/21/77       2       34
Appraisal           10/22/77       3       57             A.C.0                  -               -           -
Supervision 1       10/12/80       1        2             0                      2               1           T
Supervision 2       003/27/81       1      12             8                      2               1           M
Supervision 3       06/03/82        1       7             a                      3               1           M
Supervision 4       09/09/82        1       6             a                      3               1           M,O
Supervision S       10/21/83        1       S             8                      3               1           H
Supervision 6       06/12/84        1       6             B                      2               1           M
Supervision 7       11/20/84        1       6             0                      2               1           H
Supervision 8       OS/27/8S       1        4             B                      2               1           M
Supervision 9       12/02/8S       1       5              B                      2               1           M
Supervi'sion 10     06/OS/86       2       11             A.B                    1               1           M
Supervision 11      04/01/87                                                                     NA          NA
Total (SPN)                         16     155            A.B,C,D
Completion
&/   A=Agriculturalist. B=Irrigation Engineer. C=Contract Specialist. 0=Financial Analyst
I/   luProblem Free or Minor Problems; 2=Moderate Problems and 3-Major Problems
/   l=lImproving 2=Stationary and 3=Deteriorating
g/   F=Financial. T=Technical.  M=Managerial O=Other
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                   Syria
Executing Agency           General Administration for the Development of the Euphrates Basin (GADEB)
Fiscal Year                                           January I to Oecember 31
Name of Currency (abbreviation)                       Syrian Pounds (LS)
Currency Exchange Rate:                               USS 1.00 * LS 3.95
Appraisal Year Average                  US$ 1.00 2 I/.3.95
Intervening Years Average               USS 1.00 a I/.3.95
Comp'etion Year Average                 USS 1.00 * I/ 3.95
3235



- iii -
BASIC DA1A SHEET (Cont'd)
STAPF INPUT
n       14       15       10       n        a       n        S        II       a        a       a        a        lb       t 7      so  iL
;mu           m  BlUn  I         t      N M                .     1.2      1.5      2.5    55.0       L.t       .        .        .        .        .       .        .        .        .        .    20.
autisum                                                        4     55.i                                                                                    1093
molus                                                     .1~~~~~*~~    5.0  4.     .3      3.5      I.s      7.3'   lo.;    13.0        .2    US.1
onllB              .        .        .        .       .1     1.9       .°0                .                                                                   LO.  .  .  .  .  .  L.
iota1 "M   t UIUMIS                                      .0      L2       1.5      2.1    1L0   tt.?7       2.4      1.0      4.3     C.3      LS       1.       7.1    10.I       12.0     .2    55.5



- iv -
SYRIA
LOWER EUPHRATES DRALNiAGE PRO.JECT
(LOAN 1682 SYR)
PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMIMARY
Introduction
This was the first phase of a long-term project aimed at
rehabilitation and development of the lower Euphrates Valley. It has been the
Government's policy to reduce the dependence of the country on rainfed
agriculture by measuring the irrigated areas and reducing the area planted in
zones of low rainfall. During the Second Five-Year Plan (1966-70) there was
an increase in emphasis towards development of the Euphrates Basin,
accompanied by the establishment of the Ministry of the Euphrates Dam in
1969. In the Third Five-Year Plan (1971-75) more than 75Z of the total public
sector investment for the plan period was directed towards irrigation
development of the Euphrates Basin where the main potential for increasing the
area under irrigation in Syria is.
ObJective of the Proiect
The project aimed at: (i) increasing agricultural production in the
Euphrates Valley and publicizing the farm level technology; (ii) developing a
strategy for the irrigation in rehabilitation and land reclamation phases; and
(iii) halting the processing of salinization by lowering the level of ground-
water in the area.
Implementation
The project had a slow start due to reluctance by the borrower in
applying ICB procedures for procurement as stipulated in the Loan agreement.
Project implementation later improved and by June 1986, when disbursements
were suspended due to arrears, much of the physical works were complete.
The technical aspects of the project were well designed. The
original design emphasized an integrated approach, although neither the GOS
management nor the Bank followed through with this integration. The
implications of these missing links and their impact on the beneficiaries have
not been evaluated since the drainage systems were not fully operational at
the time of cancellation.   However, there was some indication that farmers
used salin water from the tubewells for irrigation. Without improved
extension services, it is reasonable to assume that more farmers will employ
such inappropriate practices in the future. This would not only be
detrimental to the achievement of the project objectives but it also would
jeopardize development of the agricultural sector.



Prolbect Imppct
In addressing the activities aimed at strengthening the management
capability in medium- and long-term planning for an integrated irrigation
project, the project design failed to make adequate provisions for a
training program. In retrospect, the project design was not fully
consistent with its objectives. The Bank also was inflexible in refusing
to approve a modification to meet recognized specific training needs. The
Bank was aware of the management weakness but took insufficient measures to
build management skills during the life of the project. At the time of
loan cancellation the project ERR could not be recalculated for lack of
data on production. The ERR is however estimated below 10%.
Lessons Learned
Several important lessons are drawn from the experience of
implementation of this project as follows:
(1) The introduction of a long-term integrated project requires
sophisticated management and specific technical skills.   Thus,
the adaptation of new technologies to the borrower's needs
should be carefully examined by the Bank. Furthermore, the
project evaluation should include a suitable lag period to
allow for this adjustment.
(2) The impact of the covenants on the project objectives should be
assessed, and when covenant non-compliance threatens project
success. provisions should be made to strengthen management.
(3) A design that involves high technology and technology transfer
should include tailor-made training programs to address the
need at three levels of decision making and management:
(a) policy and strategy makers and long/medium-term planners;
(b) mid-level managers and medium/short-term decision makers;
and
(c) grassroots decision makers and producers (technology users
and daily decision makers).
(4) The borrower's history vis-a-vis the Bank's philosophy should
be accurately assessed so that appropriate measures can be
taken to reverse unsatisfactory trends such as inadequate
auditing reports, part-time managers, and lengthy procurement
procedures, and
(5) The project design should spell out the specific supervising
expertise and si*ills needed for a sophisticated and integrated
irrigation projeet, taking into consideration the borrower's
weaknesses that were identified at the time of the appraisal.
Integrated projects are very complex and demand dedicated,
multidisciplinary specialists.



SE RIA
LOWER EUPHRA MrS DRA\D:A(GE PRO.JECT
iLo \N IV;  SYR)
PROJECT COMNPLE FION REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The agriculture sector plays an important role in the Syrian economy
through its contribution of about 25% to the GDP. Although this share fell to
19% in the mid-1970s, agriculture remained a crucial sector in the total
economy because of the direct and associated employment of one-half (4.4
million) of the total population.
1.02      Syria has a total land area of 18.5 million ha, of which 6 million
ha were cultivated at the time of the project. Irrigated agriculture
accounted for about 550,000 ha and the rest (901 of the total cultivated area)
was rainfed. Agricultural prodt'ction from rainfed lands varies greatly fre..
year to year as the result of a highly erratic distribution of rainfall.
Cotton and wheat were the main crops produced in irrigated areas; secondary
crops included olives and fruits.
1.03      Agricultural production has failed to keep up with population growth
since the early 1970s. The relatively low rate of growth in agricultural
output from 1967-1974 (2S annually) was reflected in declining agricultural
exports. Cotton accounted for three-fourth of the agricultural exports.
1.04      The broader economic environment has constrained the growth of
Syrian agricultural production. Three interrelated sectoral issues, however,
were key depressors for agricultural development:
(1) The relationship between physical production targets and
pricing policy was inconsistent. Price intervention policies,
designed to attain social and income equities, inadvertently
depressed the growth of agricultural production.
(2)  The institutional capabilities for planning and implementation
were weak.   The State Planning Commission (SPC) based their
agricultural strategies mainly on ad hoc judgments without the
feasibility studies and agronomic, technological and climatic
databases necessary to justify them.
(3)  The allocation of public investment did not reflect the overall
objectives. The pervasive public intervention and rigid
regulation of private investment discouraged agricultural
investors from pursuing viable investments.
1.05      Aware of the seriousness of this situation and facing the problems
of scarce cultivated land, rapidly growing population (3.5% annually) and an
unfavorable trade balance, the Government of Syria (GOS) adopted new



I: r*l ro.icdes in the i47;. tm -r:r :mo: -- se.-s-:ti!  y.  -.he
.3overnment strategies emp'ldsized increasilig ti.e irrigat,d l-'.:ivaed lan.(,
mainly in the Euphrates Basin; more than 17olf Lt-,e total pvl'c investmentl
were alicated for the development of irrigation systems.
1.06      It became evident shortly after the installation of the irrigation
systems in the Ghab region, Orontes River, and in the middle and lower
Euphrates Valley (LEV) that the newly developed irrigated areas had severe
drainage problems.   The Government of Syria consequently examined this new
problems and identified economic priorities to halt the deterioration of
irrigated areas. The GOS emphasized the development of cost-effective
drainage systems for the lower Euphrates to preserve the newly cultivated
Lands and to attain optimal agricultural production. Comprehensive analysis
of the Euphrates Basin showed that the rehabilitation and development program
deserved to be an urgent and long-term economic priority.
II. PROJECT FORMULATION AND DESCRIPTION
Proiect Identification and Preparation
2.01      Preparation of the Lower Euphrates Drainage Project was launched by
the Syrian Government in the early 1970s, with the assistance of a consulting
firm that prepared a comprehensive study of the entire Euphrates Valley. The
study highlighted the rapid spread of salinity in the irrigated lands, which
curtailed agricultural production in the region. Farming was becoming
unprofitable and land abandonment was becoming increasingly common as yields
declined. The study pointed out the need for a long-term plan for
rehabilitation and development in the LEV and recom-mended the following
actions be implemented in two phases:
(1) immediate arrest of the spread of salinity and the
deterioration of about 300,000 ha of irrigated lands in the
lower Euphrates Basin
(2) reclamation and rehabilitation of already deteriorated and
abandoned lands, concomitant with the establishment of
technical infrastructure and supportive services aimed at
improving farming technology and demonstrated the danger of
continued use of poor irrigation techniques to farmers, and
(3) the installation of new, well-drained irrigation systems to
improve total production and restore about 85,000 ha of
under-cultivated lands in the valley.
2.02      An IBRD/FAO/CP mission visited Syria in 1973.  It found that about
two-thirds of the arable but uncultivated area (due to salinity) in the lower
Euphrates Valley could be brought back into full production. This could be
accomplished by technically sound drainage systems and land reclamation. The
mission assisted the Government in designing specifications for a technical
and economic feasibility study. The study concluded that a drainage system
comprising tubewells and electric pumps would be the most viable. Water would



-3-
le purmpe-i !r'mr the weUls and d,li hdat,;' ;A    *Jr-l   ;   t.5 t>: -0t   :
River, thereoy lowering the groundwater tab'e and perrni:tin.g r_:.v.atr. )
the land.
2.03      The consultants developed a mathematical model to assist in
understanding the complex behavior of the aquifer when subjected to pumping.
The model was used to:
(I)  estimate the amount of water to be removed from the aquifer to
halt the land deterioration
(2) estimate the amount of water to be removed under a given
irrigating and leaching regimen, and
(3) optimize the number of wells and their locations.
2.04      During final project preparation the overall concept was broadened
to include:
(1) rehabilitation of 50,000-60,000 ha and construction of field
drains and drainage channels
(2) construction and rehabilitation of pumping stations and
irrigation networks
(3) construction of farm and feeder roads, land leveling and land
planing;
(4) construction of necessary buildings and provision of equipment
for operation and maintenance, and
(5) provision of extension services and farm machinery.
The project was to be carried out in phases, giving priority to the
construction of the drainage systems to prevent further land deterioration.
The second phase involved the construction of new irrigation systems and
further drainage works to recla'm abandoned land.
2.05      To reduce the risk of pumps being unable to lower the water to safe
levels for growing crops, additional wells were included in the project to
compensate for downtime, maintenance periods, and possible sample errors in
groundwater studies. Accordingly, it was proposed to increase the proposed
number of wells from 139 to 170.
RBank  biectives at Appraisal
2.06      The Bank's lending strategy was to finance selected projects that
had the most potential to help the Government attain and sustain its twin



ob,ectives o.~ growth and se--suffi'ien,y.  The Bar:k had pre;iously   inar:-ed
two agricultural projects: the Balikh irrigation and rural development project
and the first livestock development project. Although the Balikh project
suffered institutional problems in its initial stages; these were ultimately
resolved, as management gained experience. Both projec:- were completed
satisfactorily.
2.07      Syria has limited potential for expanding the area under
irrigation. Within the irrigation subsector, this project and the proposed
subsequent irrigation and rehabilitation project in the Lower Euphrates Valley
would permit full use of the existing irrigation infrastructure and would
improve farm technologies and inputs through supporting extension and
research.
2.08      The institutional performance in implementing the Balikh project was
of concern to the Bank. But, it was concluded that the designated
implementing agency, GADEB, had gained sufficient experience with the Balikh
project to successfully implement this project. Furthermore, this project
continued a heavy input of consultant services for supervision, technical
assistance and monitoring (about 60 man-years).
Proiect Description
2.09      The project focused on promptly halting the process of salinization
by installing an effective drainage system to lower the groundwater. The
drainage system to be completed in Phase I, is described below:
(1)  installation of 170 tubewells with electric pumps and
associated equipment
(2)  construction of 450 Km of open drains to return saline drainage
water to the Euphrates River, to intercept surface water from
adjacent areas and to collect surface water from the project
areas
(3)  construction of 200 Km of access roads to tubewell pumping
stations
(4)  construction of 240 KI of 22KV power transmission lines for
pumping stations, and
(5)  monitoring of salinity.
The project also included a provision for buildings and equipment for
extension, operation and maintenaace services, and consultants to assist
extension and agticultural research, undertake hydrological investigations and
provide engineering design services.
Project Cost and Finance
2.10      The total estimated project cost wis US$58.9 million including
physical contingencies and allowance for expected price increases. The



- I -
.oreign exchange *:Omponent of the project %as estimateI at LS$Z9.5 ri !n or
about 56b7 of the total project cost.  Total project cost is detaiLed in rable
1.
Appraisd and Negotiation
2.11      The project was appraised in October 1977.  At appraisal, the
llowing major issues arose:
(1)  The Government of Syria was skeptical about the proposed
increase in the number of drilled tubewells to be installed in
the first phase. While the proposed additional wells would
increase costs by 15Z, it would provide three major benefits as
discussed in paragraph 2.05. It was finally agreed to include
the additional 31 tubewells in the first phase.
(2) The GOS was indecisive on the form of land tenure on abandoned
lands after reclamation, whether private farms, cooperatives or
state farms. Since this issue had more to do with the second
phase than the first, it was felt that the Government's
indecision would not influence the project viability.
(3) Concerns were raised over pumping saline water into the
Euphrates River, thus increasing the salinity of downstream
water for users in Iraq. In the absence of international
agreements, it was vital to ensure that the project would not
seriously impair the quality and the salinity of the
Euphrates. It was felt that the GOS should reduce pumping when
the salinity of the Euphrates rose by more than .04
gram/liter. The Bank withheld approval of this project pending
the establishment of a unit that was to monitor the salinity of
the river during the life of the project. Although the GOS
eventually signed a commitment to monitor the river salinity,
this commitment remained unfulfilled. Unofficially, the GOS
felt it was an inequitable obligation, since Turkey was not
monitoring the salinity of the Euphrates flowing into Syria.
*                   (4)  An implementation agency issue arose because of the
multidimensional components of this project. GADEB was given
the responsibility for implementing the civil works and MAAR
was assigned responsibility for the extension and research
component, jointly with the UNDP program. (However, the
dynamic UNDP program dissipated during the early years of the
project, but the Bank failed to revitalize this crucial
component. In retrospect, the Bank condicioned its loan on the
commitment of the GOS to integrate the extension services with
project execution, yet limited its supervision and evaluation
primarily to the engineering components.)



(5)  The (3OS sought aiter:-ati:e i3ur:es of tunding with _cwer
Interest rates, however, tne Government ultimately asked the
Bank to finance this project.
2.12      Negotiations were held in February 1979.  Three major topics
discussed and agreed during negotiations were:
(1) inclusion of agricultural extension services in the project
(2) the use of international consultants, and
(3) the establishment of a unit to monitor the salinity impact of
the drainage program.
2.13      Board presentation took place on April 10, 1979, and the Loan
Agreement was signed on May 4, 1979; the Loan became effective in October 1979.
m. IMPLEMENTATION
Plan of Operation
3.01      Although GADEB and MAAR had gained considerable implementation
experience during the Balikh project, implementation was delayed about one and
a half years. The project management was slow in tender preparation, bid
reviews and contract awards. These delays probably reflected the time
required to adopt Bank's ICB procedures which differ from those of the
borrower. In view of the procurement dissimilarity between the Bank and the
GOS, it is appropriate to consider the management's procrastination as an
adjustment rather than unsatisfactory performance, as was stated in the
supervision reports.
3.02      Although the project gained momentum, the disparity in the
procurement rules between the Bank and the GOS continued to occasionally slow
progress. In mid-1981, misprocurement involving several contracts led to a
series of additional delays. In spite of the cancellation of US$5.31 million,
because of misprocurement, progress was not affected. Hence, the Bank granted
a one-year extension of the project, justified by the improved management
performance.
3.03      A new action plan called for project completion by the end of 1985.
Although, implementation process, including procurement, improved and tenders
were prepared to purchase equipment for operation and maintenance, the
Government of Syria became non-accruant and disbursement of the unexpended
balance, US$4,114,602 was suspended and eventually canceled. Thus, the
operation and maintenance component of the project was not implemented.
3.04      The project's key features were defined in the SAR to follow the
general pattern for full development of the project. Activity began in Zone I
(57,000 ha located on the right bank downstream of Deir-Ezzor) for
installation of the tubewells and pumping stations, and for preparation of a
detailed feasibility and desiga study for Zone II (37,000 ha located on the



Left tank if the Khabour River) and Zorne :I1 (3J,Xt) ;a i3cat 1  ,sa e-m. 2t
Deir-Ezzor on the right bank of the Khabour).  The first weLl drilLing in Zer.e
I was scheduled to begin in November 1980. The study was scheduled for
completion within two and a half years.
3.05      The SAR included a provision for constant supervision and technical
assistance, given the Bank's experience in the Balikh project. During the
life of the project, there were twelve supervision missions involving 109
man-days with an average of one person per mission.  Not only did the initial
implementation process lag, but the first supervision mission was also delayed
one and a half years. The project design emphasized the integration of
irrigation with good farming practices. GADEB improved its capability in
managing an engineering project but was unable to integrate the two components
of the project. The first supervision mission recommended including a team of
engineering and agriculturalist/extension specialists for the following
supervision mission. There was no explicit or implicit justification for the
Bank's inaction in providing both the mandatory continual supervision and a
well-defined and justified specific course of action. It became apparent that
the Project management was very responsive to the recommendations made by the
supervision mission and was therefore able to resolve technical and managerial
problems. In retrospect, the project design was correct in requiring Bank
endorsement for the project activities. This approval was needed not only to
ensure efficient project direction but also to strengthen the Syrian planning
and strategy development capability and to encourage discussion of sectoral
policies.
3.06      While the above problems prevented timely implementation, the
project was strengthened by explicit and well-defined technical aspects. The
mathematical model supported the project by minimizing the risk of uncertainty
and maximizing overall project benefits. At the time of cancellation, the
project objectives were within the reach of the GOS.   The Government policy,
planning strategy and investment allocation, discriminated against
agricultural development albeit unintentionally. It was assumed that
throughout the course of project implementation, the Bank would contribute to
changing this situation. In fairness to Syria, its no-war, no-peace situation
had forced the country to bear a heavy burden in the Middle East conflict.
The same situation also had tied Syrian resources to defense-related
expenditures, which took up almost 25% of the total budget. These macro
considerations trickled down to the project level.
AuCulturlResearch and Extension T
3.07      SM indicated that the agricultural research and extension
components of the project would be managed by the MAAR. Because of the
existing FAO/UNDP project that provided financial and technical assistance to
the MAAR, the Syrian Government, upon signing the Loan Agreement, agreed to
assume the responsibility for maintaining efficient and sustainable
agricultural services (including extension work), consistent with that
established in the Middle Euphrates during and after project development.



3.08      In October 1980, the supervision summary alluded to the mi:1inim
progress achieved in integrating the research-extension component into other
activities of this project. The mission recommended including a specialist in
future supervision missions. In March 1982, the supervision mission
recommended that the Bank express to UNDP its special interest in the
extension of the UNDP/FAO Integrated Agricultural Development project in view
of its vital activities for future development of the lower Euphrates area.
The following supervision mission reports made no reference to the research
and extension segment. It appears that both the Bank and the Government
strayed from the intended integrated design and objectives. The weakness of
the GADEB in administrating and directing an integrated project was
anticipated and the project design included specific measures to fill this
gap.
Civil Works
3.09      The project successfully constructed the civil works foreseen at
appraisal. These works, including tubewells, surface drains earthwork, drain
lining, access roads, and transmission lines were completed in Zone I and
partially completed in Zones II and INI.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
3.10      In August 1986, the ICB awards for purchasing O&M equipment were
approved and contracts were signed. But, in the absence of trained staff to
apply the computer model, some uncertainty exists about the quality of the
operation and maintenance. The need for training was not identified during
appraisal and was excluded from the project design. The training need was
eventually recognized and recommended, but at the time of cancellation the
issue was unresolved. The computer simulation model was critical for
successful operation, not only in supporting the operating decisions (the
amount of water to be pumped) but also in simulating the final output and
predicting the end results. In retrospect, the quality of the operation as an
indicator of realization of the project objectives was overlooked in the
design.
Monitorn
3.11      The establishment of a monitoring system for salinity control was
more than two years behind schedule. Although it was a covenant violation,
there was little concern over the salinity issue. This implied that while
salinity control was a vital riparian issue, it had an insignificant impact on
the Euphrates' water quality.   In 1986, the Bank calculated the salinity
increase during the life of the project and confirmed a no-risk scenario. A
similar conclusion was reached during calculations in preparation for the
second phase (land reclamation). These computations were prepared to resolve
the riparian issue and assure the Government of Iraq that the project in both
phases would not jeopardize the quality of Euphrates water.
Consultants
3.12      The contract with consultants from GERSAR-SCET (France) was signed
in March 1980 to carry out hydrogeological and soil investigations in Zones II



and III, prepare detailed design and tender documents for drainage works and
assist in evaluating the bids. The anticipated time frame for completing
these assignments was two and a half years. Initiation and completion of
these investigations and studies were delayed by one year. The preparation of
the tender designs and drawings for the works was constrained by the delayed
approval of the technical proposals for these Zones. The reviews and
approvals were assigned to a High Technical Committee (designated members were
agency executives: seven from MOI, five from GOLD, and two from GOEDEB). The
performance by the consultants was excellent.  The Bank supervision missions
particularly praised the "decision support" mathematical model (which was
designed by the consultant) to simulate the operation of the drainage system
and aquifer reactions.
Disbursements
3.13      Total disbursements for the project totaled US$20,575,397, or 702 of
the loan and about 38% of actual project costs. There were no disbursements
for the first two years of project implementation and about 6% of actual costs
in 1982. In March 1981, the Government awarded a contract to a Syrian
company, although a French firm was the lowest bidder.   This led to
cancellation of US$2 million. In March 1982, the Government awarded a
contract to a company that bid about 33% higher than the lowest bidder,
leading to an additional cancellation of US$3.34 million.
3.14      Between 1982 and 1986, the rate of disbursement improved.
Disbursements reached a pinnacle in 1986, achieving 571 of the appraisal
estimate to about 851 of the loan amount. The remaining 15% of the loan was
suspended and eventually canceled.
3.15      The slow disbursement and misprocurement that took place at the
beginning of the project may be attributed to:
(1) over-optimistic appraisal estimates of the readiness of the
project for execution and the capacity of the implementing
agencies, and
(2) complex Syrian procurement regulations that required
considerable time to bring them in line with the Bank
guidelines.
*     ~~Procuremenlt
3.16      The Loan Agreement provided for purchase of goods and civil works to
be contracted on the basis of ICB. Exceptions were made for construction,
furnishing and equipping of offices, workshops and warehouses at the project
headquarters in Deir-Ezzor, and at sectional headquarters for operation and
maintenance of drainage and related facilities, for which local competitive
bidding was permitted.
3.17      The implementation schedule extended four years beyond the appraisal
schedule because of delays resulting from misprocurement initially and from



- 1) -
modification of the procurement arrangements in October 1983 to use the Bank
Loan to finance construction equipment instead of civil works contracts.
Reportin
3.18      The implementing agency prepared 23 semiannual progress reports that
were submitted to the Bank. While progress reports were required by the loan
agreement, the Bank neglected to evaluate these reports and their implications
for the project objectives. The supervision mission in 1986 requested a draft
Project Completion Report to be submitted to the Bank by November 1986. This
request remained unanswered, thus the borrower's point of view is excluded
from this evaluation.
Accounting and Auditing
3.19      Bank supervision missions reported that the project accounts were
adequately maintained by GADEB/GOLD to reflect the financial operations,
resources and expenditures of the project. Audit reports were submitted with
considerable delays. These delays were caused by lengthy procedures in
complying with audit requirements and the fact that auditing and financial
statements were carried out by the Central Audit Organization, an independent
agency of the Government responsible for auditing all Government accounts.
While the concurrent audits were quite comprehensive, the audit reports
furnished to the Bank were unsatisfactory, both in content and timeliness.
Complianee wth Covenants
3.20      Compliance with covenants was satisfactory.  Exceptions were:
(1)   the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system
(2) the maintenance of newly completed works, which was the
responsibility of the contractor up to the end of 1985, and
(3) the auditing reports, all of which were inadequate.
3.21      At the time of signing the loan agreement, the Bank contributed only
5S of the total Syrian capital inflow. It may be overly optimistic to assume
that the borrowers could immediately change the procedures for procurement,
auditing and project implementation. Nevertheless, the long-term impact of
this problem on the relationship between the borrowers and the donor should be
evaluated.
Performance of Management
3.21      During the life of the project, GADEB comprised two organizations,
GADEB and GOLD. The former was responsible for O&M of completed projects as
well as for agricultural and settlements aspects, and the latter was
designated to implement and manage new projects, including this project.
Because of the technical, financial and procedural constraints faced by the



pro,:t mana,ement, it is difficult to make a fuUl and impartial evaluat _c:r
its performance during the life of the project. These forces impeded the
project and should be weighed against the basic question of whether project
objectives at appraisal were realistic. In hindsight, it would seem that the
probability of project completion as predicted at appraisal was never great,
and the performance of those involved in the project consequently suffered.
Furthermore, because of the Government's emphasis on investments in irrigation
and drainage projects, the limited manpower was diluted, which affected all
the projects in this sector.
IV. PROJECT IMPACT
Physical Development
4.01      Operation of the tubewell drainage system on the right bank was
initiated in May 1985 with eight tubewells. The results were satisfactory,
with tubewells discharging at designed capacity. The salinity of the eight
wells varied from 1.2 to more than 20g/l. The higher salinity readings were
unexpected and could not be explained by the accumulation of salts over the
last 25-30 years of irrigation. The high salinity was probably the result of
a geological anomaly rather than improper irrigation systems. Yet, it
introduced a host of new factors that needed to he examined and addressed.
Nevertheless, the number of wells with high salinity content (20g/1) at the
time of cancellation was too small to draw any specific conclusions.
Additional information and salinity analysis would be necessary to determine
whether a new plan of action would be required. The results of these analyses
are also critical for the riparian issue, since the water from the tubewells
would be pumped to the Euphrates. Furthermore, some farmers used the water
from the wells to irrigate their crops with devastating results. Thus, the
missing link between the extension and the installation of the drainage system
was not only a constraint to agricultural production but was also an
environmental hazard.
4.02      The last supervision report confirmed that the work in Zone 1 was
completed and the main objective of the project - to arrest the spread of the
salinization by lowering the water table -  was completed.   This Zone
comprised 57,000 ha.
4.03      The cancellation of the Loan Agreement before the drainage systems
were operational, with the exception of a few tested tubewells, precluded the
project from achieving the full objectives. Phase I, which addressed the
installation of drainage systems, was completed in Zone I and about 50X
completed in Zones II and III.
4.04      The project was expected to reach 23,000 families in the Lower
Euphrates area and to have an Economic Rate of Return of 15% over a 22-year
period. The ERR was estimated to differ in different zones, ranging from 13%
to 16%.



4.,03     The SAR identified the key variabtles most crucial to the su:cess )f
the project:
20% increase in capital costs                 ERR 13%
202 decrease in benefits                      ERR 122
2-year delay in completion of construction   ERR 112
No benefit of research and extension           ERR 101
4.06      The SM identified the main risks of the project as technical.  The
consultants developed a "Decision Support" simulation mathematical model that
minimized these risks.   The initial operation in Zone I of eight tubewells
produced a set of new issues (e.g., unexpected high water salinity in some
tubewells).   Remaining unresolved, these issues would clearly affect the
efficacy and impact of the project.
4.07      Considering the above analysis and the project implementation delays
(four and a half years), lack oi information concerning the benefits from
research and extension, and the anticipated increase in project costs to US$60
million as estimated in the 1984 supervision report, the ERR would be less
than 102 for this phase of the project.
4.08      The main elements of Phase II of the project were identified in 1985
by an IBRD/FAO/CP mission. Preliminary examination of the data required for
Lower Euphrates Reclamation project preparation indicated that Phase II would
be a justifiable investment.
4.09      The real impact of the project might vary significantly depending on
the project completion in total (Phase I and II) and the success of its
operation and management.   Experience has proven that a comprehensive and
integrated drainage, irrigation, and land reclamation program would have
greater economic and social benefits than an isolated drainage project
because the combined benefits would trigger associated advantages.
V. CONCLUSIONS AND BANK'S ROLE IN THE FUTURE
Project Execution
5.01      The project was appraised in October 1977, approved by the Board in
April 1979, and became effective in October 1979.   The project was conceived
to conserve the productivity of 300,000 ha in the Lower Euphrates Valley that
was gradually deteriorating because of salinization. In the beginning, there
were numerous delays. The Bank supervision reports deduced that these
problems were management related, yet, two years' delay in implementing
bank-financed agricultural projects is not unusual. The problems related to
procurement were resolved, but the Syrian Government lost US$5.31 million from
the original US$30 million loan.
5.02      The high salinity from some of the test tubewells was greater than
could be attributed to land reclamation. A possible explanation is salt water
intrusion from lower depths. Discuarging drainage water from these



wells into the Euphrates river will not seriously affect the water quality;
however, if the water from the entire set of drainage wells reacted these high
saline levels, Euphrates water quality would suffer.
5.03      The supervision reports highlighted management's willingness to
complete the project. Although management continually attempted to overcome
constraints, the project suffered periodic slowdowns. This cycle of
stagnation/progression was as much related to the national political milieu as
to ineffective management.
5.04      The actions that induced the cancellation of the project and impeded
its activities and operation shortly before the closing date were not
generated by the"project management. Government's articulated goals
emphasized the development of the agricultural sector, but the macro policies
discouraged agricultural developments.   Unsatisfactory performance during
this project and other irrigation projects for the Euphrates Valley were
predictable from the conflicts between the short-term/ad hoc policies and the
medium-term planned policies (3.10 and 3.21).
Institutional Development
5.05      GADEB and GOLD have gained significant experience during the last
fifteen years through the Balikh Irrigation Project and other projects aimed
at the development of the Euphrates Basin. Although these agencies proved
their capability in construction management, land settlement and farm
management, their experience in O&M of a complex and integrated system had not
been tested. The supervision reports recommended that some of these
capabilities could be developed through training, but there was no provision
for training in this project.
5.06      While the Loan Agreement committed the Government to providing
research and extension services, GADEB was unable to adequately coordinate the
project activities with the Directorate of Agricultural Extension, Directorate
of Agricultural Research and other research departments within the MAAR. The
link between this project, irrigation projects, water management projects, and
agricultural research and extension is vital for project success and should be
developed and maintained.
5.07      The traditional irrigation and cropping methods practiced in the
Euphrates basin led to increased salination and declining production. The
*         project installed the technical capacity to reverse this situation, but did
not effectively link this with extension. A fundamental extension role is
transmitting information and facilitating the adoption of practices consistent
with new technologies - in this instance the new drainage program.
Performance of the Bank
5.08      In 1979, the SAR assumed that all project work would be completed in
four years. In retrospect, this schedule was too ambitious, especially in
view of the procurement problems.   In 1980, the Bank found that the



preparation or bidding docu-nents was significantly Lagging and s-ggest-d
prompt action. Although the Governiment committed itself to abide by the
Bank's ICB guidelines, it awarded two contracts in violation of these
guidelines. The differences between Bank and the GOS's procurement procedures
were identified during implementation of the Balikh project. Although the SAR
assumed that GADEB had adapted to the Bank guidelines and procedures in
reality GADEB was also obliged to follow GOS guidelines. It is prudent for
the Bank to recognize that the final decisions on ICB were made by the GOS,
not by GADEB management.
5.09      Despite a substantial field supervision effort, the Bank was
unsuccessful in eliciting Government compliance with Loan Covenants related to
O&M. Although these issues were raised by supervision missions, and
recommendations were given through aide-memoires and several letters addressed
to the highest concerned authorities, results were partial to non-responsive.
5.10      In general, continuity and frequency of supervision for the
construction elements were reasonable. They were relatively lacking for the
integration of research and extension, in spite of the fact that they were
linked in the covenant. Supervision was effective in detecting major
shortcomings in project execution. However, it was unable to remedy the
shortcomings that were generated by macro policy.
5.11      The complexity and the multiple-objectives of the project required
sophisticated management and skilled staff to operate the supporting decision
model. Although training was not a foreseen need at appraisal, during
supervision it became evident that both management training and training in
computer applications were needed. However, the Bank declined to amend the
loan agreement to finance these training needs.
concusio
5.12      The project was the first phase of a comprehensive irrigation/
drainage, land reclamation program for the Lower Euphrates.  Construction of
the civil works was successfully completed within the extended project
period. fowever, sound operation and maintenance priorities, were not in
place at the time of cancellation.
L - L
5.13      The project was technically sound as implemented.  However, as only
a few tubewells were in operation at the time the project was cancelled the
fate of the full operation and sustainability of the project remained
unclear. More accurate assessment of the borrower's management and technical
capab:lities may have led to the inclusion of more technical assistance and
trainiag to resolve these weaknesses or to revise project objectives. An
eight-year project implementation period instead of four would have permitted
the borrower to adjust and adapt to Bank investment guidelines.



^. S    :i sjnmary, tie important lessans learnt are is t3lLows:
(1) The introduction of a long-term integrated project requires
sophisticated management and specific technical skills.   Thus,
the adaptation of new and appropriate technologies to the
borrower's needs should be carefully examined by the Bank.
Furthermore, the design should include a lag period to allow
for this adjustment.
(2) A design that involves high technology and technology transfer
should include tailor-made training programs to address the
need at three levels of decision making and management:
(a) policy and strategy makers and long/medium-term planners;
(b) mid-level managers and medium/short-term decision makers;
and
(c) grassroots decision makers and producers (technology users
and daily decision makers).
(3) The borrower's capacity vis-a-vis the Bank's requirements
should be accurately assessed so that appropriate measures can
be taken to reverse unsatisfactory trends such as inadequate
auditing reports, part-time managers, and lengthy procurement
procedures, and
(4) Integrated projects are very complex and demand dedicated,
multidisciplinary specialists. The project design should
identify the specific expertise and skills needed for managing
and monitoring a long-term, sophisticated and integrated
irrigation project, taking into consideration the borrower's
weaknesses that were identified at the time of the appraisal.



- 16 -
SYRIA
LOWER EUPHRATES ORAINAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 1682 SYR)
PROJECT COMrLETION REPaRT
Proiect Cost Estimates (Reoroduced from SAR)
. of Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total        Total
-(SL milllion)-        ---US% M1111lM}--
Drainaoe Works
Tubewells                    6.7    13.8    20.S         1.7      3.S      S.2         68
Surface Orains              26.4    19.s    45.9         6.7      4.9      11.6        42
Access Roads                 6.2     4.2    10.4         1.S      1.1       2.6         40
Transmission Lines           Z.9      7.      LA_4       1.3      1.9       ILi        60
Subtotal               44.2    45.0    89.2         11.2    11.4      22.6         SO
Buildinas                       1.3      0.7      2.0       0.3      0.2       0.S         35
Ea=imentL                       0.7      3.7     4.4        0.2      0.9       1.1         85
Consultants
oetailed Investigations
(Zones 2 & 3)                7.0    17.7    24.7         1.8      4.5      6.3          72
supervision. Technical
Assistance & aionitoring    L. I      L      1L.         1.       L.2       Li          68
Subtotal              11.1    26.5    37.6          2.9     6.7       9.6         70
Total Project Cost
Excluding Contingencies   57.3    75.9   133.2          14.6    19.2       33.8         57
2=s     =sU    ==Un         :D=3    =¶3U      =3
Contingencele
Physical                    10.4    12.7    23.1         2.5      3.2       5.7         55
Price                        LZ        .      LZ          AI      L.       LL           55
Subtotal              3l.6    40.7    74.3          8.4    10.3      18.7         55
GRANO TOTAL
PROJECT COST                90.8   116.6   207.4        23.0    29.5       S2.5         56
*sU3   =22s2   =U-U         ==U3    S=WZ      =Z=
3235C



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
LOWER EUPHRATES DRAINAGE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Reproduced From The (SAR)
Year          1978                 1979                  1980                  1981                  1982
Quarter  1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4   1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4
Z01E- -  - -_ __   .-  -                                                            _ - -              . - -_-
ZONE I4"I
Drillings of Tubewellst ,            s   ,,           8111 1ifl I
Equipment of Tubewelts1                 r ,       mmimimmiiii _  _            .1
Surface Drains and Roads                   ,   z     IItIl I   sIm)I        _                _
ZONE 2 AND 3                                                            Z  e
Technical Investigations                                        .       Zeo  3
ZONE 2
Drillings of Tubewells
Equipment of Tubewells                                                                                  - |        - _
Suwface Drains and Roads                                                            ,
ZONE 3                                                         
DrTllings of Tubewells                                                                                             _
Equipment of Tubewells|||._
Surface Drains and Roads                                                  |    |              00  ,   mmmwII
Tendering for drilling and equipment of tubewells for the whole project
''' 'ddPreparation of designs and tender documents
nnnmmu"""'  Bidding and award of contracts                             cr
Construction                                                I!



AKAIt KtrUIiLI -,K,ohJPGs   I I                                                      7_
IBRD 13259
g   ,  O5,LOmEroRs5  TURKEY
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
LOWER EUPHRATES DRAINAGE PROJECT
TABO                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project boundaries
;                         DAotti                                                                                                                             Non-soline lands
Zo             I Di RAO Q                               KiLOMETERS                                                               Moderately and severely saline lands
0Hn S YRIAN________________________40                                                                                                         Abandoned  lands
;   ;,',. OHm ARAB REPUBLIC                                0                        Av      io       is 2s5r                                          Rivers
LRBEEANOI'            -.~AbhoKemd w M'ioiS -' Wadi
Existing roads
eDoogEco.  - F-i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VMain towns
xProect ar                                                                                                               o     Other towns and villages
r powed decelop.ent                                                                                             VW,WA    Gypsum Cliffs
in Euphrates bosin                                            ~css~    ysmcif
-   ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------Sector boundaries
i5RAELFJ,.        .'<racdertrei\reA                                                                      
^,   \-s         o -   ,ORDAN
C~~~~~~~~1 d    . Lis5rHdud  r-U ff                     B
o Sr wrek C~ v .yMi    Th.d.re seoi vvredS E C T O                          R   4_
DEIR EZ ZO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCO 
2                                                 SECTOR    3
3SECTOR    1                                                                                             I            SECTOR   5                                      S
SECTOR   7~~~~~~~~~&Ac 19



IBRD 13260E
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Lower Euphrates Drainoge Project
Typical Village Unit in Project Area
Project roods                      Main rood                      Non-saline land
Project colle:tor drainage         Internal rood                  Moderately & severely soline land
*    Drainage tubewells       ---*-* - Power line              _     - . Abondoned lond
Existing irrigation system  Vi      loge:                       - Marsh
*.  Turnouts                   ,GWyg  Gypsum cliff                     Sand
O    Pumping stotions                   Embankment            >K  I.- Gravel
-- ------ Property boundories
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                           -
~~~~~~aaperartvo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~P vt
pumping    --   I                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~U J mi
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                       st>atioe<   
stations                                                  -
,                   -'-"   /        -"V', 
t                 "xs       /,'        /R''S"sx UN. /
&             .. .^..    -.+...'                    a.-
IE    _            -S
,                                                              I.-,XII 
,U
uJ
TURKEY
15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Al.
Lottakio SYRIAN  ir azZor
.t   , oFY.lY   Sjfl"     W                 .-                             roiec
ARAIB REPUBLIC Preojc
Hrs   Abu Kem
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m,u ','   ,II
C/Po, jS                 sI,o              AEo, -i        \
/0      JORDAN   \'   nie
MARCH 1990



