Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2WOO-SYR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
LOWER EUPHRATES DRAINAGE PROJECT
March 28, 1979
This document hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ficiad duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 30, 1977)
Currency Unit            =          Syrian Pounds (LS)
LS 3.95                             US$1.00
LS 1.00                  -          US$0.253
LS 1,000,000             =          US$253,165
US$1,000,000                        LS 3,950,000
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 1
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
CMO       Cotton Marketing Organization
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GADEB     General Administration for the Development
of the Euphrates Basin
GERSAR    Groupement d'Etudes et de Realisations des
Societes d'Amenagement Regional
GOCM      General Organization for Cereals and Mills
GOED      General Organization for the Euphrates Dam
NEDECO    Netherlands Engineering Consultants
SCET      Societe Centrale pour l'Equipement du Territoire
(International)
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
USAID     United States Agency for International Development



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LOWER EUPHRATES DRAINAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Syrian Arab Republic
Beneficiary:        General Administration for the Development of the
Euphrates Basin (GADEB)
Amount:             US$30 million
Terms:              Amortization in 17 years, including a 4-year grace period,
with interest at 7.0 percent per annum.
Project
Description:        (i) Objectives.  The Project would arrest the spread of
salinity and improve agricultural production on about
75,000 ha of land irrigated or previously irrigated on both
banks of the Lower Euphrates River in North Eastern Syria.
(ii) Major components. Under the Project, 170 tubewells
operated by electric pumps would be installed to lower the
saline water table by pumping from a gravel aquifer under
the riverine plain into open drains leading to the Euphrates
River. A total of 450 km of open drains to handle pumped
and surface water, 200 km of pumping station access roads,
240 km of 22 kV power lines and buildings for operation
and maintenance and research and extension operations,
would be constructed. Consultants would be appointed to
assist the General Administration for the Development of
the Euphrates Basin, the agency responsible for implement-
ing the project. Consultants would carry out detailed
hydrogeological investigations on about 65,000 ha not
already covered in the preparation phase, supervise the
construction and installation work under the Project and
establishment of an operation and maintenance service,
supply engineering services for the design of works,
assist in a crop research and extension program. (iii)
Benefits and beneficiaries. The Project would benefit
23,000 farm families, about half of which are below the
relative poverty level; this proportion is likely to
increase to 70 percent without the Project. The balance
of payments would be improved through increased agricul-
tural production. (iv) Risks. The main risks are tech-
nical and administrative. The lack of experience of tube-
well drainage construction techniques and the operation and
management of such a system requires an expertise presently
not available in Syria. The large provision for consult-
ing services and the increase in the number of tubewells
from 139 to 170 are aimed at reducing this risk. Adminis-
trative delays in award of contracts and procurement could
delay project completion and reduce the rate of return.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost
Estimates:                                                      US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
(i)  Drainage works                                   11.2      11.4      22.6
(ii)  Buildings                                         0.3       0.2       0.5
(iii)  Equipment                                         0.2       0.9       1.1
(iv)  Consultants                                        2.9      6.7       9.6
(v)  Contingencies                                     8.4      10.3      18.7
Total                                            23.0      29.5     52.5
Financing Plan:                                                  US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD Loan                                         0.0      30.0     30.0
Government                                       22.5       0.0      22.5
Total                                            22.5      30.0     52.5
Estimated
Disbursements:                                                 US$ Million
FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
Annual                                        11.1    9.6    7.0    2.3
Cumulative                                    11.1   20.7   27.7   30.0
Technical Assistance:
(a)  Consulting services for detailed investigations, project design and
preparation of documents for about 65,000 ha (in Zones 2 and 3) of
the Project Area (about 675 man-months) in addition to use of
computer time for mathematical models as well as water and soil
analysis.
(b) Consulting services for supervision of works of the Project
(288 man-months).
(c) An agricultural research and an agricultural extension
specialist (72 man-months).
The average cost for consulting services would be $7,000 per man-month.
Estimated
Completion Date:   June 30, 1982
Rate of Return:      15 percent (Economic)
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. l910a-SYR of March 15, 1979
EMENA Projects
Map:                 IBRD 13259



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR A
LOWER EUPHRATES DRAINAGE PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan of US$30 million equivalent to the Syrian Arab Republic to help finance
the Lower Euphrates Drainage Project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.0 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects for
Syria" (no. 806-SYR, dated October 31, 1975) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on November 12, 1975. This section is based on the findings of
a Basic Economic Mission which visited Syria in April 1977, whose report was
sent to the Government for comments in May 1978, and on a brief updating
mission which visited Syria in July 1978. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
3.         Syria experienced great political instability in the period between
1946, when it attained independence, and November 1970, when General Hafez
Assad became President of the Republic. Two very significant changes have
occurred in the polity and economy during the last three decades. First, the
Ba'ath Socialist Party gained power in March 1963 and this accelerated a shift
in the locus of power from the traditional groups of landowners, traders and
industrialists to Party leaders, civil and military officials, and an emerging
group of professionals. Second, the economy has been transformed from an
essentially laissez faire system to a largely publicly-owned and centrally
regulated one with the nationalization in the 1960s of large segments of the
industrial, finance and trade sectors. This development was paralleled by
the agrarian reform, commenced in 1958, which has resulted in a substantial
redistribution of land to the landless peasants and small farmers and the
establishment of agricultural cooperatives and state farms. President Hafez
Assad's regime has been characterized by a balance of firmness and concilia-
tion in domestic policies, economic pragmatism and a diversification of for-
eign economic relations, all in the framework of Ba'athist ideology. These
aims have been pursued gradually but determinedly and, in spite of continued
political uncertainty in the Middle East and of the constraints of what is
largely an economy dominated by the priority given to military expenditures,
some progress towards a reorientation of economic policies and a diversifi-
cation of production has been achieved.
1/   This part is substantially unchanged from that in the President's
Report No. 2369-SYR on a Loan to the Syrian Arab Republic for an Oilseed
Processing Project, dated November 2, 1978.



-2-
Past Performance
4.        The Syrian economy grew at a fairly impressive pace (averaging over
7 percent per year) during the 1960s and early 1970s. The overall growth
rate, however, concealed underlying weaknesses in Syria's economic development,
as the bulk of the increase in value added (GDP) took place in the service
sectors while performance in the agriculture sector was poor. The service-
dominated growth resulted in very slow growth of the tax base and the export
potential of the economy, and has consequently created domestic and external
financial bottlenecks. Syria's population has grown at 3.3 percent per annum
since 1960 and almost half of the total population is at present urban--the
rate of urbanization has so far been moderate. The rapid population growth
has certainly imposed a high cost on the economy in the provision of housing,
social services and rising aggregate consumption. As awareness of these costs
becomes widespread, attitudes towards family planning are gradually changing
and family planning services are being provided under Government aegis although
external assistance for the purpose is still not acceptable. Syria has expe-
rienced a relatively low unemployment rate (around 5 percent) in the recent
past, largely a result of three factors: the high number of emigrant workers
(currently estimated at 450,000 persons), the surprisingly high employment
generation in the agriculture sector during the 1960s and early 1970s and the
low female participation rate. Since these safety outlets will probably not
be available to the same extent in the future the generation of substantial
new employment must become an imperative for Syrian policy makers.
5.        Economic growth during the Third Plan period, 1971-75, exceeded the
8 percent per year target level. The 1973 petroleum price increase, which
boosted Syria's petroleum export earnings, and the sharp rise in Arab grants
following the October 1974 Rabat agreement, augmented financial resource avail-
ability in the short run, leading to revisions of the Third Plan and sharp
increases in planned public investments. Actual public investment during
1971-75 reached about 70 percent of the original Plan target, with about 55
percent of the total outlays being made in the last two years of the Plan
period, largely as a result of greater availability of financial resources.
A substantial number of major projects, including those in fertilizers and
steel rolling, came on stream during the Plan period, thus diversifying the
structure of industrial output. Investments in irrigation and agriculture,
however, were stagnant in real terms during the Plan period and fell substan-
tially short of the Plan's target. Nonetheless, the Euphrates basin invest-
ment was substantial and, if the serious technical problems faced so far are
overcome, may lead to higher growth and stability in the production of the
agricultural sector in the future. Progress in the fields of transport and
communications kept pace with the overall implementation rate of the Plan.
Investments in social services reached a high proportion of planned alloca-
tions, although substantial needs remain in education, health and urban
services.
6.        During 1976 adverse financial developments emerged as a cumulative
result of the high investment rates of 1974-75 and external developments,
including the discontinuation of oil supplies and transit by Iraq, a temporary
decline in Arab aid (in 1976) and the impact of the Lebanese civil war. The
Government, therefore, delayed the finalization of the Fourth (1976-80) Plan



- 3 -
to early 1977. Recognizing the lack of resource availability, the Government
decided to limit its investment program for 1977-80 mainly to ongoing projects.
The strategy underlying the current investment program places particular
emphasis on industrialization, with investment in agriculture remaining
substantial. The industrial development strategy stresses import-substitution
in consumer goods, and a substantial expansion of resource-based industries,
such as cotton textiles, cement and fertilizers. A significant increase in
exports of manufactured goods by 1980 -- particularly textiles and fertilizers
-- is a primary objective in the sector. In agriculture, the Government's
overall objectives are, as in the previous Plan, self-sufficiency in major
domestic food needs, meeting the raw material requirements of industry, and
provision of a production surplus for export. Rational land and water use,
the stabilization of annual fluctuations in output and the improvement in
consumer diet through an increase in protein supply are further objectives.
The strategy to achieve these objectives includes expansion of irrigated
agriculture, intensification of crop production and achievement of a better
balance and complementarity between crop and livestock production.
Present Situation
7.        During 1976-78, Syria's economic growth slowed down to an annual
average of 3.5 percent despite a high and rising level of investment. This
growth was due to the declining output of petroleum and industrial sectors,
slow growth of public services as a result of budgetary restraints, and
stagnant agricultural output because of bad weather in 1977 and 1978. The
rate of investment however rose sharply from 28 percent of GDP in 1975 to
an average 37 percent during 1976-78 as a number of capital-intensive, long
gestation projects which had been initiated earlier, were being completed.
While the growth of public investment raised total public expenditures from
42 percent of GDP in 1975 to an average 53 percent in 1977-78, the Govern-
ment's attempts to raise revenues from taxes and transfers from public
enterprises were only partly successful. As a consequence, the budgetary
deficit widened from SL 3.0 billion in 1975 to an average SL 5.5 billion in
1976-78, or from 15 percent to 21 percent of GDP. At the same time imports
grew sharply in 1976-78, while export growth was slow due to the decline in
crude oil output and poor performance of manufacture exports. The balance
of payments, reflecting these trends, moved from a current account surplus
of $93 million in 1975 to a deficit of $759 million in 1976, and external
reserves fell in 1976 by $519 million. In 1977 and 1978, however, an increase
in official transfers from neighboring oil-exporting Arab countries (from
$412 million in 1976 to $1.2 billion in 1977 and an estimated $0.9 billion
in 1978), served to reduce the current deficit to an average $460 million.
Gross international reserves amounted to some $700 million at end 1978,
equivalent to about 2.6 month's imports.
8.        The Government has made efforts to respond to the problems by
introducing fiscal austerity, restricting imports and devising ways to
improve export and savings performance. The Fourth Five-Year Plan has been
severely curtailed (para. 6). Current expenditures under the 1977 and 1978
budgets have been held essentially to 1976 levels, and public investment has
largely been restricted to on-going projects. Simultaneously, the Govern-
ment has been conducting a review of economic profitability of the on-going



- 4-
and proposed projects. In 1977 efforts began to improve domestic resource
mobilization, tighten control of expenditures, and to reform the tax system.
These efforts need to be sustained and strengthened if available resources
are to be utilized efficiently and development is to proceed without serious
inflation and public debt management problems. Vigorous action must be taken
to increase the efficiency of the public economic enterprises and their
contribution to the budget through improved management, as well as improved
efficiency in production and introduction of cost-related pricing. The State
Planning Commission has undertaken studies of capacity utilization in agri-
culture, industry and transport with the aim of finding means of increasing
growth through improved utilization of existing capacity rather than new in-
vestments. The Government is also receiving UNDP assistance in planning.
These efforts are expected to have a significant impact on economic policy
making in the near-term, and on the quality of the Fifth Five Year Plan
(1981-85), which is currently under preparation.
Prospects
9.        In the medium term, the Government is confronted with the task of
restoring order in the public finances and the balance of payments. This task
is further complicated by the ideological commitments and social concerns of
the Government and the situation in the Middle East. Reconciling the conflict-
ing objectives and making progress in solving these problems will be an ardous
and long-term effort. The recent pledges of increased Arab assistance and the
improvement of relations with Iraq promise immediate benefits which would
allow the Government time and flexibility in formulating strategies and
policies conducive to strengthening the budget and the balance of payments.
With prospects of increased availability of financial resources real GDP
growth may be of the order of 4 percent per year in 1979 and 1980 and in the
neighborhood of 6 percent per year in the early 1980's. The sources of growth
are likely to be the manufacturing and construction sectors, with agricultural
production stabilized at higher levels, rather than mining and commerce which
were the leading growth sectors during the Third Plan.
10.       Perhaps the most significant obstacle to long-run economic and
social progress in Syria is the absence of effective planning and administra-
tive institutions. Although the administrative problems are too complex and
deep-rooted to allow an early solution, there is an urgent need to begin a
reform that would strengthen administrative capacity and develop capability
particularly in the formulation and execution of development plans, programs
and projects. Another major obstacle in the way of efficient implementation
of the investment program is likely to be the shortage of skilled manpower.
The uneven spatial distribution of employment is also likely to pose problems
as a large proportion of public investment in agriculture and industry is to
take place in the Northeast, where the population density is much lower than
in the Western Coastal belt. Measures will be required to attract population
and to provide sufficient skilled manpower to the Northeast region. The
overall manpower situation and the difficulties currently encountered in
fostering an efficient public administration and public economic sector are
exacerbated by emigration of trained technicians and skilled labor abroad and
the outflow of trained manpower from the public sector to the private sector



as a result of wide wage differentials. To alleviate the shortages the
Government plans to provide extensive training facilities for augmenting the
supply of skilled manpower. It may also have to revamp the structure of
incentives so as to enable the public sector to attract and retain an effi-
cient cadre of administrators, technicians and other skilled workers.
External Debt
11.       At the end of 1977, external public debt outstanding and disbursed,
excluding military debt, was estimated to be around $1,528 million ($3,692
million including undisbursed) of which around 80 percent was held by Govern-
ments (37 percent, OPEC; and 43 percent, centrally planned economies), and
about 9 percent by multilateral organizations. At the end of 1978, estimated
total public debt outstanding and disbursed was $2,300 million, and gross
reserves were estimated to be some $700 million. Gross external capital
requirements during 1979-80 are expected to total about $1.5 billion. As a
result, Syria's debt service ratio is expected to rise from an estimated 15
percent in 1978 to 16 percent by 1980, and to 23 percent by 1985. The Bank
Group's share in total public debt outstanding and disbursed is projected to
increase to 9 percent and in total debt service payments to 7 percent in
1980. Subject to continued prudent debt management, Syria remains credit-
worthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SYRIA
12.       Syria has to date received four IDA credits totalling $47.3 million
and thirteen loans totalling $438.1 million (including one loan of $12.5
million on Third Window terms), net of cancellations.  Although Syria is a
member of the Corporation, IFC has made no investments. At the end of 1977,
the Bank Group accounted for 5 percent of Syria's total outstanding public
debt; by 1980 it is expected to account for 9 percent of total outstanding
public debt and 7 percent of public debt service obligations. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA credits and Bank loans as of March 9,
1979.
13.       Project implementation has generally suffered substantial delays
due partly to circumstances beyond Syria's control. The 1973 hostilities
brought works to a standstill and diverted the country's resources first to
military, then to reconstruction tasks; the unsettled conditions in the region
and weaknesses in the decision making and administrative systems caused delays
in establishing a dialogue on economic policies (which commenced in 1977),
resolving policy issues and in project implementation. The above developments
were compounded by the high rate of world inflation and generated considerable
cost overruns in most projects. As a result, the scope of the Damascus Water
Supply and Mehardeh Power Projects had to be revised and additional financing
secured. In the case of the Second Highway Projet, the war-related delays
and the economic upturn after 1973 made it necessary to redesign the project
roads to four lanes instead of two. To cover the additional cost, the Govern-
ment obtained a $45.9 million loan from USAID and a $11.3 million loan from
Saudi Arabia to help finance certain highways originally included in the project.



- 6 -
Disbursements of Bank loans had reached, as of December 31, 1978, 59 percent
of appraisal estimates and 70 percent of revised estimates. The Bank has
agreed with the Government to hold semi-annual reviews to define steps for
improving project implementation. The Syrian Electricity Authority is at
present not earning a return of 9 percent on its assets in operation as is
stipulated in Loan Agreements with the Bank (Loan Nos. 986-SYR and 1144-SYR).
During negotiations of the Rural Electrification Project (for which Loan No.
1531-SYR was made in May 1978 and which is not yet effective) the Bank agreed
that this rate of return could be achieved over three years. The Electricity
Authority sought Government approval in September 1978 for the necessary
tariff increases to become effective on January 1 of this year. The Govern-
ment has not yet given its approval. As a result, the Bank is considering
remedies under its agreements and has informed the Government that the
Rural Electrification Project will not be declared effective until the
necessary tariff action is taken.
14.       Lending for infrastructure has accounted for over two-thirds of Bank
Group lending to Syria. It aimed at fostering well designed sector policies
and strengthening the public institutions responsible for power, water supply,
highways and telecommunications. The objective of lending for irrigation
development (Balikh Project) was to help increase and stabilize agricultural
production and farmers' incomes which are subject to wide fluctuations under
rainfed conditions. The Livestock Development Project, for which a loan was
approved in FY77, provides for fundamental improvements in feed and flock
management policy as well as credit to sheep farmers, most of whom are among
Syria's poor nomadic population, with the objective of increasing and stabiliz-
ing incomes in the sheep subsector throughout Syria.
15.       Future lending operations in Syria would continue to support physical
infrastructure development in the telecommunications, roads and power distribu-
tion areas but there would be a greater emphasis on assisting in the social
sectors through education, water supply, and sewerage development projects.
Moreover, the pipeline of projects under preparation is designed to provide
quicker yields, such as the modernization of existing industry and rehabilita-
tion of irrigation systems and to focus on more directly productive projects,
such as the utilization of gas resources and the improvement of agricultural
practices in already cultivated areas (paras. 23-25). The Oilseed Processing
Project, approved by the Board in November 1978, and this Project reflect
this new strategy.
16.       The proposed lending activities described above would help to
improve project preparation and implementation, especially in those sectors
in which the Bank has not been previously involved, and strengthen sector
policies and institutions. The proposed operations will include significant
technical assistance and training components to achieve these objectives.



PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
17.       Agriculture in Syria accounts for a quarter of GDP although the
annual figures in recent years varied between 23 percent and 36 percent
largely due to the variability of rainfed production. It is still a key
sector in the economy, although its development has been neglected and its
sluggish growth has become a constraint to overall national development.
The relatively low rate of growth in agricultural output, about 2 percent
annually, was reflected in stagnant agricultural exports, which account
for about 60 percent of the value of exports excluding petroleum. Cotton
is the single most important agricultural export accounting for three quar-
ters of the total by value. Agricultural imports have shown some tendency
to increase. Syria has now become a consistent net importer of wheat and
sugar. The rapid population growth (para. 4) is placing increasing demands
on the agricultural sector, and production will also have to increase rapidly
during the next decade to provide self-sufficiency in food (cereals and
sugar), provision of raw materials for industry (cotton) and production of
an export surplus.
Agricultural Policy and Planning
18.       Syria's considerable agricultural potential is seriously constrained
by several issues related to agricultural policy and planning. Agricultural
policy in Syria is carried out through a system of laws and controlled prices
with the overall objective of self-sufficiency in food production. Three key
policy issues limit the growth of agricultural production: (i) the relation-
ship between physical production targets and pricing policy; (ii) lack of
institutional capability; and (iii) poor allocation of investments. To meet
specified annual production targets, Law 14 of 1975 obliges farmers to follow
specific cropping pattern set by the Government. Prices are controlled for
most agricultural commodities including cereals, sugar beet and cotton.
The controlled price system is regarded principally as a tool of social
policy for income distribution and subsidy purposes rather than as a means of
adjusting agricultural production. In the recent past, farmgate prices paid
for most crops by the State Monopoly agencies have been well below the equiva-
lent border price in international trade, and cost increases in inputs have
reduced the financial incentive for farmers to produce more.
19.       Syria does not have sufficient agricultural data and trained manpower
either in the State Planning Commission or in the Ministry of Agriculture
to prepare detailed operational production plans necessary to a successful
centrally controlled production system. This institutional weakness exists
also in implementation. The Ministry of Agriculture is not yet fully equipped
to carry out its role in helping farmers to increase production. The Coopera-
tive Agricultural Bank is the sole institutional source of farm credit. It
is also responsible for the physical supply of farm inputs. Due to the
inadequacies of the planning mechanism there has not always been a clear
relationship between the investments proposed in the agricultural sector
and the targets to be achieved. For instance, there has been too great an
emphasis on major infrastructure in the Euphrates Valley and too little on
the complementary investments needed to obtain full production from new and
existing infrastructure.



-8-
Irrigation and Drainage
20.       Due to the variability of rainfall in Syria and the resulting fluc-
tuations in rainfed production, the main scope for obtaining self-sufficiency
in food production is through increasing production on irrigated lands. For
two decades it has been the Government's policy to reduce the dependence of
the country on rainfed agriculture by increasing irrigated areas. The Ministry
of the Euphrates Dam was established in 1969, and more than 75 percent of the
total public sector investment in the third Five-Year plan (1971-1975) was
directed towards development of irrigation in the Euphrates Basin, where the
main potential for increasing irrigated cultivation exists.
21.       The Ministry of the Euphrates Dam is charged with the overall devel-
opment of water and power resources in the Euphrates Basin. The Ministry has
a relatively small staff in Damascus which makes policy decisions and provides
coordination for its two large semi-autonomous operational agencies, the
General Administration for the Development of the Euphrates Basin (GADEB)
and the General Organization for the Euphrates Dam (GOED). While GADEB is
responsible for all aspects of the development of irrigation and drainage in
the Euphrates Basin, GOED is mainly a construction enterprise responsible for
the construction and maintenance of the Tabqa dam and associated hydro-electric
power developments. In spite of large investment in infrastructure, the irri-
gated area in the Euphrates Basin will only have increased to about 165,000 ha
by 1980, considerably less than planned, largely due to the technical problems
of constructing canals in gypsiferous soils, and a sharp increase in construc-
tion costs.
22.       In several parts of Syria, serious drainage problems have developed
some years after the installation of irrigation facilities. The Lower Euphrates
Valley, which is the Project area, covers 121,000 ha or nearly a quarter of
the irrigated area in Syria. It has been particularly affected by a lack of
drainage causing serious salinity problems. It is estimated that some 24,000
ha had been effectively abandoned by 1975 and a further 30,000 ha of salt
affected land are expected to go out of production if no action is taken to
arrest the spread of salinity. The proposed project is intended to assist the
Government in protecting an existing productive irrigated area with 23,000
trained farmers and a developed infrastructure from further salinization and
risk of abandonment at a fraction of the cost of developing new land.
23.       The Government is now reconsidering its irrigation development
strategy, and before authorizing expenditures on new projects evaluates
expected results and viability of projects already under implementation. High
priority should be assigned to rehabilitation of existing irrigation areas
where salinity, waterlogging, flooding and poor on-farm distribution systems
are seriously limiting production. There is considerable scope for improving
yields and production, since experienced farmers are already farming these
lands, some of the investment required exists and an institutional framework
(cooperatives, agricultural bank) is present, permitting production to
increase quite rapidly on completion of the remedial physical works.
24.       The Bank has financed three projects in the agricultural and agro-
industry sector, the Balikh Irrigation and Rural Development Project (Loan
No. 975-SYR, Credit No. 469-SYR) which became effective in September 1974,
the First Livestock Development Project (Loan Nos. 1311-1312T-SYR), which



became effective in March 1978 and the Oilseed Processing Project (Loan No.
1631-SYR), the agreement for which was signed on December 13, 1978, but is not
yet effective pending the recruitment of consultants. The Balikh Irrigation
and Rural Development project suffered long delays in the appointment of
consultants and due to procurement problems, but works are now progressing
with some diffirulty on the first 10,000 ha section. However, the remainder
of the project (31,000 hectares) has been postponed to review the technique
of lining canals in gypsiferous soils, the extent of affected soils and the
preparation of a revised financing plan to meet the large cost increases.
The Livestock Project would contribute towards increasing total sheep produc-
tion in the semi-arid parts of the country. The Oilseed Processing Project
will increase vegetable oil production by 50,000 tons per year.
25.        Future agricultural projects in the lending program include both
rainfed and irrigated projects. A project in the Lower Euphrates Valley,
subsequent to this Drainage Project (paras. 26 and 27), would concentrate on
modernizing and developing the existing infrastructure in the irrigated areas,
and on increasing farm production through agricultural research, extension
and the provision of inputs. Another proposed irrigation development project
in the North East (para. 15) would provide low cost supplementary irrigation
from groundwater, which would increase farm incomes in a traditional rainfed
farming area. A proposed project in the Horan region, south-west Syria,
would increase the crop production in a rainfed area by improving the land
(levelling, destoning, etc.) and cultural practices and supplementing the
water supply by small dams.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Project Objectives
26.       As a result of a FAO/IBRD CP identification mission in 1973, the
Government asked the French consultants GERSAR-SCET in 1974, with the Bank's
financial assistance under the Balikh Irrigation Project, to examine the pro-
gressive salinization of the Lower Euphrates Valley and to make proposals for
its control. A comprehensive program for drainage, irrigation development
and land reclamation was prepared in 1977, comprising three main elements:
(a) Construction of a drainage system, consisting of tubewells and open
drains, to halt the spread of salinity by lowering the level of
ground water. The hydrogeological structure of the valley is
suitable for installing tubewells to lower the water table by
pumping water into open drains spilling into the Euphrates River.
(b) Increase of agricultural production on the land still under
cultivation by increasing farm inputs and improving farming
practices through research and extension efforts and provi-
sion of credit.



- 10 -
(c) Development and modernization of the irrigation system along
with provision of additional drainage tubewells to bring the
abandoned lands back into production through leaching and to
improve water management.
27.       A Bank mission visited Syria in October 1977 to appraise the Proj-
ect. In view of the alarming rate of abandonment of saline land, the mission
suggested that drainage be undertaken to halt the spread of salinity as a
matter of urgency, not only on the 56,000 ha that had been studied in detail
but over the whole Lower Euphrates Valley presently under irrigation. ,The
mission also proposed that the Project concentrate on the provision of drain-
age through tubewells and open drains coupled with agricultural research and
extension (i.e. para 26(a) and (b)), and that the other aspects of the com-
prehensive program (i.e. para 26(c)) be considered as future projects once
salinity has been arrested and the Government has decided on the type of
exploitation it proposes for the reclaimed land. The Government accepted
and fully supported this strategy. Negotiations were delayed by almost a
year to allow further study and discussion of the likely effects of pumping
saline drainage water into the Euphrates River (paras. 48 and 49). Negotia-
tions were held in Washington between February 22 and March 6, 1979. The
Syrian delegation was headed by H.E. Sobhi Kahale, Minister of the Euphrates.
A staff Appraisal Report No. 1910a-SYR is being distributed separately.
Project Description
28.       The Project would provide a drainage system consisting of:
(a) 170 tubewells with electric pumps and associated equipment;
(b) 450 km of open drains to return saline drainage water to the
Euphrates River, to intercept surface water from adjacent
areas and to collect surface water from the Project area;
(c)  200 km of access roads to the tubewell pumping stations;
(d)  240 km of 22 kV power transmission lines for the pumping
stations; and
(e) monitoring of salinity.
The Project would also provide for consulting services, mainly to GADEB to
assist in extension training, installation and operation of tubewells, agri-
cultural research, and salinity monitoring. Consultants would also provide
hydrogeological investigations and engineering design services.
29.       The Project area (IBRD Map 13260) is divided into three zones, sub-
divided into eight sectors each of which is also a separate hydrogeological
unit: Zone 1 (Sectors 3, 5 and 7 - 55,600 ha suitable for gravity irrigation)
on the right bank downstream of Deir-ez-Zor; Zone 2 (Sectors 6 and 8 - 36,000
ha) on the left bank downstream of the Al-Khabour River; and Zone 3 (Sectors
1, 2 and 4 - 29,400 ha) on both banks, upstream of Deir-ez-Zor on the right
bank and the Al-Khabour River on the left bank.



- 11 -
30.       The above Zones, covering the alluvial terraces on both banks of the
Euphrates, have been settled in the past decades by a population of nomadic
origin. Irrigation is carried out by pumping directly from the River, mostly
through five thousand individual pumping stations and conveyance systems
developed by individual farmers or farmers cooperatives. While overall effi-
ciency of irrigation is low, the whole area has been developed at much lower
cost than the present large-scale Government schemes, thanks to favorable
physical features and to private initiative and ingenuity. Land tenure is
characterized by small holdings; 84 percent of the farms are less than 5
hectares and 75 percent of the area is operated by the owner, either privately
or in a cooperative form. Under the Agrarian Reform Law which has set a
ceiling of 50 ha per family, 9,000 ha have been expropriated and redistributed
to small farmers.
Detailed Features of Components
31.        (a)  Tubewells and Pumping Stations.  Because of the presence of an
uniform and pervious gravel layer at about 2-10 m below alluvial soils of
the Project area, tubewells can be used to lower the water table to levels
where salinization of top soils is prevented. The method is more economical
than a tile drain system designed for the same objective. The Project would
require a total of about 170 wells, 72 located in Zone 1 and 98 in Zones 2
and 3. The tubewells would have a depth of about 20 m and an 18 inch diameter.
Pumping equipment would be standardized and designed for delivery of a constant
flow. Power supply at 22 kV would be provided at each well where a stepdown
transformer would be located.
(b) Surface Drains. A total of about 450 km of surface drains would
collect drainage water and discharge it into the River. Leakage from the
drains would be reduced by soil compaction and lining where they cross areas
of gravel outcrops. Structures would include roadway crossings and flap gates
at the River to prevent back-up into the drainage system during flood periods.
(c) Access Roads. About 200 km of access roads would be constructed
within the Project area to link tubewells to the existing main roads running
along each bank. Roads would be surfaced with gravel on a compacted soil
base.
(d) Power Supply. Power supply to the tubewells would be provided
by a total of 240 km of 22 kV lines, which would tap the 22 kV main power
lines already existing or under construction on the right bank, and those to
be built in 1979 on the left bank. The power requirements for the tubewells
would be about 720 kW for Zone 1 and 790 kW for Zones 2 and 3. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that these power lines would be completed
and connected along with the completion of tubewell installation.
(e) Buildings and Other Facilities. Offices and warehouses would
be built at the Project headquarters in Deir-ez-Zor, and at the eight sector
headquarters. These facilities would subsequently be used by agricultural
extension staff and operation and maintenance personnel. Office furniture,
equipment and vehicles would be provided under the Project. A central work-
shop for repairing tubewell equipment would be built in Deir-ez-Zor.



- 12 -
(f) Consultants Services. (i) Regarding Zone 1. The existing
contract for engineering services between GADEB and GERSAR-SCET (financed
under the ongoing Bank financed Balikh Irrigation Project) provides for the
detailed designs and preparation of tender documents for the construction of
irrigation and drainage works for Zone 1. Tender documents for drilling and
electromechanical equipment are ready and will be completed for civil works
and electrical connections by April 1979. Consultants will be appointed under
terms of conditions satisfactory to the Bank to assist in evaluating bids for
tubewells and associated equipment and to supervise construction and installa-
tion of the Project (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement). (ii) Regarding
Zones 2 and 3. Consultants would be employed under the Project for carrying
out additional soils and hydrogeological investigations to be followed by
detailed design and preparation of tender documents for tubewells and asso-
ciated works, evaluation of tubewell bids and supervision of construction.
The results of the additional soils and hydrogeological investigations will be
submitted to the Bank for comment before commencement of the drainage works in
these two Zones (Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement). (iii) Consultants would
also be provided under the Project to assist Government in strengthening
existing agricultural research activities with respect to major crops, and in
agricultural extension services to farmers at the village level in basic crop
growing techniques, animal husbandry and drainage practices (Section 3.02 of
the Loan Agreement). If the FAO/UNDP Project (para. 35) is extended this
expertise would be provided under that Project.
Project Implementation and Management
32.       The Project would be implemented over four years, from mid-1979
through June 1982. The General Administration for the Development of the
Euphrates Basin (GADEB) would be responsible for the engineering aspects of
the Project, and the Ministry of Agriculture (para. 35) for the agricultural
aspects. Although GADEB has acquired experience in the supervision of design
and construction of irrigation facilities in the Balikh Basin, the Project
would involve the introduction of a drainage technique new to Syria, requiring
the expertise of specialists presently not available in Syria. Provision has
been made in the Project for employment of consultants to provide such tech-
nical assistance (para. 31(f)).
33.       Responsibility for the design, construction and maintenance of the
Project works would be with the Deputy Director General for Irrigation of
GADEB at Raqqa. The office at Deir-ez-Zor would be in charge of day-to-day
supervision of the Project. GADEB would make arrangements for the construc-
tion and connection of the power lines included in the Project. The Operations
and Maintenance Division of the Irrigation Sector of GADEB would gradually
take over the operation and maintenance of drainage networks, tubewells and
pumping stations from the Irrigation Division as project construction is
completed.
34.       While a detailed study of Zone 1 has been prepared by consultants
who have commenced work on the detailed drawings for tubewells and drains,
only a preliminary study has been carried out in Zones 2 and 3. Because of
the urgency of drainage works and the similarity of hydrogeological condi-
tions in the three Zones, Zones 2 and 3 have been included in the Project.



- 13 -
Construction, however, would not take place in Zones 2 and 3 before detailed
technical investigations to define the location of wells are completed and a
comprehensive report has been submitted to the Bank for comment (Section 3.06
of the Loan Agreement).
Extension, Reseirch and Credit
35.       GADEB would have the overall responsibility for the development of
agricultural services in the Project area, but it has only gained agricultural
experience from the previously sparsely populated Balikh pilot project area.
The Ministry of Agriculture is well established in the Lower Euphrates Valley,
with a large regional office at Deir-ez-Zor and eight district offices, and
has staff that already provides research, extension and training services.
The Ministry of Agriculture will, therefore, continue to be responsible for
the provision of research and extension services during Project construction.
It already has a large organization, it is the counterpart organization for
a large FAO/UNDP assistance project in the Valley and serves as technical
advisor for the cooperative groups. However, during the subsequent irrigation
rehabilitation phase, GADEB will take over responsibility for agricultural
extension and research at the time that land is redistributed following the
appropriation of land required for construction of canals and other irrigation
works.
36.       A substantial effort must be made to improve research and extension
to obtain full benefits from the Project, and an early start is required if
reasonable benefits are to be obtained from the subsequent irrigation rehabil-
itation and development phase. Experimental work needs to be carried out on
the two major crops in the area, wheat and cotton, and also on sugar beet
production, the area of which has to be expanded to supply the new sugar beet
factory presently under construction at Deir-ez-Zor. An adequate number of
staff is already available in Syria, on the Beni Tahleb farm and elsewhere,
who will be assisted by the research consultant to be provided under the
Project (Section 3.02 and Schedule 2 Part H of the Loan Agreement). Many
basic techniques in crop growing and animal husbandry can be passed on to
farmers while waiting for research results from the Project. In addition
farmers will have to be educated in the purpose and effect of the drainage
tubewells, and the associated collector canals. The present extension ser-
vice, which will be increased at the village level, will have the specific
objectives of informing the farming population of the aims, methods, and
benefits of the Project, assisting farmers in using the present irrigation
system for leaching of saline lands and modifying the cropping pattern to
increase intensity of cropping and preparing the way for the irrigation phase
of development. They will have contact with cooperative officials and work
through this group wherever possible. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that the Government would keep the extension service operating in the
Project area adequately organized and staffed (Section 3.08 of the Loan
Agreement). The Project will provide for a consultant for three years, who
will assist in establishing training courses for extensionists and supervisors
and provide in-service training for University graduates. Ample credit is
available for seasonal and improvement needs, through the four branches of the
Cooperative Agricultural Bank operating in the Project area, and the Govern-
ment has undertaken to ensure that future credit needs will be adequately met
(Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement).



- 14 -
Project Cost and Financing Plan
37.       The total Project cost is estimated at $52.5 million including
physical and price contingencies. The foreign costs component is estimated
at $29.5 million or about 56 percent of total Project cost. Cost estimates
of the main Project items are as follows:
Item                  Local Cost       Foreign Cost      Total Cost
    --------- (US$ million) --------------
Drainage works                   11.2              11.4             22.6
Buildings and equipment           0.5               1.1               1.6
Consultants                       2.9               6.7              9.6
Sub-total                     14.6              19.2             33.8
Physical contingency              2.5               3.2              5.7
Price contingency                 5.9               7.1             13.0
Total Project Cost               23.0              29.5             52.5
The cost per ha drained is about $700.  The cost per beneficiary family is about
$2,300. This index is generally similar to that of other drainage projects
recently financed by the Bank. The cost per ha drained in the Project, which
would use vertical drainage (tubewells) is considerably cheaper than the alter-
native of horizontal (sub-surface tiles) drainage.
38.       The proposed Bank loan of $30 million to the Government of Syria
would finance the total foreign exchange cost of the Project. Local currency
expenditures would be financed by the Government. The Bank loan, which would
bear 7.0 percent interest, would be amortized over 17 years, including a grace
period of 4 years.
Procurement
39.       Construction of civil works and furnishing of equipment for the
drainage system will be divided into the following eight contracts:
(a) two contracts for drilling and equipping tubewells and furnish-
ing and installing electromechanical equipment for Zone 1, and
for Zones 2 and 3 ($7.6 million);
(b) three contracts for construction of surface drains and access
roads for each Zone ($22.7 million); and
(c) three contracts for acquisition and installation of power
transmission lines and related civil works for each Zone
($4.4 million).
These contracts valued at $34.7 million would be tendered under international
competitive bidding according to the Bank's guidelines for procurement. From
the experience gained in bidding for the Balikh Project it is likely that
civil works contracts will be won by Syrian nationalized companies. During
loan negotiations the Government agreed that for state-owned companies, to



- 15 -
qualify for bidding, the Government will, for the purpose of the Project,
waive the supervision exemption clause in their charter. Construction of
administrative buildings, stores and shops will be let in small contracts
after local competitive bidding following normal Government procedures which
are satisfactory to the Bank. Equipment and vehicles for supervision, and
operation and maintenance, estimated to cost a total of $1.4 mill!on, will
be procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines, except for purchases not exceeding $100,000 eqivalent where
procurement will be in accordance with the normal procurement procedures of
GADEB.
Disbursement
40.       The proposed Bank loan of $30.0 million will be disbursed over four
years, 1979-1982. It would finance: (i) 100 percent of the foreign exchange
cost of the contracts for drilling and equipping tubewells and the contracts
for transmission lines; (ii) 45 percent of the cost of civil works contracts
(representing the estimated foreign exchange component); (iii) 100 percent of
the foreign exchange of imported equipment, and 70 percent of the cost of
locally purchased goods; and (iv) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost
of consultant services.
Monitoring
41.       The effectiveness of the Project in terms of lowering the water
table and preventing an increase of abandoned or saline land, increasing
yields of crops, would be checked by a small monitoring unit located at
Deir-ez-Zor (Section 3.07 and Schedule 2 Part G of Loan Agreement). The unit
would also check the salinity levels in the Euphrates River upstream and
downstream of the Project area to determine the effect of the Project. Soil
and water samples will be taken from specific sites, at regular intervals
and analyzed for salinity in the Ministry of Agriculture Laboratory at
Deir-ez-Zor. The unit will regularly summarize the data, inform project
management of the status and effectiveness of the Project and recommend
remedial action, if necessary. GADEB will continue to submit reports to the
Bank during the first five years after Project completion (Section 4.04 of
Loan Agreement).
Acquisition of Land
42.       The Law establishing the Ministry of Euphrates Dam provides a legal
basis for compulsory purchase of land required for roads, canals, etc. Until
a compensation price is agreed upon for the capital value of the land, com-
pensation is paid by GADEB for the value of crops that would have grown on the
land acquired. The total area of land to be acquired for the collector drains
would be small, and no individual farmer will be likely to lose more than
a small part of his land. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that land
needed for the construction of Project works would be acquired as provided for
in Syrian law and that proper compensation would be paid to farmers whose land
was acquired.



- 16 -
Cost Recovery
43.        No direct contributions are expected from the farmers towards the
costs of the Project. Most farmers in the Project area have already suffered
considerable losses in farm income in recent years due to the effects of
salinity, and before the Project can arrest the spread of salinity, the area
of cropped land available to the average farmer will have fallen by a further
10 percent. In addition, the majority of the beneficiaries are in the target
group and more than 40 percent of them would remain below the poverty thres-
hold even after Project completion. Project costs, however, would be partly
recovered indirectly from revenues derived by the Government from cotton, the
major crop in the Valley, for which farmers receive a controlled price lower
than the border price. The main scope for recovering Project costs would be
during the subsequent irrigation rehabilitation and development phase when
large increases in production and farm incomes are expected.
Project Benefits
44.        The direct and immediate benefit from the Project would be to arrest
the spread of salinity and prevent 30,000 ha from being abandoned for agricul-
tural purposes.  It is the production on this area which would otherwise be
lost, that would be the principal source of quantifiable Project benefits but
the Project also has the social objective of saving an established community
of farmers, with a transport and marketing infrastructure, social services and
amenities, which is in jeopardy if the salinization continues. Once the tube-
well drainage system is installed, farmers would have the possibility of
carrying out leaching to rehabilitate some of their land even before the other
phase of the comprehensive program is completed.
45.        The Project would directly benefit 23,000 farm families (about
175,000 people) farming 75,000 ha of land; about half of these families are
estimated to be below the relative poverty level. Without the Project, the
annual income of an average farm family, at present about $1,500, would
decrease to $1,100 by the year 2000. With the Project, the net farm income
would increase to $1,800 by 1987. The percentage of farm families below the
poverty level would increase from 52 percent in 1980 to 71 percent in 2000
without the Project, but would decrease to 44 percent with the Project. By
assuring permanent employment in the Project area, the Project would also
reduce the rate of migration of farmers to towns due to the abandonment of
their saline land. The economic rate of return of the Project is estimated
at 15 percent over a 22-year period. A 20 percent increase in capital costs
or a 20 percent reduction in benefits would only reduce the economic rate of
return by 2 percent and 3 percent respectively.
Project Risks
46.       The main risks involved in the Project are of a technical nature --
the risk of the tubewells not being able to lower the water table to safe
levels for growing crops. The Bank mission proposed an increase in number of
tubewells (from the 139 recommended by the Consultant to 170) to decrease the
risk of additional inflow to the groundwater, from return flow from drains and



- 17 -
from irrigation canals, and to protect against breakdowns. On the basis of
observations of existing unlined irrigation canals, the Consultants assumed
that the return flow from unlined surface drains to the aquifer will be
negligible. The Project, therefore, provides for lining of surface drains
only where the thickness of alluvial layer is less than 4 meters.
47.       There are also risks associated with the ability of both GADEB and
the Ministry of Agriculture to perform their tasks satisfactorily. Every
attempt has been made to provide under the Project outside assistance in
fields where the organizations lack the required expertise. Past experience,
however, indicates that GADEB could delay tendering, signing contracts and
engaging consultants. In the event of a delay in completing Project construc-
tion of up to two years, the Project would still be viable and economic.
Environmental Effects
48.       The Project would affect the environment in three ways:
(a) Construction of power lines and installation of pumps
and construction of drainage canals. The area to be taken
up by both lines and pumps would be minor and would not
disturb existing known structures. The area occupied by
collector canals would be about 0.2 percent of the total
area and would not disturb known archeological sites.
(b) Lowering the water table would result in a reduction of
stagnant water in ponds and this should reduce the incidence
of malaria present in the region. Because of the dense
human population in the Project area, the ponds are not
a habitat for significant numbers of wild life.
(c) Pumping the drainage water into the Euphrates River would
increase the level of salinity by a maximum of 0.2 gram/
liter. This is not expected to affect the downstream River
water for either irrigation or human consumption (para 49).
As surface waters would be drawn down through the soil pro-
file before discharge into the River this should not increase
the content of harmful organisms in the River.
The Government already maintains an active Bilharzia control program, with
guidance from the World Health Organization. Therefore, additional measures
are not necessary under the Project.
Riparian Question
49.       The Project will not affect the river flow in the Euphrates in
quantitative terms. It will, however, increase salinity in the River. The
likely effects of pumping drainage water into the Euphrates River were
studied to ascertain whether it would increase the prevailing salinity to a
critical level, which at present varies between 0.2 and 0.5 grams per litre



- 18 -
downstream of the Tabqa Dam. A review was conducted of: (a) calculations
about the amount of salt that would be added to the river by the Project; (b)
the river flow data for three stations: Kadahie (near the border of Turkey
and Syria), Al Thawra (downstream of the Tabqa Dam) and Abou Kamal (at the
border of Syria and Iraq); and (c) the projected abstraction of water during
the next ten years or so from the Euphrates River due to future irrigation
developments in Turkey and Syria. On the basis of this review it was con-
cluded that the probability of having a flow substantially below 500 cubic
meters per second downstream of the Tabqa Dam is extremely low. This would
also apply to the period of filling of the Karakaya Dam--scheduled for 1983--
if Turkey maintains releases of 500 cubic meters per second during that
period, as its Government recently indicated (in a statement to the Turkish
parliament and in a representation to the Bank) it would do. For instance,
the minimum monthly flow at Abou Kamal since March 1976, when the filling of
both the reservoirs impounded by the Keban and Tabqa Dams was completed, has
been 566 cubic meters per second. At this level of water flow the risk of
any significant increase in the current salinity level of the Euphrates water
downstream of the proposed drainage project area is considered to be very low.
This conclusion is reinforced by the fact that electric power needs in Turkey
and Syria will result in fairly constant releases from the Keban, Tabqa and
Karakaya Dams during the low flow summer months. The Iraqi and Turkish Gov-
ernments were informed about these conclusions and the proposed Project and
have not commented thereon.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Syrian Arab Republic and the
Bank, and the draft Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Features of the Agreement of special
interest are described in Annex III.
51.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
52.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
March 28, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC                                       /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.-)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMfATE)
TOTAL            185.2                                                     SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     124.2                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  260.0        480.0     900.0           1438.5      867.2       1796
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      321.0       502.0      477.0            816.7      578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          4.6         6.3        7.9
*                          URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 37.0          43.5      46.2             45.8       46.2         52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        25.0        34.0       43.0             23.2       50.8         27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      37.0        56.0       64.0            112.4       93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 IRS.                          46.3        49.3       49.3             46.0       42.9         34.8
15-64 YRS.                          48.9        46.3       46.3             50.6       53.5         56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.8         4.4        4.4              3.3        3.5          5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.3         3.3        3.3              2.9        2.5          1.6
URBAN                               4.2         5.0        4.5              5.0        4.7          3.4
CRUDE B.RTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.6         47.6      45.4             45.0       37.8         27.0
CRUDE DIATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      20.1         16.2      15.4             13.7        10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.4          3.5       3.5              3.4         2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        ..             14.7       20.0         19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              98.4        100.0     160.0            107.1      107.3        103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   102.0         98.0     104.0             99.2      105.3        110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           74.0         70.0      66.7             63.4       63.0         77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0         16.0 /f   21.4             16.4       21.7         22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..          4.1        ..               ..        8.0          1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.3          53.0      56.0             53.7       57.2         63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                   145.8       123.1      112.5             77.7       53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         71.0        ..             59.1       56.8         67.7
URBAN                                ..         98.0        ..             85.9       79.0         83.5
RURAL                                ..         50.0        ..             38.0        31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             64.3       30.9         70.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             94.5       45.4         90.7
IRURAL                               ..           ..        ..             27.7        16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           4600.0       3860.0    3070.0           4271.6     2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      6660.0      4500.0    5810.0            2077.4     1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             900.0       1010.0     980.0            580.2      493.9        275.4
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            310.0      229.6        129.9
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..     2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         24.0      27.0 /R          22.0        22.1        18.9
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.9 /h       5.9        ..              5.4        5.2          3.4
URBAN                               6.0 /h       5.9        ..               ..        5.0
RURAL                               5.9 /h       5.9        ..               ..        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.9           ..        ..               ..         2.0         0.9
URBAN                               2.5           ..        ..              1.8         1.5         0.8
RURAL                               3.2           ..        ..               ..         2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              38.0 /h      41.7        *-             40.3        64.1        59.2
URBAN                              87.7 /h      84.7         ..              ..        67.8        78.0
RURAL                              10.5 lh      10.2        *-             12.2        34.1        12.5



- 20-                                               ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SYRIAN ARAB REPtlBLIC                                      /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION Lc   GROUP /d    GROUP /T
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 65.0        89.0      102.0            80.8         99.8       97.6
FEMALE               39.0         66.0      81.0             61.8        93.3        87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 16.0        39.0      48.0             23.6         33.8       47.8
FEMALE                7.0         21.0      30.0             18.2        29.8        42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  6.0          3.4        4.6             6.7         12.8       22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            46.0        37.0       35.0            31.5         34.9       25.4
SECONDARY                          21.0        22.0       20.0            22.3         22.2       24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        30.0        40.0         ..            50.1         71.8       96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.0         5.0        7.0            14.5         12.4       32.3
RADIo RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         57.0       224.0      374.0 /         125.8        104.5      201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.2        19.0       31.0            34.5         28.1       97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..          ..        9.0            17.4         45.2       70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0          4.0  i      ..             1.6          4.6        4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1100.0 /1   1600.0    1800.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    9.4        10.5       11.2             9.3         25.7       17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              47.0        47.8       49.9            42.0         46.2       38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.0        20.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                28.0        26.6       26.0            26.9         33.8       33.7
MALE                                 49.4        46.3       45.2            46.6         48.1       50.8
FEMALE                                5.4         5.7        6.0             5.3         17.3       12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               2.1         2.1        2.2              1.9         1.4        1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   25.0           ..         ..              ..         23.6       20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  49.0           ..         ..              ..        52.3        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.0           ..         ..              ..         4.3         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.0           ..         ..              ..        13.1        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..       191.9
RURAL                                ..          ..     249.0            142.0       193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     257.0            236.1       319.8      448.8
RURAL                                ..          ..     155.0            144.7       197.7      313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      24.0             21.5        19.8       23.2
RURAL                                ..          ..      40.0             37.4        35.1        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjasted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper Middle
Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  Av. 1964-66;  /R  1972;  /h  1962;   /i  1966;   LI  6 years
and over (Syrian population only).
September, 1978



- 21 -                                                                     MANEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                   Page   3   of   5
Noit: The adjusted group averages for ea h indicat:,r are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. ki)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective numter of hospital beds
Agriculturil - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, mc.ket and kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNP per capita a-  mates at current market prices,                    cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion netho0 a  World Eank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CNSLIMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                      from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION ANL VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                             the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popala-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may aEffect comparability                   Average number of persons per room -wtotal, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                 ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-1 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                ELUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thoosand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for cost recent estimate.                      above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year a-eragse ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                          vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiesces present age-                        excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Familv planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                          sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970=100) - Index number of per                    Passenger cars (per chousand population) - Passenger cars conprise moror cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
e-porct, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude anisal feed, seeds,               receicers in countries and in years when registratlion of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since mort countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers  (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generd
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tries and in yease  when registr.tion of TV sets was in effact.
Per capita supplv of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                    lewspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average irouls-
capita set supply of fond per day.  let supply of food is defined as                     tics of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publiC-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a mir.imum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per dav and 20 grams                   be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
Of animal and pulse protein, of which 15 grams should be animal prontin.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Beasd on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal proteia as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAO is the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                IPILOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor f-rre (rhounands) - Efonorically activ- persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unemployed but escluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hsnting and fishing
Life esperra- cy at birth (years) - Average nrmber of years of life                        as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (porcent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of  .poplation) - total, urban, and rural -                   Ihese are 01,0's od(usted participation rates reflec-tin9g ac-ceo
Number of people (total, urban, and rural)  itot reasonable access tr                     Structure of the popularioc, d lon  rcte trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
ancont&ni-ated water such as that from protected boreholes, sprIngs,                     the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wails) as percentages of their respective populations.
in an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBIUTION
than 200 meters from a hoose may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in rash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  ln rural areas reasonable access would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do rot have to                      of households.
upend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUIPS
Access to excreta disposal  Epercent or population) - total, urban, and                 Istimated absolute poverty income level (1S5 per capita) - urban and rura  -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                       Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                        nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
treatment, of human e-creta and waste-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relative poverty income level (U0S per capita) - urban and rural -
or the ose of pit privies and similar inRsallacioss.                                     Relative poverty inc.ee level is than income le          lss chum one-
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                      per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                       isticated pnpulation below poverty income level (percent) - urb   and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by somber of                            Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing nae and female graduate nuraes, practical nurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assintast nurses.
Econonic and Social Data DiPision
Economic Aralysis and froje.tions Department



-22 -                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 197 7                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                         1966-70           1971-75           1976-77
GNP at Market Prices          6717.0        100.0                         4.8               9.8               3.9
Gross Domestic Investment    2552.4           38.0                        5.2              33.3               1.3
Gross National Saving         2387.1          35.6                       -7.9              52.6              -9.8
Current Account Balance        165.5           -                           -                 -                 _
Exports of Goods, NFS         1380.8          20.6                        7.7               5.6              -4.9
Imports of Goods, NFS         2801.8         41.7                        13.3               9.4              13.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added                   Labor Force-                    V. A. Per Worker
UtS$ Mln.                        Mln.        %                       $
Agriculture                    1297.7     19.6                 0.74      39.1                   1753.6       50.1
Industry                       1879.7     28.4                  0.45     23.8                   4177.1      119.3
Services                       3438.2     52.0                 0.70      37.1                   4911.7      140.3
Unallocated                      -           -                   -        -                        -          -
Total/Average             .          .                       
6615.6    100.0                 1.89      I200 .l0r                         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
;SL Mn)           %o-n
1977          1977         97-7b
Current Receipts                    7464.0        28.6         38.6
Current Expenditure                 6634.0        25.4         34.3
Current Surplus                      80           3.2          4.3
Capital Expenditures                6639.0        25.4         34.4
External Assistance (net)            1826.0        7.0          9.5
MONE.Y. CREDIT and PRICES                  1972         1973         1974         1975        1976         1977
Clllion  SL outstanding end periodF
Money and Quasi Money                      3429.0       4113.0       5997.0       7578.o       9387.0     12004.0
Bank credit to Public Sector               4017.0       3686.0       5515.0       6669.0     11119.0      13261.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector               578.0         653.0       694.0        889.0      1146.0       1332.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           38.6         43.7        40.3         38.8         39.9        45.9
General Price Index (1975 - 100)            62.0         75.0        86.0        100.0        111.0       125.0
Annual percentage changes in3
General Price Index                          1.6         21.0        14.7        16.3          11.0        12.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                25.5         -8.2        49.6        20.9          66.7        19.2
Bank credit to Private Sector                1.4         13.0         6.3        28.1          28.9        16.2
NOTEt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated"' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable



- 23-                                        ANNEX I
Page 5 of S
TRADE PAMNTS AND CAPITAL FWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-77)
Est.
1975     1976      1977   1978                                          US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS          1251      1352     1381   1443           Crude Oil                          486.4    58.1
Imports of Goods, NFS         -1891    -2579    -2802  -3173           Cotton                              160.8    19.2
Resource Gap (deficit = -)   -640    -fM7    -1421  -T7                Textiles                             52.8      6.3
Interest Payments (net)         -17       -22      -27    -56          Phosphates                           13.1      1.6
Workers' Remittances             55        51       83      89          Manufactured Goods                  21.2      2.5
Other Factor Payments (net)      31        27       45      43
Net Transfers                   664       412     1154    900         All other commodities                102.9    12.3
Balance on Current Account       93      -759     -166   -754               Total                          837.2   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        18        72       87      89      EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31                       Est.
Net MLT Borrowing                                                                                         1977      1978
Disbursements                262      393       539    709                                               US $ Mln
Amortization                 -87       -97      -76   -165
Subtotal                     175      296       463    544         Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    1528.2    2300
Capital Grants                   -         -        -                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt         -           -
Other Capital (net)              -         -        -                 Total outstanding & Disbursed   T5798Y   7
Net Errors end Omissions      -235      -128      -210    187                                                      Est.
Increase in Reserves (+)         51      -519      174      66      DEBT SERVICE RATIO                   1977       1978
Gross Reserves (end year)       735       361      546      -
Net Foreign Assets (end year)  518        -26      144    200          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed      7.5       15.3
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt         -          -
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed      7.5       15.3
Imports                       109       194      445    70O
of which: Petroleum         105       192      441      -
Exports                       654       689-      644     -
of which: Petroleum         654       689      644      -
RATE OF EXCHAANGE
US $1.00 = SL                   3.7 0    3.89      3.95  3.95
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
March 14, 1979
EMENA CPII-C



- 24 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SYRIA
A. Statements of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of March 9, 1979)
US$ Million
Undis-
Number   Year          Borrower               Purpose         Bank   IDA    bursed
Three loans and credits fully disbursed                       25.0   18.5
298     1972   Syrian Arab Republic         Highways                 13.8     7.8
401     1973   Syrian Arab Republic         Water Supply             15.0     0.6
975     1974   Syrian Arab Republic         Irrigation       63.0            46.7
986     1975   Etablissement Public
d'Electricite             Electricity       8.6             0.4
1144     1975   Etablissement Public
d'Electricite            Electricity       72.0            22.2
1241     1976   Syrian Arab Republic         Water Supply    35.0             15.7
1261     1976   Etablissement Public         Telecommuni-
des Telecommunications    cations          28.0            18.6
1311     1976   Syrian Arab Republic         Livestock         5.0             4.9
1312T    1976   Syrian Arab Republic         Livestock        12.5            12.3
1458     1977   Syrian Arab Republic         Water Supply    50.0             43.0
1480     1977   Syrian Arab Republic         Education        20.0            19.6
1531 1/  1978   Etablissement Public
d'Electricite            Electricity       40.0            40.0
1546 1/  1978   Syrian Arab Republic         Highways         58.0            58.0
1631     1978   Syrian Arab Republic         Agroindustry    21.0             21.0
TOTAL                                       438.1   47.3   310.8
of which has been repaid                    1.9     .6
Total now outstanding                       436.2   46.7
Amount sold                                   1.0    0
of which has been repaid                   0.5    0
Total now held by Bank and IDA 2/          435.7   46.7
Total undisbursed                          302.4    8.4   310.8
B. Statements of IFC Investments: None
1/ Not yet effective.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit 298 - Se ond Highway Project; US$13.8 million Credit of April 17, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: February 2, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project implementation started in 1975 after an intial delay due
to the unfavorable political situation in the region. In July 1975, after
several contracts had been awarded, the Government decided to upgrade the
project roads to four-lane standards which economic studies indicated to be
economically justified. The Association agreed to these changes after review-
ing final cost estimates. Government has awarded the additional works on the
Homs-Tartous road to a public company and will finance this component from its
own resources. It has awarded the additional works on the Damascus-Lebanese
border road as an extension to the contract of the contractors carrying out
the works. Agreement for financing the construction of the Damascus-Jordanian
border road has been reached between the Government and USAID. This section
has, therefore, been deleted from the project. Upon the Government's request
to reallocate IDA funds for the construction of the Damascus-Lebanese border
road and Tall Kalakh section of Homs Tartous road to four-lane standards, an
amendment to the Credit Agreement was prepared and approved by the Executive
Directors on March 23, 1978. The rest of the works are to be financed by the
Saudi and Kuwait Funds. A network development study for the North East was
included in the amended project description and the studies started in January
1979.
Credit 401 - Damascus Water Supply Project; US$15 million Credit of June 22,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: Februry 20, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
Initial delays in project implementation of about two years were
caused by the unfavorable political situation in the region. A revision of
the project description was required as a result of considerable cost overruns
and was approved by the Executive Directors on May 28, 1975. This permitted
work to proceed on an urgent phase of distribution. Work is now proceeding in
accordance with the contract schedule and is almost completed. The pollution
control studies for Damascus, Homs and Hama will be completed by consultants
in a few months.
Credit 469/Loan 975 - Balikh Irrigation Project; US$10 million Credit and
US$63 million Loan of April 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
After initial delays during the procurement stage, progress on
the works being implemented by Syrian Government organizations for the
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
development of the first 10,000 ha has progressed but it has been slow due to
technical and managerial difficulties. However, the remainder of the project
(31,000 hectares) has been postponed to review the technique of lining canals
in gypsiferous soils, the extent of affected soils and the preparation of a
revised financing plan to meet the large cost increases.
Loan 986 - Mehardeh Power Project; US$25 million Loan of May 23, 1974 and
Supplementary Loan of US$8.6 million of June 4, 1975; Dates of Effectiveness:
January 30, 1975 and January 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project consists of the first 150-MW unit of a new steam-
electric power station at Mehardeh; eight 230-kV substations, consultant
services and training. The project is co-financed by a US$33 million loan
from Kuwait Fund, including a second portion of US$15 million to cover the
considerable cost overruns. Although main contracts were awarded about five
months late and a further delay of about two months was caused due to a
temporary lack of cement and transportation difficulties for major equipment,
physical progress is satisfactory and the plant start-up is planned for
April 1979. Institutional progress is expected to remain slow due to lack
of experienced personnel and the time required to train intermediate executive
staff. Implementation of the new accounting system has not begun because of
delay in appointing consultants. While physical implementation would be
complete, delay in meeting institutional objectives might necessitate post-
ponement of the Closing Date.
Loan 1144 - Second Mehardeh Power Project; US$72 miliion Loan of July 18,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: January 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project comprises a second 150-MW steam generating unit at
Mehardeh, construction of six and extension of two 230-kV substations, a new
office building, organization and accounting studies and training. Construc-
tion of the power plant is progressing satisfactorily although a delay of
about two months occurred due to a temporary lack of cement and transportation
difficulties for major equipment; the final delay is expected to be minimal.
Construction of the new head office building has been delayed by about one
year because the Government is reconsidering its size.  The training component
is behind schedule and institutional progress continues to be slow due to lack
of experienced personnel and difficulties in recruiting and training inter-
mediate accounting and financial staff.
Loan 1241 - Second Damascus Water Supply Project; US$35 million Loan of
June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:  January 31, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project, which is co-financed by the Arab Fund and USAID, pro-
vides for the supply components of Damascus' water system and for training.
Work is proceeding with a minor delay on the tunnel, underground cutoff and
supply reservoir, which are financed by the Bank. A close coordination of
the works financed by the various donors under this project and of the works



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
financed under the first project will be required to permit the timely link-
up of the various components of the supply and distribution system and to
minimize expected delays in implementation of the project components financed
by other donors.
Loan 1261 - Telecommunications Project, US$28 million Loan of June 9, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project consists of the most urgent works of the telecommunica-
tions investment program for the period 1976-78, including the installation of
telephone connections, trunk exchanges and teleprinters; expansion of long
distance and international facilities; and a training center. Because of late
deliveries and delays in installation of equipment and civil works, there is
an expected delay of around 18 to 24 months on project works. STE has taken
steps to expedite action and futher execution of the project is expected
to proceed satisfactorily. Although the Government's approval of tariff
increases for STE has been delayed, the overall financial position of STE has
remained satisfactory due to the delay in the construction program. However,
because of the relevant investment program to be undertaken by STE, a tariff
increase cannot be further delayed. Proposals to increase tariff by 100
percent are under consideration by the Government.
Loans 1311/1312T - First Livestock Development Project; US$5 million Loan and
US$12.5 million Third Window Loan of July 22, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
March 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project aims at increasing and stabilizing sheep production and
the incomes of nomadic flockowners and sheep fatteners through stabilization
of feed availability and improvement of veterinary services. Financing is pro-
vided for the purchase of animal feed needs of sheep cooperatives, strengthen-
ing of national animal health services, and technical assistance. After
initial delays in recruiting consultants, project implementation got underway
in April 1978. Replenishment by the Government of the National Feed Revolving
Fund is under way. Although there was an initial delay of two years, project
implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1458 - Aleppo Water Supply Project; US$50 million Loan of June 30, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of constructing a 75 km transmission line and
associated pumping facilities from Lake Assad to Aleppo, treatment plant
expansion and extension and improvements to the existing trunk distribution
system. Engineering services for improvements of the sewer systems in Aleppo
and Latakia and technical assistance to the State Planning Office and public
construction enterprises are also included in the project. Preparation of
detailed engineering and bidding documents for transmission line has been
completed and tendering is expected to be completed by the end of April 1979.
This should permit construction to commence in June 1979.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1480 - First Education Project; US$20 million Loan of September 14, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: February 9, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides for the construction, furnishing and equipping
of five primary teacher training colleges, an intermediate teacher training
institute, three intermediate technical institutes and two vocational training
complexes. The project also includes the preparation of curricula for the
technical institutes, the establishment of suitable mechanism for coordinating
vocational training and technical education, the development of craft programs
and the provision of 33 man-years of fellowships and overseas training. Proj-
ect implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1531 - Regional Electrification Project; US$40 million Loan of May 3,
1978; Date of Effectiveness:                       ; Closing Date:  December 31,
1981
The project is the first stage of a ten-year National Rural Electri-
fication Program aimed at providing electricity service to all villages with a
population of at least 100 by 1987. The project would provide electricity
service to 900,000 inhabitants in 11 out of 14 provinces in Syria, including
about 150,000 rural households for whom adequate supply of electricity would
be made available for the first time. The project would also serve health
care, education and communication centers as well as infrastructure services
such as water supply and industries as part of the Government's drive to
increase agro-industrial activity and to improve the quality of life in rural
Syria. Project implementation has not yet begun. The Date of Effectiveness
has been postponed twice because of delay in hiring project consultants. In
addition the Government is delaying approval of proposals to increase elec-
tricity tariffs, which had been submitted to it in September 1978.
Loan 1546 - Third Highway Project; US$58 million of May 3, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: November 8, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project supports the Government's objectives for the development
of the highway network in line with the current investment program. It would
help stimulate the development of agriculture and industry in fertile and
rapidly developing but thinly populated Northeastern region in Syria and aims
at further strengthening the Government's long-term planning capabilities in
the sector. The Government has awarded the contracts for pavement strengthen-
ing of the Damascus-Aleppo Highway and is currently proceeding with the pre-
qualification of contractors for the Homs Bypass and Qantary-Tall-Tamir road
and the selection of consultants for construction supervision. Project imple-
mentation is proceeding satisfactorily and is on schedule.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Ln. 1631-SYR: j'ilseed Processing Project; US$21 Million Loan of December 13,
1978; Date of Etfectiveness:                              ; Closing Date:  June 30,
1983.
The project aims at rationalizing and expanding the state-owned oil-
seed processing industry by improving technical efficiency of existing plants
and increasing total processing capacity. The project includes construction
of a factory at Deir-ez-Zor to process 50,000 tons of cottonseed per annum,
the modernization of two factories in Aleppo, technical assistance and train-
ing. The Syrian Industrial Company for Vegetable Oils, the executing agency,
is in the process of hiring consultants to assist in project implementation,
which is a condition of effectiveness of the loan.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) An FOA/CP mission visited the Project area and issued a report in
December 1973. The report recommended further feasibility studies.
A contract between the Syrian Government and GERSAR-SCET for the
preliminary feasibility study of the whole Project area and detailed
feasibility study and engineering drawings for Zone 1 was ratified in
January 1975 and work commenced in April 1975. The feasibility studies
were completed in June 1977. Bank mission visited the Project area on
four occasions during period of Consultants investigations.
(b) Preliminary Project reports were presented to the Bank by Government
in September 1976. Feasibility reports were presented during the
appraisal mission of October 1977.
(c) Government engaged GERSAR-SCET to commence the preparation of detailed
drawings for Zone 1 on January 1, 1978.
(d) Appraisal mission in field October 30, 1977.
(e) Negotiation completed March 6, 1979. Negotiations were delayed by almost
a year to allow further study and discussion of the likely effects of
pumping saline drainage water into the Euphrates River. This required
inter alia the provision of river flow data (para 49).
(f) Effectiveness planned for June, 1979.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Government to send to the Bank for its review the detailed proposals for
forming a monitoring unit to check salinity levels in the River and soils
in the Project area. After forming the unit, it would report to the Bank
on this matter annually for five years after Project completion (para.
41).
(b) Government to engage consultant to provide assistance to the General
Administration for the Development of the Euphrates Basin (GADEB) in the
preparation of designs and tender documents, supervision of construction
and the development of operation and maintenance procedures for all three
Zones in the Project area and in the evaluation of bids for tubewells
(para. 31f).



IBRD 13259
T URKEY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JANUARY 1978
/aTURKEY  _  _.~- r                    \                                                                                           SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
y)   r.<f,;s_                    _       .^--" <                                                                                                                         Lower Euphrates Drainage Project
________ i(Project boundaries
tA LQl n.ki.                                                                                                                                                                                                    N       Ii i      o-aie lands
/   TAROA                                                                                                                     *jjJ N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on-saline v~
DeirezZor           i IRAQ                        0            10             20            30            40                                                        -       Moderately and severely saline lands
o;<          RH Hos                                                                                          KILOMETERS                                                                                        Abondoned lands
SYRIA                           0p                             0          5           l0        tO           20         25                                                 _    _ _   Rivers
5                                       AbvRersoI                                                                                                                                   -------uK.-IWadi
A - iFANON                                                                                                       MILES                                                                            - - - - -         ad
t           a-,                             *0 '                                                                                                                                                                 Existing roads
*  ?  eDonrasous   -~~~~~~~~~~~~ LI Project area  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~          ~           ~          ~          ~          ~          ~         ~                Main towns
J4/ rF                                                                                                                                                                        Domusc_s / z  p je; eN  Other towns and villages
-.l  .      \ Prvpvsed devel.rp-ent                                             t                                                                                   eo       Gypsum  cliffs
j < z . in Evphrate- basis                                                                                                                              -           Sector boundaries
I0RAEy.-..            I .              '         0I       200 Rilom  Irs     )76v                                                                                                                                  Internctional boundaries
JORDAN             0 5      0      lo
Throrreab.hsr       h ,re p hrep  W=d  b -tdk  -rff-1cov,r'efy tfdocorroo roce  
o    -r-rered- rotrperevorrt-o ositiretTched roedeno-mir-rnsre-da-arve h
ssnarssoo so rr arep dono --p/y, -00h p-r of Ore World Bank ar 
MOt'llte, any -dme Im lht tg. rai ttmt -ot ,  P -tttEWd--- td
f-stnc  /uh b-udns ..                                                                     SEC T OR        4                                              
SECTOR  1II                                                                                                                SECTORR



