CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1682 SYR[
Loan Agreement
(Lower Euphrates Drainage Project)
between
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 4, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1682 SYR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 4, 1979, between SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(6aid General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Area" means the Lower Euphrates Valley in
the territory of the Borrower consisting of several terraces
extending along both sides of the Euphrates River from Halabie to
the Iraqi border over a length of approximately 180 km and com-
prising about 121,000 ha of irrigable area;
(b) "Zone 1" means an area of about 55,600 ha in the Project
Area on the right bank of the Euphrates River downstream of
Deir-ez-Zor;
(c) "Zone 2" means an area of about 36,000 ha in the Project
Area on the left bank of the Euphrates River downstream of Al-
Khabour River;
(d) "Zone 3" means an area of about 29,400 ha in the Project
Area on both banks of the Euphrates River upstream of Deir-ez-Zor
on the right bank and of Al-Khabour River on the left bank;
and
(e) "GADEB" means the General Administration for the Devel-
opment of the Euphrates Basin, an organization within the Bor-
rower's Ministry of the Euphrates Dam, or any successor thereof.
__________________________                    __________


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods, civil works and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per rent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven per cent (7.00 %) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan withd' wn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿Section 2.09. The Director General of GADEB and such other
person or persons as the Borrower may specify in writing are
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 5.04 of the General Conditions and Section 2.02 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through GADEB with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and
engineering practices, and shall provide, as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank in order to assist GADEB in:
(a) carrying out Part A (including the preparation of
bidding documents) and Part H of the Project;
(b) the evaluation of bids for Part B of the Project;
and
(c) the supervision of the construction and installation
works under the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause GADEB to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insur-
ance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
the plans, specifications, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.


﻿r                                                                         -II
-4-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-.
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the pr.ceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construciton sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) After completion of the Project, and within one year
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
Agrdement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construc-
tion and operation of the facilities included in the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
technical report containing the results of the investigations to
be made under Part A of the Project; and the Bank shall promptly
provide its comments thereon to the Borrower.
Section 3.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause GADEB: (a) to submit to the Bank for its
review and approval detailed proposals, including measures to be
taken to implement the provisions of Section 4.04 of this Agree-
ment, for the establishment of the monitoring units referred to
under Part G (f the Project; and (b) to establish and operate said
units not later than one year before the scheduled date for
operating in Zone 1 the tubewells referred to in Part B of the
Project.


﻿Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause the ,xtension service
operating in the Project Area to be adequately organized and
staffed.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allo-
cation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate Project accounts adequate to reflect in accor-
dance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of GADEB and the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsi-
ble for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause GADEB to: (i) have such ac-
counts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning such accounts of GADEB and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. For the purposes
of this paragraph, the Bank recognizes the Central Agency for
Financial Audit of the Borrower as an independent auditor.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the facilities estab-
lished under the Project to be operated and maintained, and all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made as needed, in
accordance with appropriate agricultural and engineering prac-
tices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause GADEB inter alia to:
(a) monitor the extent to which the facilities established
under the Project are effective in lowering the water table, in
preventing an increase in soil salinity and in increasing yields
of crops. For the purpose, the Borrower shall cause GADEB to (i)
collect soil and water samples from specific sites at regular
intervals, including samples from sites in the Euphrates River at
the upstream and downstream boundaries of the Project Area, (ii)
analyze such samples to determine their level of salinity, (iii)
record for a number of selected fields the yields, crop patterns
and salinity levels, and (iv) summarize at regular intervals the
data so collected and utilize the results thereof in improving the
efficiency of its drainage activities; and
(b) transmit annually during the first five years after
Project completion to the Bank a report on its monitoring activi-
ties and its findings under paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿77
-7 -
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall continue to provide the
farmers in the Project Area with the agricultural credit necessary
to realize the benefits of the facilities established under the
Project.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date Jily 9, 1979, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Euphrates Dam of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of the Euphrates Dam
P.O. Box 4451
Damascus
Syrian Arab Republic
Cable address:
MIFRAT
Damascus
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, Uaited States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ Sabah Kabbani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿PoT
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of                                .
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Drilling and                 4,500,000       100% of foreign
equipment for                                expenditures
tubewells
under Part B
of the Proj-
ect
(2) Acquisition                  2,300,000       100% of foreign
and installa-                                expenditures
tion of trans-
mission lines
under Part E
of the Project
(3) Other civil                  8,700,000       45%
works
(4) Other equip-                 1,200,000       100% of foreign
ma .t                                        expenditures and
70% of local ex-
penditures
(5) Consultants'                 7,900,000       100% of foreign
services                                    expenditures
(6) Unallocated                  5,400,000
30,00oOOO
TOTAL


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply there-
of; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if it is reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank
may: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to
meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank
and the Borrower are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated short-
fall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds


﻿늬


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, to be carried out in the P,---)ject Area in order
to -halt the spread- of salinity in presently' irrigated alluvial
soils, consists of the following:
Part A:  -Soil and drainage investigations and preparation of
detailed designs and bidding documents for drainage and
related works in Zones 2 and 3.
Part B:   Construction of drainage tubewells in a number suffi-
cient for lowering the level of groundwater in the
Project Area (such number is currently estimated at 170
tubewells), and installation of electric pumps and asso-
ciated equipment for said tubewells.
Part C:   Construction of open surface drains to return saline
drainage water from the above tubewells to the Euphrates
River, and to collect surface water from the Project
Area and to intercept surface water from adjacent
areas@
Part D:   Construction of access roads to the tubewell pumping
stations in the Project Area.
Part E:   Installation of 22 kV power transmission lines and of
the necessary 66 kV connections, as required to serve
adequately the tubewell pumping stations and other
Project facilities.
Part F:   Design and construction, furnishing and equipping (with
such equipment as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank) of offices, workshops and warehouses at
the Project headquarters in Deir-ez-Zor, and at ' sec-
tional headquarters, for operation and maintenance of
the drainage and related facilities.
Part G:   The establishment, equipping and initial operation,
of necessary units f,r, and the initial carrying out of,
monitoring of saliniL-y changes, land use and agricul-
tural production in the Project Area.


﻿-13-
Part H:   Continuation of existing agricultural research activi-
ties with respect to major crops, and of the agricul-
tural extension services to farmers at the village level
in basic crop growing techniques, animal husbandry and
drainage practices.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿긔


﻿15
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.45%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.55%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                             6.20%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.00%


﻿161
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the   pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to
the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare (or cause to be prepared) and forward to the Bank in
sufficient time for its publication prior to the date of availabil-
ity to the public of the first tender or prequalification docu-
ments relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide or cause to be
provided the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   The bidders to be qualified for the award of contracts under
the Project shall be required to accept, in,carrying out their
obligations under such contracts, normal supervision by the
Borrower or the consultants employed by it.
4.   Contracts for civil works and equipment to be let as provided
under paragraph 1 hereof shall, to the extent practicable, be
grouped as follows:
Contract No. 1:     Drilling and equipping of tubewells
and all electromechanical equipment
under Part B of the Project for Zone 1.
Contract No. 2:     Construction of surface drains and access
roads under Parts C and D of the Project
for Zone 1.


﻿- 17 -
Contract No. 3:     For the acquisition and installation
of power transmission lines and for the
related civil works under Part E of the
Project for Zone 1.
Contract No. 4:     Drilling and equipping of tubewells and
all electromechanical equipment under
Part B of the Project for Zones 2 and 3.
Contract No. 5:     Construction of surface drains and access
roads under Parts C and D of the Project
for Zone 2.
Contract No. 6:     For the acquisition and installation of
power transmission lines and for the
related civil works under Part E of the
Project for Zone 2.
Contract No. 7:     Construction of surface drains and access
roads under Parts C and D of the Project
for Zone 3.
Contract No. 8:     For the acquisition and installation of
power transmission lines and for the
related civil works under Part E of the
Project for Zone 3.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment under Parts F and G of the Project
estimated each to cost not more than the equivalent of $100,000,
and contracts for the carrying out of civil works under Part F of
the Project may be concluded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with the Borrower's applicable
procedures.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods, except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and


﻿- 18 -
sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Syria and to be procured in accordance
with the procedures- referred to in Part A.1 of this Schedule may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Syria if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Syria equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Syria.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further


﻿- 19 -
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. In the cases where the Borrower
shall require prequalification, the Borrower shall, before qual-
ification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant
for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for the purchase of goods
estimated each to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more or for
the carrying out of civil works (other than those to be carried
out under Part F of the Project) estimated each to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform


﻿- 20 -
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, including the report to be prepared
by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agree-
ment, on the evaluation and comparison together with the recommen-
dations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.- The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the..
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 25% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform the
Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that
the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


