                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25503

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (CPL-35760; SCL-3576A; SCPD-3576S)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION

                                      TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

                                            EL SALVADOR

                                                FOR AN

                AGRICULTURAL SECTOR REFORM AND INVESTMENT PROJECT




                                                02/28/2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                       (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                      Currency Unit =

                                             FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1       December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BTO       Back-to-Office Report
CDG       Livestock Development Center (Centro de Desarrollo Ganadero)
CENTA     National Agricultural Technology Center (Centro Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria y Forestal)
CNR       National Registry Center (Centro Nacional de Registros)
CVP       Neighborhood Producers Group (Circulo Vecinal de Productores)
DGDR      Directorate General of Rural Development (Dirección General de Desarrollo Rural)
DIPEI     Division of Institutional Planning and Strategy (División de Planificación y Estrategia Institucional )
DSVA      Directorate of Plant and Animal Health (Dirección de Sanidad Vegetal y Animal)
EPS       Executive Project Summary
GOES      Government of El Salvador
GOPA      Agrarian Political Options Group (Grupo de Opciones de Política Agraria)
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IICA      Inter-American Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture
INAZUCAR  Sugar Cane Institute (Instituto del Azúcar)
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
IRA       Supply Regulation Institute (Instituto Regulador de Abastecimientos)
ISIC      Salvadorian Coffee Research Institute (Instituto Salvadoreño de Investigación del Café)
LA        Loan Agreement
MAG       Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganadería)
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NGOs      Non-Governmental Organizations
NPV       Net Present Value
OAS       Organization of American States
OCP       Project Coordination Office (Oficina Coordinadora de Proyectos )
OED       Operations Evaluation Department
PAU       Project Administration Unit
P/DO      Project Development Objective/ Development Objective
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PRISA     Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment Project (Programa de Reforma e Inversión Sectorial
          Agropecuaria)
R&E       Research and Extension
RUTA      Regional Unit for Technical Assistance
SAL       Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
TA        Technical Assistance
T&V       Training and Visit
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
USAID     United States Agency for International Development


                                    Vice President:         David de Ferranti
                     Country Manager/Director:              Jane Armitage
                       Sector Manager/Director:             John Redwood
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                  Norman B. Piccioni

                                       EL SALVADOR
        AGRICULTURAL SECTOR REFORM AND INVESTMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            22
6. Sustainability                                                                24
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 26
8. Lessons Learned                                                               29
9. Partner Comments                                                              31
10. Additional Information                                                       31
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             33
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             34
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             48
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             51
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                52
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            53
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR                                                          53

Project ID: P007167                                                      Project Name: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
                                                                         REFORM AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Norman Bentley Piccioni                                     TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: September 4, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR REFORM AND                           L/C/TF Number: CPL-35760; SCL-3576A;
                            INVESTMENT PROJECT                                                       SCPD-3576S
   Country/Department: EL SALVADOR                                                        Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (77%); Central government
                            administration (23%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Small and medium enterprise
                            support (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Rural policies and
                            institutions (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    11/14/1990                                        Effective:                         04/21/1994
   Appraisal:    10/21/1991                                            MTR:                           10/01/1996
    Approval:    03/18/1993                                         Closing: 12/31/1999               01/31/2003

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF EL SALVADOR/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND
                                           LIVESTOCK (MAG)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              S. Shahid Husain
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  Edilberto Segura
Sector Manager:                 Mark E. Cackler                                Michael Baxter
Team Leader at ICR:             Norman B. Piccioni                             Cora Shaw
ICR Primary Author:             Samuel Taffesse and Norman
                                Piccioni with contribution from
                                Gabriel Keynan and Richard
                                Castillo.


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:HL

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR

                                Quality at Entry:                           S
                    Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Main conclusion: El Salvador's agricultural sector has come a long way in a relatively short time. At the
end of the civil war, when this project was launched, small and medium farmers' main concerns were land
security and subsistence production. Today, many of these farmers have greatly increased their yields of
basic grains. Some are moving toward high value crops and further enhancements of productivity. The
project succeeded in raising the income level of both farmers covered by the project and the
non-participating farmers in the Technical Assistance program. The two main institutions in the
agricultural sector (MAG and CENTA) have been modernized, policy and institutional obstacles to the
efficient operation of the sector have been removed, and improvements have been made in the way that
agricultural services are delivered, notably research and extension. These accomplishments were priorities
for this project. Their achievement is even more remarkable given the onset of successive natural disasters,
including Hurricane Mitch, two earthquakes, recurrent droughts, economic shocks ­ including a steep
decline in the price of El Salvador's major agricultural export, coffee, and a recession in its major trading
partner, the United States. Despite genuine progress, the project was also marked by impediments that
suggest the need for revision. These are discussed below.

3.1 Original Objective

Country and Sectoral Context:

3.1.1 In the 1960s and 1970s El Salvador enjoyed two decades of real economic growth, stable prices,
and export expansion. All this came to a grinding halt in 1979 with the eruption of the civil war. The war,
coupled with the deterioration of the external economic environment, exacerbated the economic slowdown.
As a result, GDP fell by 13 percent in 1980-82. The steep fall in the world price of coffee (which
accounted for 29 percent of the agricultural sector value added) had a major impact on the performance of
the sector. From the early 1980s and until 1989, the economy lingered at a lower level of equilibrium;
average annual growth was 1.6 percent.

3.1.2 The Government of El Salvador (GOES) took several adjustment measures to eliminate distortions
in the economy.      The administration of President Alfredo Cristiani, which assumed office in 1989,
introduced a comprehensive economic stabilization and structural adjustment program. This effort was
designed to create a more market-oriented and private sector-led economy, capable of rapid sustained
growth, while seeking to eliminate poverty. The administration also concluded a peace accord in January
1992. The administration then initiated economic reform. For the agricultural sector, these reforms sought
to eliminate all domestic price controls on basic grains, abolish parastatal agricultural marketing
companies, and divest their assets.

In the agricultural sector, a comprehensive structural adjustment program was undertaken, with the support
of a World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL, Loan No. 3293-ES). This program led to a number
of achievements. All domestic price controls on basic grains were eliminated. The monopoly power of the
parastatal agricultural marketing companies was abolished, and divestiture of these companies assets was
begun.

The agricultural sector responded well to these initiatives.      Stimulated by the elimination of price



                                                     - 2 -

distortions and good weather, agriculture led the economy's rebound in 1990. The sector grew by 7.4
percent and exports of non-traditional agricultural products grew by over one-third. A Multisectoral
Global Credit Program was initiated, financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) through a
SAL. This effort further addressed the negative effects of fiscal and trade policies on agricultural exports
and imports, and sought the expansion of the private sector role in marketing of agricultural commodities.
These programs, coupled with the economic stabilization and adjustment program adapted by the GOES,
sought to accelerate growth and sustainability in the agricultural sector, improve the capacity of sectoral
institutions to execute public investment, provide essential support services, and accelerate the pace of
technological change. 1   The Agricultural Sector Reform & Investment Project (PRISA) was part of the
comprehensive plan of the GOES to improve the performance of the economy.

3.1.3 The institutional setup at the time that PRISA was launched was deficient.                 The institution
responsible for the agricultural sector, the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Ministerio de
Agricultura y Ganadería, or MAG) was cumbersome and bureaucratic. The principal crops research
institution, the National Agricultural Technology Center (Centro Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria y
Forestal, or CENTA), which was responsible for agricultural extension until 1979 was also inefficient.
Some 80 to 95 percent of its annual budget was allocated to salaries. Out of an estimated 700 staff
members, 125 were technicians who had no doctorates. The ratio of technical to non-technical staff was
1:5.6.

3.1.4 For agricultural extension, the General Directorate for Rural Development (Dirección General de
Desarrollo Rural, or DGDR) was responsible for Technical Assistance (TA) to crop producers and for
general rural development services. The Livestock Development Center (Centro de Desarrollo Ganadero,
or CDG) was responsible for livestock research and extension, and animal health control. The other two
parastatals operating in the sector were the Salvadorian Coffee Research Institute (ISIC) and the Sugar
Cane Institute (Instituto del Azúcar, INAZUCAR).      2




3.1.5 The extension system was wrought with problems. In the early 1990s, the extension service in El
Salvador faced several problems. A study carried out by MAG and the Inter-American Institute for
Cooperation in Agriculture (IICA), with advice and assistance from the Bank, the IDB, and other Latin
American countries, cited the following concerns. Links with research were weak. In both extension and
research, priorities were established that did not sufficiently meet the needs of small and medium-size
producers. The provision of agricultural services was inefficient because extension service and staff were
charged with excessive extraneous functions, such as general agricultural data collection and other related
functions.    Staff were insufficiently trained, and had little opportunity to update their skills while in
service.

3.1.6 The research system also exhibited its own generic weaknesses. These included inadequate research
methodologies;     lack of funds; insufficient attention to the needs of small and medium-size producers;
excessive expenditures on salaries and insufficient funding for operating costs;             over-centralization;
separate and uncoordinated crop and livestock research; and insufficiently trained staff, who had little
opportunity to update their skills.

3.1.7 Public investment in agricultural research was deemed appropriate and profitable.                     The
Back-to-Office (BTO) of December 21, 1990, stated that in the case of El Salvador, agricultural research
is profitable and public investment is justifiable. The justification for public agricultural research was made
on the basis of three factors. First were information costs. By their very nature, some research products are
public goods. Private agents, therefore, might well be reluctant to undertake certain types of research, since



                                                      - 3 -

they could not capture all the benefits. Research that was especially needed, and might not be undertaken
by the private sector, included breeding of crop varieties, crop management, economic research, and
natural resource management.

3.1.8 Second was risk perception. Private agents perceived risks as being greater than the government and
consequently the private sector might not invest at optimal levels. Third was a need to conduct research
specifically with the aim of alleviating poverty. It was believed that private agents assign no benefits to
poverty alleviation and therefore investments must be undertaken by the public sector.

3.1.9 In addition to raising the level of investment in agricultural research, it was deemed necessary to
deal with the barriers to efficient use of investment.         Four main barriers were identified:       weak
organization in the research community, undefined priorities, lack of linkage between research and
extension, and inefficiencies in the research/extension systems.

3.1.10 To address these institutional weaknesses, the government proposed several measures. The
proposals by GOES included:        making CENTA an autonomous institution;             merging research and
extension, crop and livestock activities in both sectors to reap economies of scale and reduce inefficiency;
and creating five agro-ecological zones research centers.         The Bank suggested organizing CENTA
according to five groups of products and two support services (and according to discipline). The groups
were basic grains (rice, maize, sorghum, beans); oilseeds and fibers; livestock; fruits and vegetables; and
forestry. The two supportive services were communications and research services (soils, food, chemistry,
biometrics, computing).

3.1.11 Several strategic choices were made. First, a single public research and extension institution was
chosen. The project opted not to separate extension and research systems into different institutions and not
to have independent systems for irrigation agriculture and rain fed agriculture. However, in areas where
irrigation agriculture expanded a strategic choice was made to increase emphasis of the research and
extension system in helping the newly developed irrigations systems but not to establish a separate
institution.

3.1.12 Second, the government gave priority to food crops. The project was conceived as the civil war in
El Salvador was winding down. The government wanted to focus its priorities on food crops to avoid
political unrest due to either higher food prices or low production and low income for small farmers.        3


Accordingly, CENTA's main areas of research were chosen to be maize, sorghum, rice, beans, fruits, and
vegetables.

3.1.13 Third, extension was given a higher priority than reasearch. In the short-run, it was decided to
focus primarily on extension, while research would play a secondary, although still important, role. This
was justified by the findings that the technical level of production was lower compared to earlier periods.
In the long-term, emphasis was expected to be placed on adapting imported agro-technologies. This again
gave greater weight to extension. It was also argued that due to the small size of the country, basic research
would have a smaller role and nearly all research was expected to be adaptive.  4




3.1.14 Thus strengthening extension became the primary focus. In order to improve the efficiency of an
extension system, several steps were planned: to provide more resources; to eliminate extraneous tasks
from the mandate of extension staff; to better define the client group for extension by targeting small
producers; and to train staff.




                                                     - 4 -

Original Objective:

3.1.15 According to the Loan Agreement (LA), the objectives of the project were to strengthen El
Salvador's agricultural sector;    accelerate the generation of more productive and environmentally
sustainable agricultural technology; and contribute to productivity improvements of small and medium
farmers.

3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1 Four effective amendments were added to the loan. One of these (the second) never became effective
and was canceled. None of the loan's amendments changed the objectives of the project. However, the
Project Status Report (PSR) sequence number 26 wrongly stated that there was a change in the project
objective.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had two major components: reform and institutional development of MAG and CENTA; and
development of agricultural research and extension.

3.3.1 Component 1. Reform and Institutional Development of MAG and CENTA (US$16.7 million):
This component was designed to help MAG perform its revised roles in sector policy, regulation, and
evaluation; CENTA would execute the research and extension component; and MAG and CENTA would
modernize their management and streamline staff to implement their new role and focus their activity on
supporting small and medium-size producers. The component, which included an institutional development
plan, was based on the implementation of four subcomponents.5




(i)     Institutional strategy and planning (US$2.9 million): The key changes expected were to
make CENTA an autonomous agency and to enact a new organic law for MAG to define the
Ministry's new functional responsibilities and institutional structure.

(ii)    Human resource management (US$7.2 million): This subcomponent was planned to
assist the Division of Institutional Planning and Strategy (DIPEI) in implementing MAG's Staff
Rationalization Plan and in making the transition from the existing staffing to the required staffing
and skills mix. The plan included actions for rationalizing MAG and CENTA's structures;
implementing voluntary staff retirement incentives; conducting preliminary performance
evaluations; fitting staff into the new pay and grade structure through competitive recruitment;
and establishing a human resources management system. Preparation of the plan was supported by
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) fund and Japanese grant proceeds, in coordination with
UNDP-financed first phase implementation of the Management Development Program. This
subcomponent was also expected to assist MAG in finalizing the privatization or elimination of
the Supply Regulation Institute (Instituto Regulador de Abastecimientos ­ IRA) and those
support services that can best be provided by the private sector. MAG requested bids for the sale
of 10 of the 16 IRA plants during the preparation of this project.

(iii)   Management information systems and procedures (US$1.8 million), to streamlining
administrative procedures; and

(iv)    Construction of MAG headquarters (US$4.3 million).



                                                   - 5 -

3.3.2 Component 2. Agricultural Research and Extension (US$39.8 million): This component was the
major component of the project (70.4 percent of total project cost) and the area in which changes and
improvement at the farm level were expected. The component was designed to strengthen applied research
and extension, with priority to be given to small and medium-size farmers. The component had eight
specific objectives. First, was to reorient research and extension services to small and medium farmers.
Second, was to create a unified national crop and livestock research and extension system. Third, was to
make the research and extension system more efficient by giving it autonomy and administrative flexibility.
Fourth, was to give priority in research and extension to natural resource conservation as well as to basic
grains, livestock, fibers and oilseeds produced by small farmers. Research and extension for export crops
would be left to the private sector and to bilateral financing. Fifth, was to reorganize research from a
disciplinary approach to a commodity approach. Sixth, was to focus extension on specific objectives at
the farm level. To this end, a modified Training and Visit (T&V) extension methodology would be
introduced. Seventh, was to stop functions extraneous to research and extension, such as general rural
development, seed certification, and commercial seed production. Eighth, was to include alternative
sources of finance. Given the smaller farmer clientele, and lack of cost-recovery, this last activity was
aimed to include the NGOs.

3.3.3 Component 2 had three subcomponents.

(i) Agricultural research (US$11.9 million): Under this subcomponent, the project planned to support
research in five areas: basic grains (maize, beans, rice, sorghum, and wheat); livestock and forages; fruits
and vegetables; fibers and oilseeds; and natural resources. The first four research priorities were chosen
because those commodities were most important for the small and medium farmers who were planned to be
CENTA's clients. Natural resources research was selected as a priority because little information existed
about problems in the area and because of the negative effect of natural resource degradation on small and
medium farmers.

(ii) Agricultural extension (US$17.1 million): This subcomponent included steps to decentralize and
reorganize the system around a modified T&V methodology. The extension system was planned to operate
with a priority on maize, beans, rice, and sorghum, as these were the principal crops of the target farmers.
Livestock extension was scheduled to be added in the second year of project implementation. Extension
agents were expected to follow the T&V methodology or work according to a regular schedule of farm
visits to producer groups. It was believed that this approach would permit field staff to better provide
technical recommendations, monitor progress, and establish a predictable visit pattern. The new set-up was
expected to provide regular training to extension agents. This training was to include assistance from
subject matter specialists in the research staff, to improve links and synergies between extension and
research.

(iii) Support services for agricultural research and extension (US$10.8 million): This subcomponent
was planned to provide support services required for the basic research and extension activities. This
included rehabilitation of CENTA headquarters, the acquisition of vehicles and equipment, and the
provision of TA and training. In addition, the subcomponent was to support financing for incremental
costs---mostly operating costs---on a declining scale.

3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 Through its amendments, the Loan Agreement revised the number of components under the project.       6


The First Amendment (dated August 16, 1994) added a third component to the project: Improvement of



                                                     - 6 -

Land Registry and Cadastre Service. The Second Amendment (June 30, 1998) added another component:
Rural Financial Market Development.      7   The Third Amendment, dated February 24, 1999, annulled the
Second Amendment. The Rural Financial Market Development was canceled without effect, since it was
not approved by the Salvadoran Legislative Assembly. The Third Amendment replaced the Rural Financial
Market component with a Hurricane Mitch Emergency Program for the Rural Sector. As part of the
Fourth Amendment of April 3, 2001, rehabilitation in the aftermath of two major earthquakes of January
and February 2001 was added into the emergency program, without limitation to the rural sector.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory

3.5.1 The project was an integral part of the Government of El Salvador's plan to improve the economic
performance of the country. In 1989, the GOES adopted an Economic and Social Development Plan for
1989--1994, which had two fundamental objectives. The first was to create the conditions needed for strong
sustainable growth through economic stabilization and liberalization. The second was to raise the welfare
and standard of living of the population, especially of those who live in extreme poverty.8




3.5.2 In line with the GOES overall plan, MAG's program to achieve growth and sustainability consisted
of reducing government intervention through privatization of marketing parastatals; improving sector
investment programming and execution capacity; and providing support services to small and medium
farmers to accelerate adoption of a more productive and sustainable technology.

3.5.3 To ensure smooth start-up of project implementation, GOES undertook several background studies
and passed several decrees during project preparation. As early as 1990, the Government sponsored
several studies to assess the agricultural sector and to define future policies, strategies, and public sector
intervention. It then adopted several decrees to reorient MAG's activity. These included Ministerial Decree
No. 912, which promulgated a system of operating rules for MAG. A review of all units' functions,
responsibilities, and workloads was effected, to link functional objectives with micro-organizational design
and planning, and to define the required staffing and skills mix. Ministerial Orders No. 2 to 9 (October 14,
1992) adopted MAG's new divisional structure. Screening of staff was done earlier, in the preparation
stage of the project. Determining actual organization structure, staffing, and skill mix was completed before
project effectiveness and proposals were prepared for all other phases. By Ministerial Order No. 1
(October 7, 1992), MAG transferred seed certification functions to the Directorate of Plant and Animal
Health (DSVA).

3.5.4 The project was a result of a comprehensive approach and partnership in the development of the
agricultural sector. USAID made available complementary financing for privatization of grain marketing
and sugar strategy studies and public sector efficiency studies for the reform and indemnization of retiring
staff. Coordination with IDB on all policy discussions and preparation activities proceeded smoothly,
including agreement on the need for upfront conditionality, apportionment of the loan, and joint scheduling
of all missions. A clear division of subsector activity was made with IDB, to remove obstacles to the
implementation of MAG's overall program for modernizing the agricultural sector.              The Bank also
extensively involved its staff from the Regional Unit for Technical Assistance (RUTA).

3.5.5 Lessons from other projects were considered. The project preparation took into account experiences
of other projects in the agriculture sector financed by other donors, including USAID and IDB. The project
also benefited from several studies on the sector. Analysis to identify the major agricultural commodities
                                                   9


in El Salvador was carried out and identified four basic crops: maize, beans, rice, and sorghum.



                                                     - 7 -

3.5.6 Several conditions were included in negotiations, effectiveness, and disbursement. As a condition
of project appraisal, the Bank requested a detailed program for the merging of livestock research and
extension system within the new CENTA after its re-organization. The government was expected to
prepare staff and budget allocations between research and extension by region for the life of the project.

3.5.7 The Bank also requested a specification of relations to all related projects that were specially
funded, such as the USAID-funded small-scale irrigation project. It was believed that these other projects
would affect research priorities and the budget allocation of the resources to be funded by the proposed
loan. It was agreed that if projects lay outside the scope of government priorities for public research and
extension, then the project was expected to receive an assurance that these projects would not interfere with
the implementation of priorities under the project.

3.5.8 During negotiations, the Government agreed to carry out action plans to make seed certification
independent of CENTA by 1993 and to eliminate commercial seed production by CENTA by 1994.
Agreement was also reached to use implementation and impact indicators as a basis of the annual and
mid-term review. As part of the effectiveness conditions, an agreement between MAG and CENTA was
required, reflecting the responsibilities of each of these organization.          Evidence of initiation of
implementation of MAG's staff rationalization plan was also required. Disbursement conditions were
related to CENTA's adoption of the staff rationalization plan and MAG and CENTA's adoption of new
internal rules of transportation services.

3.5.9 Potential risks in project implementation were identified. These risks included the inherent ones of
operating in a country suffering from civil strife and the sustained ability of GOES to carry out its stated
agenda for institutional reform. Specific project-related risks were also identified, notably those arising
from the sector's implementation weakness and lack of familiarity with Bank procedures. The Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) aimed to make the last two factors endogenous: that is, to address them directly
through the project through capacity-building and training. In the area of research and extension (R&E),
the SAR identified several risks facing the project: lack of Government commitment; inadequacy and
unsustainability of funding; inability to set priorities; poor management; and weak research-extension links.
To deal with these risks, the Bank secured the government's budgetary commitment, as well as legislative
approval of the CENTA law, which brought both extension and research under CENTA.

3.5.10 The project also identified weaknesses in project implementation. It highlighted the risk of poor
disbursement, based on the experience of IDB's project loan for CENTA that had been completed in 1990.
Although the design did not address this specific issue, it recognized operational risks in general. These
were planned to be addressed through the creation of a Project Administration Unit (PAU) that would
facilitate Bank procedures for procurement, disbursement, audit, and reporting.

3.5.11 There were some weakness in the project design. Project implementation arrangements were later
found to be detrimental to efficient execution of the project. Poverty reduction and its diagnosis were absent
in the SAR. Moreover, the project could have been better designed as two inter-related and successive
projects, the first dealing with institutional reforms and field tests of proposed innovations (or a technical
assistance project), and the second with more extensive sector investments (see sections 7.1 and 8.3.)




                                                       - 8 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Project Outcome: Satisfactory

4.1.1 The overall outcome of the project objective is rated as satisfactory. The project was implemented
under harsh economic conditions, characterized by severe deterioration of terms of trade and the collapse of
coffee prices. The economic slowdown that started in 1996 was further compounded by the havoc brought
by Hurricane Mitch in 1998. This was especially the case for           the rural areas and the agricultural
infrastructures, including rural roads (critical in the marketing of agricultural produce) and irrigation
infrastructures. In 2000, a large portion of the country suffered from drought. (Other minor localized
droughts affected pockets of the country in earlier years of the project period as well). Two major
earthquakes in January and February 2001, as well as thousands of aftershocks, were estimated to have
caused an economic loss $US1.6 billion: more than 10 percent of GNP, and more than half the national
government's annual budget. These earthquakes further destroyed agricultural infrastructures and
production systems that were at an early stage of recovery from Hurricane Mitch.

4.1.2 Despite the negative circumstances under which PRISA was implemented, the project demonstrated
its resilience. Overall in El Salvador, "poverty fell from 60 percent of the total in 1991 to about 41 percent
in 1999," according to a report by the Bank's OED assessment.     10Among the Bank's contributions toward
this achievement, OED specifically identified the agricultural reform and land titling projects.11




4.1.3 During the life of the project, the Ministry of Agriculture assumed it new role by privatizing several
parastatal organs under its control. The Ministry has transformed itself into a modern organization able to
formulate policy, generate and disseminate information, improve the legal frameworks under which the
agricultural sector operates, and remove barriers in the development of competitive agriculture.            A
revolutionary efficiency is observed in the provision of some services. In the areas of export certification
and import permission, for example, before PRISA, it took one week to receive a certificate or permit. It
now takes only 15 minutes.  12




4.1.4 The Ministry has also taken advantage of the development in information technology and its
application to the agricultural sector. The Ministry website provides daily agricultural products prices and
historical information going back 20 years. Such information is especially helpful to the rural poor.
According to the Bank's Agricultural and Rural Development study, the lag of rural areas in access to
information, compared to urban areas, has "jeopardize[d] the ability of rural people to realize their full
potential and improve their social, economic, and environmental conditions."           13   The provision of
information by MAG is an attempt to help the rural poor improve their living standard.

4.1.5 MAG, through PRISA, was a pioneer in efforts to liberalize the agricultural economy and develop a
market-led economy. Today, El Salvador is one of the freest economies in the world and the freest in Latin
America.   14This achievement bodes well for the outcome of the project.

4.1.6 At the farm level, the project has led to improvement in agricultural productivity of small and medium
producers. Not only has the project directly benefited 63,000 small and medium agricultural producers,
but it also has also been instrumental in the observed improvement in agricultural productivity across all
regions of the country. The achievement in productivity has helped reduce the impact of the natural
disasters, since small farmers were in a better position, in terms of available food grains, to cope with the
immediate impact of natural disasters. In fact, the quick rebound of the agricultural sector stands as a



                                                      - 9 -

testimony to its resilience to external shocks.

4.1.7 The growth of agricultural productivity in El Salvador compares favorably with neighboring
countries, as can be seen from table 1 (extracted from the Bank's database). During the same period, the
growth rate of coffee stagnated and cotton practically disappeared. Thus one of the achievements of this
project was that in basic grains---a priority area for PRISA---El Salvadorian agriculture was able to attain
a high growth rate.

Table 1. Cereal Yields for Selected Central American Countries (kg per ha)
Country                           1994           2000       Growth in % (1994/2000)
El Salvador                      1609.6         1936.0                  20.3
Nicaragua                        1725.2         1841.7                  6.8
Honduras                         1310.8         1263.8                  -3.6
Guatemala                        1893.8         1750.3                  -7.6
Source: World Bank, Statistical Information Management & Analysis.

4.1.8 With the change in the government policy for the agricultural sector, the composition, type, and
players in research, extension, and other service provision has diversified. NGOs, the private sector,
universities, and others have increased their involvement in the sector. This diversification of sources of
services was also made possible through this project: first, through changes in policy; second, through
training provided to these institutions in enhancing their capacity; and third, through privatization of
parastral organizations. Before PRISA, the number of non-public institutions involved in extension and
research was negligible and the area was totally dominated by the government. Today, it is difficult to
estimate the number of organizations operating in the field. There are around 25 NGOs that have national
coverage working in the field of extension. Numerous other NGOs focus on a specific region or localities.
Without undermining the achievements of the project, it has to be noted that there is still a deficit in
specialized institutions in extension and/or research.

4.1.9 The efficiency of agriculture has improved, not only in terms of yields per hectare, but also in the use
and application of better and scientific know-how in agriculture production. Traditional methods of farming
generally had accelerated the deterioration of land productivity by promoting soil erosion, through farming
methods such as burn-and-slash agriculture and deforestation. By contrast, new methods of farming are
taking root using micro forestation, dikes and other soil erosion protection measures, advanced harvest
techniques, and safe management of pesticides. These new methods have contributed to the sustainable
management of farms in El Salvador in general, and in the project area in particular.

4.1.10 The experience in El Salvador seems to validate the general consensus that "successful investments
in agricultural R&E increase total income, improve income distribution, and reduce income variability"
(see annex 3 for an analysis of project economic costs and benefits).   15 In 2000, gross income of farmers
who benefited directly from the project from harvest of basic grains alone increased by 175 percent from
its 1995 level. The land titling component of this project is believed to have been instrumental in reducing
the widening of income distribution. Income was on an upward trajectory during early years of project
implementation except in 1999, in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch.

4.1.11 Relevance: During the preparation of the project, the Government was committed to modernize and
liberalize the agricultural sector from excessive intervention that historically had characterized the sector.
The government chose to focus its support on the public goods aspect of agricultural support services and
to eliminate the public sector monopoly in the provision of services. Successive governments of El



                                                    - 10 -

Salvador have committed themselves to strengthening the modernization of the state and the liberalization
of the economy. In this context, the project was and still is relevant to the agricultural sector of El
Salvador.

4.1.12 In the face of an increasingly globalized market and given the fact that El Salvador has one of the
world's freest economies, it is imperative that both research and extension services continue to improve the
productivity of agricultural producers. This is especially important for poor small and medium farmers,
who are vulnerable to external competition.          From the perspective of supporting small-and-medium
farmers, the project activities were and still are relevant.

Achievement by Objectives:

According to the Loan Agreement (LA), the project had three specific objectives.

Objective 1. To strengthen the Borrower's agricultural sector: Satisfactory

4.1.13 The strengthening of the agricultural sector involved modernizing the two main institutions (MAG
and CENTA), removing policy and institutional obstacles for the efficient operation of the sector, and
improving the way services are delivered. As described above, El Salvador's agriculture sector has been
successfully modernized as a result of this project. The reformed MAG has limited its activities to reflect
the market-led development policy of the government. MAG has become a facilitator of agricultural
development, and has limited its regulatory role to such aspects as certification of products and licensing
of imports. CENTA is providing the necessary public-good service to the agricultural sector. CENTA's
activities have been limited to helping small and medium farmers. The institution has successfully
disengaged from providing research activities and extension service to commercial farms, which can
finance the provision of such services themselves. To overcome the problems in coordinating extension and
research, the two tasks were brought together under the restructured CENTA. Certification of seeds was
taken out of CENTA and commercial production of seeds was left to the private sector. These steps opened
the way for the private sector, universities, and NGOs to become involved in both research and extension
services.

4.1.14 If strength is also measured by adaptability to changing circumstances, both MAG and CENTA
have demonstrated their agility by moving to new activities.       As information technology opened the
possibility of information provision and reduced its cost, MAG has adjusted itself fairly quickly to the
provision of these services through web pages and other means. As the country achieved good results in
basic-grain productivity, both MAG and CENTA shifted their priorities in policy, research, and extension
services toward high value products. At the local level, a successful capacity building initiative was
undertaken in which a neighborhood producers group (CVP, Círculo Vecinal de Productores) was trained
to manage nurseries micro-irrigation systems, pest management, improved farming techniques,
micro-forestation and soil erosion control, and improved farming techniques.

4.1.15 The strengthening of the agricultural sector also came about through the Land Registry Project,
which started as a component of this project. In the region where this component was piloted, farmers'
secure tenure of land was improved. This contributed to the improvement of land, especially where
micro-forestation and erosion control was undertaken. The resilience and the strength of the agricultural
sector was also demonstrated by its quick rebound from the disasters brought about by Hurricane Mitch,
two earthquakes, and recurrent droughts.

4.1.16 Two indicators were chosen by the Staff Appraisal Report as measure of the impact of this project


                                                      - 11 -

objective: (i) Of 27 strategy actions to be completed, 26---that is, 96 percent----were completed. (ii) Of the
20 agencies slated to operate in National Reconstruction Plan areas, 21---105 percent of the
target---actually operated.



Objective 2. To accelerate the generation of more productive and environmentally sustainable
agricultural technology: Satisfactory

4.1.17 The project gave priority to crops produced by small and medium-size farmers. Thus the main focus
of the project were basic grains. In grain production, the project was able to generate and validate five
hybrids and one variety of maize, four varieties of beans, two varieties of rice, three varieties of sorghum
for grain, and one variety for forage. With the change in the focus of CENTA toward high value crops,
technical guidelines for at least ten crops were prepared and published, and are being used by farmers. A
technical guideline on irrigation has also been produced. In animal production, various economically
viable technologies were developed. In fruits and vegetables production, integrated pest management was
introduced in sweet chili production, and three promising strains of onion were identified. In the field of
agro-industrial crops, four varieties of sesame were developed and made available. In natural resources
management, various technologies were developed, including the planting of small-scale reforestation plots,
the use of advanced soil conservation technologies, and the establishment and management of "protein
banks" for animal use. An additional, 18 technical guidelines were published, and CENTA prepared a
catalogue of agro-techniques available in the 1994--2000 period.

Objective 3. To contribute to productivity improvements of small and medium farmers: Satisfactory

4.1.18 One of the main outcomes expected of this project was the enhancement of agricultural productivity
through the introduction of improved varieties of seeds and production methods. A total of 63,000 small
and medium producers directly benefited from the project and adopted improved agricultural technologies.
The number of farmers directly covered recently dropped to 53,000 with the changes in MAG policies and
CENTA's focus. With the new focus, CENTA has opted to work closely with selected farmers in all
representative areas, where the potential for receptivity is higher and the multiplier effect is expected to be
greater.

4.1.19 To see results on the ground after the project had ended, the ICR mission visited representative
farms of both small and medium farmers. In a representative small farm, CENTA had introduced a drip
micro-irrigation system based on a technology that does not require the input of power. The small farmers
that the mission visited are now aiming to diversify their production, harvest at least twice a year, and
improve their access to market. The same is true of medium-farmers that were visited by the mission. The
only difference is that they are investing their own money in irrigation infrastructure to support their effort
in the production of high value products. Extension agents visit these farmers once a week and on an
on-call basis. The system has introduced demand-driven service provision.

4.1.20 In terms of capacity building, communities have developed their capacity in managing nurseries of
improved variety of high-value produce, such as vegetables and tomatoes, and also in managing their
producers' organizations. The project impact has extended beyond farmers who are directly attended by
CENTA to include other beneficiaries through the demonstration effect. Earlier supervisions and the ICR
mission visited farmers who do not receive direct Technical Assistance from CENTA but were able to
adopt the same advice and technology made available to project beneficiaries. A comparable impact on
production and yields was observed in the fields of non-participating farmers. In addition, farmers are



                                                    - 12 -

practicing environmentally sustainable farming techniques such as abandoning slash-and-burn agriculture,
implementing soil conservation and erosion control methods, and planting trees.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Reform and Institutional Development of MAG and CENTA: Satisfactory

4.2.1 As a result of this component, the project supported MAG and CENTA in modernizing and aligning
their activities in line with the new government policy.

4.2.2 Modernization of MAG. The component assisted MAG in seven main ways. First, it helped
implement the definition of a new organic law for MAG. This not only clarified the role of the reformed
MAG, but also supported the implementation of the revised role of MAG in formulating agricultural sector
policy and regulating important activities and evaluation of the sector.            Second, it supported the
codification of MAG's new functional responsibilities and institutional structure. Third, it implemented
MAG's Staff Rationalization Plan to allow a smoother transition to the required staffing and skills mix.
Fourth, it implemented information management system to streamline administrative procedures. Fifth, it
supported construction of MAG's headquarters and its equipment with modern office equipment. Sixth,
the component supported the drafting of several pieces of legislation and various regulations ­ this was
aimed at supporting the transition of the institution; at carrying out its necessary adjustments in accordance
with the new sector's legal framework; at ensuring the sustainability of the reforms; and at guarding
against sliding back to the old order. Seventh, the component supported the training of staff in different
disciplines, including information systems, management, strategic planning, and legal matters. The overall
impact of these activities was an improved agricultural sector management through MAG and its
transformation and modernization. This facilitated the implementation of the new role of the Ministry.

4.2.3 As a result of this component, MAG successfully addressed the misalignment of its staff. The
project improved the ratio of technical to non-technical staff from 1:2 before the project to 1:1.2 in 2002.
The percentage of salary expenditure to total ordinary expenditure was reduced from its extraordinarily
high level of 93 percent before the project began to its current level of 36 percent. The SAR predicted that
a total staff of 1,486 would be needed to implement MAG's new prerogatives effectively. By 2002, MAG
was able to reduce its staff to 1,224---about two-thirds (62 percent) of the level in 1993----without
compromising delivery of its services. This component also supported the privatization, outsourcing, or
disposal of at least six enterprises for which the private sector was believed to have a comparative
advantage in the delivery of the services.

4.2.4 The dynamism created in MAG is demonstrated through its application of a new information system.
MAG is enthusiastically working to introduce a revolutionary change in the way in which farmers operate
and the agriculture sector works (see 4.2.5 below). These steps will help the development of functioning
and more efficient markets supported by a continuous flow of information.          16  MAG provides current
marketing data on the four major regions of the country and also offers information on supply and demand
in the different markets. The Ministry web site (www.mag.gob.sv) provides information and covers
important topics such as orientation of the agricultural sector, current and historical market information,
statistics on agriculture, rules and regulations governing the operation of the sector, animal hygiene and
health, and land tenure security.

4.2.5 MAG has completed a study, financed by PRISA, to explore ways that farmers could have access to
an interactive information system. A farmer could input information on soil type and other local factors
about his land and the type and amount of seed and fertilizer he is planning to use. Given some
assumptions, the system would be able to provide him with information about the most


                                                     - 13 -

productive/profitable activity for his land, and the level of output he could expect. The user would be able
to consider several alternatives (in crops, fertilizer, irrigation, and so on) until he arrived at the best option,
given his budget and other constraints.

4.2.6 A shift in institutional culture has also taken place within MAG. There is a now a realization among
MAG staff that public employment does not come with a life-long guarantee---regardless of productiveness
or relevance of the position, as was the case before the project. PRISA was expected to redress the
misalignment in the ratio of technical to non-technical staff in agricultural sector institutions.            This
misalignment was a legacy of the civil war, which reduced economic activity and thus employment
opportunity. During the civil war, the public sector became an employer of last resort, more driven by
political considerations than real needs or qualification. With the help of PRISA, MAG led all other public
sector institutions in modernization of the state and rationalization of staff.

4.2.7 To help improve agricultural policy, MAG established a unit (GOPA, or Grupo de Opciones de
Política Agraria) that was instrumental in preparing and carefully prioritizing and sequencing reforms that
support the institutional transformation of MAG. The unit produced more than 14 studies, including ones
on agricultural policy and strategy, draft legislative decrees, and associated regulations. The different
policy and legal drafts were successfully promulgated into laws.             The current Minister of MAG is
interested in continuing the reforms. The impact attributable to the activities of GOPA include the orderly
conduct of divestiture of public enterprises, improvement of land security, and effective consolidation of
rural debt.

4.2.8 Modernization of CENTA: CENTA was restructured as an autonomous institution responsible for
both research and extension. These steps helped better coordinate research and extension services and
jointly gave priority to small and medium farmers. The ratio of technical to non-technical personnel was
reduced from 2:3 in 1993 to 2:1 in 2002, a little less than the SAR's target of 2.5 technical to 1
non-technical staff. The staff was also realigned in keeping with the new structure based, mainly, on crop
production. In 2002, some 618 staff were employed by CENTA, 46 percent of the SAR target of 1,341
staff. According to CENTA competition with the proliferating institutions in the sector has affected its
capacity of retaining staff. The ratio of salaries to total ordinary costs fell from 93 percent in 1993 to 88
percent in 2002, but has not quite achieved the target of 70 percent. Like MAG, CENTA has also
deployed an information system---although it is not as revolutionary as MAG's. CENTA's system is
expected to be the window for information provision, training, and databases for different manuals. This
component also financed training of staff domestically and abroad.

4.2.9 The achievement of this component would have been rated as highly satisfactory if not for the
reluctance by CENTA to internalize and implement the reform expected from it. Due to frequent and
unwarranted changes in the management of this institution, reforms were neither implemented at the pace
nor in the depth agreed upon during project preparation and negotiations.

Component 2. Agricultural Research and Extension: Marginally Satisfactory

4.2.10 This component has achieved most of its goals. However, these achievements were not necessarily
attributable exclusively to PRISA, but rather to a cumulative effect of the involvement of PRISA and other
donors in the sector.  17 Nevertheless, it was through PRISA that institutional changes and adjustment of
priorities were carried out within CENTA.

4.2.11 Research: The project executed 725 subprojects of research. These included 367 (or 51 percent) in



                                                       - 14 -

basic grains, 169 (23 percent) in fruits and vegetables, 77 (or 11 percent) in animal production, 66 (9
percent) in agro-industrial products, and 46 (6 percent) in natural resources. The composition reflected the
priorities the government attached to the different commodities, given the importance of each of these
products in the total production of small and medium farmers.

4.2.12 To coordinate the different activities of research and extension undertaken by CENTA and other
NGOs, 24 agreements were signed with national and international NGOs and organizations involved in
such efforts. Four networks were established to formalize the relationship. The aim of these coordination
arrangements was to reduce duplication, to learn from one another about each organization's comparative
advantage in specific localities, and to support the dissemination of CENTA's research results. The new
policy in the agricultural sector and the provision of training by CENTA created the opportunity for other
institutions to increase their participation (both in number and scope) in research and dissemination of
results. The project also financed the purchase of equipment for the production of basic grains and other
construction works.

4.2.13 Extension: The main change was the re-orientation of the methodology to a modified Training and
Visit (T&V) system. During preparation, it was believed that existing productive technologies could be
introduced to farmers without further research, but with a reform in the extension services. The government
piloted the re-oriented extension methodology and found the initial experience satisfactory. Thus it was
decided to extend the change to cover the whole country through 76 extension agencies. As part of this
component, PRISA helped make the delivery of extension services more systematic. A program of farm
visits by extension agents was implemented, regularly once a week, and supplemented by additional plot
visits on demand. Frequent and programmed field demonstrations were conducted. A mechanism was
established by which farmers could participate in choosing their priorities and indicate their preferences. A
unique and innovative computer-based farm management system was introduced at the field level. All
these achievements were taken to redress the weaknesses observed before PRISA was launched, and were
expected to help improve the productivity of El Salvadorian agriculture.

4.2.14 The project mid-term evaluation introduced new recommendations to this sub-component. Taking
these into consideration, CENTA, through PRISA, implemented a set of pilot activities.             The most
noteworthy one aimed to help farmers market their produce, through the involvement of all potential
partners; including input suppliers, processors, marketers, and farmers' associations. The traditional
service coverage of technology generation and transfer was extended to the full chain of agro-productive
and agro-industrial activities. This pilot was carried out in one region, the Alto Lempa. It generated a
value-added of US$450,000 for an investment of US$50,000. This pilot helped demonstrate to MAG for
the need to support farmers processing and marketing.       This type of support is now included in MAG's
strategic support to farmers.

4.2.15 Research and extension component: The economic analysis for this component shows a profitable
rate of return (see annex 3). Although this component was expected to be the major activity of the project,
accounting for 70.4 percent of total estimated costs during appraisal, only 41 percent of the appraisal
estimate earmarked for executing this component was utilized. This was due in part to the readiness of
other donors to finance needed activities in the agricultural sector. It was also due to the somewhat
optimistic targets in the original component.

4.2.16 Throughout the project, there were other implementation hurdles, as well. The cooperation between
MAG's Project Coordination Office (OCP) and CENTA's management was less than ideal. This made it
difficult to use allocated funds in a timely way. The allocation of counterpart funding was less than
expected, impeding more efficient use of loan proceeds. There were frequent and unwarranted changes in


                                                    - 15 -

CENTA's directors and management. These contributed to frequent changes in CENTA's priorities, and
consequently in loss of focus, which required time to bring implementation back on course.

4.2.17 During the preparation of this ICR, a Bank mission had an opportunity to discuss these matters with
some of CENTA's ex-directors. What came out clearly was how much the priorities of the various
ex-directors of CENTA differed not only among themselves but also with the objectives of PRISA. When
other sources of finance were available to CENTA and when MAG did not enforce project priorities (due
to frequent changes in MAG's ministerial position ), CENTA was reluctant to follow the Bank's advice
and operational procedures. This was especially the case because it was CENTA's first experience
working with the Bank. Moreover, the slower-than-anticipated internal re-organization of CENTA has
contributed to the slow start in the implementation of this component. This afflicted the project throughout
the implementation of this component.

4.2.18 A post-T&V study carried out by the World Bank identified key points for an effective extension
service.18  Long-term financing is needed to cover operational costs. A supportive policy environment
with stable funding for extension should be in place. Macroeconomic policies must be favorable and
agricultural markets and services must be adequate.            A range of public, private, and voluntary
organizations should be available to provide diverse services. Organizational and management systems
must be tailored to the country's specific situation, with the flexibility to respond to changing sector needs.
The appropriate methodologies and technologies to respond are needed. Farmers should participate in
planning, implementing, and evaluating programs. Evaluated by this set of criteria, the extension service
functioning in El Salvador today is an effective system.

4.2.19 Thus the rating for this subcomponent took into account the project's achievements in fulfilling
these criteria for an effective T&V system as well as the improvements observed in modernizing the
underlying institutional arrangements---the main hurdle in improving the efficiency and effectiveness of
research and extension system. The project successfully implemented reform foreseen during preparation.
Most of the physical targets in research and extension have been met. In the light of the
smaller-than-expected amount of resources invested (both by the Bank and by GOES) the achievement of
this component is rated marginally satisfactory.

4.2.20 Due to slow disbursement to this component, the initial appraisal estimate was revised and reduced
by US$12.3 million. However, by the closing of the project, activities financed by PRISA stood at US$15
million: slightly more than half (55 percent)       the revised estimate.       The Bank was aware of this
under-investment and shifted the resources to implementing two new components.

Component 3. Improvement of Land Registry & Cadastre Service: Highly Satisfactory

4.2.21 The SAR mentioned the importance and the need to complete land reform to improve the overall
performance of the agricultural sector. Through a later amendment to the Loan Agreement, this component
was added. This component had three main aims. First, was an updating of the cadastral and area-based
land registry activities in the Department of Sonsonate. Second, was to support land registry activities in
about 100,00 ha in the Department of Sonsonate. Third, was to back a study of the legal and institutional
requirements to combine national registry and cadastre information into single records within Ministry of
Justice. The component was implemented by the National Registry Center (Centro Nacional de Registros,
or CNR) of the Ministry of Justice.

4.2.22 The amendment also specified a list of indicators expected as an output of this component (see table



                                                    - 16 -

2 below). Almost all the activities planned by this component were fully implemented. The main impact
of this component, in the Department of Sonsonate, included an enhanced legal security in land holdings;
improved efficiency in the provision of services, especially certification of registry; improved security in the
registry system; and a more rapid resolution of land-related disputes. The project computerized the
registry and cadastre operation in the region. This was later replicated for the whole country, for both rural
and urban areas. The impact of this component was found to be satisfactory, and a project to cover the
whole country was approved by the Bank (Ln. 3982-ES) in March 1996.

4.2.23 An interesting aspect of the implementation of this component that bodes well for its sustainability is
that it provided all the counterpart funds from its own coffer, through collection of user-fees from its
services. In addition, the government expects and the project unit is also confident that the loan will be
paid back from the user-fees.

Table 2. Implementation and Impact Indicator of Component 3
Targeted during preparation                          Actual result
16 municipalities with updated land registry         16 municipalities updated their land registry
1 institutional study completed                      1 study was completed
Department of registry office established            A new office of department of registry was
                                                     established
16 municipal registry stations established           Except for the municipality of Sonsonate, it was
                                                     determined that the other municipalities are
                                                     small to bring in returns
Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system An M&E system was designed and established.
established

4.2.24 This component was estimated to cost US$5.7 million. However, the amendment did not explicitly
state the level of counterpart fund or the sources. While the project made full use of the initial estimate
made by the amendment, the National Registry Center (CNR), from its source of user-fees, was able to
contribute an additional US$1.4 million. Thus before the component grew to a full-fledged project, a total
of US$7.1 million was spent in implementing this component.

Component 4. Hurricane Mitch and Earthquakes Emergency Works: Highly Satisfactory

4.2.25 The achievement of this component is rated highly satisfactory for several reasons. It had a direct
and positive impact on farmers and the rural population. The sector was able to recover relatively quickly
because of quick interventions to rehabilitate the sector's infrastructure. The strategic choice was made to
include mitigation measures, in addition to rehabilitation and reconstruction works.             Without this
component, the impact of Mitch would have lingered for a longer period. This point was underscored by
different stakeholders during meetings conducted with the ICR mission and consultation done as part of the
preparation of Borrower's final report.

4.2.26 Through two amendments to the Loan Agreement, the project provided a vehicle for the GOES to
address the reconstruction of agricultural infrastructure damaged by Hurricane Mitch and the earthquakes.
In the final phase of the project, the project activities mainly focused on the execution of this component.
Tasks accomplished through this component included the following (for more detail, see annex 1):

(i)      26,095 animals were treated as part of activities to control or prevent animal and plant disease;




                                                     - 17 -

(ii)    30,648 families benefited from restocking of animal and plant varieties in areas affected by
        Hurricane Mitch;

(iii)   19 small irrigation rehabilitation works were carried out;

(iv)    38.4 kms of drainage and flood control construction works were completed;

(v)     Fishing gear and equipment for 600 small (artisanal) fisheries were rehabilitated;

(vi)    One million fish hatches were distributed as part of an effort to restock small-scale fishponds.

4.2.27 With the inclusion of urban centers as eligible categories for financing, the Fourth Amendment
included the following activities, as part of this component:

(i)     Rehabilitation and/or reconstruction of MAG and CENTA's damaged buildings (this was fully
implemented, and in addition, 6 CENTA field offices and 13 extension agencies were rehabilitated);

(ii)    Rehabilitation, reconstruction, and/or construction of the rural productive         infrastructure for
community use (7 sub-projects were implemented to repair small irrigation schemes, which benefited 858
families; 21 communal agro-productive activities were executed, which benefited more than 27,000
people in rural areas).

4.2.28 The amendment of the loan to carry out these emergency works was instrumental in the agricultural
sector's quick recuperation from the devastation brought by natural disasters. In the rehabilitation in the
aftermath of Mitch, some 80,000 families are estimated to have benefited. In earthquake rehabilitation
work, some 27,000 to 30,000 families are believed to have benefited directly. The main beneficiaries (an
estimated 100,752 people) were farmers and rural dwellers. The re-opening of rural roads and bridges, and
the construction of dikes and flood protection structures, are believed to have benefited a large number of
the population indirectly. These works also improved access to agricultural and livestock production areas.
During the ICR mission, it was observed that the construction of dikes and flood controlling structures have
brought a large portion of land under agriculture which had been abandoned earlier because of it
vulnerability to floods. As a result, farmers of those lands have seen the value of their property increase
substantially.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 The SAR did not attempt to calculate an economic rate of return for either the whole project or the
individual components.     The ex post economic and financial evaluation of the project as a whole
encountered several problems. The main impact of the project ­ institutional reform ­ was not amenable to
such analysis. There were several other financers in the agriculture sector, which made it difficult to
separate the individual impact of each financer. The information available was not reliable and adequate to
conduct a countrywide representative analysis. There was an observed shift in production pattern of
farmers from basic grains to high value crops. This change was not systematically captured by the
monitoring and evaluation activities of the project.

4.3.2 Given these bottlenecks, attempts were made to carry out a separate economic analysis for the
Research and Extension (R&E) component. Again, there was no acceptable complete set of information to
conduct such an analysis at national level. Therefore, a representative area was chosen in which the loan
proceeds financed the implementation of the R&E component. Here again, the analysis was reduced to
covering only basic grains, for which a reasonable amount of information was available.



                                                     - 18 -

4.3.3 This more limited approach did not quantify several benefits:

(i)      Gains from other types of crops.             Typically, these were fruits and vegetables and
agro-industrial products, whose total production has increased significantly. (For instance, in Region I
alone between 1999 and 2002, production of chili increased by 166 percent in volume, and cucumber
production increased 747 percent);   19




(ii)     Environmental benefits; micro-forestation and wood availability and time reduced in the collection
of wood for home energy use;

(iii)    Increased capacity of farmers;

(iv)     Reduced erosion;

(v)      Demonstration effect of the use of improved seeds and new technology and its propagation to
non-participating farmers;

(vi)     The cultural shift observed, as expressed in the enhanced confidence of farmers in setting
priorities and stating their preferences and in some cases the willingness to pay for extension services;

(vii)    Improved food security, nutrition, and health, as a result of increased production and product
diversification; and

(viii)   Increased involvement of farmers' children in schools.

4.3.4 Obviously, the exclusion of the above factors greatly underestimates the impact of the project. With
this caveat, the internal economic rate of return at project closing for the R&E is estimated to range
between 6 and 16 percent under different set of assumptions. Details of the calculation, the methodology
followed, and the basic assumptions used are presented in annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1 In the face of the difficulties this project encountered in implementation (natural disasters and other
hurdles) and even though the overall areas dedicated to basic grains decreased, the project succeeded in
raising the income level of both types of farmers: those covered by the project and the non-participating
farmers in the Technical Assistance program. The average farm size dedicated to basic grains was reduced
by 19 percent in 2000, compared to its 1995 level, but gross income from basic grain alone increased by
175 percent for the same period. This achievement, in spite of a fall in prices during the same period,
demonstrates that the boost in income might mainly be attributable to improvements in productivity and
marketing. In 1997 alone, just before the occurrence of Hurricane Mitch and after only three years of
project implementation, income increased by 279 percent. Moreover, the beneficiaries revealed a high
degree of satisfaction with the R&E activity, as described in the survey results in annex 3.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial

4.5.1 The most important---and irreversible---outcome of this project was the impact on institutional
development. Today, in MAG, El Salvador has a modern, well-focused institution, in place of a centralized
and bureaucratic institution that intervened extensively in the operation of the sector and its markets.



                                                     - 19 -

PRISA successfully supported the implementation of the agricultural-related parts of the Government's
National Reconstruction Plan, through a prioritization of reforms and sequencing.            The role of the
Government in the sector has been reduced to provision of TA and services, coordination of
agricultural-related support in the rural areas, and assisting farmers' efforts in improving their agricultural
practice.

4.5.2 Commensurate with its new reduced role, MAG has reduced the number of staff. The institution has
also demonstrated its capability to adapt to changing circumstances, both at the national and international
level. At the national level, there is a full understanding of the need to move to high value products and
increase the value added of agricultural products at the farm level. The Bank mission visited a local nut
processing and direct exporting agri-business facilitated by MAG and implemented with financial support
from the European Union. Agri-business enterprises like this, as well as the marketing of agricultural
products along the lines piloted by this project, improved income of farmers, created employment
opportunity and most importantly produced confidence in farmers' own ability to improve their living
standard, if given the right support. Visits to farmers' plots demonstrated their assertiveness in their choice
and willingness to assume and share the cost of ventures that will increase the value added of their product
and improve access of their product to market.

4.5.3 As mentioned, El Salvador is ranked as one of the freest economies in the world and the freest in
Latin America. MAG was a pioneer both in liberalizing the agricultural sector and modernizing the state.
                20


For all practical purposes, MAG neither controls pricing nor foreign trade of agricultural goods. Most
government ministries relied on MAG's advice in their efforts to liberalize their respective sectors and
rationalize their staff. PRISA was instrumental in incrementally implementing a change in line with the
market-led approach to agricultural sector growth. Although there were times when reforming MAG was
not proceeding at the required pace, because of changes in government or ministers, MAG nevertheless met
its goals and did not renege on the reforms. These changes are rooted in legal foundations. Moreover, the
stated goal of successive governments has been to support a liberalized economy. These underpinnings
give assurance that the achievements are irreversible. There is no reason to suspect that the Ministry will
revert to the old system.

4.5.4 In the case of CENTA, PRISA was able to help set up and implement a functioning institutional
arrangement for the provision of agricultural research and extension in El Salvador. The main achievement,
in addition to turning CENTA into an autonomous organization, was the consolidation of research and
extension activities under one umbrella. In most Latin American countries, research and extension fall
under different institutions. Due to its relatively small size, it was believed that El Salvador did not need
two separate institutions. Moreover, past experience had shown that it was difficult to harmonize tasks, set
common priorities and coordinate        provision of services when the two institutions were functioning
separately and independently. El Salvador had experienced both types of arrangements during the
pre-PRISA period.        After extensive local consultations, and taking into account other countries'
experience, it was decided to combine the two activities. This new institutional arrangement is functioning
well and has delivered the outcome expected of CENTA. In addition, discussions with MAG officials
revealed that there is no intention of going back to the old arrangements and re-living the old problems.

4.5.5 At the local level, Neighborhood Producers Groups (Circulo Vecinal de Productores, or CVPs) have
become assertive of their priorities and are participating actively in decisions related to provision of
sevices. For instance, in some localities recently, the CVPs requested to change the frequency of field visits
carried out by an extension agent from once a week to once every two weeks. This request was the result
of self-appraisal of their need and the conclusion they reached on their own. Some have taken over the



                                                     - 20 -

management and production and dissemination of seeds, charging fees for such services. Others have
requested changes in      technical assistance toward high value crops, installation and management of
micro-irrigation schemes and artisanal fisheries, or in general toward diversification of their agricultural
products and further enhancements of productivity. This is a huge progress when compared with the
period immediately after the civil war, when the need was for land tenure security and self-sufficiency in
food production. As described above, the demonstration effect of managing their financial resources and
nurseries---and above all, the belief that through their organization they can process their products for
exporting directly to foreign market---testifies to the diversified impact this project had at local level. The
confidence of farmers is also demonstrated in their demand for credit, in contrast to requests for subsidies
during earlier times.

4.5.6 Today, there are diverse sets of institutions, both national and international, involved in agricultural
research and provision of technical assistance. This not only provides alternatives to farmers; it has also
introduced competition, which is believed to have been a catalyst for CENTA's continual updating of
priorities. Since research in El Salvador is almost totally adaptive, it did not escape CENTA's attention
that it does not have a monopoly of agricultural knowledge. Thus it reformed itself and limited its
activities and roles to facilitator, regulator, and provider of information and supporting services. In this
way, it positioned itself in a newly opened "market" for agricultural research, and carved out a niche for
itself against competitors---NGOs and other institutions operating in the area.

4.5.7 Finally, as discussed, the information system established by this project has revolutionarized the way
MAG operates and has qualitatively improved the institution's vision about the way the sector should
operate in the future. Using this information sytem, MAG has also started collecting fees for some of the
information it provides, such as information on agricultural products prices. There has been a tangible
difference both organizationally and in the rule-of-the-game, which was made posible through the support
provided by PRISA. While other donors may have contributed to the research and extension activities, the
Bank was intrumental in the institutional change achieved.

4.5.8 In summary, the following activities had an important institutional impact:

(i)      Realignment of human resources to fit the new role of the institutions;

(ii)     Conducting of studies on ways to transform the sector, in such areas as agro-business and the
drafting of laws, that were instrumental in crafting new strategies for the sector and defining its role;

(iii)    Transformation of MAG's role into a normative and service provider;

(iv)     Promotion and strengthening of producers group for receiving extension services and establishing
their priorities and preferences;

(v)      Abolition of parastral organizations

(vi)     An increase in the role of the private sector and private investment ;

(vii)    The re-organization of CENTA as an autonomous institution;

(viii)   The emergence of private and other types of organizations in research and extension; and

(ix)     The adoption of information technology as the main tool for providing information.


                                                     - 21 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 The single most important factor that had a major impact on this project was Hurricane Mitch, which
had a devastating impact on the agriculture sector. Farm fields were washed out, floods inundated farmers'
dwellings, and most importantly agricultural infrastructure (such as irrigation canals) and supporting
infrastructure (such as rural roads and bridges) were destroyed. Additional natural disasters that left their
mark on the agricultural sector were droughts and the two major earthquakes in 2001.

5.1.2 The impact of emigration and transfer payments from relatives who live abroad has affected the level
of efforts that farmers assign to their plots. It is estimated that one-fifth of the population lives outside the
country, mainly in the United States. An interview by the Bank mission during a field visit is revealing in
this respect. A farmer who used to participate in CENTA's T&V program told the Bank that once he
started receiving enough transfer payments from his son, who lives in the United States, he saw no reason
why he should work hard to improve his agricultural system. As a result, he occasionally left his land
fallow. There are several such cases wherein farmers become more dependent on remittances than income
from agriculture, reducing farming activities to secondary importance.

5.1.3 In addition to major factors like these, to a small extent the unfamiliarity of MAG with Bank
procedures may have contributed to the slow momentum observed in project execution. PRISA was the
first Bank project executed by MAG.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 The major factor that had a bearing on the implementation of this project was changes in ministers of
MAG and directors of CENTA. During the life of the project, there were five changes in ministers in
MAG and five changes in directors in CENTA. In addition to these changes, the priority and importance
given to the agricultural sector changed more than once during project life. This proved to be especially
disruptive initially,  when the change in government occurred immediately after the project became
effective.

5.2.2 The government could have also implemented the agreements reached during the various Bank
missions. It should have enforced cooperation between CENTA and the OCP to make project
implementation smoother and more effective. In spite of the Bank's recurrent requests, no concrete
measure was forthcoming from MAG in managing this relationship.                   This proved to be a serious
impediment for implementing the project on the agreed-upon time schedule. In addition, more than a year
elapsed between Board approval and effectiveness because of the government's reluctance to fulfill
agreed-upon effectiveness conditions. However, to be fair to the Borrower, the Bank could have reduced
the number of effectiveness and disbursement conditions. On the other hand, this step could have extended
the project preparation period, and possibly dissatisfied the Borrower, who by that time had decided to
carry out a series of rapid interventions in the agricultural sector.

5.2.3 In addition, the government failed almost regularly to fulfill its commitment in the provision of timely
and sufficient counterpart funding. This impeded the rate and speed at which disbursement out of the loan
proceeds were made.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 The concern about of lack of cooperation applies equally to the OCP and CENTA. However, as
ex-directors of CENTA revealed in discussions with Bank mission, they had a separate set of priorities and
goals that frequently differed from PRISA's stated objectives. Also, the OCP did not have the legal tools


                                                        - 22 -

or mandate to enforce the project on CENTA. Although this has been the characteristic feature of the
relationship for the good part of project implementation period, recently coordination has improved, due to
efforts of the existing Minster of Agriculture and the Director of CENTA.

5.3.2 During most of the project life, OCP tried to handle all bidding process' and documents in a
centralized manner. However, it soon realized it could not handle every procedure and decentralized this
process at the sub-projects level. To a large extent, the OCP staff was stable, so institutional memory was
well maintained.

5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1 The financing of this project started in 1991. In May 1991, a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for
US$1.5 million was approved by the Bank to finance project preparation and initiation of training of local
staff activities that could not be financed by other sources. In addition, the United National Development
Program (UNDP) made available pre-financing and facilitated procurement and contracting processes,
subject to reimbursement from PPF proceeds. The project also benefited from a Japanese Trust Fund grant
(Yen 69,300,000).

5.4.2 Disbursement: The project finally disbursed almost all the proceeds from the loan (99.86 percent of
the loan amount of US$40 million). The project was fraught with lags in disbursements. On several
occasions, the Bank expressed its concern about the low level of disbursement to the Government.        21  The
Bank revised disbursement estimates as early as 1995. Nevertheless, the Bank did not consider reducing
the loan amount, for a variety of reasons, including GOES' systematic renewal of its commitment to
agreed-upon implementation schedule and plans. In the latter part of the project period, disbursement
improved significantly, especially in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch, and because of the active support of
the Minister of Agriculture (who was Director of OCP for the good part of project implementation period).


5.4.3 Throughout the project implementation period, the total project cost that had been estimated during
appraisal was maintained.. The recent estimate of actual project cost stood at US$48.53 million (86
percent of appraisal estimate). Since almost all the proceeds of the loan were disbursed, the remaining
amount constitutes counterpart funding.        Out of a commitment of US$16.5 million            made by the
government during appraisal, US$8.9 million (54 percent) was realized. Given the economic hardship and
natural disasters that El Salvador experienced, this level of contribution is acceptable. In addition, the
project lacked a mechanism to systematically account for the investment made by farmers in adapting new
technologies and improving their farming method, especially the investments made in reconstruction
activity, both in cash and in kind. It is evident from visits to project areas that farmers have made relatively
large investments in their farms and land, including improvement in their dwellings. Therefore, although
the government contribution was lower than anticipated, given the amount of investment made by farmers
but unaccounted for by the project, the counterpart contribution was satisfactory.




                                                     - 23 -

Table 3. Cost by Components, Appraisal Estimate, Actual Estimate, and Ratings
Component                            Appraisal    Restructured     Actual/Latest       Actual/           Ratings
                                     estimate*    estimate*        estimate*           Restructured
                                                  (4th                                 (%)
                                                  amendment)
Reform       and     Institutional   16.7         16.7             15.29               92                S
Development
Agricultural      Research      and39.8           27.46            15.03               55                S
Extension
Improvement of Land Registry                      5.74             7.16                125               HS
& Cadastre Service
Hurricane         Mitch         and               6.60             11.05               103               HS
Earthquakes Emergency Works
Total                                56.50        56.50            48.53               86
* Cost figures are in US$ million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Highly Likely
6.1.1 Institutional reforms carried as part of PRISA are already integrated into the functions of both
CENTA and MAG. Thus the sustainability of the reforms seems highly likely. As a result of privatization
and reforms, a conducive environment for private investment has been created. This has been further
strengthened through land registry. Registration has enhanced the security of private property, propelling
private investment to improve individual plots.         The institutional changes are embodied in a legal
foundation, which will contribute to sustainability. MAG also has internalized the system of out-sourcing
for activities better performed by the private sector. A shift in organizational culture has taken root in the
Ministry. Public employment is no longer viewed as coming with a life-long guarantee. This has improved
the efficiency and accountability of the staff. Some of the services MAG provides are demand-driven,
including import licensing, enhancing competitiveness, technological transfer, support in access to market,
and provision of information on markets and prices. The demand-driven character of these services ensures
that the gains will be sustainable.

6.1.2 The government passed a law that made CENTA autonomous institution. This has kept political
interference in its operation at bay and has given it a mandate to set priorities based on government policies
and assessment of developments in the agricultural sector. PRISA improved the capacity of the institution
by deploying information system, training its staff, improving laboratories and libraries, and rehabilitating
its main and regional offices. According to MAG's report of October 2002, which spells out CENTA's
renewed vision (una visión renovada), operational strategy will be oriented to cater to different clients,
with strategy appropriate to each group's needs.   22  The document also states the changed priorities in El
Salvador's agriculture, which played a catalytic role in changing CENTA priorities. CENTA is moving
toward a more decentralized, efficient, self-sufficient, and self-managed system. This new change testifies
to the institutional dynamism created in CENTA to adapt to changing priorities and circumstances.

6.1.3 The number of players in R&E in El Salvador has diversified and increased. This has introduced
competition and complimentarity among these institutions. In some regions, more than half (up to 54
percent) the producers who were benefiting from CENTA's Technical Assistance were also receiving
services from other institutions. 23 They not only compete for clients (farmers) but also for financing, which



                                                     - 24 -

forces each participating institution to carve out its own comparative advantage in the provision of these
services.    In some areas (such as running nurseries or processing goods for export), farmers have
demonstrated their interest and readiness to undertake some of these activities. Farmers were also willing
to invest in improving their individual plots, thanks to the introduction of new technologies that diversified
their production and raised their productivity and income. As the income level of farmers increases, their
ability to invest in new technology is expected to be enhanced, thus creating a dynamism in the system that
will guarantee the sustainability of future changes.

6.1.4 From the technical perspective, agricultural research in El Salvador is almost exclusively adaptive.
Thus research's main purpose is adopting imported technology to the country's condition after extensive
field trials. Therefore, the technical soundness and sustainability of new adapted technologies in the case
of El Salvador is a non-issue. Farmers are trained in technologies introduced to their farming system and
these technologies are environmentally sound, practical, and not too sophisticated. Consider the case of the
micro-drip irrigation system. This system is powered by a machine that weighs less than 10 kilos and uses
water as an energy source. The system is fully operated and maintained by farmers. Technologies like this
are not only appropriate; farmers have been trained to use them and have taken over the responsibility of
carrying out the operation and maintenance.

6.1.5 Often sustainability is jeopardized because of lack of financing for activities that become operational
after the project has closed. In the case of CENTA, both research and extension services are continuous
and the institution has enough resources to continue its activities, both from the government and
international donors. A Bank mission requested both MAG and CENTA to prepare a document that
describes how the government plans to continue the operations started with PRISA. Both institutions
prepared a document outlining active projects by financiers, as well as those in the pipeline. Review of the
documents revealed that most of the activities started by the project would continue.

6.1.6 In rehabilitation and reconstruction work, the project unit entered into an agreement (convenio) with
beneficiary communities to finance the future maintenance of the infrastructures rehabilitated and built as
part of the reconstruction measure. In addition to this binding agreement, farmers have an incentive to
maintain these works since some of rehabilitation works (such as the construction of dikes) has raised the
value of their land. In other cases, such as irrigation canals, it is in the interest of farmers to ensure the
maintenance and operation of their system over the longer term. This has been demonstrated not only by
this project but with other Bank-financed projects in irrigation rehabilitations.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 Both MAG and CENTA are responsible and have the mandate for modernizing, improving, and
developing an efficient functioning agricultural sector, as well as supporting farmers. These activities are
an integral part of their regular operations. Thus there is no need for special transitional arrangements.
PRISA has supported both institutions in modernizing their offices, training their staff, and changing the
rules of the game. Both institutions have the software and hardware deployed for fulfilling their mandate. In
addition, the government has been able to provide both institutions with the necessary budget. Moreover, to
a large extent these institutions are beneficiaries of international loans and donations. Therefore there is no
need for new fiscal arrangements to continue the sustainability of operations.




                                                      - 25 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Marginally Satisfactory

7.1.1 As described in section 3.5 above, the project preparation included other donors who were operating
in the sector and carved out areas where each will be involved; considered lessons learned from previous
projects financed by other donors; brought in international consultants to help the government in crafting a
strategy for the sector; and set in motion preparatory works and insisted on some conditions for
negotiations, effectiveness, and disbursement.     The SAR also included impact indicators and output
indicators. Given that the Logical Framework was not streamlined to project preparation during the
preparation of this project, this was a commendable effort.

7.1.2 However, the Bank failed to internalize lessons learned from other projects implemented in the
agricultural sector. Experience from IDB projects showed poor disbursement as a major risk facing
projects in the agricultural sector. This became evident during the implementation of this project. Given the
time taken to disburse the loan and considering that two new components were added to the project, the
appraisal may have overestimated local needs and implementation capacity, and consequently, the loan
amount and its implementation pace. In retrospect, in a country that lacks experience with Bank projects,
the number of conditions put in place might have contributed to delays in effectiveness and later in
disbursement. Lack of experience with Bank, coupled with the relative complexity of the project and the
magnitude of its main component, might have contributed to the loss of interest by the borrower to work
with the Bank. The impact indicators were output or process indicators and did not reflect the project's
overall impact. However, it must be said that the effort itself was courageous.

7.1.3 The project later successfully included the land registry component and also tried and failed to add a
rural finance component. However, it is the conclusion of this ICR that the project should have been
proceeded by a TA project---or at minimum, the size of the main component (the one dealing with CENTA)
should have been reduced in size. Once a TA project has been implemented, the project could have been
followed by a second full-fledged investment loan. That is to say, the Bank could have better sequenced its
intervention in the sector. At the center of El Salvadorian agriculture there have been institutional
impediments in modernizing and strengthening the sector, as well as a lack of clearly defined support
operations and development objectives (see discussion, sections 3.1.1 to 3.1.12).         Once institutional
reforms had been carried out and staff had been trained (to create a critical mass that will be champions of
the new methodology), the implementation of R&E could have been followed by an investment project.

7.1.4. The main weakness of the project was that while more than 70 percent of the project cost was
earmarked to CENTA; implementation was coordinated and managed by OCP. This created a conflict and
resulted in a lower level of implementation by CENTA. The project probably should have opted for two
units. In fact, the absence of an accountable unit in CENTA for implementation of the project was one
cause for the delay in commencement of the execution of the R&E component. The creation of an
independent implementation unit for the land registry component and its successful implementation attest
to this.

7.2 Supervision:
Marginally Satisfactory

7.2.1 On balance the Bank supervision was systematic, creative, and problem solving.             Supervision



                                                    - 26 -

missions added new indicators when amendments to the loan were made. The Bank missions were also
instrumental in providing continuous implementation and long-term planning guidance, in training staff in
Bank procedures, and in including new components that had an impact in improving the performance of the
agriculture sector. The inclusion of two additional components and the extension of the closing date were
instrumental in the full utilization of the loan proceeds.

The Bank supervision also pushed for changes in priorities in R&E, especially to diversify products, since
it was found difficult to improve the living condition of small farmers with farms dedicated only to basic
grains (see Aide Memoire covering the January 25-28, 2000 mission). Supervision missions spent a good
deal of time visiting farm areas and reviewing progress first-hand, discussing the progress of the project
implementation with farmers, and gathering their perceptions. It was through the insistence of the Bank
that extension agents started spending more time at farm levels than in CENTA offices and that CENTA
improved its coordination with other institutions that are active in the provision of technical assistance to
farmers. Missions were detailed enough that they identified inconsistencies in reporting of achievements
and coverage of extension services (see Aide Memoire of April 6-15, 1999). The Bank supervision
missions' reports were detailed and highlighted problems in project execution and recommended solutions
to improve project implementation. When project implementation was not proceeding as planned and it
seemed that achievement of the Development Objective was being compromised, the Bank downgraded the
respective ratings to unsatisfactory (see annex 4, ratings for 1997 and 1998).

7.2.2 However, there were some tangible weaknesses in supervision. Some supervision missions identified
lack of credible and representative impact indicators; however, not enough follow-up was done to effect
their change. In the face of poor disbursement and knowing that CENTA was tapping resources from other
financers, the Bank supervision should have shown a resolve to restructure the project and reduce the loan
amount. It took three extensions of the closing date and two additional components to disburse the loan
amount.      Also, the project suffered from lack of close management follow-up, which could have been
instrumental in at least reducing the loan amount.

7.2.3 The preparation of this ICR considered and questioned whether the project development objectives
(PDO) should have been revised to reflect the outputs from the land registry and emergency works
components. However, close scrutiny revealed that in the final analysis, the outcome from these two
additional components supported the effort to improve the productivity of farmers and strengthen El
Salvador's agriculture sector. Productivity was enhanced by agricultural infrastructure, in the case of
emergency works, and land tenure security in the case of land registry, which gave farmers incentive to
improve their plot and adopt environmentally sustainable farming techniques, such as micro-forestation.
Thus it is the conclusion of this ICR that the additional components served the PDOs identified during
appraisal well.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Marginally Satisfactory

7.3.1 The Bank's overall performance is rated marginally satisfactory. Bank management was aware of
poor loan disbursement. The Bank should have given less weight to consideration of GOES' internal
difficulties and/or commitments, and should have more decisively considered revising the loan amount
downward. Lack of continuity in Bank's task management (there were five task managers during project
life) might also have impacted the continuity of the project supervision team and mission members.

7.3.2 When the country was hit by successive natural disasters and quick disbursement was necessary to
intervene immediately, especially to prevent and control animal diseases, the Bank eased its procurement



                                                      - 27 -

procedures. That was an appropriate and timely response, which helped the government respond quickly to
the disaster and revitalize the agricultural sector.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory

7.4.1 GOES repeatedly demonstrated its commitment to modernizing the agricultural sector and improving
the productivity of small and medium farms. It sponsored studies and sought international advice. The
government passed laws and regulations that were supposed to guarantee the smooth start-up of the project.
The government made a hard political decision and followed through with reducing the size of MAG's
staff. Discussion with the ex-Minister of MAG responsible for preparation of the project revealed the
government's eagerness and effort to look for a working formula to modernize and transform the
agricultural sector. Thus the borrower's performance in project preparation is assessed as satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Marginally Satisfactory

7.5.1 The government's implementation performance is mixed. The administration that prepared the
project with a high level of commitment left office in the early stages of the implementation of the project.
The incoming administration did not demonstrate that this project was a priority. Important time was lost in
re-establishing the commitment of the Borrower. This reduced the pace of project execution. There were
frequent changes in Ministers of MAG­--five changes, in all---which had a bearing on execution of project
activities.

7.5.2 On the positive side, most of the laws and regulations proposed for reforming the sector were passed
by the Congress. Amendments to the Loan Agreement were made in response to the government's request.
The Borrower's request for an extension of the closing date was instrumental in the full disbursement of the
Loan amount. It was through the government's request that new components were added. The government
played a major role in piloting the land registry component, from requesting assistance for implementing the
component to passage of law and approval by the Legislative Assembly. It was also due to the government
involvement in the sector that the small pilot land registry component was developed into a full sectoral
loan to benefit the whole country. In addition, the government did a remarkable job in implementing the
Hurricane Mitch and Earthquakes Emergency rehabilitation works component. Recently the government, in
the person of the Minister of MAG, reaffirmed its commitment to the project.

7.5.3 However, the government reacted neither sufficiently nor decisively when the Bank expressed its
concern about the poor coordination between the OCP and CENTA and the weak performance of loan
disbursement, especially low level usage of funds earmarked for the R&E component. This situation was
exacerbated by infusions of untimely and---at times, insufficient---counterpart funds. Also, the government
was responsible for the frequent changes in the directors of CENTA, a fact that frequently disrupted
implementation.

7.5.4 Thus on balance, the government implementation performance is rated marginally satisfactory.




                                                     - 28 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory

7.6.1 The implementing agency, (the Project Coordination Office, or OCP), is a unit within MAG
responsible for coordinating projects financed by international donors. PRISA is one of the projects for
which this unit is responsible. This has been beneficial for PRISA, in that OCP was able to establish
synergy among projects and use lessons learned in other projects. OCP implemented recommendations
made to it by Bank missions and improved its capacity and understanding of Bank procedure within a
relatively short period of time. OCP, for the most part, was a coordinator, since other components were
executed outside MAG. However, with the inclusion of Hurricane Mitch and Earthquakes Emergency
works, OCP directly executed this component and did an adequate job. It was also instrumental in seeking
the amendment of the loan and the extension of the closing date of the project. There was a need for the
project unit to adjust to new additions to the project, especially executing the Hurricane Mitch and
Earthquakes Emergency works component. The unit familiarized itself to this new responsibility
remarkably. The unit handled the coordination of the different components of the project, the preparation
of reports and processing of contracts, and the coordination of Bank mission programs extremely well.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory

7.7.1 The Borrower commitment to reform was unwavering. If there was any concern, it was only the
speed at which the reforms were carried and their timing. This did not affect the final outcome of the
modernization of the sector and thus the Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The project yielded a number of lessons of relevance to future projects in El Salvador and elsewhere.

8.1 Institutional reforms are more successful when there is unwavering commitment from the government
for a sustained period of time and reforms are done incrementally and in sequence. The success of
reforms in El Salvador's agricultural sector were, to a large extent, the result of commitment of consecutive
administrations to liberalizing the economy.

8.2 Priorities in agricultural Research & Extension are dynamic. They change in response to local,
national, and international conditions and requirements. Thus it is critical to have a system embodied in
project design that will take these changes into consideration and adjust focus and priorities accordingly.
Initially, the government correctly identified basic grains as priorities, given the need to ensure food
self-sufficiency and support small farmers whose production was predominately in basic grains. This was
particularly important because the project was implemented immediately after the end of the civil war.
When circumstances changed, the project responded rightly---particularly when it was realized that
improving the living standard of farmers through the production of basic grains was unattainable and most
importantly, when farmers demonstrated their interest in diversifying their production to higher value crops.


8.3 In many cases, institutional reforms are better handled as a technical assistance activity or a
stand-alone project separate from sectoral investments. PRISA was expected to implement institutional
reforms and at the same time execute sectoral investment. This was a tall order for a small country that
had no experience in Bank procedures and that was required to act with the readily availability mix of
specialization. In this case, the project might have been better designed as two inter-related and successive



                                                    - 29 -

stages. The first would have mainly dealt with the implementation of institutional reforms and the initiation
and field-testing of innovative interventions.     The second stage would have mainly dealt with the
implementation of investments in the agricultural sector. The two stages could have been planned to have
an implementation period of eight to ten years.         Implementing institutional reforms and investment
programs simultaneously might impede sequencing of reforms, which should be at the heart of a lasting and
sustainable institutional reform.

8.4 Due consideration should be given to other financers in the sector. In such circumstances, areas of
intervention should be clearly defined, either geographically or by task. This could prevent overlap and
avoid driving down standards. The presence of other financers independent of the Bank, who were acting
in the same area but with less rigorous procedures in the allocation of funds and supervision over their
disbursement, might have limited the full use of the loan. It may also have contributed to the demonstrated
reluctance of some of CENTA's directors to implement the project per agreed conditions, costs, and
schedule.

8.5 When substantial lag in disbursement is observed, the Bank should not only revise disbursement
estimates but should seriously consider reducing the loan amount. Although the Bank revised the
disbursement estimate, it failed to consider, decisively, the cancellation of some portion of the loan. Such
an action would have reduced the need for extension of the closing date and would have sent a strong
signal to the Government of the Bank's discontent with the momentum of project execution and the
lingering period of implementation.

8.6 Project design should make a complete assessment of local capacity to implement project activities
and process Bank requirements. Such an assessment will facilitate the provision of the training necessary
to fill the gap in knowledge and ensure a smooth start to implementation. This project provided such
training during preparation, financed by the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). This was instrumental in
bringing the Project Coordination Office (OCP) up to speed and on par with Bank requirements.

8.7 Institutional arrangements in implementation are a key factor, and arguably the most important
factor in determining the successful implementation of a project. In deciding upon such institutional
arrangements, sufficient attention must be given to arrangements meant to facilitate the use of the loan by
the main executing agency--- especially when an autonomous institution implements the component. The
executing agency, which has the lion's share of the project funding, should be more autonomous in the use
of funds, or alternatively should be more intensively involved in the management of the project
implementation unit. In the case of PRISA, the creation of an OCP Management Board, with the
participation of CENTA's manager, might have resolved the difficult issues of cooperation and
coordination between the two units.

8.8 To guarantee the sustainability of construction and rehabilitation works, it is necessary to enter into
a binding agreement with beneficiaries to finance the future maintenance of the works.

8.9 Training at all levels, especially to extension agents, should be a continuous process rather than a
one-time goal and an end by itself. As the priorities and preferences change and as market conditions
demand a different set of products and activities, it is imperative to provide the necessary tools to improve
the competitiveness of farmers and the capacity of all functionaries in the agricultural sector. To meet these
needs, training must be on-going.

8.10 Impact and output indicators should be revised as project implementation continues and as new
activities are included in the project. The Bank was able to include new indicators as new components


                                                    - 30 -

were added to the project, but did not update original indicators.



9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Refer to Annex 8 for details.

(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no other cofinancers of this project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

No partners.

10. Additional Information

ENDNOTES

1For details, see IEPS, dated Nov. 14, 1990.
2 See Back-to-Office Report (BTO) of December 21, 1990.
3 From a discussion with Mr. Antonio Cabrales, Minster of MAG during the preparation of the project.
4 In fact, adaptive research also entails TA since it has to demonstrate to farmers and disseminate the
adapted technology.
5 The subcomponents allocation does not add up to the total allocation for Component 2 because of
physical and price contingencies.
6 Review of documents in the IRIS system indicate the existence of five amendments. However, only four
of them became effective.
7 See Amendment dated June 30, 1998.
8 Final Executive Project Summary, August 7, 1991, p. 1.
9 The studies are listed in annex IX of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
10OED. 2002. "El Salvador: Country Assistance Evaluation." Report No. 23626.
11OED. 2002.
12This refers to limited activities such as control of hygiene and does not imply that the Ministry is involved
in control of agricultural foreign trade.
13World Bank. 2002. "Rural Extension & Advisory Services: New Directions." Rural Development
Strategy Background Paper #9. Agriculture and Rural Development. page vi.
14 Gerald O'Driscoll, K. Holmes and M. Kirkpatrick. 2001. Index of Economic Freedom. Washington,
Heritage Foundation.
15The World Bank. 2000. "Ex-Ante Economic Analysis in AKIS Projects ­ Methods and Guidelines for
Good Practice." Rural Development Family, Agricultural Knowledge & Information System (AKIS) p. 4.
16Economic theory gave an important consideration to the flow of information for the efficient functioning
of competitive markets. See the literature on asymmetric information theory, for example.
17This was not a co-financing arrangement. Different donors are operating in different parts of the country
in financing the delivery of TA to farmers. Other international donors include GTZ, OAS, the Chinese
mission, and the NGOs Green Project and PASOLAC.
18 World Bank. 2002.. Rural Extension and Advisory Services­New Directions. Agriculture and Rural
Development. p.7.


                                                      - 31 -

19The source of this information is the consultant report contracted to review the two surveys and conduct a
beneficiary survey. Procesamiento de Datos, Analisis y Redaccion del Informe Final al 2002. Informe
Final. Febrero del 2003. OCP ­ MAG.
20Driscoll and others. ibid. 2001.
21For example, see letter of August 1995 written to the Government as a follow-up to the findings of the
June 19-23, 1995 mission.
22Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganadería, Centro Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria y Forestal. 2002.
Lineamientos Técnicos y Operativos para la Transferencia de Tecnología ­ Una vision renovada. El
Salvador. Octobre de 2002.
23See Aide Memoire for the supervision segment of January 25-28, 2000.
24Other regions received support from other entities, including GTZ (German Agency for Technical
Cooperation), OAS (Organization of American States), the Chinese mission, and Green Project.
25A manzana is equivalent to 0.7 hectares.
26Production Cost Elasticity with respect to Production Yields, equal to one.
27Production Cost Elasticity with respect to Production Yields, equal to (0.05) or (5 percent).
28Namely, production cost versus yield elasticity equal to one.
29Report is in the project files.




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

   Annex 1: Selected indicators
 Impact indicators                                                        Baseline  SAR    Actual       Observation
                                                                                  Estimate estimate

 Strategic action completed                                                          27       26
 Number of agencies improved in PRN areas                                            21       21
 Ratio of MAG-technical personnel (1-10)/non-technicalno técnico (11-19)           1.0/1.0 1.0/1.2
 Ratio of CENTA-technical personnel (1-10)/non-technicalno técnico (11-19)         2.5/1    2.0/1
 MAG-salary/total ordinary budget                                                    70       36
 CENTA-salary/total ordinary budget                                                  70       88
 Manuals for better farming                     # of publications
 Basic grains                                                                        18       17
 Livestock/Izalco                                                                    15       16
 Fruits and vegetables/ San Andres                                                   15       26
 Agro-industrial cultivation/ San Andrés Santa Cruz Porrillo                         15       13
 Natural resources/Morazán                                                           14       18
 Change in productivity in extension areas      Units
 Corn/San Andrés                                qq/mz                       36                70
 Tomatoes/SCP                                   qq/mz                      246               500
 Ajonjolí/SCP                                   qq/mz                       14                22
 Farms with agricultural systems                No. parcelas               1472             3987
 Prod. that included conservation of soil       Ha.                       730.41           18935
 technique
 Evaluation and adjustment of norms, structures # of workshops                       4        40
 and procedures


 Output indicators
 Training                                       # of people trained
 Strategic planning                                                                 180      275
 Management                                                                        1260     2047
 Legal                                                                               90       51
 MAG staff                                      # of People                        1486     1224
 CENTA staff                                                                       1341      618
 Research
 Basic grains                                   # of projects                      354 *     367   * modified
 Animal production                                                                 124*       77
 Fruits and vegetables                                                             200*      164
 Agro-industrial production                                                        107*       66
 Natural resources                                                                  71*       46
 Extension
 Farmers per extension agent                    ratio                              286*      202
 Farmers receiving extension service            number                             63000*  53,000  reached as much as
                                                                                                   83,000 in 1998
 Female/Male extension agents                   ratio                                1/7    1/6.7
 Farmers network/ extension agent               ratio                                28       21
 Female producers network/ male producers       ratio                               1/24    1/18
 network




                                                                  - 33 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Reform and institutional development                        16.70           15.29               92
Agricultural research and extension                         39.80           15.03               38
Improvement of land registry & cadastre service                               7.16
Hurricane Mitch and earthquakes emergency works                             11.05
Total Project Costs                                         56.50           48.53               86
Total Financing Required                                    40.00           39.55               99

Total Baseline Cost                                        153.00          136.61
                         Total Project Costs               153.00          136.61
                   Total Financing Required                153.00          136.61


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           4.30             2.60         0.30          0.00         7.20
                                   (3.90)          (2.40)      (0.30)          (0.00)       (6.60)
2. Goods                           11.90            1.50         1.00          0.00         14.40
                                  (10.70)          (1.40)      (0.90)          (0.00)      (13.00)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        14.40          0.00         14.40
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (14.20)         (0.00)      (14.20)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00        13.70          6.80         20.50
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (6.20)          (0.00)       (6.20)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           16.20            4.10        29.40          6.80         56.50
                                  (14.60)          (3.80)      (21.60)         (0.00)      (40.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.42            2.06         2.73           0.00        5.21
                                   (5.23)         (1.72)       (2.93)         (0.00)       (9.88)
2. Goods                           0.34            0.15         1.29           0.00        1.78
                                   (0.31)         (0.13)       (1.15)         (0.00)       (1.60)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00        41.92           0.00        41.92
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (5.85)         (0.00)       (5.85)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00

                                                - 34 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.76               2.21             45.94             0.00             48.91
                                           (5.54)             (1.85)            (9.93)            (0.00)           (17.32)
   This table is derived from SAP ICR Procurement summary report and does not fully reflect the disbursed
   Loan amount. SAP footnoted that (i) figures shown under columns ICB, NCB, and OTHER are financed
   by a Bank loan or credit; (ii) N.B.F. represent non-Bank financing amounts; and (iii) amounts in () are
   disbursed amounts.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Reform and institutional        9.20         7.50                    13.06         2.23                  142.0     29.7
development
Agricultural research and      30.80         9.00                    10.03         5.00                  32.6      55.6
extension
Improvement of land             5.74                                  5.74         1.42                  100.0
registry & cadastre
service*
Hurricane Mitch and             6.60                                 10.72         0.33                  162.4
earthquakes emergeny
works*
TOTAL                          40.00        16.50                    39.55         8.98                  98.9      54.4

   * Both values found in the Appraisal Estimate column for the Bank are Restructure Estimates.




                                                           - 35 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                   Research and Extension Component
                     Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment Program (PRISA)


1.       Introduction

1.1      As part of the reconstruction plan after the civil war, the Government of El Salvador (GoES)
embarked on reforming the agricultural sector to improve the productivity of small and medium farmers.
The implementation period of the Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment Program (PRISA),
undertaken as part of that effort, was almost ten years, counted the time from project effectiveness in April
1994. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not attempt to calculate the economic rate of return for the
whole project or for the individual components. Thus no benchmark was available to compare planned and
actual results. Nevertheless, an ex post quantitative impact evaluation exercise was conducted as part of
the final evaluation of the project. This was aimed at evaluating the economic benefits of the project.
However, some of the activities, such as institutional reform, were not amenable to quantifiable cost-benefit
analysis. Furthermore, scarcity of information limited the scope of the evaluation.

1.2      Research and Extension (R&E) was GOES' main instrument to support small and medium-sized
farmers in improving their productivity and agricultural practices. R&E was the main component of
PRISA, accounting for more than 70 percent of total project costs. Information on project R&E activities
and impact were not readily available to carry out a conventional impact analysis. Given these limitations,
different analyses were undertaken. The first analysis was based on cost-benefit information from project
offices in Region I and occasional reports. The results did not adequately reflect the cost-benefit ratio for
this type of project. The second analysis was based on data from three of the four regions of the country.
The results were inconclusive because of limited and questionable information. The third analysis was
based on information from the National Center for Agricultural Technology (Centro Nacional de
Tecnología Agropecuaria, or CENTA). The results are presented in this annex.

1.3      The analysis was limited to Region I for three reasons. There was more and better quality
information, in terms of such factors as production area, participating farmers, and prices. PRISA fully
financed the R&E component in this region.   24  Results are likely to be representative across regions, since
the same Training and Visit (T&V) methodology was utilized by the project in the various regions of the
country.

2.       Data Sources and Methodology

2.1      In terms of R&E expenditures, accounts and budget reports were thoroughly reviewed at CENTA
headquarters and in Region I offices. From 1994 to 1997, CENTA compiled budget reports by region, and
information on the cost allocated to R&E for Region I was readily available. However from 1998 onward,
costs by region were no longer available. Therefore, cost estimates for Region I from 1998 to 2000 were
based on historical trends. In general, 50 percent of CENTA's budget was allocated to R&E activity, out
of which about one-quarter (22 percent) was earmarked to Region I. However, CENTA executed 60
percent of planned annual budgets, on average. In terms of yields, production costs, and revenues, the main
sources of information were CENTA documents and two surveys carried out in 1999 and 2002. Data
validation workshops were carried out in four localities. CENTA reports from 1994 to 1998 included
production costs and revenues by crop per manzana.    25




                                                    - 36 -

However, the reported data did not properly reflect farmers' tendency to combine crops within their plots.
Information regarding farmers' participation in Groups of Neighboring Producers (Círculos Vecinales de
Productores, or CVP) was obtained through the data validation workshops (mentioned above). On average,
there were 10 producers per CVP.

2.2     In recent years, farmers have increasingly shifted their activity to producing high value crops and
agro-industrial crops. Mixed farming has become increasingly important with the collapse of coffee prices
and the introduction of micro-irrigation schemes. However, reliability of available data limited the analysis
to selected basic grains products: namely, corn, sorghum, beans, and rice. In this regard, it should be noted
that while mixed farming and high value and agro-industrial crops may increase as a results of the
dynamism created by the project, increasing the production of basic grains was the initial objective of the
project.

2.3     The environmental impacts associated with improved soil management, micro-forestation and
improved pest management were not accounted for in the analysis. In practical terms, it is difficult to
measure externalities and fully capture economic, social, and environmental values associated with changes
in technological capital, new farmers' skills, soil fertility, and community empowerment (in terms of T&V
programming and priority setting).

2.4     Based on available information, an R&E cost-benefit analysis was performed. Net Present Value
(NPV) at 12 percent annual discount rate and Internal Rate of Return (IRR) were calculated for
incremental net benefits from 1994 to 2000. The data limitations and analytical choices mentioned above
allow only for a partial impact evaluation. Therefore, the results described below should not be interpreted
as overall impact indicators of the project.

3.      Aggregate Results

3.1     Tables 3.1 through 3.7 show the results of the cost-benefit analysis.        Estimated incremental
benefits are basically increased net revenues resulting from increased yields in basic grains production.
Since baseline or benchmark data were not available, increased yields were estimated by comparing
reported yields of beneficiary farmers in Region I with average yields at national level. Increased yields
were not obtained from comparisons between producers with and without R&E services in the same region,
since there is little information on farmers without R&E services. Furthermore, certain R&E activities,
such as improving institutional R&E knowledge base and extension activities through mass media, benefit
all farmers (that is, impacts cannot be separated).         Estimated incremental costs are basically R&E
investments financed by PRISA and R&E-related CENTA costs, namely salaries, operation expenses, and
transfers.

3.2     Information regarding production cost increases was not available. Thus a sensitivity analysis was
conducted to partially compensate for this limitation. Table 3.1 presents the base case scenario, where
production costs are not affected by yield increases. Table 3.2 presents the most pessimistic scenario,
where production costs increase proportionally with yield increases. Tables 3.3 and 3.4 present the results
                                                                      26


of the sensitivity analysis. The NPV (1994 US$) and IRR of the base-case scenario are almost
US$(190,000) and 6 percent, respectively. The pessimistic scenario would result in NPV of almost
US$(5.2) million. Production cost increases at 50 percent and 25 percent of yield increases would also
result in negative NPV and IRR (see table 3.4). However, production costs may decrease with yield
increases if technology transfers were knowledge-intensive (as opposed to input-intensive). In this context,



                                                     - 37 -

if production costs decrease by 5 percent as a result of a 100 percent yield increase, NPV and IRR would
be almost US$62,400 and 14 percent, respectively (see table 3.4).       27 If production cost decrease by 10
percent due to a one-fold yield increase, NPV and IRR would be almost US$313,000 and 25 percent.

3.3     Since this analysis included costs and benefits up to the year 2000, long-lasting effects of R&E
services on production and revenues were not taken into account.            To compensate for this, another
sensitivity analysis was conducted. Tables 3.5 through 3.7 present the results of this sensitivity analysis.
Based on the base case scenario described above, proportional gross revenue increases were calculated,
equivalent to NPV of possible revenues generated during three additional years (see table 3.6). If the
estimated 2000 gross revenue increase could be generated for another three years (equivalent to a 240
percent increase of 2000 revenue increase), the NPV and IRR would be US$3.1 million and 58 percent
respectively. If 30 percent of the estimated 2000 gross revenue increase could be generated for another
three years (equivalent to a 72 percent increase of 2000 revenue increase), the NPV and IRR would be
almost US$807,000 and 31 percent respectively. If 10 percent of the estimated 2000 gross revenue increase
could be generated for another three years (equivalent to a 24 percent increase of 2000 revenue increase),
the NPV and IRR would be almost US$144,000 and 16 percent, respectively.

3.4     To complete the array of likely results, a mixed sensitivity analysis was conducted (see table 3.7).
Based on a 25 percent production cost elasticity scenario (described above), proportional gross revenue
increases were calculated, equivalent to NPV of possible revenues generated during three additional years
(see table 3.7). In this scenario, if the estimated 2000 gross revenue increase could be generated for another
three years (equivalent to a 240 percent increase of 2000 revenue increase), the NPV and IRR would be
US$1.3 million and 28 percent, respectively.

3.5     In light of the results described above and the highest likelihood of occurrence, the NPV (in 1994
US$ and considering a 12 percent annual discount rate) of estimated costs and benefits range from
US$(190,000) to US$14,000, whereas the IRR would range from 6 percent to 16 percent.

4.      Results at the Farmer Level

4.1     In line with the incremental results described in previous section, average net benefit flows were
estimated at the farm level. Cost born by GOES, such as R&E investments and CENTA costs, were not
included in this analysis. Table 3.7 shows the results in the without-project situation, considering average
yields and production costs at the national level (in line with paragraph 3.1). Table 3.9 shows the results in
the with-project situation under the non-increasing production cost scenario. Table 3.10 shows the results
in the with-project situation under the most pessimistic scenario in terms of increasing production costs.
                                                                                                         28




4.2     From 1994 to 2000, average farm area for basic grains production varied from 1.43 to 2.22
manzanas. Net benefits associated with grains production ranged from US$90 to US$990 per farmer or
US$90 to US$530 per manzana in the without-project situation; US$220 to US$900 per farmer or
US$150 to US$480 per manzana in the with-project situation under the non-increasing production cost
scenario; and US$130 to US$920 per farmer, or US$90 to US$490 per manzana in the with-project
situation under the increasing production cost scenario. The NPV (1994 US$) of net benefit flows was
US$2,200 per farmer or US$1,280 per manzana in the without-project situation; US$2,480 per farmer (a
US$280 increase) or US$1,440 per manzana (a US$160 increase) in the with-project situation under the
non-increasing production cost scenario; and US$2,320 per farmer (a US$120 increase) or US$1,390 per
manzana (a US$110 increase) in the with-project situation under the increasing production cost scenario.
In any case, the net benefit increases at farmer level were positive but modest, ranging from US$20 to



                                                      - 38 -

US$40 per year in present value (1994 US$).

4.3     The revenue flows from 1998 to 1999 showed a downward trend. This was possibly due to the
impact of Hurricane Mitch and the associated production damage, especially in beans and rice, a price
decline in basic grains during 1999, and a shift toward high value crops at the expense of land dedicated to
basic grains. Although the price rise in 2000 recovered some of the losses experienced before, it did not
regain the 1997 revenue level. The 2000 revenue increase can also be explained by further productivity
improvements in the face of falling land size dedicated to basic grains production.

4.4     Technologies with more evident results include agronomical management of basic grains,
integrated pest management techniques, and improved post-harvest management of basic grains. In terms of
agronomical management of basic grains, the use of improved seeds was especially relevant. Major seed
varieties include corn    (Maíz H-53, H-59, CENTA Pasaquina); beans (Frijol CENTA cuscatleco,
DOR-582, DOR-585, Salvadoreño 1); sorghum (Sorgo RCV, CENTA Texistepeque, Soberano, CENTA
S-2); and rice (Arroz CENTA A-6). In terms of integrated pest management, the most relevant techniques
were demonstration of soil and foliage pests, capture of adults of a plague known as "gallina ciega," safe
management of pesticides, and use of improved seeds.

4.5     Other R&E activities with likely impact include:

i)      Integrated farm management techniques introduced by CENTA

ii)     Improved planting, post-harvest management and processing techniques

iii)    Introduction of improved seed and management in sesame production (SPA-137, SPA-81,
        CENTA-222R, CENTA-126NR)

iv)     Natural resource management techniques

v)      Improved management of tree plantations and nurseries, and

vi)     The use and maintenance of efficient wood-burning stoves.

4.6     Production and revenue increases, induced by R&E project activities, translated into improvement
food security. This was evident during the crisis in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch. Evaluation surveys
indicated that as a result of income increases; farmers provided better nutrition and education to their
families.

5.      Beneficiaries' Perceptions

5.1     As noted above, an independent exercise was conducted to assess beneficiaries' perceptions and
validate information from the two surveys carried out by CENTA. Four workshops were carried out for
this purpose.29  Results revealed a positive attitude toward the project. Among participating women, 85.7
percent in 1999 and 95 percent in 2002 had a positive opinion. Some 88.4 percent of participating men in
1999 and 84.6 percent in 2002 had a favorable opinion. The main factor contributing to increasing
production and productivity was the application of new technologies, according to the 1999 survey, and the
provision and diffusion of new knowledge, according to the 2002 survey. In terms of impact, beneficiaries
in 1999 highlighted improved seeds (41.6 percent), quality of technical assistance (12.6 percent), and



                                                    - 39 -

application of new agricultural technology (12.3 percent). In terms of extension visits, 81 percent of both
men and women considered them to be satisfactory. In the validation workshops, farmers expressed
willingness to pay for the Technical Assistance they receive, as long as it reflects their preferences and
priorities. In general, a very high percentage of beneficiaries stated that R&E has played a positive role in
improving their productivity and modernizing their farm system.




6.       Cross-Country Comparisons

6.1      Another approach to verifying the efficiency of the R&E system in El Salvador is by comparing
results obtained with other countries during the same period. Table 1 (in section 4.1.5 of the main text)
indicates that El Salvador outpaced other Central American countries in productivity gains in basic grains.
El Salvador had a productivity increase of 20.3% in 2002, compared to 1994, while the next country,
Nicaragua, had only a 6.8% increase. This is evidence of R&E effectiveness and thus an achievement of
the component.

7.       Final Remarks

7.1      The analysis did not consider all the benefits that accrued as a result of the implementation of the
R&E component. Considering that only selected basic grains crops were included in the analysis, the result
revealed that the component had a positive impact on income of participating farmers. Considered from the
perspective of the total investment made for this component, it had a positive return, with a likely IRR from
6 percent to 16 percent. In addition to increasing the income of agricultural producers who participated in
the program, the project was perceived to have improved the well-being of farmers' families by enhancing
food security, improving housing, opening educational opportunity, and improving health. In the immediate
future, efforts should continue toward intensifying the technological transfer and diversifying products,
with the aim of improving productivity and further enhancing the competitiveness of Salvadorian
agriculture.




                                                    - 40 -

Table 3.1. Incremental Costs and Benefits - Non Increasing Production Cost Scenario
                           Present                                        Year
                            Value
                            (1994
                             US$)       1994       1995       1996       1997        1998       1999      2000
No. Farmers with R&E                   13,860     14,739     17,815     17,898      17,862     18,714    13,928
Estimated Crop Area (Mz)               17,348     26,315     39,591     33,491      36,332     26,841    20,163


R&E Investment            1,134,048 533,105      381,079    307,461     56,386      81,422     48,742    63,432
CENTA Costs               3,308,167       0      1,013,363 1,186,164    998,411    601,585    830,065   573,963
Production Costs                    0     0          0          0          0           0          0         0
Gross Revenues            4,253,975       0      1,127,768 3,915,956  (1,626,780) (1,126,083) 1,693,237 3,056,481


Aggregate Net Benefits    (188,240) (533,105) (266,674)    2,422,332  (2,681,578) (1,809,090) 814,430   2,419,085


Net Benefits per Farmer           (4)   (38)       (18)        136       (150)       (101)       44        174
Net Benefits per Mz               (1)   (31)       (10)         61       (80)        (50)        30        120


Internal Rate of Return           6%


Production Cost Increase          0%of Yield Increase


Source:
-     Results of program activity from 1994 to 1998: Region 1 - West.
-     Financial programming of PRISA Research and Extension Component for Region 1, CDT-Izalco: 1995,
      1996 and1997.
-     Financial programming by funding source: 1994 to 2000.
-     PRISA evaluation report of the Evaluation and Extension Component.
-     Budget and expenditure trends for the period 1994 ­2003: CENTA budget area.




                                                     - 41 -

    Table 3.2. Incremental Costs and Benefits - Increasing Production Cost Scenario
                            Present                                        Year
                             Value
                          (1994 US$)      1994        1995       1996      1997        1998       1999      2000


No. Farmers with R&E                     13,860      14,739     17,815    17,898      17,862     18,714    13,928
Estimated Crop Area (Mz)                 17,348      26,315     39,591    33,491      36,332     26,841    20,163


R&E Investment             1,134,048     533,105    381,079    307,461    56,386      81,422     48,742    63,432
CENTA Costs                3,308,167        0       1,013,363 1,186,164   998,411    601,585    830,065   573,963
Production Costs           5,012,579        0       983,867    3,215,830 (275,301)   620,903    1,709,703 1,980,185
Gross Revenues             4,253,975        0       1,127,768 3,915,956 (1,626,780) (1,126,083) 1,693,237 3,056,481


Aggregate Net Benefits    (5,200,820) (533,105) (1,250,540) (793,498) (2,406,277) (2,429,993) (895,273) 438,900


Net Benefits per Farmer      (306)        (38)        (85)       (45)      (134)       (136)      (48)       32
Net Benefits per Mz          (170)        (31)        (48)       (20)      (72)        (67)       (33)       22


Internal Rate of Return       Negative


Production Cost Increase          Equalto Yield Increase


Source:
-     Results of program activity from 1994 to 1998: Region 1
      West.
-     Financial programming of PRISA Research and Extension Component for Region 1, CDT-Izalco: 1995,
      1996 and1997.
-     Financial programming by funding source: 1994 to 2000.
-     PRISA evaluation report of the Evaluation and Extension Component.
-     Budget and expenditure trends for the period 1994 ­2003: CENTA budget area.




                                                     - 42 -

Table 3.3. Incremental Costs and Benefits - Increasing Production Cost Scenario -
Sensitivity Analysis

                         Present Value                                    Year
                          (1994 US$)      1994      1995      1996        1997       1998       1999      2000


No. Farmers with R&E                       13,860    14,739    17,815      17,898      17,862    18,714   13,928
Estimated Crop Area (Mz)                   17,348    26,315    39,591      33,491      36,332    26,841   20,163
R&E Investment               1,134,048    533,105   381,079   307,461      56,386      81,422    48,742   63,432
CENTA Costs                  3,308,167          0 1,013,363 1,186,164     998,411     601,585  830,065   573,963
Production Costs                     0          0         0          0          0           0         0        0
Gross Revenues               4,253,975          0 1,127,768 3,915,956 (1,626,780) (1,126,083) 1,693,237 3,056,481
Aggregate Net Benefits       (188,240) (533,105) (266,674) 2,422,332 (2,681,578) (1,809,090)   814,430 2,419,085


Net Benefits per Farmer             (4)      (38)      (18)       136       (150)       (101)        44      174
Net Benefits per Mz                 (1)      (31)      (10)         61        (80)       (50)        30      120
Internal Rate of Return             6%
Production Cost Increase            0%of Yield Increase


Table 3. 4. Incremental Costs and Benefits - Increasing Production Cost Scenario - Sensitivity Results


Sensitivity Factor      Sensitivity Levels                                        NPV (1994US$)           IRR (%)
                                                                                        Per
                                                                           Aggregate  Farmer    Per Mz


Production Cost Increase   50% of Weighted Yield Increase of Basic Grains  (2,694,530)    (155)      (86)        -
Production Cost Increase   25% of Weighted Yield Increase of Basic Grains  (1,441,385)     (80)      (44)        -
Production Cost Increase     0% of Weighted Yield Increase of Basic Grains   (188,240)      (4)       (1)       6%
Production Cost Increase   (5%) of Weighted Yield Increase of Basic Grains     62,389       11         7       14%
Production Cost Increase  (10%) of Weighted Yield Increase of Basic Grains    313,018       26        15       25%




                                                  - 43 -

Table 3.5. Incremental Costs and Benefits - Sustained Benefit Increase Scenario - Sensitivity
Analysis
                         Present Value                                    Year
                          (1994 US$)       1994       1995     1996       1997       1998        1999      2000
No. Farmers with R&E                        13,860     14,739   17,815     17,898      17,862    18,714     13,928
Estimated Crop Area (Mz)                    17,348     26,315   39,591     33,491      36,332    26,841     20,163
R&E Investment                 1,134,048  533,105     381,079 307,461      56,386      81,422    48,742     63,432
CENTA Costs                    3,308,167         0 1,013,363 1,186,164    998,411     601,585   830,065   573,963
Production Costs                       0         0          0        0          0           0         0          0
Gross Revenues                 4,253,975         0 1,127,768 3,915,956 (1,626,780) (1,126,083) 1,693,237 3,056,481
Aggregate Net Benefits         (188,240) (533,105) (266,674) 2,422,332 (2,681,578) (1,809,090)  814,430 2,419,085
Net Benefits per Farmer              (4)      (38)       (18)      136      (150)       (101)        44        174
Net Benefits per Mz                  (1)      (31)       (10)       61        (80)        (50)       30        120
Internal Rate of Return              6%
Production Cost Increase             0% of Yield Increase
Gross Revenue Increase               0% of 2000 Revenues


Table 3.6. Incremental Costs and Benefits - Non Increasing Production Cost & Sustained
Benefit Increase
Scenario - Sensitivity Results
                                                                                                               IRR
Sensitivity Factor      Sensitivity Levels                                              NPV (1994US$)          (%)
                                                                                                Per
                                                                                  Aggregate Farmer Per Mz


Production Cost Increase      0%of Weighted Yield Increase of Basic Grains


Gross Revenue Increase        0%of 2000 Revenues - 3 years at        0%             (188,240)      (4)     (1)    -
Gross Revenue Increase       24% of 2000 Revenues - 3 years at       10%              143,583      20      15 16%
Gross Revenue Increase       72% of 2000 Revenues - 3 years at       30%              807,229      67      48 31%
Gross Revenue Increase     120%of 2000 Revenues - 3 years at         50%            1,470,876     115      81 41%
Gross Revenue Increase     240%of 2000 Revenues - 3 years at         100%           3,129,992     234     163 58%




                                                    - 44 -

Table 3.7. Incremental Costs and Benefits - Non Increasing Production Cost & Sustained
Benefit Increase
Scenario - Sensitivity Results
                                                                                                                         IRR
Sensitivity Factor           Sensitivity Levels                                                   NPV (1994US$)           (%)
                                                                                                             Per   Per
                                                                                             Aggregate Farmer Mz
Production Cost Increase                     25% of Weighted Yield Increase of Basic Grains


Gross Revenue Increase                         0% of 2000 Revenues                 0%         (1,441,385)      (80) (44)      -
Gross Revenue Increase                       24% of 2000 Revenues                 10%         (1,163,306)      (60) (30) (12%)
Gross Revenue Increase                       72% of 2000 Revenues                 30%           (607,148)      (20)  (2)   1%
Gross Revenue Increase                      120% of 2000 Revenues                 50%            (50,990)       20   25 11%
Gross Revenue Increase                      240% of 2000 Revenues                100%           1,339,406      120   94 28%



Table 3.8.       Without Project Situation - Aggregate Production Costs and Revenues
                         Present                                                 Year
                          Value
                       (1994 US$)        1994          1995          1996        1997       1998          1999        2000


No. Farmers with R&E                        13,860        14,739       17,815      17,898      17,862        18,714      13,928
Estimated Crop Area
(Mz)                                        17,348        26,315       39,591      33,491      36,332        26,841      20,163


Production Costs        46,904,787       7,528,122     8,907,914   14,269,636  13,102,941  14,831,718     5,725,362   7,254,024
Gross Revenues          83,407,585     12,817,400     14,643,677   20,866,019  30,875,985  27,404,238     8,192,408  13,518,169


Aggregate Net Benefits 36,502,798 5,289,277.15 5,735,762.94 6,596,382.41 17,773,044.01 12,572,519.55 2,467,045.93 6,264,145.21


Net Benefits per Farmer       2,215            382           389         370         993          704           132        450
Net Benefits per Mz           1,285            305           218         167         531          346            92        311


Production Cost Change                        1.00          1.00         1.00        1.00        1.00          1.00        1.00


Source:
-     Results of program activity from 1994 to 1998: Region 1 - West.
-     Financial programming of PRISA Research and Extension Component for Region 1, CDT-Izalco: 1995, 1996 and1997.
-     Financial programming by funding source: 1994 to 2000.
-     PRISA evaluation report of the Evaluation and Extension Component.
-     Budget and expenditure trends for the period 1994 ­2003: CENTA budget area.




                                                           - 45 -

Table 3.9 With Project Situation - Aggregate Production Costs and Revenues - Non Increasing Production
Cost Scenario
                                                                                             Year

                               Present Value
                                  (1994 US$)        1994         1995          1996          1997          1998         1999          2000


No. Farmers with R&E                                   13,860       14,739        17,815        17,898        17,862       18,714       13,928

Estimated Crop Area (Mz)                               17,348       26,315        39,591        33,491        36,332       26,841       20,163


Production Costs                    46,904,787      7,528,122    8,907,914    14,269,636    13,102,941     14,831,718   5,725,362    7,254,024

Gross Revenues                      87,661,560     12,817,400   15,771,444    24,781,975    29,249,204     26,278,155   9,885,645   16,574,649


Aggregate Net Benefits              40,756,773    5,289,277.15 6,863,530.54 10,512,338.88 16,146,263.58 11,446,436.85 4,160,283.09 9,320,625.74


Net Benefits per Farmer                  2,484            382          466           590           902            641         222          669

Net Benefits per Mz                      1,442            305          261           266           482            315         155          462


Production Cost Change                                   1.00         1.00          1.00          1.00          1.00         1.00         1.00


Source:
-    Results of program activity from 1994 to 1998: Region 1 - West.
-    Financial programming of PRISA Research and Extension Component for Region 1, CDT-Izalco: 1995, 1996 and1997.
-    Financial programming by funding source: 1994 to 2000.
-    PRISA evaluation report of the Evaluation and Extension Component.
-    Budget and expenditure trends for the period 1994 ­2003: CENTA budget area.




                                                                   - 46 -

Table 3.10. With Project Situation - Aggregate Production Costs and Revenues ­ Increasing
Production Cost Scenario
                                                                           Year
                      Present        1994        1995         1996         1997         1998         1999         2000
                       Value
                     (1994 US$)

No. Farmers with                        13,860      14,739       17,815       17,898       17,862       18,714       13,928
R&E
Estimated Crop Area                     17,348      26,315       35,591       33,491       36,332       26,841       20,163
(Mz)

Production Costs      52,285,403     7,528,122   9,891,781   17,485,467   12,827,640   16,101,228    7,435,065    9,234,209
Gross Revenue         89,843,515   15,261,189   15,771,444   24,781,975   29,249,204   26,278,155    9,885,645   16,574,649


Aggregate Net         37,558,112 7,733,066.74 5,879,663.89 7,296,508.3816,421,564.1910,176,926.74 2,450,580.35 7,340,440.52
Benefits

Net Benefits per           2,319           558         399          410          918          570          131          527
Farmer
Net Benefits per Mz        1,389           446         223          184          490          280           91          364


Production Cost                           1.21        1.11         1.23         0.98         1.09         1.30         1.27
Change
Source:
-       Results of program activity from 1994 to 1998: Region 1 - West.
-       Financial programming of PRISA Research and Extension Component for Region 1, CDT-Izalco: 1995,
        1996 and1997.
-       Financial programming by funding source: 1994 to 2000.
-       PRISA evaluation report of the Evaluation and Extension Component.
-       Budget and expenditure trends for the period 1994 ­2003: CENTA budget area.




                                                     - 47 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              8/14/1990                 1    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              8/31/1990                 1    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              09/09/1990
              10/19/1990                3    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1), R&E
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             INSTITUTIONAL REFORM (1)
              12/14/1990                5    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (3),
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)
              04/19/1991                7    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (3),
                                             CONSULTANTS (4)
              05/16/1991                2    AGRONOMIST (1), LAND
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              06/12/1991                2    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (2)
              07/19/1991                2    PUBLIC SECTOR
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST;
                                             A.M. DELBUE

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/11/1991                7    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1), FAO/CP
                                             (1), CONSULTANTS (5)
              02/14/1992                1    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1) / TM
              05/18/1992                5    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (4),
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              05/21/1992                1    ECONOMIST (1)
              11/27/1992                1    CONSULTANT
              01/15/1993                2    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1), PUBLIC
                                             SECTOR MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/26/1993                2    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1),
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              06/18/1993                2    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (2)
              07/01/1993                4    AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1), LAND



                                              - 48 -

                           SPECIALIST (1), SENIOR
                           COUNCIL (1), CONSULTANT
                           (1)

Supervision

           06/18/1993    2 ECONOMIST (1);                1    1
                           AGRICULTURIST (1)
           12/04/1993    6 CONSULTANT (1);               1    1
                           ECONOMIST (1); SR.
                           AGRICULTURIST (1);
                           DISB.OFFICER (PROC.) (1);
                           INST.DEV.SPEC. (1);
                           PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
           05/20/1994    5 CONSULTANT (3);               S    S
                           ECONOMIST (1); SR.
                           AGRICULTURIST (1)
           10/28/1994    3 ECONOMIST (1); ARCHITECT      S    S
                           (1); LAND SPECIALIST (1)
           12/22/1994    4 ECONOMIST (1);                S    S
                           AGRICULTURALIST (3)
           03/10/1995    1 ECONOMIST (1)                 S    S
           07/26/1995    3 AGRICULTURALIST - FAO         S    S
                           (1); GENDER SPECIALIST (1);
                           DISBURSEMENT SPEC. (1)
           12/03/1995    6 CONSULTANT - FINANCIAL        S    S
                           (1); CONSULTANT -
                           RESEARCH (1); SR.
                           AGRICULTURALIST (1);
                           CONSULTANT - EXTENSION
                           (1); CONSULTANT -INST.
                           DEV. (1); PROCUREMENT
                           ASSISTANT (1)
           12/03/1995    6 CONSULTANT - FINANCIAL        S    S
                           (1); CONSULTANT -
                           RESEARCH (1); SR.
                           AGRICULTURALIST (1);
                           CONSULTANT - EXTENSION
                           (1); CONSULTANT -
                           INST.DEV. (1);
                           PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                           (1)
           12/03/1995    3 MISSION LEADER AND (1);       S    S
                           CONSULTANT (1); SR.
                           AGRICULTURIST (1)
           10/11/1996    2 MISSION LEADER AND (1);       S    S
                           SR. AGRICULTURIST (1)
           12/13/1996    1 TASK MANAGER (1)              S    S
           01/17/1996    1 TASK MANAGER (1)              S    S
           11/28/1997    2 TASK MANAGER (1);             U    U
                           MANAGEMENT
                           CONSULTANT (1)
           03/20/1998    4 CONSULTANT (1);               U    S



                           - 49 -

                                                    MANAGEMENT
                                                    CONSULTANT (1); TASK
                                                    MANAGER (1);
                                                    TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (1)
               07/21/1998                      1    CONSULTANT (1)                       U             S
               04/15/1999                      1    TEAM LEADER (1)                      S             S
               02/15/2001                      1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                 S             S
               03/22/2002                      4    TTL/ AG. ECONOMIST (1);              S             S
                                                    OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                    TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                                    CONSULTANT (1)
               09/27/2002                      4    AG. ECONOMIST/TM (1);                S             S
                                                    OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                    LANGUAGE PROGRAM ASS.
                                                    (1); CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
               05/23/2003                     1     OPERATIONS ANALYST                   S             S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    60.5                         137.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         94.7                         256.8
  Supervision                                 176.7*                         814.9
  ICR                                            8**                            35
  Total                                        339.9                        1243.9
* Includes charges for lending activities as recent as FY2002; perhaps for the preparation of the land
project.
** Estimate




                                                    - 50 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 51 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 52 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.       CENTA. 2002. Memoria de Labores 2002. San Andrés, Febrero 2003.
2.       CNR. 2002. Informe de Evaluación. Componente Mejoramiento de los Registros de Propiedad y
          Servicios de Catastro. Dec. 2002.
3.       Informe Final de Consultoría. February 2003.
4.       Lineamientos Técnicos y Operativos para la Transferencia de Tecnología.
5.       Memoria del Proyecto de Consultoría para la Implementación del Programa Nacional de Extensión
          Dirigida a Objetivos.
6.       OCP. 2002. Informe de evaluación periodo 1994-2002 del Programa de Reforma e Inversión Sectorial
          Agropecuaria -PRISA.
7.       Several Aide Memoires and PSRs.
8.       Several technical guides prepared by CENTA.
9.       The World Bank. 1993. El Salvador: Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment Project Staff Appraisal
          Report. Report No. 10933-ES.
10.      ----- 2001. Country Assistance Strategy. Report # 22932-ES
11.      The World Bank. 2003. Rural Development Study. 1998. Report # 17686-ES.



Annex 8. Borrower's ICR

I Objetivos del Programa

(i) implementar su política del sector agropecuario y la parte de estrategias relacionadas con la agricultura
en su Plan de Reconstrucción Nacional;

(ii) fortalecer el sector agropecuario público a través de la reorganización y desarrollo institucional del
MAG y CENTA;

(iii) acelerar la generación de tecnología productiva ambientalmente sostenible a través de la investigación;

(iv) contribuir a mejorar la productividad de pequeños y medianos productores agropecuarios
proporcionándoles servicios de extensión agropecuaria;

II.      EVALUACIÓN DEL OBJETIVO, DISEÑO E IMPLEMENTACION

2.1      Consideraciones sobre el Objetivo de Desarrollo

El Programa PRISA tenía el propósito de asistir al Gobierno de El Salvador en la implementación de la
Política de Desarrollo Agrícola, impulsando actividades para la redefinición del papel del sector público
agropecuario; convirtiéndolo en facilitador, regulador y proveedor de servicios para el pequeño y mediano
productor, propiciando de esta manera las condiciones para el crecimiento del sector agropecuario.

El objetivo de desarrollo no fue modificado en el período de ejecución del Programa, su diseño estaba
orientado a la ejecución de acciones de apoyo a las principales políticas del sector agrícola dentro del Plan
de Desarrollo Económico y Social 1989-1994 impulsado por el Gobierno y contribución al Programa de
Reconstrucción Nacional (PRN). Durante la vida del Programa, el fortalecimiento de reformas
institucionales han orientado las principales actividades del MAG, promoviendo las actividades del sector
hacia una economía de mercado, cuyos resultados de largo plazo serían un Sistema de Innovación
Tecnológica, eficiencia en la prestación de servicios y la recuperación del sector agrícola.



                                                     - 53 -

2.2      Consideraciones sobre los Objetivo del Programa

El diseño de los objetivos del Programa estaban directamente relacionados con la reorganización y
desarrollo institucional del MAG y CENTA, la generación de tecnología productiva y la mejora de la
productividad de pequeños y medianos productores agropecuarios, por medio de servicios de extensión y
sustentados en dos componentes los que irían a ser ejecutados por el MAG y CENTA bajo la coordinación
de la OCP.

Durante la ejecución del PRISA se agregaron al diseño original dos componentes, con el objeto de apoyar
las prioridades del Gobierno de El Salvador, originadas en el marco de los Acuerdos de Paz y para afrontar
las consecuencias ocasionadas por desastres naturales, dichos componentes son: i) Mejoramiento de los
Registros de Propiedad y Servicios de Catastro, y ii) Programa de Emergencia por el Huracán Mitch y
Terremotos.

El nivel de cumplimiento de los objetivos del Programa se considera satisfactorios, de acuerdo a los
resultados obtenidos de cada uno de los componentes.

2.3      Consideraciones sobre el diseño y los supuestos de implementación

El diseño original del Programa baso su implementación en la participación del MAG, CENTA y la OCP,
para lo cual se plantearon indicadores de implementación, desempeño, revisiones anuales y de medio
término y monitoreo de desempeño a través de misiones de supervisión, que garantizarán la efectiva
ejecución del mismo. El diseño fue satisfactorio con relación a los objetivos, componentes e instituciones
participantes, lo que permitió asimilar y manejar las modificaciones generadas por las nuevas prioridades
que enfrento el GOES con bastante flexibilidad.

III.     REALIZACIÓN DE LOS OBJETIVOS Y COMPONENTES

Los objetivos planteados en el Programa PRISA están relacionados a indicadores de monitoreo y de
impacto con el fin de medir el avance o el grado de cumplimiento de los objetivos planteados; en este
mismo sentido, tanto los objetivos y componentes originales como los que se agregaron en el Programa
también disponen de sus indicadores, el impacto generado por el Programa a beneficiado al menos 416,041
personas, principalmente productores agropecuarios y usuarios de los servicios del MAG y en menor
medida funcionarios públicos del Ministerio.

3.1     Impacto de los Objetivos del Programa

El Programa en su diseño original planteó cuatro objetivos los cuales dentro del SAR se le atribuyen sus
indicadores y su respectivo plazo de ejecución; para fines de medir su avance se ha tomado de referencia lo
realizado en el indicador al final del periodo de ejecución y en otros la sumatoria de los años de ejecución
del Programa, con base en este esquema se presentan los resultados siguientes:

3.1.1   Objetivo 1: Implementar la política del sector agropecuario y la parte de estrategias relacionadas
con la agricultura en el Plan de Reconstrucción Nacional.

Los indicadores para este objetivo están relacionados con: i) ejecución de Acciones Estratégicas en el sector
agropecuario, y ii) Mejoramiento de Agencias de Extensión ubicadas en áreas del Plan de Reconstrucción
Nacional (PRN). El nivel de cumplimiento alcanzado es de un 100.7 %; sin embargo, el Programa


                                                    - 54 -

rehabilitó un mayor número de agencias fuera del PRN, en vista de los problemas de propiedad de terreno o
de la agencia (casa alquilada) encontrados. Considerándose en este sentido, un nivel de cumplimiento
Satisfactorio, logrando realizar 26 medidas de política y estratégicas que mejoraron las condiciones del
sector en áreas de fortalecimiento institucional, riego, crédito, comercialización, sanidad vegetal y animal,
recursos naturales; y la atención a los pequeños y medianos productores con la rehabilitación de 21
agencias de extensión.

3.1.2    Objetivo 2: Fortalecer el sector público agropecuario a través de la reorganización y desarrollo
institucional del MAG y CENTA.

Este segundo objetivo contempla cuatro indicadores relacionados con: i) personal técnico/no técnico, y ii)
salarios/presupuesto total ordinario, tanto para el MAG como para el CENTA. El nivel de cumplimiento
alcanzado se considera Satisfactorio; a pesar de que el MAG y CENTA fueron influenciados por las
medidas de modernización del Gobierno Central como el retiro voluntario, delimitación de funciones
ministeriales, políticas y medidas de ahorro del sector público; se logró reducir el porcentaje de salarios en
el presupuesto y mejora la relación entre el personal técnico y no técnico en el MAG y el CENTA, además
los servicios de mantenimiento de equipos computación y automotriz se conceden a la empresa privada por
medio de concursos públicos.

3.1.3    Objetivo 3: Acelerar la generación de tecnología productiva ambientalmente sostenible a través de
la investigación

La ejecución de este objetivo fue responsabilidad del CENTA por medio del subcomponente de
Investigación, sus indicadores provienen de las recomendaciones técnicas generadas por cada uno de los
programas de investigación: Granos básicos, Ganadería, Frutas y Hortalizas, Cultivos Agroindustriales y
Recursos Naturales localizados en los Centros de Investigación en San Andrés, Izalco, Santa Cruz Porrillo
y Morazán. El grado de cumplimiento del objetivo alcanzó un 117.9%, considerándolo Satisfactorio de
acuerdo a los resultados obtenidos en la generación de 90 recomendaciones que ampliaron las
oportunidades tecnológicas de los pequeños y medianos productores, principalmente en frutas, hortalizas y
recursos naturales.

3.1.4    Objetivo 4: Contribuir a mejorar la productividad de pequeños y medianos productores
agropecuarios proporcionándoles servicios de extensión agropecuaria.

Los indicadores de este objetivo se orientaron a: i) medición de cambios de productividad para las
categorías de Maíz/San Andrés, Ganado/Izalco, Tomates y Ajonjolí/Santa Cruz Porrillo con productividad
por área, ii) número de parcelas en agricultores con sistemas de producción, y iii) área de los productores
con técnicas de conservación de suelos. De los seis indicadores 5 de ellos superaron las metas, los que
podrían sustentar una calificación de altamente satisfactorio; sin embargo, el sexto indicador alcanzó un
nivel de cumplimiento del 78.6%, lo que hace que el objetivo en forma global alcance un nivel de avance
del 171.6% y considerando su resultado como Satisfactorio, en vista de que los beneficiarios de la
extensión mejoraron las productividades de los cultivos asistidos como maíz, tomate, ajonjolí, y áreas con
técnicas de conservación de suelos.

3.2      Resultados de los Componentes del Programa

Según los resultados obtenidos en todos los componentes y de acuerdo a los indicadores propuestos tanto
en el SAR, como en las enmiendas al Convenio de Préstamo para los nuevos componentes, se tiene la
siguiente evaluación:


                                                     - 55 -

3.2.1   Componente Reforma y Desarrollo Institucional del MAG y CENTA

El objetivo diseñado para el Componente fue "Contar con un Ministerio que disponga de la capacidad
técnica y física necesaria para apoyar al sector agropecuario en el marco del modelo de desarrollo que
impulsa el gobierno, con énfasis en la generalización del concepto de sostenibilidad de los recursos
naturales"; sustentado en sus cuatro Sub-componentes y sus respectivos indicadores que medirían su
avance; el desempeño global del Componente alcanzó un nivel de cumplimiento del 104.4% el cual se
considera Satisfactorio; debido a que los cambios organizacionales ejecutados han influido en la
conformación de un Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganadería fortalecido en su rol asesor y subsidiario del
desarrollo agropecuario, mejorando su capacidad gerencial y de planificación estratégica para el
cumplimiento y desarrollo de las funciones institucionales que le competen. Lo anterior se sustenta en los
resultados de los subcomponentes, que a continuación se describen:

3.2.1.1 Sub-Componente: Planificación y Estrategia Institucional

El subcomponente tenía la finalidad de fortalecer la capacidad del MAG para la planificación
organizacional y el manejo del recurso humano, en este sentido sus indicadores estaban relacionados con: i)
evaluación y reajuste de normas, estructuras y procedimientos, ii) nuevo marco legal del CENTA y el
MAG, y iii) capacitación del personal en planificación estratégica, gerencia y aspectos legales; el
desempeño global del Subcomponente alcanzo un nivel de cumplimiento del 238.9%, por lo tanto se
considera Satisfactorio.

Los principales resultados del Subcomponente son: i) Reglamento de la Organización Interna del MAG, ii)
Manuales de Organización de las dependencias del MAG, iii) Planes Estratégicos del MAG y CENTA, iv)
Ley de Creación y Reglamento del CENTA, v) Elaboración de los Manuales de Organización y
Clasificación de Puestos del MAG y CENTA, vi) Fortalecimiento institucional del MAG por medio del
mejoramiento del equipo y programas de computación, y vii) participación de 2,373 funcionarios en
capacitación de planificación estratégica, gerencia y aspectos legales.

3.2.1.2 Sub-Componente: Administración de Recursos Humanos

Este subcomponente se orientaba a la implementación de un Plan de Racionalización del Personal del MAG
y CENTA, apoyando al MAG en la privatización de los activos del IRA, los indicadores eran: i) personal
total que el MAG y CENTA deberían disponer a lo largo del período de ejecución del Programa y, ii)
plantas del IRA privatizadas; en su desempeño global el SubComponente alcanzo un nivel de cumplimiento
del 102.2 %, que se considera Satisfactorio.

Los principales resultados son: i) diseño e implementación de políticas de administración y desarrollo de los
recursos humanos, ii) diseño e implementación de una base de datos del recurso humano del MAG y
CENTA, iii) Plan de capacitación y desarrollo gerencial del personal del MAG y CENTA en el que
participaron 875 funcionarios.

3.2.1.3 Sub-Componente: Sistemas y Procedimientos de Información para la Administración

Con este subcomponente se pretendía mejorar la generación y diseminación de información y los
procedimientos administrativos del MAG y de CENTA, sus indicadores se relacionan con: i)
estandarización de procedimientos, ii) desarrollo informático de sistemas de inventarios, bodega, manejo de
vehículos, auditoria, correspondencia, archivo, administración financiera y desarrollo de recursos humanos,


                                                    - 56 -

iii) manuales de organización y iv) capacitación de personal. El desempeño global del SubComponente
alcanzó un nivel de cumplimiento considerado Satisfactorio, porque se dispone de la capacidad para lograr
la adopción y computarización completa de los sistemas y procedimientos, a pesar de los contratiempos y
las deficiencias encontradas para lograr sus metas.

Los principales resultados del subcomponente son: i) diseño de 6 sistemas administrativos del MAG:
Correspondencia y Archivo, Control de Inventario de Activo Fijo, Transporte, Aprovisionamiento, Sistema
de Información de Recursos Humanos y Sistemas de Auditoria y Control Interno, ii) capacitación de 511
funcionarios del MAG, y iii) implementación del Sistema de Información Geográfico.

3.2.1.4 Sub-Componente: Edificio Oficinas Centrales del MAG

El Subcomponente se orientó a la construcción y equipamiento del edificio que albergaría las Oficinas
Centrales del MAG, los indicadores alcanzaron un nivel de cumplimiento del 100%; lo que se considera
altamente satisfactorio.

Los principales resultados son: i) concentración de las oficinas que estaban dispersas, ii) mejoras de la
comunicación y el trabajo de equipo interinstitucional, iii) cableado para la red de comunicación, y iv)
racionalización de los gastos en servicios de telefonía, energía eléctrica, agua y otros.

3.2.1.5 Sub Componente Opciones de Política Agraria

Este Subcomponente no estaba incluido en el diseño original del Programa, se incorporo a partir del año
1994 con el fin de Implementar los Objetivos y Estrategias que integran la Matriz de Política Agraria para
impulsar el combate a la pobreza, y orientado a apoyar los Programas del Gobierno de El Salvador,
especialmente de Reforma Agraria y los de transferencia de tierras producto de los Acuerdos de Paz.

Para este subcomponente se establecieron 25 indicadores de monitoreo para los cuatro objetivos planteados
en la Matriz de Política Agraria, el resultado global del nivel de cumplimiento alcanzado fue de un 96.9%
el cual se considera Satisfactorio. Lo anterior se sustenta en los resultados de cada uno de los objetivos,
que a continuación se describen:

3.2.1.5.1        Objetivo 1: Finalizar la adjudicación de inmuebles provenientes del Proceso de la Reforma
Agraria; el cumplimiento de los Programas de Transferencia de Tierras de los Acuerdos de Paz; y
disolución de las Instituciones creadas para tal fin.

Este objetivo tenía planteado 9 indicadores relacionados con: i) entrega de escrituras de propiedad, ii)
proyectos de parcelación, iii) mejoramiento del financiamiento rural, iv) elaboración de la política agraria,
y v) cierre de instituciones agrarias. El nivel de cumplimiento alcanzado es de 83.1%; lo cual es un
desempeño Satisfactorio; sin embargo, tres indicadores no se ejecutaron porque requerían de un grado de
especialización que el Subcomponente no disponía y no se consideró como limitante en su diseño.

Los principales resultados del objetivo son: i) entrega de 135,912 certificados y escrituras de propiedad, ii)
ejecución de 270 proyectos de parcelación para facilitar la transferencia de tierras de las Asociaciones
Cooperativas de la Reforma        Agraria, y iii) cierre de la Financiera Nacional de Tierras Agrícolas
(FINATA) y Banco de Tierras.

3.2.1.5.2        Objetivo 2: Garantizar la Seguridad Jurídica en la propiedad, posesión o tenencia de la
tierra, que permita la inversión, su transferencia y contratación dentro del libre mercado.


                                                     - 57 -

Este objetivo contenía 7 indicadores de monitoreo relacionados con: i) uso y dominio de la tierra, ii)
implementación del Código Agrario, y iii) ejecución del Proyecto de modernización del Registro y Catastro.
El nivel de cumplimiento alcanzado se considera Satisfactorio, a pesar de su insuficiente avance, en vista
de que cuatro indicadores no se ejecutaron porque la responsabilidad de su ejecución final estaba fuera de
la influencia del MAG (Asamblea Legislativa y Ministerio de Justicia).

Los resultados de este objetivo son: i) Anteproyecto de Decreto Legislativo para facilitar la venta y alquiler
de las tierras de las Asociaciones Cooperativas de la Reforma Agraria, ii) Anteproyecto de Decreto
Legislativo para disminuir la interferencia del Estado en las decisiones de las Asociaciones Cooperativas de
la Reforma Agraria, y iii) elaboración del Código Agrario.

3.2.1.5.3        Objetivo 3: Consolidación y reestructuración de la Deuda Agraria.

Este objetivo se relaciono con la implementación de opciones de reestructuración de la deuda agraria. El
nivel de cumplimiento logrado es de 96.3%, y su evaluación se considera Satisfactoria.

El resultado principal de este objetivo es la preparación de reestructuraciones de deuda en 256 asociaciones
cooperativas y en 126,690 individuales.

3.2.1.5.4        Objetivo 4: Implantar un sistema eficiente de Financiamiento Rural

Este objetivo se relacionó con el mejoramiento del sistema financiero rural. El nivel de cumplimiento
alcanzado fue Insatisfactorio; sin embargo, 5 indicadores no fueron cumplidos porque eran competencia del
Sistema Financiero (Ley de Bancos y Ley Orgánica de la Superintendencia del Sistema Financiero y el
Decreto Legislativo No. 849 sobre Ley de Intermediarios Financieros no Bancarios), en el diseño del
proyecto no se consideró esta situación.

El resultado de este objetivo fue la elaboración del proyecto de Línea de Crédito para facilitar la compra de
tierras a pequeños y medianos agricultores, que no fue aprobado por la instancia correspondiente.

3.2.2    Componente Investigación y Extensión Agropecuaria

Este componente pretendía "Acelerar la generación de tecnología productiva ambientalmente sostenible, a
través de la investigación; y contribuir a mejorar la productividad de pequeños y medianos productores
agropecuarios, proporcionándoles servicios de extensión agropecuaria"; por lo que fue diseñado en tres
Sub-componentes y de acuerdo a los indicadores de monitoreo que le competen presenta un desempeño
global de cumplimiento considerado Satisfactorio, sustentado en los resultados de cada uno de los
subcomponentes, que a continuación se describen:

3.2.2.1 Sub-Componente Investigación Agropecuaria

El Subcomponente apoyaría la investigación en granos básicos, ganadería y forrajes, frutas y vegetales,
fibras y semillas oleaginosas y recursos naturales. Los indicadores de este subcomponente se relacionan
con: i) proyectos de investigación por rubros, y ii) número de personal técnico contratado por Centro y
Programa de Investigación; el nivel de cumplimiento alcanzado fue de 80.1%, presentando un resultado
Satisfactorio.

Los resultados en el subcomponente son: i) liberación de 14 materiales genéticos en granos básicos, ii)


                                                    - 58 -

generación de tecnologías de alimentación y manejo animal, iii) manejo integrado de plagas de chile y
repollo, iv) identificación de materiales de cebolla, v) liberación de variedades de ajonjolí, vi) desarrollo de
tecnologías en recursos naturales, vii) elaboración de 18 guías técnicas, y viii) catálogo de la oferta
tecnológica generada por CENTA.

3.2.2.2 Sub-Componente Extensión Agropecuaria

Este Subcomponente tenía el propósito de cambiar los métodos individuales de extensión a un sistema de
capacitación y visitas, capacitación de extensionistas y productores y lograr una mejor coordinación con
ONG's. Los indicadores se relacionan con: i) introducción de las agencias a las fases del Programa, ii)
número de extensionistas contratados, iii) las relaciones entre mujeres/extensionistas, agricultores
enlace/extensionistas, agricultoras enlace/agricultores enlace, agricultores/extensionistas, y iv) número de
agricultores recibiendo extensión; el desempeño de este subcomponente se califica como Satisfactorio.

Los principales resultados del subcomponente son: i) atención a 63,000 pequeños y medianos productores
de los cuales el 14% fueron mujeres, ii) mejor coordinación entre CENTA, ONG's y organizaciones de
productores, iii) 22 funcionarios con maestría en investigación y extensión, iv) equipamiento de agencias
con 77 vehículos y 327 motocicletas, v) rehabilitación de 21 agencias de extensión, y vi) capacitación de
100 técnicos de ONG's, 278 extensionistas y 13,792 productores en temas de tecnología agrícola,
conservación de suelos y manejo de recursos naturales.

3.2.2.3 Sub-Componente Servicios de Apoyo para la Investigación y Extensión

Con este Subcomponente se pretendía realizar mejoras que facilitaran las actividades de investigación y
extensión a desarrollar por el CENTA por medio servicios de apoyo, el indicador establecido fue mes
consultor. El nivel de cumplimiento alcanzado refleja una evaluación Insatisfactoria; sin embargo, como
parte de este subcomponente se ejecutaron actividades que elevan su desempeño a Satisfactorio.

Los resultados del subcomponente son: i) rehabilitación del Edificio Administrativo, el Techado del Edificio
de la Biblioteca y los Laboratorios de CENTA, ii) participación del personal técnico y administrativo en 23
eventos de capacitación, y iii) equipamiento computacional del laboratorio y oficinas del CENTA.

3.2.3   Componente Mejoramiento de los Registros de Propiedad y Servicios de Catastro

Este componente fue incorporado al Programa PRISA en el año 1994 mediante una Enmienda al Convenio
de Préstamo, y se establecieron 8 resultados relacionados con: i) modernización de los servicios públicos
del registro de la propiedad inmobiliaria y del catastro, ii) organización institucional para el mantenimiento
del nuevo sistema, iii) operación de un sistema Registral-Catastral automatizado, y iv) depuración y
actualización del registro y el catastro en el Departamento de Sonsonate. El nivel de cumplimiento logrado
por el Componente fue de 91.4%, el desempeño se considera Satisfactorio por los resultados y logros
obtenidos en cada uno de los objetivos, que a continuación se describen:

3.2.3.1 Objetivo 1: Modernizar los servicios públicos relacionados con el registro de la             propiedad
inmobiliaria y del catastro.

Los indicadores de este objetivo se relacionan con: i) operación de un sistema Registral-Catastral
(alfanumérico y gráfico) automatizado, ii) una organización institucional para el mantenimiento del nuevo
sistema Registral-Catastral, y iii) Modificar leyes y/o formular anteproyectos de ley para viabilizar la
depuración catastral y la creación del nuevo sistema Registral-Catastral. El grado de cumplimiento de este


                                                     - 59 -

objetivo se estima en un 91.6%, por ello se considera Satisfactorio su resultado.

Los principales logros de este objetivo fueron: i) Diseñar e implementar un sistema de registro y catastro,
ii) diseñar e implementar la organización institucional para el nuevo sistema, y iii) elaboración de
anteproyectos de ley para facilitar la depuración registral-catastral.

3.2.3.2 Objetivo 2: Depurar y actualizar el registro y el catastro en el Departamento de Sonsonate.

Los indicadores de este objetivo se relacionan con: i) una base de datos con las inscripciones de propiedad
inmobiliaria vigentes, y sus gravámenes que las afectan, y su relación con el número de mapa/parcela, ii)
información fotogramétrica y de campo de las parcelas, y iii) Asesorar tenedores de tierra con problemas
regístrales. El grado de cumplimiento de este objetivo se estima en un 92.0%, por lo cual se considera
Satisfactorio.

Los principales resultados logrados son: i) nuevo sistema automatizado de registro y catastro operando en
la Oficina de Registro de Sonsonate, y replicado en la mayoría de oficinas de registro del país, ii)
levantamiento de información de tierras del Departamento de Sonsonate, iii) identificación de 114,785
parcelas, de las cuales 53,013 eran urbanas (46.2%) y 61,772 eran rurales (53.8%).

3.2.4    Componente Programa de Emergencia por el Huracán Mitch y Terremotos

El Componente Mitch y Terremotos fue incorporado al Programa PRISA en el año de 1999, por medio de
una Enmienda al Contrato de Préstamo, como consecuencia de los estragos causados por la Tormenta
Tropical Mitch en el país a finales de 1998; posteriormente se amplió por los Terremotos del 2001,
requiriendo para ello otra Enmienda al Contrato.

El propósito principal del componente era contribuir en la mitigación y rehabilitación de los daños
ocasionados por los desastres, estableciendo 28 indicadores de monitoreo relacionados con: i) dotación de
insumos, bienes y servicios para la reactivación productiva de parcelas, ii) prevención de enfermedades
del ganado, y iii) rehabilitación y construcción de infraestructura pública y agro-productiva dañada. El
nivel de cumplimiento del Componente fue de un 138.6% y tomando en cuenta los resultados obtenidos en
beneficio de 100,752 productores agropecuarios y pobladores rurales, se considera que alcanzó un grado
Bastante Satisfactorio. Lo anterior se sustenta en los resultados de cada uno de los Subcomponentes, que a
continuación se describen:

3.2.4.1 Sub Componente Tormenta Tropical Mitch

Para este Subcomponente se establecieron 20 indicadores de seguimiento, orientados a: i) repoblación de
variedades de animales y plantas, ii) vigilancia y control fitozoosanitario, iii) rehabilitación de equipo e
infraestructura pesquera artesanal, iv) dotación de insumos y servicios agrícolas, y v) rehabilitación de
infraestructura de riego, drenaje y control de inundaciones. El nivel de cumplimiento de este componente
fue de un 157.4%, considerado Bastante Satisfactorio por los resultados y beneficios alcanzados.

Es importante mencionar que, el indicador de "Vigilancia epidemiológica y control fitozoosanitario en
zonas mayormente afectadas" no fue ejecutado porque requería ejecutar procedimientos que sobrepasaban
el período de ejecución establecido.

Los principales resultados del Subcomponente son: i) entrega de insumos, animales y plantas a 30,648
familias, ii) implementación de medidas de prevención y control de enfermedades en 26,095 animales, iii)


                                                    - 60 -

repoblación de 15 cuerpos de agua y 2 reservorios con un millón de alevines en beneficio de 25
comunidades pesqueras artesanales y aproximadamente 2,500 habitantes, iv) rehabilitación de aperos y
equipos de pesca a 600 pescadores artesanales marinos y continentales, v) entrega de insumos agrícolas a
20,535 agricultores, vi) rehabilitación de caminos y drenajes en el Distrito de Riego y Avenamiento
Lempa-Acahuapa, favoreciendo a 1,026 agricultores, vii) rehabilitación de 19 pequeñas obras de riego, en
beneficio de 2,010 productores, y viii) ejecución de 38.4 kms. de obras de drenaje y control de inundaciones
en la Zona del Bajo Lempa.

3.2.4.2 Sub Componente Terremotos Año 2001

Para este Subcomponente se establecieron 11 indicadores en temas relacionados con: i) rehabilitación de
infraestructura y equipo dañado, ii) elaboración de diseños de ingeniería, y iii) capacitación y asistencia
técnica de productores afectados. El nivel de cumplimiento logrado por el Subcomponente fue de 93.8%,
por lo que el desempeño alcanzado es Satisfactorio por los resultados y beneficios obtenidos.

Los principales resultados obtenidos en este Subcomponente son: i) rehabilitación de 6 instalaciones del
CENTA, ii) rehabilitación de 13 agencias de extensión, iii) reparación de las Oficinas Centrales del MAG,
iv) reparación de 7 pequeños proyectos de riego en favor de 858 familias, y v) ejecución de 21 proyectos
agro-productivos comunales en beneficio de 27,301 personas del área rural.

IV. FACTORES QUE INCIDIERON EN LA IMPLEMENTACIÓN DEL PROGRAMA Y LOS
EFECTOS ALCANZADOS

4.1      Factores Incidentes en la Implementación del Programa

Existen muchos factores que incidieron en pro o en contra durante la implementación del Programa, entre
los cuales se destacan:

i). El apoyo político brindado por las altas autoridades como la provisión de los recursos al PRISA y el
Programa de Modernización bajo SAL I como una expresión de reforma del Órgano Ejecutivo impulsando
iniciativas de reforma a nivel horizontal.

ii). Los módulos del Componente REFORMAG: "Privatización de Servicios Internos" y el de
"Concertación de planes y programas de investigación y extensión del CENTA (CPP)", no se desarrollaron
debido a los cambios constantes de la Dirección Ejecutiva del CENTA; lo cual generó baja prioridad de
este resultado.

iii). Los continuos cambios de titulares del         Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganadería, provocaron
sustituciones en la Dirección del CENTA y el cambio de prioridades institucionales, lo que limito mantener
la continuidad de algunas actividades en la ejecución Programa.

iv). El comportamiento impredecible del clima fue un factor limitante, el huracán Mitch fue sin duda uno de
los factores que afectó los trabajos de investigación; así como, los Terremotos del 2001, que además obligó
a designar recursos que estaban contemplados para otras actividades relevantes del Programa.

v). La no asignación oportuna de los recursos de contrapartida afectó la ejecución de obras y la adquisición
de equipos contemplados en los distintos Componentes.

vi). Las respuestas positivas de los diferentes organismos gubernamentales y no gubernamentales con los


                                                    - 61 -

cuales se ha coordinado esfuerzos posibilitó alcanzar niveles de ejecución satisfactorios en los diferentes
Componentes.

vii). Un elemento importante con el Componente del Mitch y Terremotos, fue la coordinación efectiva del
trabajo con las instituciones ejecutoras del MAG, en cuanto a la distribución de tareas; flexibilización de
algunos procedimientos y montos de licitación por parte del Banco, con lo que se logro el propósito de
agilizar los procesos de licitación y contratación de bienes y servicios.

viii). Algunas limitantes para la ejecución de las actividades del Componente Mitch y Terremotos fueron:
retraso en la aprobación del presupuesto adicional solicitado para el inicio de su ejecución, y la no
disponibilidad oportuna de la documentación de soporte o los diseños de ingeniería en el caso de algunas
obras agro-productivas lo que no permitió ejecutar todos los proyectos programados.

ix) El Componente Mejoramiento de los Registros de Propiedad y Servicios de Catastro enfrentó un
deficiente trabajo de la Empresa contratada, durante la ejecución de las actividades de campo; lo cual
desfasó la programación de actividades del componente.

4.2       Efectos derivados de la implementación del Programa

i). Adecuación de la organización institucional y funcional del MAG a las necesidades de desarrollo del
sector agropecuario y forestal a pesar de la resistencia natural al cambio en la organización. El Proyecto ha
impactado en lo físico, tecnológico, organizacional y en la agilidad en procedimientos administrativos y
técnicos.

ii). Mejoramiento en la imagen del MAG en vista de la modernidad de las instalaciones, por haber reunido
físicamente todas las dependencias centralizadas, mejorado el servicio a los usuarios y la agilidad en los
procedimientos.

iii). Liberación de materiales genéticos y tecnologías que han contribuido a mejorar la productividad y el
manejo de cultivos, en ciertos casos se logro en granos básicos rendimientos superiores al 50% sobre el
promedio nacional, significa que el productor dispone de una mayor capacidad para manejar su finca y
aplicar nuevas tecnologías.

iv). El cierre de las instituciones involucradas en el quehacer agrario, ha generado un ahorro en el gasto
público, y con la agilización en los procesos de la transferencia de tierras, se ha dado seguridad jurídica en
su propiedad y tenencia a los beneficiarios de la Reforma Agraria y P.T.T. en el marco de los Acuerdos de
Paz; con el pago de la Deuda Agraria los beneficiarios de los programas de Transferencia de Tierra se han
convertido en legítimos dueños de la tierra que poseen.

v). Con la implementación del Subcomponente Mitch se disminuyó la proliferación de focos de
enfermedades, por medio de la ejecución de medidas fitozoosanitarias y de prevención en áreas afectadas.

vi). Protección de zonas y control de inundaciones en la zona del Bajo Lempa en beneficio de 32
comunidades rurales e incorporación al riego de 2,130 manzanas con potencial de cultivo de melón,
sandía, plátanos, pastos, caña de azúcar, arroz, hortalizas, sorgo forrajero, maíz y frijoles.

vii). Rehabilitación de infraestructura agroproductiva en beneficio de 27,301 personas asociadas en
cooperativas de productores y ADESCOS, contribuyendo a la facilitación del transporte de insumos,
comercialización de productos agropecuarios y la generación de mayores ingresos en zonas afectadas por


                                                     - 62 -

los terremotos.

viii). Con la ejecución del Subcomponente Terremotos se desarrollo una coordinación efectiva entre
la OCP, organizaciones gubernamentales y organizaciones               beneficiarias de los proyectos de
rehabilitación de infraestructura agroproductiva.

ix) Las experiencias adquiridas con el Componente Mejoramiento de los Registros de Propiedad y Servicios
de Catastro, han servido de base para orientar la ejecución de los trabajos de levantamiento de información
de tierras del Plan Nacional de Modernización del Registro Inmobiliario y del Catastro.

V.     EVALUACIÓN DEL DESEMPEÑO DEL PRESTATARIO, CON ÉNFASIS EN LAS
LECCIONES APRENDIDAS

1. La participación del GOES en el diseño del Programa fue satisfactorio porque ello permitió que el
Programa fuese estructurado en consenso y considerando las capacidades de ejecución tanto del Banco
como del Gobierno; sin embargo, para el componente de Opciones de Política Agraria el tema relativo al
financiamiento rural no se lograron completar los propósitos, debido a que dentro del diseño original no se
considero el papel de la Superintendencia del Sistema Financiero, para apoyar las actividades
correspondientes que permitieran alcanzar las metas planteadas.

2. El manejo del Programa por parte del GOES y de la institución Ejecutora se mantuvo estable durante su
período de ejecución, a pesar de los cambios de funcionarios ocurridos en el CENTA, la OCP y en el
MAG; la experiencia y capacidad ganada por la OCP en la implementación de otros proyectos contribuyó
a la obtención de los resultados satisfactorios en el Programa.

3. Durante los primeros tres años de ejecución del Programa, las contribuciones de la contrapartida fueron
cumplidas de acuerdo a su diseño, sin embargo debido a las prioridades y políticas del Gobierno en algunos
casos no se dispuso oportunamente del "pari­passu", lo que afectó y retrasó la programación establecida
por el Programa.

4. La ejecución del Componente Mitch y Terremotos alcanzó un desempeño muy satisfactorio, es de
considerar que los elementos importantes que contribuyeron fueron: la coordinación interinstitucional entre
la OCP y las instituciones del MAG participantes, la flexibilización de procedimientos y requisitos por
parte del Banco Mundial para la ejecución de las actividades programadas en el Componente.

5. Las recomendaciones dadas por las diferentes Misiones de Supervisión no fueron completamente
atendidas por parte del GOES, sea por cuestiones de procedimiento o por limitaciones presupuestarias, las
cuales de haberse cumplido oportuna y eficientemente el nivel de cumplimiento sería mayor.

6. Las tareas de reacomodo organizativo del CNR, como resultado de la unión de tres instituciones, y la
no-existencia de un marco jurídico que regulara el nuevo sistema registral, no permitieron que el
Componente de Mejoramiento de los Registros de Propiedad y Servicios de Catastro cumpliera
oportunamente y lograr mayores resultados.

VI. EVALUACIÓN DEL DESEMPEÑO DEL BANCO, CON ÉNFASIS EN LAS LECCIONES
APRENDIDAS

1. Las Misiones de Supervisión del Banco que se realizaron con periodicidad dejaron las recomendaciones
necesarias para mejorar la implementación del Programa, las que si se hubieran implementado


                                                     - 63 -

oportunamente el avance del programa sería mayor a lo reportado. Sin embargo, algunas recomendaciones
que no fueron implementadas afectaban por sus implicaciones leyes, normas y procedimientos vigentes.

2. La contribución del BM en el diseño del Programa y los Componentes fue determinante ya que el
establecimiento de los subcomponentes y las unidades responsables de su ejecución se establecieron en
forma consensuada y coordinada, lo que permitió claridad en la estructura operativa, de coordinación y
seguimiento en los diferentes niveles como GOES/Banco Mundial; OCP/Componentes.

3. La conciencia por parte del Banco en el sentido de permitir la modificación del diseño original del
Programa fue un elemento valioso para introducir las enmiendas y adicionar las nuevas actividades de las
nuevas prioridades y/o medidas de políticas establecidas por el GOES.

4. La flexibilización de los procedimientos y requerimientos del Banco para la ejecución del Componente
Mitch y Terremotos en vista de la prioridad y urgencia que implicaba, fue un factor que permitió lograr los
buenos niveles de desempeño complementado por la eficiencia del personal del MAG involucrado en este
Componente.




                                                  - 64 -

- 65 -

