Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10933-ES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EL SALVADOR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR REFORM AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
MARCH 1, 1993
i~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~ I ¶    
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =        Salvadoran Col6n (C)
US$1              -        C8.00 (May 1992)
US$1              =        C8.30 (September 1992)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)              -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         =     0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)           =     10,000 e2 = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (ki2)    =  0.38 square miles (mi2) = 100 ha
1 metric ton (m ton)     =     2,205 pounds



FOR OFFICIAL USE Ol
ABRtREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASRIP                 Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment Project
BFA                   Agricultural Development Bank
Banco de Fomento Agropecuario
CAA                   Administrative Advisory Committee
Comitd Asesor Administrativo
CATIE                 Centro Agron6mico Tropical do Investigacidn y Ensejan
Tropical Agronomic Center for Research and Education
CDG                   Livestock Development Center
Centro do Desarrollo Gandero
CDT                   Centers for Technological Development
Centro do DesarroUo Tocnoldgico
CENTA                 National Agricultural Technology Center
Centro Nacional do Tecnologfa Agropecuaria y Forestl
CIS                   Commercial Information System
Sistema de Informaci6n Comercial
co                    Livestock Centers
Centros de Ganaderfa
CTA                   Technical Advisory Committee
Comit6 Tecnico Asesor
COPAL                 Salvadoran Cotton Cooperative, Limited
Cooperativa Algodonera Salvadoreha, Limitada
CPI                   Consumer Price Index
CP                    Cooperative Program
DIPEI                 Division of Institutional Planning and Strategy
Divisi6n do Planificacion y Estrategia Institucional
DISE                  Division of Monitoring and Evaluation
Division do Seguimiento y Evaluaci6n
DIVAGRO               Agricultural Diversification
Diversificaci6n Agfcola
DGA                   Directorato of General Administration
Direcci6n General Administrativa
DGDR                  Directorate General of Rural Development
Dirocci6n General de Desarrollo Rural
DSVA                  Directorate of Plant and Animal Health
Direcci6n do Sanidad Vegetal y Anima
EEC                   European Economic Community
ESDP                  Economic and Social Development Plan
FAO                   Food and Agncultural Organization (of the United Nations)
FUSADES               Salvadoran Foundation for Economic and Social Development
Fundaci6n Salvadorefia do Desarroilo Econdmico y Social
GDP                   Grows Domestic Product
GOES                  Govemment of El Salvador
GTZ                   German Agency frr Technical Cooperation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LAkCs                Intenoatial Agricultual Researh Cete
ICB       I.ternational Competitive Bidding
DB                   Inter-Ameican Development Bank
IPAD                 Iltenational Fund for Agricultual Development
IMP                    tnaional Monetary Fund
INAZUCAR             Sugar Mareting Board
Instituto del icar
INCAFB               Coffee Marketing Board
lIsdtuto del Ca&
IRA                  Sup1ly Reguladon Institute
Instituto Regulador de Abastucimitos
ISIC                 Salvadoran Coffee Research lIsttute
Ihstituto Salvadoreoo de Invetigacidn del CdS
LCB                  Local Compettive Bidding
MAG                  Ministry for Agricultur and Livestock
Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderfa
MEC                  Ministry of Economy
Ministerio do Economfa
MIS                  Management Informadion System
Sistema do Informacidn Gencial
NPC                  National Privatzaton Commission
Comisidn Nacional de Privatinzdn
NRP                  National Reconstruction Plan
Plan Nacional de Reconstruccidn
OSPA                 Agricultunl Sector Planning Office
Oficina Sectorial de Planificacidn Agpecuria
PAU                  Project Administration Unit
Unidad do Administracidn del Proyecto
PPF                  Project Preparation Facility
PROCAFE              Coffee Producers Association
Asociacidn de Productores de Cafi
PROMESA              El Salvador Environment Protection Project
Proyecto do Protecci6n del Medio Ambient. SalvadMoeio
RUTA                 Regiod Unit for Technical AssisAnce
SAL                  Structural Adjustment Lon
T&V                  Training and Visit
UCP                  Projects Coordinaton Unit of MAG
Jmidad Coordinadora de Proyectos del MAO
UNDP                 United Nations Development Prgmme
USA1D                 United States Agency for Intenatonal Developwmt
USDA                 United States Department of Agriculturo
VAT                  Vabue Added Tax



ELSALVADOR
AGRICUILTURAL SECI=O BURMEE  AND INVESTMENT PZO11ECT
Loan and Project Summary                                           ................ i
I.    The Economic Setting  ...................................  I
A. Background and Performnance in the 1980s                            1. 
B. Recent Policy Reforms . ...................................                                      I
II. The Agricultural Sector..                                                                             3
A. Key Features of the Sector..                                                                     3
B. Major Constraints to Agricultural Growth               ..                                       4
C. The Government's Agricultural Sector Strategy             ..                                    5
D. Next Priority Actions..                                                                          7
1. Institutional Reform and Development .                         .7
2. Agricultural Research and Extension..                                                         8
i. Research  ...  ........ .....................................  8
ii. Extension                                     ..                                         11
I11. The Project                                                                                         12
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement.                                                                 12
B. Lessons from Previous Projects                ..13
C. Project Objectives                  ..14
D. Project Design and Description                     .          .          .14
1.  Reform and Insdtutional Development of MAG and CENTA ...............  15
2.  Agricultural Research and Extension ..............................  19
E. Project Organization and Management  ............              ..        .................  25
1.  Project Inplementation  ......................................   25
2.  Project Cost and Financing ....................................  26
3.  Procurement .............................................  28
4.  Disbursement ............................................   30
5.  Audit .................................................   31
6.  Supervision by the Bank  .....................................  31
7.  Coordination with other Donors .................................  33
F. Environmental Issues          ....................             .......................   34
G. Benefits and Risks        .....................              ........................   34
IV.  Summary of Agreements Reached and Recommendation ........                ..        .............  36
A. Agreements Reached at Negotiations  ................................  36
B. Effectiveness Conditions ........................................  36
C. Disbursement Conditions  .......................................   37
D. Recommendation .............................................  37
This report is based on the findiga of a World Bank ppaisl mission which visited Bl Salvador from Septmber 30 to
October 11, 1991 and a post-appraisal mision which visited El Salvador fhom May 4 to 18,1992. 'Te appraisal
mission Wam composed of Messrs./Mmes. Shaw (Task Manager), McIntire (LA2AG), Pinto (AF11M), Delbue (IECDI),
Glnn, Montoya. Paniagua (Consultants) and Reifschneider (FAO/CP). Tbc posappraisal mission was composed of
Messrs./Mmes. Shaw (Task Manager), Mctire LA2AG). Pint (AFFMO), Delbue (IECDI), Reineider (PAO/CP),
and Montoya and Castro (Consultants). Patrici 0. Gross assisted in the producdon of this repot Tbe Diision Chief
is bMichael Baxter and the Country Dearnent Dirctor is Edilberto Sea



LIST OF ANNEXES
I        Project Cost Summaties
II        Projected Schedule of Bank Disbursements
III       Phasing of Extension Agencies
IV.       Estimated Inplementation and Impact Indicators
V.        Academic Training Program
VI.       Supervision Plan
VII.      Letter of Sector Development Policy
VII.     Consultants' Draft Terms of Reference
IX.       Documents in Project File
X         Map of El Salvador IBRD # 24057
c:AO11pdmbulFWwc.e
F.naay 28. 193



EL SALVADOR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR REFORM AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          The Republic of El Salvador
Beneficiary:       Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG), National Center for Agricultur
Technology (CENTA), and about 143,000 small and medium farmers
Executing Agencies: MAG and CENTA
Loan Amount:       US$40.0 million equivalent
Terms:             Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable rate.
Project Objectives:  The project would provide a vehicle for implementation of the Government of
El Salvador's (GOES) agricultural development policy. The project would
assist GOES to: (a) implement its agricultural sector policy and strategy and
agriculture-related parts of its National Reconstruction Plan; (b) strengthen its
agricultural public sector through the reorganization and institutional
development of MAG and CENTA, and support services privatization;
(c) accelerate the generation of more productive and environmentally
sustainable agricultural technology through research; and (d) contribute to
productivity improvements of small and medium size farmers by providing
agricultural extension services.
Project
Description:       The project would have two components. First, the component on reform ani
3nstitutional development at MAG and CENTA (US$16.7 million in total
costs) would finance technical assistance, equipment, training, civil works and
incremental operating cost to support: (a) managing and implementing
MAG's institutional planning and strategy (US$3.4 million) for reform and
development, including changing the legal framework as required by the
establishment of CENTA as an autonomous agency; (b) rationalizing MAG
and CENTA's human resources (US$7.2 million) by upgrading personnel
policies, and privatizing support services and the marketing facilities of the
Supply Regulation Institute (IRA); (c) establishing management information
systems (MIS) and procedures (UJS$1.8 million) to improve decision making
and progress monitoring, including for CENTA's activities; (d) constructing a
headquarters building for MAG (US$4.3 million). Second, the component o
agricultural research and extension for small and medium farmers (US$39.8
million) would finance technical assistance, vehicles, equipment, training, civil
works rehabilitation, and incremental recurrent expenditures to support:
(a) research (US$11.9 million), which would include integrating plant and
animal research; reorganizing research along commodity lines; strengthening
research planning and priority-setting mechanisms; executing on-farm adaptive



- ii -
trials in conjunction with the extension service; and training for research and
extension staff in soil conservation: (b) agricultural extension (USS17.1
million) which would include a switch from individual extension methods to the
Training and Visit system, training for extension agents, and outreach measures
to better coordinate with non-government organizations (NGOs) and to reach
women farmers: and (c) support services for research and extension
(US$10.8 million) which would include improvement of common managerial,
tecbnical and administrative support.
Costs:             Total project costs are estimated at US$56.5 million. Project base cost is
US$48.0 million, with US$2.2 million for physical contingencies and US$6.3
million for price contingencies. Of the base cost, the reform component is
US$15.5 million, and the research and extension component is US$32.5
million.
Finandng:          US$40.0 million equivalent of project costs would be proviJed through the
proposed loan and US$16.5 million by GOES.
Benefits:          Expected benefits include improved resource allocation and more effective
provision of services in the agricultural sector. Improved resource allocation
would result from the elimination of government's role in agricultural
marketing, direct production and non-agricultural activities, and better sectoral
priority setting and institutional efficiency. The government's ability to
reorient public sector resources to regulatory and support services and to effect
staff rationalization in MAG and CENTA would allow resource reallocation to
priority functions. The proposed project is expected to provide permanent
capacity to MAG and CENTA to plan, design, carry out, evaluate and readjust
institutional strategies and organizational planning consistent with policies and
programs for the sector, including develop, monitor and maintain
organizational structures and procedures in support of operational, legal and
administrative systems. More effective provision of agricultural research and
extension is expected to result in increased and more sustainable production
through improved crop and livestock productivity, lowering input use,
upgrading cultural practices and ensuring more sustainable resource use. As
the research and extension services are targeted to small and medium size
farmers, including women, the project is anticipated to have a positive impact
in increasing their productivity. Although the project's effect on poverty cannot
be easily quantified because of the difficulties in assigning short-term income
effects to agricultural research and extension, experience from other operations
indicates that technology change in agriculture is a major source of productivity
gains and income growth among poor producers.
Risks:             A major risk is GOES' ability to carry out its reform agenda, particularly staff
streamlining. The Government has presented a copy of a letter from the
Minister of Finance to the Minister of Agriculture supporting MAG's Staff
Rationalization Plan and agreeing to make available, when needed, the funds
required for its implementation. Moreover, MAG's 1993 approved budget
allocation has been increased in anticipation for these needs. This risk is also
reduced by the timing of the remainder of the major institutional reform actions
before loan effectiveness. General risks to research and extension projects, in



- ii -
Bank experience, are lack of (,uvernment commnitment, adequacy and
sutainability to funding, inability to set prirtrites, poor management, and weak
research-extension links. The project would address all of those in the research
and development component. Specific project risks include management
wealness and lack of familiarity with Bank procedures, both of which the
project would address. Issues related to the implementation of the peace
agreements and agrarian reform are not expxted to affect this operation
significantly because it does not address land titling issues. The extensien
component will provide farmers training through CENTA and NGOs regardless
of land ownership status.



- iv -
Project Costs, Financing and Disbursements
(US$ million)
l _________________________                Local        Foreign            Total
Project Costs
Reform and Institutional Development          L Q.                        I1.
Institutional Planning and Strategy A/      1.3           1.6            2.9
Human Resources Management                  7.0           0.1            7.1
Management Information Systems and
Procedures                                0.7           0.8            1.5
MAG Headquarters                            2.0           2.0            4.0
Research and Extension                        9.2           au
Research                                    2.6           6.8            9.4
Extension b/                                5.2           8.6           13.8
Support Services for Research and
Extension                                  1.4           7.9           9.3
Total Base Cost                               20.2           48.0
Physical Contingencies                      0.6           1.6            2.2
Price Contingencies                         3.1           3.2            6.3
Total Project Cost                            23.9          2 6
Financing Plan
IBRD                                        9.2          30.8           40.0
Government of El Salvador                  lid    8      _              i5
Total                                      23.9          32.6           56.5
Estimated Bank Disbursements
Bank FY                               1994c/ 1995   1996  1997   1998   1999
Annual                                 15.4   8.8   4.8    5.2    4.4    1.4
Cumulative                             15.4  24.2  29.0  34.2   38.6   40.0
/ Includes US$0.7 million financed under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
b/ Includes US$0.8 million financed under the PPF.
c/ Including US$3 million initial deposit in the Special Accoant, and up to US$4.0 million of
retroactive financing for expenditures incurred since March 31, 1992.



I. THE ECONOMIC SETING
1.01.     El Salvador's decade-long civil w4r ended with the signing of a peace agreement on
January 16, 1992. The cease fire that began on February 1, 1992 initiated a process of political and
social reconciliation. The Cristiani administration's market-oriented policies and an ambitious
National Reconstruction Program (NRP) for 1992-1997 are expected to help end a decade of social
conflict, improve the i-wvestment climate, and promote economic growth.
A. Background and Performance in the 1980s
1.02.     El Salvador is one of the most densely populated countries in the Western Hemisphere,
with limited natural resources and essentially no remaining unutilized agricultural land. Land
ownership is highly concentrated. Social indicators of adult literacy, infant mortality, and access to
clean water rank among the lowest in Latin America. Population pressure has led to encroachment of
forest land and only some 12 percent of the country has forest cover. Soil erosion resulting from
deforestation and inapprnpriate land management is a serious environmental problem, and has
substantially reduced the useful life of the Cerrdn Grande Dam, the hydroelectric plant supplying
energy to most of the country.
1.03.     In 1979, after two decades of real economic growth, stable prices and export expansion
(mainly coffee), a number of factors combined to cause an economic downturn. In 1979, El
Salvador's simmering social and political tensions, erupted into an open civil war. At the samne time,
the external economic environment deteriorated sharply with the second oil price hike, a steep decline
in world coffee prices, higher international interest rates and the contraction of the regional market
for manufactured goods, as the other Central American trading partners experienced similar terms of
trade shocks. In an attempt to maintain stability, the Government of El Salvador (GOES) relied
increasingly on state intervention and direct control; it imposed many import prohibitions, licenses,
and surtaxes, nationalized coffee and sugar trade, and allowed the real exchange rate to appreciate.
Its attempts to revive economic growth failed, however, as real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) fell
by about 13 percent in 1980-82, then stagnated at an average 1.6 percent growth per year until 1989
and inflation grew to 30 percent in the mid-1980s. Exports, which had averaged over 30 percent of
GDP during the 1970s, fell to 13.2 percent in 1989.
1.04.     The present government led by President Alfredo Cristiani assumed office in June 1989
and introduced a comprehensive economic stabilization and structural adjustment program designed to
create a more market-oriented and private sector led economy, capable of rapid sustained growth,
while seeking to eliminate absolute poverty. The achievement of a negotiated end to the civil conflict
also represented a top priority in the Government's policy agenda. Peace negotiations began in
September 1989 and culminated in a Peace Accord in January 1992. Civil strife and weak economic
management had resulted in economic stagnation, drawing away public resources from investment and
the social sectors to cover military costs and creating a climate of insecurity that discouraged private
investment. The inward-oriented interventionist policies of past administrations, including the
nationalization of the financial and export marketing systems at the beginning of the decade, also
contributed to the economy's failure to recuperate.
B. Recent Policy Reforms
1.05.     Since it assumed power in 1989, the Cristiani administration has sought to eliminate
excessive government intervention under a market-oriented Economic and Social Development Plan



-2-
(ESDP) for 1989-1994. The Cristiani Government's development strategy consists of two basic
elements: (i) the creation of a more open economy and an incentive framework conducive to faster
private sector-led growth, complemented with (ii) parallel improvements in the allocation of resources
and the provision of essential public goods and services to support growth with equity process
targeted to the most urgent needs of the poor.
1.06.     Under its economic reform program, the Government keduced the country's
macroeconomic imbalances and initiated a comprehensive structural adjustment program which was
supported by a World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (3293-ES) of US$75 million in 1991. Major
achievements to date under the Government's reform program include: (i) in trade, the exchange rate
was unified and became market determined, the tariff range was reduced and most import duty
exemptions, non-tariff import restrictions, and domestic price controls were removed; (ii) in the fiscal
area, the structure of income tax was simplified, a Value Added Tax (VAT) was introduced, and a
special unit to monitor the largest tax contributors was created; (iii) under the financial sector reform
program, the Government eliminated all controls on commercial bank interest rates, privatized three
out of five state banks, and recapitalized three out of four savings and loans; (iv) in the agricultural
sector all domestic price controls on basic grains were eliminated, the monopoly power of the
parastatal agricultural marketing companies was abolished and divestiture of these compniies assets
has begun; and (v) in the social area, a Social Investment Fund was created in October 1990, a series
of targeted nutritional assistance programs were introduced in 1991, and budgetary allocations for the
social sectors were expanded.
1.07.     As a result of this comprehensive social and economic reform program, growth resumed
and the fiscal and external accounts improved. In 1990, real GDP grew by 3.4 percent, the highest
rate since 1978. Output continued to expand in 1991 (3.5 percent) and 1992 (4.6 percent) despite
severe droughts. The current account deficit before official transfeis declined in 1991 reflecting the
strong inflow of workers' remittances. In 1992 the macroeconomic balances deteriorated. Sharp falls
in international commodity prices and higher imports caused the current account to worsen. The non-
fnancial public sector deficit widened to 4.1 percent of GDP in 1992 with 1.6 percent financed
domestically. The deteriorating fiscal performance was due to increases in the operating deficit of the
electric utility company as a result of a severe drought; expenditure overruns associated with a
compensation scheme for coffee producers; and unanticipated expenses related to the 1992 Peace
Accord. The shortfall in coffee export taxes, delays in adjusting electricity tariffs, and delays in
taking measures to improve tax administration also contributed to this deterioration. During the
second half of the year, the Government took measures to address the fiscal problem, including the
introduction of a VAT in September and increases in the prices of electricity (30 percent) and water
(20 percent) in October. Inflation (the average annual Consumer Price Index (CPI) change) further
declined from 14.4 percent in 1991 to 11.2 percent in 1992. The Government, conscious of the risks
of unchecked fiscal deterioration, has reached an understanding with the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) on a program for 1993 to be supported by a new 12-month stand-by agreement.
1.08.     To address post-war economic rehabilitation needs, the Government prepared, in
consultation with representative groups of the society, a National Reconstruction Plan (NRP),
designed to lay the foundation for national unity while creating the conditions necessary for economic
and social recovery in the most affected municipalities. The NRP which is complementary to the
ESDP is being implemented in two phases: a short term contingency phase to meet urgent needs in
health, education, environment and democratic initiatives and a five year medium term phase. The
NRP was presented to the donor community at a Consultative Group Meeting for El Salvador
organized by the World Bank in March 1992 and it received strong donor support. Under the Peace
Accords, a number of time-bound obligations refer to needed improvements and investments in the



-3 -
agricultural sector. Under the NRP, productive sector measures include land acquisition; productive
credit; technical assistance and extension services; the rehabilitation and development of small
irrigation works and of community based aquaculture; and the establishment of agroforestry systems.
The proposed project has been designed to provide for the agricultural extension service needs of a
part of the targeted municipalities. A complementary agricultural development project, to be financed
by International Fund for Agricultural Development (FAD), would include extension services in the
mid-west portion of the NRP area (para. 3.49).
1.09.     El Salvador's land reform program, initiated in 1980, originally envisaged three phases
involving the transfer of land in holdings exceeding 500 ha (Phase I) to cooperatives, then land
exceeding 245 ha (Phase II) to landless farmers, and finally of parcels not to exceed 7 ha per family,
to its current non-owning operators (Phase III). Phase I was substantially completed, concurrently
with Phase III. Phase II was not carried out but the bulk of its implementation is accommodated
under the peace accords. The Legislature approved on April 12, 1991 a new legal framework for
Phase I agrarian reform beneficiaries to opt for their preferred mode of land tenure, in response to the
observation that the productivity yields of lands affected under Phase III of the land reforms, which
required individual ownership, were substantially higher than those of Phase I, which required
collective ownership. Though the proposed project has no land reform component (which is being
handled by GOES and other donors), the anticipated increase in efficiency of service delivery,
especially of extension, by the public agricultural sector and NGOs would facilitate the consolidation
of the peace by allowing ex-combatants to enter into productive agriculture.
1.10.     The GOES, with donor assistance, is also developing and strengthening its natural
resources management strategy with the objective of tackling natural resources issues in an integrated
fashion that could attract external support.
H. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Key Features of the Sector
2.01.      Agricultural production grew rapidly during the 1960s and 1970s, but declined by about
13 percent in 1980-1989. This decline was due to the long-run deterioration of the domestic terms of
trade and an overvalued exchange rate, exacerbated by civil strife, land reform, and declining
international prices of the country's main exports (coffee and cotton). In 1992, the agricultural sector
coi..ributed 9.6 percent of GDP, 39 percent of exports and 50 percent of total employment. (Coffee
value-added accounted for 29 percent of the sector's total value-added, basic grains 19 percent, poultry
18 percent, livestock 15 percent, and sugar 3 percent). Stimulated by an elimination of price
distortions and propitious weather, agriculture led the economy's rebound in 1990 with a 7.4 percent
growth rate and exports of non-traditional agricultural products grew by over one-third. During
1991, due to a late drought which damaged basic grains production, sector output fell marginally by -
0.1 percent. Agricultural sector output growth for 1992 was 6.7 percent.
2.02.      The agricultural sector is dualistic: 87 percent of agricultural producers farm areas of
less than 3 ha, accounting for only 25 percent of the area under agricultural production, while 3
percent farm areas of more than 30 ha, or 44 percent of farmed area. Most small and medium
farmers grow basic grains and beans with little diversification and low productivity. Large farms
produce a wider range of commodities, such as cotton, sesamne, sugar, coffee, beef and dairy, and
achieve higher productivity. This dual structure creates two groups of sharply different clients for
agricultural services. Larger farms can rely on the private sector for technological improvements
while small farms, because they are poor and have less access to information, cannot. The dual



-4
structure of the sector further means that new technology for smaller farms must compete for farmers'
attention with other revenue-earning activities, because farm income is often not sufficient for
subsistence.
B. Major Constraints to Agricultural Growth
2.03.      There are significant constraints to agricultural development ir El Salvador. The small
country (8,000 square miles) is the most densely-populated (700 inhabitants per square mile) in the
Western Hemisphere; the natural resource base is largely depleted with highi rates of deforestation and
soil erosion; land reform is incomplete; the rural credit system faces serious institutional and financial
problems; agricultural sector institutions are poorly orga";zed and managed; and agricultural
technology development and research are weak and dissemination and adoption of appropriate
technology is limited. However, peace and incentives for private sector interventions should provide
the foundation for improved sector growth.
2.04.      The proposed project will support GOES' strategy to move immediately against those of
the above constraints that are well defined and where progress is likely to have an immediate
productive impact. These two areas are: the low institutional capacity to provide essential services
to smaller farmers and to develop and enforce conservation-related regulations; and the low
productivity due to weak technology generation and adoption. The proposed project would seek to
strengthen the agricultural sector's institutional capacity to achieve its priority objectives to revise and
enforce regulations, generate and disseminate technology and conservation practices and provide
essential services.
2.05.      The decline in the agricultural sector's institutional capacity occurred in parallel to that of
the civil service as a whole. While the government's attention focused on the war and the economic
deterioration, key provisions of the Civil Service Law (such as recruitment, selection and disciplinary
processes) were allowed to lapse, and government employment grew while civil service productivity
declined. As public employment expanded and public revenues faced increasing constraints, the wage
bill crowded out investment and operating expenses. The wage bill reached 92 percent of current
government operating expenses in 1990, depressing expenditures for non-salary operating costs, which
in MAG averaged less than US$178 per employee per year. Incentives for good public employee
performance deteriorated as real public sector compensation fell (real salary erosion ranged from 48
percent for janitors to 82 percent for ministers). In MAG, severe salary erosion occurred as its total
budget allocation declined by 81 percent in real terms from 1981 to 1990. Under Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) (see para. 3.06) and other donor financed studies reviewed by the Bank, GOES has
identified a number of key issues in the agricultural sector's institutional capacity, these dre consistent
with those identified by the Bank and GOES as relevant to public sector and civil service reform in
general as identified in a Bank Public Sector Expenditure Review in July 1991. These issues are
expected to be examined and addressed in general under the proposed SAL 11 and they apply to the
agricultural sector as follows:
a. happropriate Structure: MAG's structural orga iization, budget allocation, work
programs, administrative systems and procedures, and staff skills mix do not reflect
its revised roles (see para. 3.07). MAG's institutional structure reflects instead its
old interventionist role, hence its redundancy and oversize. MAG's key functions of
technology transfer and extension do not reach intended beneficiaries as its field
organization supporting these functions is unresponsive both to users and to central
authorities. Furthermore, the sector's legal and regulatory framework is burdensome



5--
and MAG lacks a system of authoritative operating rules to enact and disseminate the
decisions made by different levels of management (see paras. 3.09 and 3.10).
b. Lack of Database and Management Information Systems: MAG lacks reliable
personnel data base and other management information systems (MIS). It cannot
account for its work force, nor undertake measures to improve the efficiency of the
work force through proper manpower planning, supervision and performance
evaluation. MIS are non-existent and coordination and control of expenditures are
unreliable. Budgetary and financial administration does not reflect the goals set in
policies and plans, giving way to a distorted pattern of resource allocation. The lack
of uniformity in administrative ruies and procedures has rendered it extremely
difficult to provide MAG management with reliable information from its
administrative areas; a related problem is the virtual impossibility of providing
computer support to MAG's planning and administration functions, especially as
regards the monitoring and evaluation of CENTA's research and extension programs
because of a lack of comput.,r literacy, training and standardized procedures
(including the establishment of a MIS) for these purposes (see parns. 3.16 and 3.18).
c. Inadequate Wage Structure: DesDite the disproportionately high wage bill (still
over 90% of the budget), compensation is distorted in favor of lower level staff
while technical staff are paid non-competitive salaries. Salary compression in MAG
from 13.5 to 1 in 1980 to 4.5 to 1 in 1991 was caused by the national policy of
granting the same salary increases to all staff. MAG's situation is similar to that
revealed in a recent survey that showed that staff in the lower echelons now
command remuneration 18 to 36 percent above their private sector counterparts while
managers and technicians receive 7 to 23 percent below, resulting in rapid expansion
and low turnover of non-technical staff and high turnover of qualified professional
staff (para. 3.13).
d. Redundancy: With a work force of approximately 4,400 staff, redundancy is
estimated to approach 30 percent even allowing for MAG's revised roles (pars.
3.07). S'3ch high levels of redundancy also undermine managerial authority and
capacity to enforce dikcinline (para. 3.14).
e. Inadequate Physical Facilities: MAG's institutional weaknesses are aggravated by
its inadequate physical facilities. As a result of the 1986 earthquake, MAG's
headquarters were condemned and the staff moved to rented offices in several
scattered locations. These arrangements are inadequate and have an adverse effect
on MAG's effiAency. New centralized facilities for a total of approximately 500
staff at headquarters are required. Othei MAG staff (e.g., CENTA and the
Directorate for Plant and Animal Health) are housed in other locations (pars. 3.19).
The resolution of each of these problems is a specific objective of the proposed project (see paras.
3.06 to 3.19). In addition, important public sector management issues are expected to be also
covered under the proposed SAL II.
C. The Government's Agricultural Sector Strategy
2.06.      Within the context of the 1989-94 ESDP and with assistance of the Bank-executed
Regional Unit for Technical Assistance project (RUTA), MAG formulated an Agricultural Sector



-6-
Development Strategy aimed at increasing sector output growth and sustainabiHty. The strategy
spelled out in the government's letter of Sector Development Policy (see Annex VII) comprises:
(a) improving MAG's sector policy formulation and executing capacity to promote sectoral growth;
(b) strengthening agricultural research and extension for small and medium farmers; (c) rehabilitating
irrigation districts and transferring them to users' associations; (d) improving credit policies and
institutions; (e) eliminating trade distortions and improving the efficiency of internal markets,
including privatization of agricultural parastatals; (f) improving plant and animal health protection;
and (g) promoting the sustainable use of natural resources.
2.07.     The Government has worked closely with donors to address needs in these specific areas.
The proposed project would concentrate on the first two elements of the government's strategy (see
para. 2.06 (a) and (b)) by addressing the issues described in paras. 2.04 and 2.05. The Bank would
support trade and privatization of agricultural parastatals (see para. 2.06 (e)) through the ongoing
SAL, the proposed SAL II and the proposed project; and would also support improvements in the
rural finance sub-sector and in the legal and institutional framework for environmental policy (see
para. 2.06 (d) and (g)) under the proposed SAL II. Moreover, the Bank's proposed Natural
Resources Management Study would analyze issues and help the Government develop an overall
strategy, with the Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program (FAO/CP), to improve
land, forest and agrochemical management (see para. 2.06 (g)). The IDB also supports the
government's strategy: it has discussed a framework for irrigation policy which will include the
administratk )f irrigation districts by water users' associations under the on-going Lempa-Acahuapa
project (see para. 2.06 (c)); it has in its pipeline a project to improve plant and animal health
activities (see para. 2.06 (t)); and has also started to prepare an environmental project for watershed
management along the Lempa River which would address natural resource management issues (see
para. 2.06 (g)). The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) proposed
Environmental Protection Project (PROMESA) would finance environmental education activities (see
para. 2.06 (g)). Finally, the European Economic Community (EEC) and United States Department
of Agriculture (USDA) also support activities in plant and animal health (see para. 2.06 (fj).
2.08.     In addition to a number of recent policy reforms (paras. 1.05 to 1.010), and as part of
its Agricultural Sector Development Strategy and supported by SAL I, GOES has recently:
a. privatized the Salvadoran Institute of Coffee Research ([SIC) as PROCAFE (the
Coffee Producers Association);
b. raised the Agricultural Development Bank's (BFA) interest rates to commercial level;
c. adopted a price band mechanism for yellow maize in 1990 and for rice and sorghum
in 1991, as part of its efforts to make agricultural protection lower and more
uniform; and
d. eliminated the state-owned or sanctioned monopolies for marketing of cotton, sugar,
coffee and basic grain by: (i) abolishing the monopsony of the private cotton
marketing board (COPAL); and (ii) initiating the privatization of INAZUCAR,
INCAFE, and the marketing activities of BFA, and IRA.
2.09.     Moreover, reflecting results of its diagnosis of MAG's organization structure and
institutional issues (see para. 2.05), GOES has recently taken a number of steps within MAG to
improve policy analysis and to provide services for small and medium agricultural farmers. To design
and implement policy actions, it created the Policy Analysis Unit in MAG. To implement



7-
institutional realignment, it created the Division for Strategic and Institutional Planning (DIPEI) in the
Ministry's Planning Directorate (OSPA) as the technical secretary to the Technical Advisory Council
(CTA). DIPEI is preparing an organizational and procedural streamlining, including a pay and grade
system, and staffing and skill mix requirements. To improve research and extension services, it has
drafted a law to create an autonomous agricultural research and extension institution, (the National
Center for Agricultural Technology (CENTA)) that was found satisfactory at appraisal (see para.
3.20), and implemented a pilot program to convert the traditional extension to the training and visit
(T&V) method.
2.10.     While it is too early to assess clearly the impact of these changes on sector productivity,
indications to date are that they are making a positive contribution to sectoral growth.
D. Next Priority Actions
2.11.     Based on the overall Agricultural Sector Development Study and the measures taken so
far (see paras. 1.05-1.010, 2.06-2.10), GOES has identified two main areas for priority action:
institutional reform and development of MAG and agricultural research and extension. The Bank
agrees these are appropriate priorities taking into consideration also the proposed treatment of natural
resource issues under the SAL II and the Natural Resources Management Study (see para. 2.07).
1. Institutional Reform and Development
2.12.     Rigidities in labor and poor administrative practices have been identified as main factors
preventing efficient public expenditure in El Salvador (see paras. 2.05 and 2.09). In MAG and
CENTA, these general rigidities are most apparent in the difficulty in shifting resources from
finctions that are abandoned and redundant staffing. GOES recognizes that only substantial changes
in skills mix and cuts in the unskilled labor force can allow the public sector to become more
efficient. The proposed project would assist MAG and CENTA in rationalizing its expenditures
(including the staff reductions) and in standardizing its administrative procedures, thereby achieving a
higher level of efficiency without an increase in budget (see paras. 3.07 to 3.19).
2.13.     An important aspect of the agricultural sector's institutional reform and development is
the privatization of agricultural marketing assets as GOES withdraws from agricultural marketing.
However, these is no national institutional framework for privatization. The National Privatization
Commission (NPC) was established in 1991 but it never mustered the required expertise and did not
became operational; therefore MAO was authorized to privatize IRA under the provisions of the IRA
Law. In August 1991, MAG closed IRA (which was created in 1950 to stabilize grain and other
agricultural prices) and gave separation payments to its entire work force. Following up on a tranche-
release condition of SAL I to bring IRA assets to the point of sale, the proposed project will support
the finalization of the sale of IRA's assets (para. 3.15). Under SAL I, GOES also began
implementation of plans to privatize INCAFE and INAZUCAR (both under the Ministry of Economy,
MEC and BFA (an autonomous financial institution under MAG). As MEC and BFA are conducting
their own privatizations with USAID support, GOES has requested that Bank assistance under the
proposed operation focus only on IRA, the agency under MAG (para. 3.15).
2.14.     A final significant aspect of the agricultural sector's institutional reform and development
is that CENTA will phase out of commercial seed production and seed certification, and some non-
agrcultural services (e.g., rural development activities handled by its extension service). As an
autonomous agency (see para. 2.15), and with the removal of such activities, CENTA will be able to



-8-
fulfill its mandate of providing efficient technology support services to small and medium farmers.
The proposed project would support these actions (see paras. 3.10 and 3.20)
2. Agricultural Research and Extension
2.15.      The second area of priority action for GOES is agricultural research and extension since
their contribution to economic growth is weak. Research and extension suffer from the same ills as
the rest of the civil service, which have translated into overcentralization of research, segregation of
crop ard livestock research, poor extension focus and methodology, and weak links between research
and extension. To overcome these deficiencies, the Legislative has approved on February 11, 1993 a
law to create CENTA as an autonomous instit ion responsible for crop and animal research and
extension. According to the Law, CENTA's target clientele is small and medium farmers. Public
agricultural support services would be confined to those crops which are the mainstay of the more
traditional, usually smaller, farmers where productivity is lowest; such extension support would be
government service provided without charge. (Producers of non-traditional export crops, the fastest
growing exports in the sector, receive assistance from Agricultural Diversification (DIVAGRO), the
non-traditional export crops research arm of the Salvadoran Foundation for Economic and Social
Development (FUSADES), a private foundation, or purchase private technical assistance). To further
sharpen CENTA's focus, it will no longer be responsible for seed certification nor produce
commercial seeds (see para. 2.14). To ensure beneficiaries representation, the Board of Directors
will include a NGO representative, and for quality control, CENTA will have an external evaluation
at least every three years. To improve staff quality and stability, all staff will be recruited
competitively under a new pay and grade structure. The law includes transitory provisions to allow
staff reductions in MAG (including those in research and extension functions) through an enhanced
voluntary retirement package. The integration of plant, animal and forestry research and extension
under an autonomous, streamlined CENTA should improve the productivity of these targeted services.
Research
2.16.      Agricultural research in El Salvador has been largely public. The main institutions over
the past 10-15 years were the predecessor of the proposed CENTA (para. 2.17) for plant research
and the defunct Center for Livestock Development (CDG). CENTA and CDG's livestock research
and extension staff and regional facilities were merged at the end of 1991, an appropriate action given
the integration of crop and livestock production on small and medium farms, the targets of public
research (and extension). Research (and extension) for major agroindustrial crops (coffee, sugar,
cotton) are private (PROCAFE, COPAL) or being privatized (INAZUCAR).
2.17.      CENTA. The national agricultural research program was reorganized as CENTA in
1977, with facilities at San Andres, 33 km from San Salvador. Its mandate was crops; livestock was
the responsibility of the CDG. CENTA was organized by groups of commodities (cereals, industrial,
fruits and vegetables) and activities (agroindustries, biometrics, economics, food technology, plant
protection, soils, and technology validation) within three principal divisions (agricultural research,
seed certification, and seed technology). The main products studied were maize, sorghum, rice.,
beans, fruits, and vegetables, at four major experimental sites (San Andres (120 ha), Flor Amarillo
(28 ha), Santa Cruz Porrillo (57 ha), and Izalco (11 ha)), with small field sites throughout the
country. In addition to government funds, CENTA received an IDB loan in 1984 (closed in 1989)
for improvements in agricultural research and extension (see para. 3.04.a).
2.18.      Center for Livestock Development. CDO was separate from CENTA from 1980 to the
end of 1991. CDG worked on animal health, livestock production technology, animal reproduction



- 9 -
(including artificial insemination), animal product quality, and biological production, though it did
little in forage production. CDG also provided livestock extension and training through five regional
Livestock Centers and a main laboratory in San Salvador. CDG had about 840 staff, of whom 40
percent worked in its laboratories. CDG received an IDB loan in 1977 (closed in 1987) for
improvements in infrastructure and services (see para. 3.04.b). In late 1991, animal health activities
were merged with plant health into the new Directorate of Plant and Animal Health (DSVA), which
inherited all of CDG's central facilities.
2.19.     Private research. The largest public research agency outside CENTA and CDG was
ISIC, which once had nearly 300 staff and a budget of about US$0.75 million, of which 90 percent
was spent on salaries. ISIC has been privatized as PROCAFE to do both research and extension.
Private sugar mills and INAZUCAR conduct sugar research. There is little other private research.
The privatization of coffee research and the on-going privatization of INAZUCAR are parts of the
government's strategy to stop public activities that can be provided by the private sector.
2.20.     While appropriate institutional changes have been initiated to strengthen agricultural
research (see para. 2.16), a number of fundamental constraints to effective public sector research
remain. These include limited and poorly-utilized budget support, overcentralization of operations,
inadequate equipment and facilities, insufficient training of staff, limited access to and use of
International Agricultural Research Centers (JARCs), and inadequate work on natural resources
issues. The nature of these problems and how they will be tackled under the proposed project are
described below.
2.21.     Level of expenditures. CENTA's 1990 ordinary budget was roughly US$3.0 million and
CDG's was US$1.4 million but only about a third of the total US$4.4 million (about US$1.5 million)
was actually assigned to agricultural research. In addition, CENTA's research depends heavily on
short-term external grant and loan funding from IDB, USAID, the German Agency for Technical
Cooperation (GTZ), and the IARCs, which together contribute an additional US$1.2 million. Against
a generally-accepted target of governmental support to public agricultural research of 1 percent of
agricultural GDP ($575 million in 1990), and subtracting the value of coffee exports (US$230
million), the crop and livestock research budget ought to have been about US$3.5 million in 1990, or
about 30% more than the estimated actual US$2.7 million. The proposed project will attempt to
ensure that research is adequately funded on a sustainable basis. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the government would allocate, at least, agreed minimum annual budgets for
recurrent costs for MAG and CENTA for the project and to discuss and agree with the Bank annual
work programs and budgets allocations during the project's annual reviews, satisfactory to the Bank
(see paras. 3.48.c and 4.01.a). The Government has presented evidence of the allocation of a
satisfactory 1993 budget for MAG and CENTA's recurrent costs (see para. 3.10).
2.22.     Composition of expenditures. Even more serious than the low level of expenditure on
research has been its composition. Some 90 percent of the research (and extension) budget has been
for salaries, and much of this for non-scientific staff. Without greater non-salary expenditures and
lower administrative costs (60 percent are administrative and support staff), CENTA lacks resources
to diagnose field problems, experiment, analyze results, test new recommendations, or provide better
salaries to more productive staff. The proposed operation woUld support: (a) additional investment
and training for CENTA, thus increasing staff efficiency (see paras. 3.23 and 3.24); (b) higher
salaries and operating costs for scientific and technical personnel in CENTA, thus encouraging them
to raise productivity (see para. 3.25); and (c) reductions in the number of redundant and unqualified
staff by enforcing recruitment by competition (see para. 3.14).



- 10-
2.23.      Research management. Research is overcentralized: more than two-thirds of CENTA
research staff is at San Andres. Centralization deprives scientists of contact with field problems and
encourages them to work on administrative issues, concentrates effort in one agroclimate, and isolates
field personnel from their colleagues. In addition, only 32 percent of CENTA staff are in research; 24
percent are in seed technology production and certification, and the balance in administration and
"other areas". To overcome this problem of overcentralization, the government has proposed a 3-
year hiring plan (that it would be implemented and monitored under the project) to reduce the share
of CENTA research technical staff at San Andres to about a third of the total. This plan is part of the
MAG Staff Rationalization Plan (see para. 3.14). The proposed project includes major investments
outside San Andres in Ceuters for Technological Development (CDTs) at Santa Cruz Porrillo, Izalco
and Morazan to support required decentralization.
2.24       Inadequate facilities and equipment. The long-term effect of poor research funding was
that funds were not available for investment or for the rehabilitation and maintenance of buildings,
laboratories, and equipment, particularly in research centers outside San Andres. The proposed
project would revive investments in infrastructure (offices, libraries, laboratories, greenhouses, A
storage and maintenance facilities) and equipment (farm, laboratory, vehicles), while funding
operation and maintenance.
2.25.      Staff training. CENTA research staff number about 700 but only 190 of these are
scientific or technical and among these 190, there are only 78 agronomists, 5 with masters degrees,
and no doctorate holders. Staff have little opportunity to update their skills while in service. The
proposed operation would support recruitment through competition after the establishment of CENTA
(see para. 3.14), provide academic training to 50 CENTA scientists recruited in the first three years
of the project, and fund short courses abroad and locally to all levels of personnel, under a plan
agreed between the Bank and the GOES during appraisal (see paras. 3.24 and 3.33.d and Annex V).
2.26.      Access to external research. CENTA has cooperation agreements with the International
Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT-sorghum), the International Maize and
Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT-maize), the International Center for Tropical Agriculture
(CIAT-pastures and beans), and the International Potato Center (CIP-potatoes). These agreements
are technically adequate but lack of resources and staff training prevents CENTA from using the
IARCs fully. Under the proposed project, additional resources for operations and training would
allow CENTA research and extension staff to collaborate more closely with the IARCs and with other
external programs, and would also assist CENTA to provide competitive research grants for up to 5
percent of its research budget and support purchasing of research materials (see para. 3.26).
2.27.      Natural resources research. Two main areas of natural resources research require
support. One is to develop a strategy for research on issues in natural research management: long
term consultancy resources would be used for this (see para. 3.33.d), in which the proposed Bank
Natural Resources Management Study would be a significant input (see para. 2.07). The second is
soil erosion, which affects some of the cultivated area and chief crops and which is a particular
concern to the small and medium farms target group. CENTA cannot make useful soil conservation
recommendations to farmers because this requires good analysis of erosion: the proposed project
would support an extended research (and extension) progradh on soil erosion and conservation (see
para. 3.22).



i 11 -
Extension
2,28.     New and more productive technology, including better use of agrochemicals, could be
introduced to Salvadoran farmers without further research. However this would require additional
extension equipment, resources for training and operational funds, as well as administrative, staff, and
methodological reforms in the extension service.
2.29.     A main problem of the extension service before 1991 was that it was not unified. Until
that time, the General Directorate of Rural Development (DGDR) gave technical assistance and
general rural development services to crop farmers, CDG served livestock producers, and ISIC
assisted coffee growers. The government has now consolidated public extension for the major crop
and livestock commodities in CENTA, with emphasis on the activities of small and medium
producers. It has left coffee and sugar extension to the private sector. No further consolidation or
reorganization would be required under the proposed operation.
2.30.     The new extension structure has four CDTs and 76 Agencies. The 76 Agencies will each
have a manager and on average eight to nine field extensionists. Each extensionist will be responsible
for about 200 to 280 small and medium farmers. Extensionists will work with groups and contact
farmers (productores de enlace). The government has begun to implement this proposed extension
organization on a pilot basis. As the initial experience with this first operation has been satisfactory,
the extension methodology and organization would be extended during the proposed project. The
main weaknesses in extension operation that this pilot operation attempts to address, and which would
be continued under the project, include: inadequate extension methods, poor focus on small and
medium farmers, assignment of extraneous functions to extension, inadequate staff training, poor
extension research links, and weak coordination with private extension and research efforts. Each of
these problems, and proposed project actions to compensate them, are noted below.
2.31.     Inadequate extension methods. Extension methods in El Salvador in general are not
systematic, producer contacts are irregular, field demonstrations of technologies to producers
infrequent, and feedback from producers to extension and to research are not good. Extension
neglects also women producers. Under the pilot project referred to in para. 2.30, in 1991 the
government adopted a training and visit (T&V) extension method to make extension more systematic,
train staff, direct services to small and medium producers, and improve assistance to women farmers.
Under the proposed operation, the government would adopt the T&V system in all 76 extension
Agencies (see para. 3.28.b) and coordinate with NGOs already providing support services to farmers
(see para. 3.29.e).
2.32.     Failure to focus on small and medium farmers. Previous extension programs often
neglected small and medium producers, who could not afford to contract private extension services.
Because small farmers dominate Salvadoran agriculture, it will be impossible to promote agricultural
growth unless extension is re-oriented toward them. These observations also apply to the many
women who are small farmers. The law under which CENTA has been established mandates small-
and medium-scale farmers as the principal clientele of CENTA's research and extension (see para.
3.20).
2.33.     Extraneous functions. After the land reform of the 1980s, the Salvadoran government
attempted to provide more social services-health, water, and education-along with agricultural
technical assistance through a general rural development service (the DGRD). This deprived
agricultural technical assistance of its primary focus, diluted the few resources available, forced
extensionists to work on problems for which they were untrained, and limited the impact of the



- 12 -
technical message to farmers. The CENTA law has eliminated extraneous non-technical assistance
functions from public agricultural extension (see para. 3.20).
2.34.      Staff training. Extensior. staff have insufficient training and little opportunity to update
their skills while in service. The T&V extension method of the proposed operation emphasizes
regular in-service training for extension field staff (see para. 2.31). The project would provide
additional in-service training for field staff, and both in-service and academic training for extension
managers (see paras. 3.29.e and 3.33.d). As has been successfully done elsewhere with T&V
extension, CENTA researchers would provide much of the training and act as subject matter
specialists for extension, thus tightening the links between research and extension.
2.35.      Research and extension links. When the research and extension institutions were
separate, there was no mechanism to validate recommended production techniques before passing
them to the extension service. The extension service had no methodology to transit information back
to research. The government has linked research and extension in the new CENTA (see para. 2.15),
and has adopted the T&V methodology to better research-extension links. The proposed operation
would build a program of training and collaborative on-farm trials to further strengthen these new
research-extension links (see para. 3.28.c).
2.36.      Private contribution to research and extension. Public research and extension receive
only limited private financial contributions, although there is partial cost-recovery from laboratory
services and commercial seed sold by CENTA. In the past the extension service recovered none of
its costs from producers. While this situation has improved greatly with the privatization of ISIC as
PROCAFE--thus transferring the costs of coffee research and extension to coffee growers-there
remains little cost-recovery from larger size farmers, an issue that USAID is preparing a project to
address. Under the project, the focus of research and extension would be shifted to smaller farmers,
furnishing no public extension to larger farmers who would use private technical assistance. Because
of the generally low current economic status of the project's target group of small-and medium-scale
farmers, no cost-recovery would be sought from them for services provided under the proposed
project.
M. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01.      The project conforms to the broad country strategy of focusing government expenditure
on providing public goods efficiently and where justified, and enhancing private sector growth within
a tightly managed fiscal policy. It would advance crucial institutional changes in agriculture, which
would complement the reforms launched under SAL I (particularly the privatization of agricultural
marketing functions) by improving sector planning and resource allocation, increasing efficiency in
the delivery of key services, and eliminating MAG's role in other activities such as agricultural
marketing, direct production, and delivery of non-agricultural services. The proposed operation
would support the national delivery of agricultural support services and soil conservation advice,
including in the former conflict areas.
3.02.      MAG has developed an appropriate sector development strategy (see Annex VII).
Through the project, the Bank would support the priority actions in the strategy to promote growth
and sustainability, i.e., strengthening institutional capacity and providing services to agricultural
producers. The involvement of the Bank would also aim to ensure that reforms are efficient and
transparent. The Bank is in a relatively strong position to do this, given that its support to the sector



- 13 -
includes donor coordination (Consultative Group meetings, informal donor meetings), as well as a
multi-pronged approach to the agricultural sector through policy dialogue within the context of the
SAL I and the proposed SAL II (rural financial sector and environmental policies and institutional
constraints), as well as economic (key issues in public resource allocation) and sector work (basic
grains marketing, and natural resource management).
B. Lessons from Previous Projects
3.03.     The Bank has had no agricultural operations in El Salvador since the Industrial and
Agricultural Training Project (Loan 1571-ES) was approved in 1978 for US$9.0 million. The loan
was fully disbursed in 1986. The 1985 Project Completion Report for this project recommends better
coordination of training activities for small farmers, increased priority for agricultural technology
training instead of social services-oriented training, and a review of the teaching methodology of
instructors. Under the proposed operation, extension agents would work only under the training and
visit extension methodology; the same technology would be disseminated to NGOs and the overall
training program would be coordinated by CENTA. Other relevant lessons can also be drawn from
recent experiences in agricultural development supported by the Bank and donors in Latin America
and other countries, such as:
a. Civil Service Reform. Experience demonstrates the importance of a dynamic
private sector capable of absorbing retrenched employees and of providing revenues
to the public sector, as well as the need for a strategy implemented through detailed
action plans. Government ownership, commitment and internalization of the reform
are essential to success. Experience of outplacement programs is generally poor
although they have reduced the political cost of forced retrenchment. GOES has
adopted a strategic and well-defined approach to civil service reform, including
legislative approval of early and voluntary retirement packages and the simplification
of administrative procedures by the new Government Accounting Law. Although the
newly achieved peace is expected to reinforce the dynamism of the private sector,
massive armed forces demobilization and imminent elections are likely to impose
additional constraints on GOES' resolve to streamline its labor force. An early
lesson about privatization, is that success depends on supportive policies, including
removal of price and credit market distortions, trade barriers, and barriers to entry
into the privatized industry. The government's economic reform, as supported by
the IMF, the Bank and IDB, has improved the environment for private sector
growth. The recent achievement of peace should further strengthen this trend. The
reform and institutional development component takes stock of these experiences,
particularly by front-loading the conditionality in the proposed operation (see paras.
3.13 to 3.15).
b. Agricultural research. Constraints to successful research have been poor
administrative management, shortages of trained staff, insufficient or fluctuating
operating budget, poor incentives for staff performance, inability to set and
implement priorities, weak research/extension linkages and a rigid top-down
approach to extension. The research component of the proposed project focusses
directly on all these issues (see para. 3.20).
c. Agricultural extension. Constraints to successful extension systems have been lack
of staff and farmer training, low and unstable operating budget, weak linkages to
research and a rigid top-down approach to extension. The extension component of



- 14-
the proposed project focusses directly on all these issues (see para. 3.28), notably by
adjusting the T&V method to Salvadoran conditions. The T&V method has been
successful in other Bank-supported operations as a means of institutionalizing
solutions to common problems like staff and farmer training, extension staff field
exposure, strengthening extension's linkages to research, and eliciting farmer
participation in extension and research activities.
3.04.     Recent experience with two projects supported by the IDB in El Salvador has also been
incotporated in the proposed operation, as follows:
a. IDB-CENTA. The IDB made a US$12.9 million loan to CENTA in 1984 of which
40% was canceled at closing in 1989. The IDB project completion report noted lack
of adequate financial controls, poor management of goods and materials, failure to
provide management information to MAG, and bad coordination between CENTA
and other institutions, and recommended that any further support to CENTA require:
a clear statement of project investments, adequate systems of accounting and
materials management, ade;4uate means of collecting and analyzing data on project
impact, and a management information system (MIS) within CENTA, all of which
are part of the proposed project (see paras. 3.07 to 3.18). No loan disbursements
were made for academic training to CENTA because of past government objections.
GOES has requested full funding of an extensive academic training program under
the proposed operation (see para. 3.24)
b. IDB-CDG. In 1981 IDB made a loan of US$16.3 million to CDG, of which US$1.5
million was canceled at closing in 1987. Project objectives were to help raise
productivity in small and medium livestock holdings, improve technical training for
government staff, and develop infrastructure to allow introduction of technological
innovations in livestock. The IDB project completion report noted serious budget
and institutional development problems. The proposed project includes measures to
resolve those problems, including through institutional, budget, and managerial
reforms in CENTA as well as merging livestock and crop research and extension
(see paras. 3.07 to 3.18).
C. Project Objectives
3.05.     The project would provide a vehicle for implementation of the Government of El
Salvador's (GOES) Agricultural Sector Development Strategy. The project would assist GOES to:
(a) implement its agricultural sector strategy as spelled out in the Government's letter (Annex VII)
and agriculture-related part of its NRP: 'b) strengthen its agricultural public sector through MAG's
and CENTA's institutional development, staff and procedural rationalization, and support services
privatization; (c) accelerate the generation of more productive and environmentally sustainable
agricultural technology through research; and (d) contribute to productivity improvements of small
and medium size farmers through agricultural extension.
D. Project Design and Description
3.06.     Considerable design of the components was carried out during project preparation,
facilitated by a US$1.5 million Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance, a Japanese Grant (US$0.5
million), and USAID grants (US$13.1 million). The PPF, which began in early 1991 and will close
in December 1992, financed preparation of the institutional reform and development component, in



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i - 
- 15 -
particular, established a privatization unit to sell IRA assets, and implemented the extension pilot
program under the training and visit system. The Japanese Grant which continues until June 1993,
was used for technical assistance for the privatization of agricultural support services, and training
activities for private extension staff, including of NGOs. USAID financed about US$0.6 million for
studies in civil service efficiency and the privatization of grain marketing, and about US$12.5 million
for ordinary budget support to fund voluntary early retirements in the civil service. The proposed
project would have two components: reform and institutional development of MAG and CENTA, and
agricultural research and extension as described below.
1. Reform and Institutional Development of MAG and CENTA
3.07.     The component for reform and institutional development of MAU and CENTA (US$16.7
million total costs) would help: (a) MAG perform its revised roles in sector policy, regulation and
evaluation; (b) CENTA execute the research and extension component; and (c) MAG and CENTA in
supporting small and medium size producers, modernizing management and streamlining staff
complements. It would finance consultants, training, equipment, civil works and incremental
operating costs on a declining basis. The preparation and implementation of this component would
involve an institutional development plan consisting of nine phases: (a) determining actual
organization structure, staffing and skill mix; (b) rationaliziting structures with focus on
administrative and support positions; (c) streamlining administrative procedures; (d) identifying
redundancies and staff retirement incentives; (e) conducting preliminary performance evaluations; (f)
establishing optimal staffing pattern and skills mix; (g) filling staff into the new pay and grade
structure through competitive recruitment; (h) establishing a human resources management system;
and (i) consolidating infrastructure. The component would include the following four subcomponents
to carry out the phases above: (i) institutional strategy and planning for phases (a) and (b) as well as
managing the other phases; (ii) human resource management for phases (d) to (h); (iii) management
information systems and procedures for phase (c); and (iv) MAG's headquarters for phase (i). Phase
(a) has been completed and proposals are ready for all other phases.
3.08.     With PPF support, MAG created the Division of Institutional Planning and Strategy
(DIPEI) to prepare the reform component. The project would continue to finance DIPEI on a
declining basis, to coordinate and execute all the phases described in para. 3.07 above. At the end of
the project, MAG and CENTA would be able to set annual operational goals consistent with their
revised roles; allocate resources through a modem programming and budgeting system; and monitor
effectively the execution of research and extension programs under the project. The achievement of
these goals would entail implementation of the following subcomponents.
Institutional Planning and Strategy (US$2.9 mnillion)
3.09.     The subcomponent would consist of: (a) strengthening MAG's capability in
organizational planning, personnel management and MIS; and (b) training MAG's staff in
management, strategic planning and legal matters. It would finance consultant services, training,
equipment, and incremental recurrent cests. The provision of research and extension services would
be the mandate of CENTA, as an autonomous organization under MAG's purview. Under the
project, the authority and competence of MAG's divisions would be consolidated under a new system
of operating rules, including a structure of issuances with determination of organizational authority for
each level of rules, links between norm issuance and system of manuals, and rules and procedures for
effectiveness, distribution and supersedure of issuances, date of effectiveness and means of
distribution of rules. GOES has presented Ministerial Decree No. 912 promulgating a system of
operating rules of MAG, satisfactory to the Bank. To link functional objectives with micro-



16-
organizational design and planning, DIPEI reviewed all units' functions and responsibilities as well as
worklcoads to define their required staffing and skills mix. GOES has also presented
Ministerial Orders No. 2 to 9 of October 14, 1992 adopting MAG's divisional structure, satisfactory
to the Bank. MAG's Divisional Structure includes for each unit, its organization manual containing:
(i) structure and rank of Unit-head; (ii) functions of the unit; (iii) the unit's staffing and skills mix by
category (management, technical, administrative, support); and (iv) the interrelationships between
units. Satisfactory policies for the implementation of the divisional structure are described in MAG's
Staff Rationalization Plan (para. 3.14).
3.10.      As noted below (para. 3.20), the restructured CENTA will be a key element of the
proposed project. CENTA's new structuia reflects its redefined research priorities and close link with
extension, facilitated by decentralized service delivery to the target farmer clientele and the separation
from CENTA of the functions of seed certification and commercial seed production. CENTA would
only produce basic and promotional seeds, and the production of certified and registered seeds
(commercial seeds) is being phased out. During negotiations, the Government agreed to carry out
action plans to make seed certification independent of CENTA by 1993 and to eliminate commercial
seed production from CENTA's by 1994, satisfactory to the Bank (see para. 4.01.b). By MAG's
Ministerial Decree No. 992, of October 14, 1992, the Government has adopted such action plans. By
Ministerial Order No. I of October 7, 1992, MAG has transferred Seed Certification functions to
DSVA. The project would support the establishment of a DSVA-private sector partnership to include
real pricing of seed certification services (with the private sector to cover at least 50 percent of costs)
and the elaboration and publication of standards for seed certification. MAG has published also
official announcements of the intention to stop commercial seed production by CENTA in the three
newspapers of widest circulation in San Salvador. Actual elimination would be monitored under the
project (hybrid maize in 1992 and other crops before 1994).
3.11.      This subcomponent would make the necessary adjustments in the sector's legal
framework to ensure sustainability of the reforms. The key changes are that CENTA has been made
an autonomous agency and a new organic law for MAG would codify MAG's new functional
responsibilities and institutional structure as supported by this component. The subcomponent consists
of drafting the regulations of the CENTA law, the draft MAG organic law and its regulations,
drafting regulations to protect property rights of researchers finding new cultivars, proposing needed
revisions to the Seeds Law to transfer seed certification from research and conducting otl,er legal
studies as app.zo.ed by the Bank. Ther;egulations of the CENTA Law would include: (a) a system of
operating rules; (b) the Organizational Manuals for each unit with structure and rank of unit head
functions; staffing and skills mix; interrelationship between units; and (c) the new policies and
procedures already approved in the CENTA law (competitive recruitment) and in MAG (financial and
personnel management), adjusted for CENTA. The MAG Organic Law to be submitted tc the
Legislature would include the general structure and functions of the units, the basis of authority of
main positions, and the interrelationships with other public entities. The regulations would formalize
decrees on the system of operating rules, standardized procedures, and transportation rules (see
paras. 3.09, 3.15 and 3.18). GOES has hired a transition team with qualiflcations satisfactory to the
Bank to manage CENTA's establishment as an autonomous agency (process described in the MAG
Staff Rationalization Plan, see para. 3.14) and CENTA's skills mix structure and number of positions
to be hired during the first three years of operation, all satisfactory to the Bank. CEN4TA's structure
includes 1341 positions, of which 71 percent are managerial and technical, 12 percent administrative
and 17 percent support staff. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
would: (a) submit to the Legislature the draft MAG organic law, before December 31, 1993, and to
issue implementation regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, of: (i) the MAG organic law within three
months of the law's approval; (ii) of the CENTA law within three months of the loan effectiveness



- 17 -
date, (see para. 4.01.d); and (b) adopt procedures for the selection of CENTA personnel eligible for
training and for human resources management by June 30, 1993 (see para. 4.01.c). Their
implementation would follow thereafter. As a condition of effectiveness the Government would
present a signed MAG-CENTA implementation agreement reflecting their respective responsibilities
in the implementation of the project, satisfactory to the Bank. It would also attach as annexes the
decision by CENTA's Board of Directors adopting MAG's already approved: (i) criteria and
procedures for selecting and managing CENTA staff for academic training and for placing those staff
in CENTA upon their return; and (ii) CENTA's 1993 non-academic training program, both
satisfactory to the Bank (see para. 4.02.a).
3.12.      The subcomponent also includes follow-up workshops to evaluate and readjust norms,
structures and procedures. These workshops would take place in the two subsequent years after
project start-up and every other year thereafter (ss Annex IV).
Human Resources Management (US$7.2 million)
3.13.     This subcomponent would assist DIPEI implement MAG's Staff Rationalization Plan to
make the transition from the present staffing to the required staffing and skills mix. Implementation
of the Staff Rationalization Plan would permit MAG and CENTA to achieve the objectives of: (a) an
improved ratio of salaries to operating costz; (b) an improved skills mix and less salary compression;
and (c) the required counterpart contributions to the project from sustainable budgetary resources.
The plan includes actions for rationalizating MAG and CENTA's structures to achieve the MAG
microstructures approved by Ministerial Decree and the approved CENTA's 3-year hiring plan, with
focus on strengthening technical streams and streamlining administrative and support positions;
implementing voluntary staff retirement incentives; conducting preliminary performance evaluatikns;
fitting staff into the new pay and grade structure through competitive recruitment; and establishing a
human resources management system. The subcomponent would finance training and indemnity
payments. All indemnity payments would be financed by the GO1ES. Preparation of the Plan was
carried out with PPF and Japanese Grant proceeds, in coordinatio.i with GOES' UNDP-financed first
phase of the Management Development Program.
3.14.      MAG's Staff Rationalization Plan describes the steps recuired to make the transition from
current to optimal staffing, the separation of redundant staff, a finank- e plan (amounts and timetable)
including new grade and pay structure and indemnity payments. This P.an was approved by GOES'
Economic Committee. Key actions are the following: (a) MAG would -aborate evaluation and
recruitment methodologies, and carried out a preliminary staff selectior . n all its staff; (b) staff would
be matched to the approved CENTA's 3-year hiring plan and MAG's r: ;w microstructures; (c) staff
redundant or not qualified would leave with better separation incentives than those currently available
(in accordance with the transitory dispositions of the CENTA law), transfer to other public or private
sector jobs, or access a reconversion program to privatize support services as described in para.
3.15; and (d) CENTA staff selected would be phased into a pay and grade structure which would
increase salaries of technical staff relative to those of administrative and support staff in line with
other pay scales in the public and private sectors. MAG's selected staff can only be fitted into a new
pay and salary structure once it is adopted for the whole civil service. This is expected to occur in
1994 with SAL II support. During the process of preparing a draft grade and salary structure, MAG
has been able to grade all its staff according to their functions, thereby standardizing their salaries.
For the autonomous CENTA, an additional step would be required because, by the CENTA law, all
staff must be recruited competitively. Therefore, staff preliminarily matched to a CENTA position
will have to pass another screening process before being ratified in his/her position. Again, staff not
qualified would have the options outlined in (c) above. As a condition of disbursements for



- 18-
CENTA's activities under the project, the Government would present a copy of the decision by
CENTA Board of Directors' to implement the actions in the MAG Staff Rationalization Plan
concerning CENTA (see para. 4.03.a). It is expected that this first selection would identify about
1,500 administrative and support staff and about 200 technical staff as redundant or not qualified (by
performance and/or requirements), to fill their positions within the new MAG and CENTA structures.
GOES has presented a MAG's Staff Rationalization Plan, satisfac ,ory to the Bank, and a letter from
the Ministry of Finance agreeing to make available, as and when needed the indemnity payments
required for MAG's Staff Rationalization Plan, within MAG's budget allocation. MAG's approved
1993 budget allocation was increased in anticipation for financing the indemnity payments and a
reduction of sala-y compression from 4.5 to 1, to 12 to 1 in CENTA. GOES agreed at negotiations
to review progress of implementation of the Staff Rationalization Plan during the mid-term review,
and to implement corrective measures if targets are not achieved (see Annex IP. and para. 4.01.e).
As a condition of effectiveness, GOES would present evidence of initiation of implementation of the
agreed MAG's Staff Rationalization Plan, satisfactory to the Bank (see para. 4.02.b).
3.15.     This subcomponent would also assist MAG to finalize the privatization or disposal of
IRA and those support services which can best be provided by the private sector. MAG has requested
bids for the sale of 10 of the 16 IRA plants. When warranted, assets can be donated to cultural uses
(archeological sites, schools), or sold as scrap. A prime candidate for support services privatization
would be MAG's internal transport services. MAG is preparing new rules for the use of the internal
transport services including policies on provision of official transportation, and guidelines for
maintenance and in house repairs, technical criteria for vehicles and spare parts, procurement
inventory and warehouse systems, and criteria for approval of gasoline allocation. Vehicles would be
repaired in private workshops rather than in internal maintenance facilities. These rules would first
be issued as a Ministerial Decree by June 30, 1993 for immediate effectiveness and later incorporated
into MAG and CENTA's internal rules. Staff affected by the Rationalization Plan may receive
training in alternative productive activities. This support is expected to smooth the reconversion of
remaining staff not selected into the new structure (see para. 3.14). As a condition of
disbursements for vehicles, the GOES would agree to present copy of a Ministerial Decree and of
CENTA Board of Directors decision adopting rules for internal MAG and CENTA transportation
services, satisfactory to the Bank (see paras. 3.14 and 4.02.a).
Management Information Systems and Procedures (US$1.8 million)
3.16.     This subcomponent would assist MAG improve the generation and dissemination of
information as a management tool and streamline administrative procedures. It would finance training
and computing equipment for MIS development and design, including testing policies, standards and
(computer-assisted) methodologies for: (a) organization-wide information systems planning; (b)
assignment of responsibilities to different functional levels and user directorates on information
technology matters; (c) divisional level information system requirements; and (d) information systems
security. It would also include design and implementation of a commercial information system (CIS)
to be designed under the project (see Annex IV) to provide MAG with the capacity to collect and
disseminate market information of agricultural products. Field work would be carried out by MAG's
Statistical Directorate. This subcomponent would also assist MAG and CENTA improve their
information and communications dissemination capability by modernizing their computing equipment,
linking workstations through local area networks, training staff in MIS and personal computer tools.
DIPEI would manage the implementation of the MIS and OSPA of the CIS. It would also include
support for a policy of open information for staff about institutional changes in the MAG. MAG has
presented a copy of the Ministerial Decree adopting an institutional communications plan, satisfactory
to the Bank. The plan provides for dissemination of information explaining the process and



- 19 -
implications of the institutional reform and implementation, the time frame for dissemination, an
interactive newsletter allowing staff questions and cost estimates. Implementation of the plan would
be contracted out to a local firm, and be supervised by MAG's Communication Unit and DIPEI.
3.17.     This subcomponent would also allow MAG to monitor ari evaluate performance of
project activities and responsiveness of CENTA to sectoral policies. OSPA's Division of Monitoring
and Evaluation would gather, analyze, and evaluate the relevant project data as well as provide
feedback to CENTA and MAG's management. This data would be updated quarterly and evaluations
provided to the Bank's annual and mid-term reviews. The estimated implementation and impact
indicators are presented in Annex IV.
3.18.     Finally, this subcomponent would assist in is streamlining administrative procedures.
MAG has reactivated an Administrative Advisory Committee (CAA) to streamline procedures and
systems. The PPF has supported CAA design procedures compatible with the modernization efforts
at the national level, starting with procurement and accounting. The proposed standardization would
follow the guidelines provided by the new Government Accounting Law and regulations (i.e., switch
from ex-ante to ex-after audit control and decentralization of audit functions to line ministries), as
well as the guidelines that emanate from the UNDP Management Development Program
(organization principles of functional decentralization and specialization). This subcomponent targets
systems and procedures supporting six functions: (a) financial management (budgeting, accounting);
(b) personnel operations (payroll); (c) procuremr.ent, inventory and warehousing; (d) vehicles
management; (e) auditing; and (f) mail/documentation management. The GOES has presented a copy
of the Ministerial Decree adopting standardized procedures for personnel administration and financial
management for MAG and CENTA, satisfactory to the Bank, including streamlined: (i) personnel
procedures for hiring through competitive external recruitment and concomitant updating of personnel
data base for payroll and other systems; and (ii) financial administration procedures for payroll,
accounting and budget monitoring by Divisional structure.
MAG Headquarters (US$4.3 million)
3. 9.     This subcomponent would finance the construction and furnishing of a new MAG
headquarters building near CENTA headquarters. MAG's offices have been dispersed over about 15
different locations around San Salvador since the October 1986 earthquake. Dispersion has obliged
MAG to incur high costs for rentals and courier services, in addition to the inefficiencies generated by
crammed and disjointed quarters. A study conducted in 1991 compared the current rental and courier
costs to building a new headquarters on MAG's own land near CENTA. The analysis indicated that,
although the latter would be the costlier in financial terms, the benefits of consolidating MAG's
streamlined central functions in a single headquarters building close to CENTA would increase staff
productivity and teamwork, and improve internal cohesiveness and communications. The design of
the building is being financed under the Earthquake Reconstruction Project (Loan 2873-ES).
2. Agricultural Research and Extension
3.20.     This component would strengthen applied research and extension with priority given to
small and medium-size farmers. Objectives are to: (a) reorient research and extension services to
small and medium farmers; (b) create a unified national crop and livestock research and extension
system; (c) make the research and extension system more efficient by giving it autonomy and
administrative flexibility; (d) give priority in research and extension to basic grains, livestock, fibers
and oilseeds produced by small farmers and natural resource conservation while leaving research and
extension for export crops to the private sector and to bilateral financing; (e) reorganize research from



- 20 -
a disciplinary approach to a commodity approach; (f) change the extension methodology to Training
and Visit; (g) stop functions extraneous to research and extension, such as general rural development,
seed certification and commercial seed production; and (h) include representation from alternative
sources of finance, which, given the smaller farmer clientele, and lack of cost-recovery, should
include the NGOs. These objectives are included in the CENTA law. This component has three
subcomponents: research, extension, and support services for agricultural research and extension, as
follows.
Agricultural Research (US$11.9 million)
3.21.     The proposed project will support research on: (a) basic grains (maize, beans, rice,
sorghum, and wheat); (b) livestock and forages; (c) fruits and vegetables; (d) fibers and oilseeds
which are the principal commodities of small and medium farmers; and (e) natural resources. The
first four research priorities were chosen with exclusive emphasis on those commodities most
important for the small and medium farmers who are CENTA's clients. Natural resources research
was selected as a priority because little information exists about problems in the area and because
natural resource degradation affects small and medium farmers. There would be no project funding
for coffee or sugarcane research which are private (see para. 2.19). CENTA's staffing and skill mix
would reflect the priorities indicated above. Funding for the commodity groups would be as shown
below:
a. Basic grains research (US$2.7 million) including work on plant breeding, cropping
practices, and plant protection to produce higher yielding cultivars and more
sustainable management practices on farm;
b. Livestock and forage research (US$2.4 million) for small-scale beef, dairy, sheep,
and goat production, with emphasis on better animal nutrition and management;
c. Fruits and vegetables (US$2.2 million) in crops which have significant growth
potential in order to develop production packages for small and medium-scale
farmers; and
d. Fibers and oilseeds (sesame, cotton, and soybeans) (US$1.0 million).
3.22.     Natural resources research (US$2.2 million). Given the importance of soil conservation
measures and CENTA's lack of experience in natural resources management, research in this area
will concentrate initially on soil conservation to reduce erosion. Soil conservation will be approached
initially from several fronts: (a) strengthening MAG's capacity to implement programs and to
manage resources; (b) targeting extension to small and medium farms; and (c) promoting adoption of
on-farm soil conservation techniques. The program would support investments, lab equipment and
supplies for soils and microbiology, office and field equipment, and staff, farmer and training at
NGOs. Eligible NGOs would be those already working in natural research conservation. The project
would later expand to include broader issues of natural resource management, as defined under a
consultancy to be carried out under the proposed operation (see para. 3.33.d and Annex VIII-A,
pages 8-9). This consultancy would take into account the recommendations of environment-related
work expected under the proposed SAL IH and the proposed Natural Resources Management Study.
3.23.     Physical investments (US$6.8 million). The proposed project would fund
infrastructure, vehicles, and equipment at CENTA headquarters in San Andres (32% of investments)
and at the CDTs of Santa Cruz Porrillo (23%), Izalco (25%), and Morazan (20%), as follows:



- 21 -
a. Civil works (US$1.8 million) would include rehabilitation of laboratories and other
structures, with minor new construction at San Andres and at the three regional
CDTs;
b. Vehicles (US$3.5 million) would be four-wheel drive vehicles for staff to travel to
field research sites. Given the condition of the roads these vehicles would transit,
they would need to be replaced every four years;
c. Farm equipment (US$1.3 million) would be irrigation equipment, farm machinery
(such as tractors, harrows, harvesters, and trucks) and farm tools, to execute
experiments on research stations and on farmers' fields; and
d. Laboratory and office equipment (US$0.2 million). Lab equipment would include
goods for crop, soils, plant pathology, livestock, and forage laboratories. Office
equipment would be computers, communications equipment, photocopiers,
typewriters, and related office goods to be employed for research and for
dissemination of results. Information technology goods would comprise library
acquisitions, computer hardware and software to process and retransmit new
acquisitions, and cataloguing facilities.
3.24.     Training (US$2.6 million). The proposed project will fund graduate studies in plant
breeding, crop agronomy, plant pathology, extension, management, economics, statistics,
communications, computing and other priority areas. Academic training would be abroad because
there is no facility for graduate agricultural studies in El Salvador. The Bank has accepted CENTA's
proposed academic training program for scientists and other staff, including timing, fields, and
degree sought (see Annex V) and the government's proposal on the size and focus of non-academic
training for research and extension. Non-academic training would include practical courses in soil
fertility management, use of new crop cultivars, plant protection with emphasis on integrated pest
management, animal health and management, forage production, small-scale irrigation, crop storage
and marketing, farm planning as well as agricultural research and extension planning and
administration, scientific methodology for new staff resources, technical and socio-economic briefing
for new extension workers (CENTA and NGOs). The government has presented a satisfactory 1993
non-academic training program for CENTA and would present the annual non-academic training
program for the next year per discussion at each annual project review (see para. 3.48.c). The 1993
non-academic training program would be annexed to the MAG-CENTA implementation agreement to
be signed before effectiveness. MAG has prepared a set of procedures for selecting, managing and
reincorporating returning scholars, including that the scholarships would be granted as a personal
loan, to be repaid at the rate of two years of service per year of studies. Were the scholar not to
return, the loan would become due. The government would present a decision by CENTA's Board of
Directors, adopting criteria and procedures for se.lecting and managing CENTA Staff for academic
training, and for placing those staff in CENTA upon their return, satisfactory to the Bank. The
decision would be annexed to the MAG-CENTA implementation agreement (see para. 3.11).
3.25.      Incremental recurrent costs (US$2.5 million). The proposed operation would permit to
offer competitive employment remuneration conditions by fin&ncing incremental recurrent (salary and
operating) costs. All incremental recurrent costs financed by the Bank would be on a declining basis
(see para. 3.39). They expected to be high the first year because of lagged maintenance and
privatization of services heretofore carried out by staff and which will be contracted out (e.g.,
vehicles repairs).



- 22 -
3.26.      Research management. CENTA will maintain its central administration, laboratories,
information, and communication services at San Andres. CENTA will have the option to devote up
to 5 percent of Its research budget for competitive research grants or purchase research results
elsewhere on criteria agreed with the Bank during the annual reviews (para. 3.48.c). Each CDT will
have a small administrative unit to assist in managing research and extension. The institutional
development of CENTA will be implemented in parallel with that of MAG and managed by CENTA
with DIPEI concurrence (see para. 3.11).
3.27.      Women in research. The roles and functions of women in El Salvador's small and
medium farms are not well known. It is known, however, that there are up to 60 percent women
head of household in some areas affected by the war and emigration. A long-term consultancy (terms
of reference in Annex VIII-a, page 12) would analyze women's participation in CENTA's clients
farms and help improve research and extension programs. Female researchers are more frequent than
female extension agents, and can provide upstream insight on appropriate features of technology likely
to be adopted by farmers, as these are family decisions. Although this project would not support a
quota system (for hiring of female researchers), the contribution of the long-term consultant will
ensure the incorporation of upstream input by women.
Extension (US$17.1 million)
3.28.      Under the proposed operation, extension would be decentralized and reorganized with the
T&V method. Extension staff would be based with research staff at the four CDTs (San Andres,
Santa Cruz Porrillo, Izalco, and Morazan). The extension system would operate as follows:
a. The priority would be on maize, beans, rice, and sorghum, as these are the principal
crops of the target farmers. Livestock extension will be added in the second year of
the project. Under the project there would be no support for extension for coffee or
sugarcane as private extension systems serve these crops (see para. 2.29);
b. Extensionists would follow the T&V methodology of a regular schedule of farm
visits to producer groups. This permits field staff to monitor progress with technical
recommendations and establish a predictable visit pattern (see para. 2.31); and
c. Extensionists would receive regular training, including assistance from subject matter
specialists among the research staff, to improve links with research staff and update
their skills (see para. 2.34).
3.29.      The extension subcomponent would support rehabilitation of offices, vehicles and office
equipment, farm equipment, staff and producer training, and incremental recurrent costs. Costs
would be as follows:
a. Civil works (US$0.3 million) would consist of limited rehabilitation of field
buildings used by extension staff;
b. Vehicles (US$4.8 million). Four-wheel drive vehicles would be provided to
extension management at the rate of one vehicle per two extension agencies and
motorcycles to field extensionists. As with vehicles for the research components,
these would be replaced every four years;



- 23 -
c. OMce equipment (US$0.3 million). The operation would finance computers,
communications equipment, and other office items.
d. Farm equipment (US$0.5 million). The project would finance farm inputs and
equipment to allow more on-farm demonstrations. Inputs would include seeds,
fertilizers and other agrochemicals, and necessary machinery.
e. Staff, producer and NGO training and consultants (US$3.4 million). Because
project extension involves a new method, it will be necessary to retrain staff. The
project would include a long-term consultancy to help implement T&V. In addition,
the T&V method emphasizes producer training. The project would provide training
in soil conservation and natural resource management for subject matter specialists,
field extension workers, and NGOs.
f. Incremental recurrent costs (US$7.8 million). The project would provide for
incremental recurrent costs (salaries and operating costs) for extension services on a
declining basis (see para. 3.39). The project would finance 43 percent of
extension's total incremental costs because the starting base of recurring cost
expenditure was extremely low. Financing would seek to palliate one of the reasons
for lack of extension coverage, i.e., agents' inability to visit farmers because they did
not have gasoline, or working vehicles.
3.30.     NGO involvement in extension. Although MAG was among the few public institutions
active in conflict areas during the civil war, institutional weaknesses coupled with the particular
hardships of working in the conflict areas precluded effective extension. Many NGOs were active
with support from international private and public donors, and have since established a well-
recognized presence in these areas. The GOES recognizes the usefulness of these agencies and
envisages that many of the activities under the NRP would be implemented by NGOs. With Japanese
Grant financing, CENTA has began to identify NGOs working in the agricultural sector and active in
the NRP areas to establish agreements to share technology transfer to their clientele in their areas of
comparative advantage. It is expected that CENTA would coordinate national extension efforts, and
provide NOOs with technological messages from their research trials; the NGOs would advise
CENTA on community organization and feedback from their own clientele (see para. 3.29.e).
Project funds would not be used to pay NGOs for this involvement, but NGO staff would be able to
access research and extension training sessions. To ensure that NGOs have a forum to discuss their
concerns, the CENTA Board of Directors includes a representative of NGOs (see para. 3.20).
3.31.      Extension on soil conservation. Soil erosion is one of the most serious problems in
natural resources management, and will be a major concern of extension and research under the
proposed project. UNDP, FAO and the Tropical Agronomic Center for Research and Extension
(CATIE) have financed and implemented over the last 10 years several agroforestry projects
addressed to small farmers promoting soil conservation techniques. CENTA has integrated these
experiences and, with Japanese Grant support, will disseminate the techniques proven successful.
NGO staff will also be trained in these techniques to broaden dissemination.
a
3.32.      Women in extension. In El Salvador, about 1 of 8 small and medium farmers are
female heads of households and many more participate in field work or tend their own gardens.
Their participation in technological adoption is crucial to the achievement of a broad based
technological change. The long-term consultant on rural women's participation in farm development
(see pan. 3.27 and Annex VII-a, pg. 12) would seek to improve both research and extension in



- 24 -
areas where women contribute to technology adoption. The consultant would provide training to
researchers, extensionists, farmers and NGOs on these issues. Extensionists at CENTA are now all
male. To address women farmers' needs, CENTA would train all agents to look at women's issues,
and efforts will be made to attract qualified female extensionists. Women contact farmers will be
selected. In the first years, the number of female extensionists will not increase dramatically because
female university enrollment in agricultural disciplines is less than 10 percent. The government
would seek agreed to include representative numbers of women among the extension workers and
contact farmers (see Annex IV).
Support Services for Agricultural Research and Extension (US$10.8 rsillion)
3.33.      Additional support services would be required for the basic research and extension
activities. The proposed operation would provide rehabilitation of CENTA headquarters, vehicles,
equipment, technical assistance and training, and incremental recurrent costs. Costs would be as
follows:
a. Civil works (US$0.8 million) would consist of the rehabilitation of CENTA's
headquarters building. The roof has experienced leaks for several years and resulted
in the deterioration of library and other material;
b. Vehicles (US$0.8 million) to serve operations management staff;
c. Office and lab equipment (US$0.9 million) to include upgrading lab equipment and
materials, as well as research and extension's management information and library
systems. With PPF support, CENTA has received technical assistance from
CYMMIT to elaborate a proposal to provide researchers with access to worldwide
data bases to keep abreast of developments in their fields of specialization;
d. Technical assistance and training (US$5.8 million). Academic training under the
project can only provide expertise after several years. Technical assistance and
training would therefore be required in the first years of the project, both for
technical and institutional development. That technical assistance would be
implemented through a 'twinning' arrangement with a qualified national agricultural
research program with experience in Latin America. The arrangement would provide
about 20 consultant/years in communications, soil fertility, plant breeding, post-
harvest operations, bacteriology, plant pathology, and computing. It would upgrade
research and extension management and provide training to CENTA librarians. A
major part of the technical assistance would be the design of a natural resources
management strategy. Institutional development will be required to bring managerial
and technical aspects of CENTA in line with the process in MAG. The proposed
loan would finance 14 consultant/years in technical assistance and training to upgrade
support functions (planning, statistics, economics, personnel administration). Those
specialties not available from the twin institution would be contracted separately.
Terms of reference for these consultancies are presented in Annex VIJI; and
e. Incremental Recurrent Costs (US$2.5 million). As with the research and extension
subcomponents, these costs would cover mostly operating costs on a declining scale
(see para. 3.39), including those to start up activities previously found lacking,
namely building and vehicle operation and maintenance, as well as central functions
for both research and extension like prod-,.ion of publications to disseminate



- 25 -
research findings and didactic materials, subscriptions to research publications, and
access to on-line data bases.
E. Project Organization and Managernent
3.34.     The implementation of this project would be a main MAG and CENTA activity during
the six years project period. MAG and CENTA are the executing agencies of the project. An
administrative unit (PAU) for the proposed project within MAG's Projects Coordinating Unit (for all
of MAG's projects, UCP) would coordinate and administer the project (see para. 3.35).
1. Project Implementation
3.35.     MAG and CENTA would implement the proposed project. MAG would implement the
reform and institutional development component through the Advisory Technical Committee (CTA,
which consists of the minister, vice-minister, advisors and all directors). CTA would approve the
work program and meet regularly to assess, review and make policies decisions progress. CTA is
assisted by DIPEI, its technical secretariat, which coordinates all activities and provides technical
inputs. DIPEI has been the principal agency in project preparation but during implementation, each
affected administrative unit would take responsibility for carrying out the relevant reform measures.
Both DIPEI and units would be responsible for proposing and carrying out adjustments in
organization and staffing determined by the reform program. Periodic workshops are programmed
for this purpose (see para. 3.12). DIPEI would be assisted by an expatriate resident Chief Technical
Advisor or Institutional Development Specialist who would support the program (see Annex VIII-C).
This Advisor would help DIPEI prove technical coherence and continuity to the work of short-term
consultants including legal, personnel management and organizational planning issues. DIPEI would
implement: (a) the institutional planning and strategy subcomponent; and (b) the human resources
management subcomponent, together with a privatization unit to follow-up on IRA assets and with the
Directorate of General Administration (DGA)'s Division of Human Resources. DGA would also
implement: (c) the MIS and new administrative procedures; and (d) the MAG headquarters building
subcomponent.
3.36.     CENTA would implement the research and extension component through its research and
extension directorates, which would also be responsible for gathering data for the Bank's reporting
requirements. The CENTA law creates an independent Board of Directors to ensure that the financial
and scientific management of CENTA is consistent with MAG's priorities and mandates an
independent review of research and extension quality, at least every three years (in the past,
autonomous organizations in MAG's domain have sometimes set priorities outside those dictated by
the sectoral leadership because the President appointed their heads). It is expected that this review
process will continue beyond the life of the proposed project.
3.37.     OSPA and the PAU will monitor implementation of the project. OSPA will monitor
project progress in implementing the government's letter of sector development policy (Annex IV)
and priorities and activities. Moreover, OSPA would hire consultants, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, to prepare an independent ongoing evaluation of project activities, including
a 1992-94 research results evaluation before the mid-term review (see para. 3.47.b). OSPA's
Division of Monitoring and Evaluation (DISE) would monitor and evaluate the proposed project's
activities and CENTA's plans and programs, using agreed performance indicators (see para. 3.17 and
Annex IV). PAU would monitor Bank-specific requirements of the loan (e.g., annual and mid-term
reviews, covenants compliance, disbursements, procurement, audits) on a day-to-day basis (PAU has
been monitoring the implementation of the PPF under OSPA, but has been merged into the UCP



- 26 -
under MAG's new structure); its staffing would be satisfactory to the Bank throughout project
implementation. PAU would also submit to the Bank, no later than one month before each annual
and mid-term review, a consolidated report from MAG and CENTA to include draft work programs
and budgets, progress against performance indicators and other information required to conduct the
reviews, as per paras. 3.48.c and 3.48.d).
2. ProJect Cost and Financing
3.38.     Project Cost. Total project cost is estimated at US$56.5 million (Cable 1). Project base
cost is US$48.0 million, with US$2.2 million for physical contingencies and US$6.3 million for price
contingencies. Of the base cost, the reform component is estimated at US$15.5 million, and the
research and extension component at US$32.5 million (see Table 2 below and Annex 1). Physical
contingencies are calculated on the basis of 10 percent for vehicles, 14 percent for civil works and 5
percent for operating costs. Price contingencies are estimated as 8.1 percent for local costs as
estimated by government and 3.7 percent for foreign costs.



- 27 -
Table 2
Project Cost and Financing Plan
(USS milUon)
Local       Foreign           'lotal
Project Costs
Reform and Institutional Development        1L             45           L5.5
Institutional Planning and Strategy /      1.3          1.6           2.9
I Human Resources Management                7.0           0.1           7.1
Management Information Systems and
Procedures                               0.7          0.8            1.5
MAG Headquarters                           2.0          2.0           4.0
Research and Extension                       9.2           L            32.5
Research                                   2.6          6.8           9.4
Extension b/                              5.2           8.6           13.8
Support Services for Research and
Extension                                1.4           7.9           9.3
Total Base Cost                             20.           27.8          48.0
Physical Contingencies                    0.6           1.6           2.2
Price Contingencies                        3.1          3.2           6.3
Total Project Cost                                                      56.5
Financing Plan
IBRD                                       9.2         30.8          40.0
Government of El Salvador                 14.72        I.            16.5
Total                                     23.9         32.6          56.5  |
Estimated Bank Disbursements
Bank FY                              1994_/ 1995   1996  1997   1998   1999
Annual                                15.4   8.8   4.8   5.2   4.4    1.4
Cumulative                            15.4  24.2  29.0  34.2  38.6   40.0
V Includes US$0.7 million financed under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
b/ Includes US$0.8 million financed under the PPF.
c/ Including US$3 million initial deposit in the Special Account, and up to $4.0 million of
retroactive financing for expenditures incurred since March 31, 1992.
3.39.     Project financing. Total project cost is US$56.5 million. The proposed loan would
provide US$40.0 million, including refinancing of the US$1.5 million PPF, and the GOES would
provide the balance of US$16.5 million (Table 2). Of the total project cost, US$42.8 million would
involve investment and US$13.7 million incremental recurrent costs. The proposed loan would fund
about 43 percent of incremental recurrent costs (salaries, operation and maintenance costs), on a
declining basis: 100 percent up to US$1.7 million; thereafter, 80 percent up to US$3.2 million;
thereafter, 60 percent up to US$4.5 million; thereafter, 40 percent up to US$5.0 million; 20 percent
up to US$5.5 million (US$0.4 million have been disbursed through the PPF, see Table 3). The



- 28 -
Bank's incremental recurrent cost financing would support the agricultural research (US$1.0 million)
and extension (US$4.2 million), reform and preparation (US$0.7 million) activities; such support is
justified given the need to jumpstart field activities and the current low level of operating expenditures
(7 percent of recurrent expenditures). The proposed loan would finance about one third of total local
costs, a level warranted by the country's transition to peace and its financing commitments under the
peace agreements, while implementing a program of fiscal austerity. The GOES would finance all
indemnity payments for voluntary staff reductions (about US$6.6 million). To ensure the
maintenance of momentum achieved during project preparation and to allow for the continuous
delivery of extension services during the 1992/93 crop season, retroactive financing of up to US$4.0
million is recommended for expenditures incurred after March 31, 1992.
Table 3
Financing Plan by Project Component
(US$ million)
World
Bank     GOES    IOTAL
Reform and Institutional Development               9.2        7i5       16.7
Institutional Planning and Strategy               3.0       0.4         3.4
Human Resource Management                         0.5       6.6         7.2
MIS and Procedures                                1.7       0.1         1.8
MAG Headquarters                                  3.9       0.4         4.3
Research and Extension                            30.8       9.0        39
Research                                          9.7       2.2        11.9
Extension                                        12.0       5.1        17.1
Support Services for Ag. Research and Extension   9.1        1.7       10.8
Total, of which                                     40.0                 565
Recurrent                                         5.9       7.8        13.7
Local                                             9.2       14.7       23.9
Foreign                                          30.8        1.8       32.6
3. Procurement
3.40.     A partial procureme4t assessment was conducted by the Bank in 1990 and concluded that
there are no major conflicts between local procurement procedures and Bank policies and guidelines.
Recently, the GOES amended the Procurement Law to lift restrictions on the participation of foreign
companies in civil works. MAG will carry out all procurement under the proposed operation
following the guidelines "Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits", May 1992, with
technical assistance provided by UNDP under a cost-sharing agreement satisfactory to the Bank and
similar to the one being successfully implemented for the Bank's Social Sectors Rehabilitation Project
(Loan 3348-ES). Under that cost-sharing agreement, UNDP assists GOES in the procurement of
goods, works and services financed by the project using standardized procurement documents. Tbe
same standard documents would be used under the proposed project.



- 29 -
3.41.     Civil Works. Civil works would consist mainly of the construction of MAG's office
building (US$4.3 million), rehabilitation of CENTA headquarters (US$0.7 million) and small
rehabilitation of research stations and extension agencies. Contractr valued above US$1.0 million
(MAG building) would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB), between
US$50,000 and US$1.0 million and not exceeding an aggregate amount of US$2.6 million, would be
procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Small
rehabilitation works valued under $50,000 and to an aggregate amount of US$300,000, would be
contracted on the bases of price quotations obtained from at least three eligible contractors.
3.42.     Goods. Vehicles would be procured in packages valued not less than US$200,000
through ICB. Office, laboratory and farm equipment would be grouped as far as possible in package
valued above US$200,000 and be procured through ICB. Packages of similar equipment valued
between US$25,000 and $200,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million, would be procured
through LCB. Miscellaneous equipment items valued under US$25,000 up to an aggregate amount o
US$1.0 million, would be procured through shopping procedures requiring not less than three bids.
For purposes of bid evaluation under ICB, manufacturers from the Central American Common
Market, including El Salvador, would be granted a margin of preference in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
3.43.     Consultant Services. All consultant services will be procured according to the Bank
Guidelines, "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency," August 1981. The Bank would review terms of reference, letters of invitation and proposa
evaluations for all consultant assignments valued at above US$30,000. Below this value, Bank's prio
review would cover only the terms of reference with the exception of consultant assignments of
critical nature and for amendments to contracts raising original contract value above US$30,000.
3.44.     Review Requirements. Prior review by the Bank would be required for contracts for
goods and works awarded through ICB and as follows: (a) for works valued above US$500,000; (b)
the first two contracts awarded for goods a.'d works .nder LCB irrespective of their value; and (c)
other contracts would be subject to random reviews during supervision. This would amount to about
80 percent of Bank-financed contracts. All procurement documentation would be kept by the PAU
and UNDP for periodic Bank staff supervision. Table 4 summarizes procurement arrangements by
category.



- 30 -
Table 4
Procurement Methods
(US$ million)
CATEGORY                                 ICB      LCB      OTHER   NBFP   TOTAL
Civil works                               4.3       2.6       0.3k-              7.2
(3.9)     (2.4)     (0.3)              (6.6)
Vehicles                                  9.0                                    9.0
(8.2)                                  (8.2)
Office and Laboratory Equipment           2.0       0.8       0.8#               3.6
(1.8)     (0.7)     (0.7)              (3.2)
Farm Equipment                            0.9       0.7       0.2d'              1.8
(0.7)     (0.7)     (0.2)              (1.6)
Training, technical assistance and studies                   14.4               14.4
(14.2)            (14.2)
Incremental Recurrent Costs                                  13.7               13.7
(6.2)             (6.2)
Other 9'                                                               6.8       6.8
Total                                    16.2       4.1      36.2      6.8      56.5
________   (14.6)  (3.8)   (21.6)    (0.0)    (40.0)
Note: Figures in parenihesis reprsent amounts, includmg coningencias, eligible to be fi:aw by t o Bank.
" Non-Bank financed.
k' Local shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank.
a Severance payments included in the Reform and Institutional Development component.
d/ Local/international shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4. DIsbursoent
3.45.      Disbursement would occur over the six-year project life. The loan closing date would be
December 31, 1999. The borrower, GOES, would establish a Special Account for the project with an
initial deposit ')f US$3.0 million, equal to about four months estimated disbursement of the loan.
Disbursement requests to the Bank would be made by PAU (see comments on para. 3.37).
Disbursements against contracts for goods under US$200,000 and works under US$500,000 as well
as incremental recurrent expenditures would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
(SOEs). Disbursements against all civil works contracts, and for goods contracts above the
aforementioned limits, would be made against full documentation submitted to the Bank (see Annex
II). As indicated in the disbursement schedule (Annex II), disbursement would be at the rate of 100%
of vehicles and training, technical assistance and studies; and 90% of civil works and farm, office and
laboratory equipment, in all cases excluding taxes and for eligible expenses only. The projected 6-
year schedule of Bank disbursements (Annex II) is shorter than the historical El Salvador
disbursement profile (for all sectors) which spans 7-1/2 years. Since the proposed operation would be
the Bank's first in the Agricultural Sector approved since 1978, and implementation is expected to
occur over 6 years (with the government assuming all recurrent costs in the sixth year), the profile
was adjusted to reflect the best estimate of expected Bank disbursements. Although the loan would



- 31 -
finance no incremental recurrent expenditures during the sixth year, it would flnance the replacement
of motorcycles for extension agencies incorporated in year 3 of the project. More importantly, a six-
year project would allow Bank oversight on how project's activities would be sustained after
Government has totally assumed the proposed project's recurrent expenditures. As conditions of
disbursements for: (i) the vc.iicles category, CENTA would publish and disseminate internally the
new rules for governing internal transportation services (see para. 3.15 and 4.03.b); and (ii) for
CENTA's activities under the project, the government would present a copy of the CENTA Board of
Directors' decision to implement the actions in the MAG Staff Rationalization Plan that concerns the
autonomous CENTA (see paras. 3.14 and 4.03.a).
S. Audit
3.46.     MAG and CENTA would each maintain separate central project accounts including
consolidation of CDT accounts. Each CDT would also maintain separate project accounts for project
expenditures incurred by them. All accounts would adequately reflect expenditures made in respect of
the project, in accordance with sound accounting practices. Financial documents (procurement,
disbursement requests, budgets audit reports) would be reviewed by the PAU before submission to the
Bank. A certified copy of the project audit, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by
the World Bank", March 1982, would be submitted to the Bank not more than six months after the
completion of each financial year. The audit report would include a separate opinion by the auditor
on disbursements against certified statements of expenditures. Statements of expenditures would be
made available to the Bank and reviewed by supervision m.ssions.
6. Supervision by the Bank
3.47.     Intense supervision would be required because of the breadth of the proposed reforms,
the inherent difficulty of achieving effective agricultural research and extension and the Government's
lack of familiarity with Bank procedures. Other reasons are that MAO lacks experience with
privatization of support services, staff reduction and human resources development and the
establishment of new procedures and systems, CENTA has been created from weak institutions
(CENTA, CDG and DGDR) (see paras. 2.16 to 2.18, and 2.29), and the implementation experience
of the two IDB operations (see paras. 3.04.a and 3.04.b). The project's complexity is reflected in the
supervision plan which foresees an annual average of 24 staff weeks per year during 1993 and 1994
and only a slight decrease thereafter (Annex VI). Majoi concerns in supervision would be:
a. Reform and institutional development of MAG and CENTA. Rebuilding the
efficiency of MAG would be lengthy and require constant support. Particular
concerns would be that: (i) MAG's appropriate staffing and skill mix is achieved
and maintained; (ii) new personnel policies are adhered to; (iii) training is carried
out as planned; (iv) MAG's Organic law is enacted before the mid-term review; (v)
all IRA assets are privatized or otherwise disposed of; and (vi) MAG headquarters
construction follows agreed plans. As the rest of the civil service follows suit in the
reform effort, coordination with global civil service reform measures would be
necessary to avoid disruptions in MAG's process;
b. Organization and management of research and extension. Particular attention
would be given to ersuring that: (i) the accepted CENTA staffing and skill mix is
maintained; (ii) CENTA's move of San Andres staff to the field is maintained; (iii)
the planned allocation of goods procured by CENTA is adhered to, and especially



- 32 -
vehicles are assigned according to agreed internal transportation rules; (iv) goods,
civil works, and consultants' services are procured effectively; (v) research result
evaluation by an independent panel be conducted before the mid-term review; and
(vi) extension activities address women's needs and are clearly monitored;
c.  Training. Supervision would verify that: (i) appropriate staff are selected for
training in appropriate fields, universities, and periods (see Annex V); and (ii) a
satisfactory annual program for non-academic training is prepared; and
d.  Consultancies. The Bank would follow up on the selection of consultants under
technical assistance to assist in staff recruitment and training as well as on the
twinning arrangement.
3.48.     Performance monitoring. Quantitative indicators to assess project implementation
would be used in supervision missions, annual reviews of project implementation and a mid-term
review of project implementation and impact. PAU would review, consolidate and submit to the
Bank one month before the reviews, information prepared by MAG and CENTA on each of their
components (see para. 3.35). During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
would present a satisfactory action plan within 60 days of notice by the Bank proposing corrective
measures if annual or mid-term reviews identify areas where project objectives have not been fully
met (see para. 4.01.e). Implementation and impact indicators (Annex IV) and the terms of reference
for annual and mid-term reviews were agreed during negotiations. Performance monitoring consists
of the following:
a.  Implementation indicators. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
the government would carry out the project in accordance with implementation
indicators satisfactory to the Bank, as shown in Annex IV. Such indicators, together
with the covenants, would be the basis of the annual and mid-term reviews (see
para. 4.01.J). In the reform and institutional development component, indicators
include the follow-up workshops to evaluate and readjust norms, structures and
procedures, number of strategic planning seminars, number of manuals issued,
legislative actions accomplished, staff rationalization targets, CENTA recruitment
targets, nstallation of standardized systems, privatizations disposals completed, and
MAG hea-4uarters construction progress. In research, they include numbers of
experiments by priority commodity groups, and research staff hired in San Andres.
In extension, they include phasing of extension agencies, numbers of farmers groups
receiving technical assistance, staff receiving training, numbers of women extension
agents and contact farmers receiving extension services. This information would be
generated in MAG under the MIS and procedures subcomponent (see para. 3.17)
and other sources.
b. Impact indicators. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
government would carry out the project in accordance with impact indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, as shown in Annex IV. Such indicators, together with the
covenants, would be the basis of the mid-term review and project completion report
(see para. 4.01.). These include key impact indicators to monitor attainment of
project objectives and detailed impact indicators to monitor charges in research and
farm yields in each CDT. The key impact indicators monitor: (i) the number of
Agricultural Sector Development Strategy actions completed and NRP agencies
upgraded; (ii) the MAG and CENTA technical/nontechnical staff and



- 33 -
salary/recurrent ratios; (iii) MAG salary/nonsalary expenditure ratio as proxies for
institutional efficiency ratios; and (iv) the number of published new
recommendations per research program and farm technology-induced changes in the
key commodity or area in each CDT. Baseline indicators were agreed during
negotiations for the numbd of published recommendations per program, and
research and farm yields of priority crop and livestock commodities.
c.  Annual review. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Government would hold an annual review no later than September 30 of each year
except in 1994 (see below), before the date of draft budget submission to the
Legislature (normally, budgets can be negotiated until end of November). The
review would analyze and reach agreement on the proposed budget and work plan
for the following year, criteria for competitive research grants, academic (as per
Annex V) and non-academic training program as well as progress with project
implementation, using the agreed implementation indicators (see paras. 3.48.a and
4.01.g), and to modify the following year's work plan accordingly. The focus of
the first annual review would be on MAG's and CENTA's institutional reform.
d. Mid-Term review. Assurances were obtained that the Government would hold a
mid-term review no later than November 30, 1994' to evaluate project impact using
the agreed impact indicators (see paras. 3.48.b and 4.01.g) and covering the
following points, in addition to those reviewed in annual reviews: (i) the
implementation of the sector development strategy; (ii) NGO-CENTA collaboration;
(iii) the academic training program; (iv) twinning arrangement and other
consultancies; (v) seeds certification and commercial seeds production actkun plans;
and (vi) natural resource research issues raised by the twinning arrangement and by
the Bank sector work on natural resource management. Consultants would be hired
to prepare a research results evaluation report as well as a summary of
recommendations of the workshop on norms, structuring and procedures, evaluation
and readjustment, in preparation of this review (see paras. 3.12 and 3.35).
7. Coordination with Other Donors
3.49.      Coordination by the Bank on project matters with key donors active in El Salvador-e.g.,
USAID, IDB, UNDP, FAO, EEC, GTZ and IFAD-would continue during implementation. DIPEI
has been cooperating closely with the Ministry of Planning staff working on the UNDP Management
Development Program mentioned in para. 3.13. IFAD has approved an agricultural project for
development in the mid-west region (about US$17.0 million) that would include funds for 16
extension agencies in NRP areas, which would not be included in the proposed operation (see Annex
o). GOES has agreed that all extension activities, regardless of funding, would be coordinated by
CENTA.
1/  The 1994 review is scheduled in November rather than September to allow the administration assuming in June 1994 t
become acquainted with the objectives of the proposed project; the 1994 mid-term review would substitute for the anni
review in that year. The term 'mid-term' review takes into account PPF financed project activities started in April 19



- 34 -
F. Environmental Issues
3.50.      The proposed operation is expected to produce positive environmental effects through
research on and dissemination of natural resource management techniques, especially better soil
conservation methods and improved agrochemical and fertilizer use and better capacity of public
institutions to identify environmental costs and devise s¢lutions. It has an environmental rating of
"B". Promotion of improved on-farm techniques would be carried out through the extension service
and NGOs. The operation would also produce institutional benefits by fortifying CENTA's ability to
analyze natural resource and environmental issues (see paras. 3.21 and 3.29.d). Environmental
benefits are expected for: (a) crops: Research supported by the project would improve management of
soils, agrochemicals, and pests. Soils research and extension would emphasize extending known
conservation methods and on developing methods where economic solutions do not exist. Research
and extension on integrated pest management and in reducing agrochemicals which are
complementary, would build from the base established by previous technical assistance projects in
CENTA (i.e. GTZ's integrated pest management project). Significant benefits are expected from
generation and transfer of methods to reduce soil erosion caused by crop and livestock production; (b)
livestock: Animal research would produce environmental benefits through greater efficiency of feed
production and use. Because much of the expansion of tropical animal production has been through
more depredatory land use, sounder feed production and use would be expected to lessen pressure on
tropical lands. Otter possible environmental effects from research on livestock production include
better disease diagnosis and prevention, and reduced chemical use; and (c) forestry: Forestry
research and extension are in their incipient stages. Forest research would focus on natural resource
conservation issues, and forest extension would incorporate the lessons of on-going agroforestry
projects into extension agents' technology messages (see para. 3.31).
G. Benefits and Risks
3.51.      Benefits. Expected benefits include improved resource allocation and more effective
provision of services in the agricultural sector. Improved resource allocation would result from the
elimination of government's role in agricultural marketing, direct production and non-agricultural
activities, and improved sectoral priority setting and institutional efficiency. The government's ability
to reorient public sector resources to regulatory and support services and to continue staff
rationalization in MAG would allow resource reallocation to priority functions. The reform and
institutional development activities under the proposed project are expected to provide permanent
capacity to MAG and CENTA to plan, design, carry-out, evaluate and readjust institutional strategies
and organizational planning consistent with policies and programs for the sector, including to develop,
monitor and maintain organizational structures and procedures in support of operational, legal and
administrative systems. Furthermore, the proposed project would establish pay and grade structures
designed to create career streams with adequate compensation, which would reduce technical staff
turnover, a cncern crucial to long-term endeavors such as agricultural research. Better MIS and
administrative procedures would provide information to monitor performance and reduce paperwork.
3.52.      More effective provision of agricultural research and extension is expected to result in
increased and more sustainable production through improved agricultural practices. High economic
rates of return to agricultural research and extension are well documented in Bank projects and
elsewhere. Typical constituents of those returns are innovations boosting crop and livestock,
productivity, lowering input use, upgrading cultural practices, and ensuring more sustainable natural
resource use. Other benefits are expanded capacities to generate research, to communicate results to
producers, and to train more scientific and technical staff. All are expected to be achieved in this
operation. Specific benefits from the project include: (a) more productive agricultural technology



- 35 -
would be generated for crop, livestock, and forestry production with greater product yields per unit ol
input in some cases and lower input costs per unit of product in others. Priority is given to the
staples (maize, beans and rice) as well as forage and soil conservation activities; (b) agricultural
technology would be transferred to producers more quickly because existing methods, as well as
technologies generated during implementation, will be promoted via more intensive extension and
closer collaboration with research. Better targeting of producers and agroclimates will also accelerate
transfer and reduce the costs of inappropriate techniques in some regions; (c) superior methods of
natural resource management would be devised, particularly in soil conservation, to reduce on-farm
costs of soil erosion; and (d) better targeting of research and extension would improve access of poor
regions and disadvantaged producers to new technology, thus augmenting the efficiency of public
technology investment. Institutional development of CENTA will further permit it to benefit from
collaboration with IARCs and other agencies, particularly through the "twinning" arrangement.
Better planning, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation procedures, will give a more efficient mix of
personnel and nonpersonnel costs, thus raising the efficiency of scientific time. As the research and
extension services are targeted to small and medium size farmers, including women, the project is
anticipated to have a positive impact in increasing their productivity. Although the project's effect on
poverty cannot be easily quantified because of the difficulties in assigning short-term income effects to
agricultural research and extension, experience from other operations indicates that technology change
in agriculture is a major source of productivity gains and income growth among poor producers.
3.53.     Risks. A major risk is GOES' sustained ability to carry out its reform agenda,
particularly staff streamlining. The Government has presented a copy of a letter from the Minister of
Finance to the Minister of Agriculture supporting MAG's Staff Rationalization Plan and agreeing to
make available, when need, the funds required for its implementation. Moreover, the Legislature has
approved for MAG an increased 1993 budget allocation in anticipation for these needs. These risks
are reduced by the timing of major institutional reform actions before effectiveness. Specific project
risks include management weakness and lack of familiarity with Bank procedures, both of which this
project would address. Any emerging issues related to the implementation of the peace agreements
and agrarian reform would not be expected to affect this operation significantly, because the extension
component will provide farmers training through CENTA and NiOs regardless of land ownership
status. The other agriculture-related areas of the NRP, namely credit and natural resource
management are being addressed by other operations (see para. 2.07).
3.54.      General risks of research and extension projects, in Bank experience, are lack of
Government commitment, adequacy and sustainability to funding, inability to set priorities, poor
management, and weak research-extension links. The Government has expressed its commitment to
the project by the recent Legislative approval of the CENTA law, and to ensuring adequacy and
sustainability of funding by agreeing to present adequate budgets for 1994 and discuss and agree
subsequent budget allocations during annual reviews (see para. 4.0l.a). It has addressed the
priorities risk by agreeing upon regions, target producers and commodities to be supported by the
operation (see paras. 3.20 and 3.21). The project will further support CENTA management in
developing an appropriate MIS (see paras. 3.16 and 3.17). Operational risks will be reduced by
creating a PAU to facilitate Bank procedures for procurement, disbursement, audit, and reporting.
Inadequate links between research and extension are addressed through having both report to the same
CDT director and in the field through on-farm technology validation and using researchers as subject
matter specialists in extension activities.
3.55.      Project sustainability depends on management and organizational development and the
budgetary rationalization for MAG and CENTA. DIPEI would monitor, evaluate and make
adjustments in staffing and MIS policy as necessary to sustain the reform process (see para. 3.12).



- 36 -
Special consideration has been given to keeping the project's expected real recurrent expenditures
within MAG's current budget ceilings. Salary savings are expected to provide the required resources
to finance incremental operating costs as MAG implements its reform agenda.
IV. Summary of Agreements Reached and Recommendation
A. Agreements Reached at Negotiations
4.01.     The Government agreed at negotiations to:
a.  allocate, at least, agreed minimum annual budgets for recurrent costs for MAG and
CENTA for the project, and to discuss and agree with the Bank annual work
programs and budget allocations during the project's annual reviews satisfactory to
the Bank (see para. 2.21);
b.  carry out the agreed action plans to make seed certification independent of CENTA
by 1993 and to eliminate commercial seed production from CENTA by 1994 (see
para. 3.10);
c.  adopt procedures for the selection of CENTA personnel eligible for training and for
human resources management by June 30, 1993 (see para. 3.11);
d.  submit to the Legislature the MAG organic law before December 31, 1993 and to
issue implementation regulations within three months of the law's approval and the
CENTA law's implementation regulations within three months of the loan
effectiveness date (see para. 3.11);
e.  present a satisfactory action plan within 60 days of notice by the Bank proposing
corrective measures if the annual and mid-term reviews identify areas where project
objectives have not been fully met (see para. 3.48);
f.  use implementation and impact indicators, as shown in Annex IV, as a basis of the
annual and mid-term reviews (see para. 3.48 a. and b.); and
g.  hold an annual project review no later than September 30 of each year except in
1994 and hold a mid-term review no later than November 30, 1994 (see para.
3.48.c and d);
B. Effectiveness Conditions
4.02.     As conditions of loan effectiveness the government would present, satisfactory to the
Bank:
a.  a signed MAG-CENTA agreement reflecting their respective project implementation
responsibilities and attaching ratification by CENTA's Board of Directors of
CENTA's 1993 non-academic training program and the criteria and procedures for
selecting and managing CENTA Staff for academic training and for placing those
staff in CENTA upon their return (see para. 3.11); and



37 -
b.  evidence of initiation of implementation of the agreed MAG Staff Rationalization
Plan (see para. 3.14).
C. Disbursement Conditions
4.03.     As conditions of disbursement, the Government would present, satisfactory to the Bank:
a.  a copy of the CENTA Board of Directors' decision to implement the actions in the
MAG Staff Rationalization Plan that concern the autonomous CENTA prior to any
disbursement for CENTA's activities under the project (see para. 3.14); and
b.  copies of the Ministerial Decree and the CENTA Board of Directors' decision of
adopting rules for internal MAG and CENTA transportation services prior to any
disbursement from the vehicles category (see paras. 3.15 and 3.45).
D. Recommendation
4.04.     With these agreements and conditions, the project would be eligible for a Bank Loan of
US$40.0 million equivalent with a term of 20 years and a five years grace period.
elS pri.bu1  buf
Mc 1. 1993



ANNEX I
Page 1
El Salvador
Agricultural Sector Reform nd Investment Project
Project Cost Summary
Colones                             USS                           X Total
.................... ...    ...-.......................   X Forefgn     Base
Local   Foreign     Totat        Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange     Costs
A. Project Prep. Facilfty
1. PPF-Reform and Inst.Dev       2889.6    2587.9    5477.5        348.3    311.6    659.9          47.2        1.4
2. PPW-Research & Extension      2876.0   4087.7   6963.7          353.2    485.8    839.0          58.7        1.7
Sub-TotaL                           576S.6    6675.7   12441.3        701.6    797.4   1499.0          53.7        3.1
S. Reform & Inst Development
1. Inst. Planning&Strategy       7813.4   10783.6   18597.0        945.4   1295.2   2240.6          58.0        4.7
2. Hunan Resource Ngmt          S8640.0     830.0   S9470.0       7067.8      97.3   7165.1          1.4       14.9
3. HIS and Procedures            5016.0    7121.4   12137.4        613.5    848.8   1462.3          58.7        3.0
4. NAG Headquarters             16000.0   16600.0.  32600.0       1963.9   1963.9   3927.7          50.9        8.2
Sub-Total                          87469.4   35335.0  122804.4      10590.6   4205.1  14795.7          28.8       30.8
C. Research and Extension
1. Research                     23107.2  55496.0  78603.1         2811.8   66S8.5   9470.3          70.6       19.7
2. Extension                    39635.0  68164.0  107799.0        430.6   81S7.3  12987.8           63.2       27.0
3. Support services for RIE    1109.8  66100.4   7193.2           1367.1   7933.3   9300.4          8S.6       19.4
................................   ............................ ....................
Sub-Total                          78.9  189760.4  263S95.3          9009.5  22749.0  31758.5           72.0      66.1
..............................     ................................................
Total BASELINE COSTS              167070.0  231771.0  398841.0    20301.6  2M7 .5  48053.1              57.8     100.0
Physical Contingencies           45S6.9   13354.5   17911.4        549.0   1609.0   2158.0           74.6       4.5
Price Contingencies             26637.1   25178.2  51815.4        3036.6   3206.2   6242.8           51.4      13.0
............... ............................................ ....................
Total PROJECTS COSTS              196264.0  270303.7  468567.8      23887.2  32566.7  S64S3.9           57.7     117.5
uaumuuauaauamuuaaua.ugaU"UUMw    *uaauunuu
..................................................................................................................
Values Scaled by 1000.0 - 10/1571992  15:25



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
El Salvador
Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment Project
Projects Components by Year
Totals Ircludirg Contingencies
USS
........ .............. .......... .................... .. ............................................................. ..
93/94       94/95        95/96        96/97        97/98        98/99        Total
A. Project Prep. Facility
1. PPF-Reform and Inst.Dev                 659.9           0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0       659.9
2. PPf-Research & Extension                 839.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0       839.0
.._._............................._._........ ............... __..... ........_............ _
Sub-Totsl                                     1499.0           0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0      1499.0
S. Reform & Inst Development
1. Inst. Plaming&Strategy                  782.3       '667.3        347.1        283.3        301.1        320.2      2701.3
2. Human Resource Ngmt                    6291.9        958.5           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     7250.4
3. HIS and Procedures                     1237.5        244.7          65.4        70.0         74.9         80.1      1772.6
4. NAG Headquarters                       3115.8       1097.4           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0     4213.1
._.__............. _...._. ....... ...._.__.._...................
SL.u-TotaL                                   11427.4       2968.0        412.5        353.3        376.0        400.3    15937.4
C. Research and Extension
1. Research                               3323.6       2713.2       1595.7        903.5      2567.4         750.2    11853.6
2. Extension                              3990.5       2205.0       1945.3       3864.5       2249.9       2064.2    16319.4
3. Support services for R&E               2130.0       2428.1       1834.4       1852.6       1560.2       1039.2    10844.6
_.__  ;; ..... _. _ _ ...... ._._ ........ .... ....................
Sub-Total                                     9444.2       7346.3       5375.4      6620.6       6377.5       3853.6    39017.6
__.... ...... ......... ................. ._ . ............... .......  _  _ _..
Total PROJECTS COSTS                         22370.5    10314.3         5787.9      6973.9       6753.5       4253.9    56453.9
.. ..           .................... ........ ............................................._._.2._._
Vatues Scaled bY 1000.0 12/17/1992 11:29



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
El Salvador
Agriculturat Sector Reform and Investment Project
Cotones
Project Components by Year
Base Costs                                     Tcotal
... .. ..............................................................................
93/94     94/95     95/96      96/97     97/98     98/99   Colones      USS
A. Project Prep. Facility
1. PPF-Reform and Inst.Dev         5477.5       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0    5477.5     659.9
2. PPF-Research & Extension        6963.7       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0    6963.7     839.0
.................................................... .......................................................................................
Sub-total                           12441.3       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0   12441.3    1499.0
B. Reform & Inst Development
1. Inst. Planning&Strategy         5998.6   4803.4-   2396.9    1799.3    1799.3    1799.3   18597.0    2240.6
2. Human Resource Mgmt            51935.0   7535.0         0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0  59470.0    7165.1
3. HIS and Procedures              8907.4    1615.0      403.7     403.7     403.7      403.7   12137.4    1462.3
4. NAG Headquarters               24450.0    8150.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0   32600.0   3927.7
................. i................................................................
Sub-total                           91291.0  22103.4   2800.7    2203.1    2203.1    2203.1  122804.4   14795.7
C. Research and Extension
1. Research                       24038.1   18576.3   10398.7    5684.9   15805.5    4099.6  78603.1   9470.3
2. Extension                      29329.4   15657.9   13107.9   24783.9   13417.0   11502.8  107799.0   12987.8
3. Support services for R&E       16241.1   17799.2   13384.7   12973.9   10158.9    6635.4   77193.2    9300.4
............; ...................................... ..................................................
Sub-total                           69608.5  52033.4  36891.3   43442.7  39381.5   22237.8  263595.3  31758.5
..................................................................................
Total BASELINE COSTS               173340.8   74136.8  39692.0   45645.8   41584.6  24440.9  398841.0  48053.1
Physical Contingencies            6635.2   3943.7    1691.2    2321.0    2520.8        799.4   17911.4   2158.0
Price Contingencies               5699.1    7528.0   6656.2    9916.6   11948.3   10067.1   51815.4   6242.8
..................................................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                185675.1   85608.6  48039.5   57883.4   56053.7   35307.S  468567.8  56453.9
Taxes                             9932.1    5460.5    2742.4    4055.9   4800.8    274.0   29736.6    3582.7
Foreign Exchange                 93738.0   51849.3   31323.8   40160.5   36478.8   16753.3  270303.7  32566.7
.          ....................................................................... ............. ............................
Vatues Scaled by 1000.0 1211771992 11:29



ANNEX I I
Page 1 of 2
EL SALVADOR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR REFORM AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
Projected Schedule of Bank Disbursements
Cumulative
Fiscal            Quarter           Amount          Pmount
Year             Ending        (US$ Million)   (USS Million)       Percent
FY94 a/         September 93              4.0             4.0              10
December 93               3.8             7.8              20
March 94                  3.8            11.6              29
June 94                   3.8            15.4              39
FY95            September 94              2.2            17.6              44
December 94               2.2            19.8              50
March 95                  2.2            22.0              55
June 95                   2.2            24.2              60
FY96            September 95              1.2            25.4              64
l                December 95               1.2             26.6              67
March 96                  1.2            27.8              70
June 96                   1.2            29.0              73
FY97            September 96              1.3            30.3              76
December 96               1.3            31.6              79
March 97                  1.3            32.9              82
June 97                   1.3            34.2              86
FY98            September 97              1.1            35.3              88
December 97               1.1            36.4              91
March 98                  1.1            37.5              94
June 98                   1.1            38.6              97
FY99            September 98              0.4            39.0              98
December 98               0.4            39.4              99
March 99                  0.3            39.7              99
June 99                   0.3            40.0             100
NOTE: Figures may not add up due to rounding.
a/    Including US$3 million initial deposit in the Special Account, and up to $4.0
million of retroactive financing for expenditures incurred since March 31, 1992.



ANNX
Page 2
ZL SALVADOR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR REFORM AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(Expressed in US$
Category                      Killion Equivalent)  % of Expenditures
100% of foreign expenditures
(1) Goods:                                          100% of local expenditures (i
factory cost) and 90% of loci
(a) Vehicles                     6,700,000      expenditures for other items
procured locally
(b) Other Goods                  3,200,000      90%
(2) Works                            5,700,000      90%
(3) Consultants' Services            6,000,000      100%
(4) Training                         6,100,000      100%
(5) Incremental Recurrent            5,500,000      100% until withdrawals under
Expenditures                                   this Category have reached a:
aggregate amount equivalent t
US$1,700,000; thereafter, 80q
until withdrawals have reachi
an aggregate amount equivaler
to US$3,200,000; thereafter,
60% until withdrawals have
reached an aggregate amount
equivalent to US$4,500,000;
thereafter, 40% until
withdrawals have reached an
amount equivalent to
US$5,000,000; and 20%
thereafter
(6) Refunding of Project              1,500,000     Amounts due pursuant to Secti
Preparation Advance                            2.02 (c) of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                       S.300.000
TOTAL                           40,000,000
FeWow 2k M



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
EL SLVADOR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR REFORM AND INVESrMENT PROJECT
PHASING OF EXTENSION AGENCIES
Flnanced
First Phase           Sequence and Agency Nano            CVT and Agency No.             by IFAD
(Pilot)
1. Chalchuapa                       kalco 11
2. Atiqulzaya                       Izalco 12
3. Ahuachapan                       Izalco 7
4. Tacuba                           Izalco 9
5. Cara Sucia                       Izalco 8
6. Guaymango                        Jiaco 2
7. El Pefi6n                        Izalco I
8. Sonsonate                        Izalco 14
9. San Juli;n                       Izalco 10
10. Armenia                         Izalco 3
11. San Pedro Nonualco              Sta. Cruz Porrillo 40
12. Santa Cruz Porrillo             Sta. Cruz Porrillo 39            X
13. Zacatecoluca                    Sta. Cruz Porrillo 40
14. Rosatio La Paz                  Sta. Cruz Porrillo 41
15. Olowilta                        Sta. Cruz Porrillo 42
Flnanced
Second Phase          Sequence and Agency Name            CDT and Agency No.             by IFAD
16. Metapdn                         Izalco S
17. Texistepeque (NRP)              Izalco 13
18. Candelaria de la Frontera       Izalco 6
19. Santa Ana                       kalco 4
20. Atiocoyo                        San Andres 21
21. San Juan Opico (NRP)            San Andres 17
22. Ciudad Arce                     San Andres 15
23. Quezaltepeque (NRP)             San Andres 18
24. Zapodtin                        San Andres 20
25. Santo Domingo                   Sta. Cruz Porrillo 47             X
26. Guadalupe                       Sta. Cruz Porrillo 44             X
27. San Vicente                     Sta. Cruz Porrillo 46             X
28. Apastepeque                     Sta. Cuz Porrillo 48              X
29. Tecoluca (NRP)                  Sta. Cnmz Porrillo 45             X
30. Jocoro                          Morazin 64
31. Uluazapa                        Morazin S9
32. Bolfvar                         Morazdn 66
33. San Alejo                       Murazan 63
34. El Carmen                       Morazin 67



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
Flnanced
Second Phase "B"      Sequence and Agency Name              CDT and Agency No.              by IFAD
35. Nueva Concepci6n (NRP)           San Andres 37                      X
36. La Reina                         San Andres 32                      X
37. Tejutla                          San Andres 34                      X
38. La Palma (NRP)                   San Andres 33                      X
39. Chalatenango                     San Andres 35                      X
40. San Rafael Ch.                   San Andres 38                      X
41. Aguilares (NRP)                  San Andres 36
42. Mercedes Umana                   Morazan 73
43. Villa El Triunfo                 Morazan 70
44. Nueva Guadalupe                  Morazan 61
45. Jiquilisco (NRP)                 Morazan 71
46. Ozatlan                          Morazan 76
47. Usulutan                         Morazan 75
48. Santa Elena (NRP)                Morazan 74
49. San Miguel                       Morazan 72
50. San Rafael Ote. (NRP)            Morazan 31
51. Chirilagua                       Morazan 60
Flnanced
Third Phase "B"        Sequence and Agency Name             CDT and Agency No.              by IFAD
52. Jayrque                          San Andres 16
53. Puerto La Libertad (NRP)         San Andres 19
54. Zaragoza                         San Andres 22
55. Santiago Texacuangos             San Andres 25
56. Panchimalco                      San Andres 24
57. Soyapango                        San Andrds 26
58. Tonacatepeque                    San Andres 23
59. San Martfn                       San Andres 27
60. Suchitoto (NRP)                  San Andres 29
61. San Bartolome Perulapfa          San Andres 30
62. Cojutepeque                      San Andres 28
63. San Rafael C.                    San Andres 31
64. Ilobasco (NRP)                   Sta. Cruz Porrillo 49              X
65. San Isidro                       Sta. Cruz Porrillo 50              X
66. Guacotecti (NRP)                 Sta. Cruz Porrillo 51              X
67. Villa Victoria (NRP)             Sta. Cruz Porrilo 52               X
68. Moncagua                         Morazan 58
69. Chapeltique (NRP)                Morazgn 57
70. Ciudad Barrios (NRP)             Morazdn 68
71. Osicala (NRP)                    Morazan 533
72. Cacaopera (NRP)                  Morazan 54
73. San Francisco Gotera (NRP)       Morazan 56
74. Nueva Esparza                    Morazan 55
75. Santa Rosa de Lima               Morazan 65
76. La Caflada                       Morazan 62
ewS1 ANNBX.1M
Demh 17. 1992



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 9
EL SALVADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR REFORM AND INVESTMENT PROJECT
Implementation and Impact Indicators
1.    The Government of El Salvador would monitor and evaluate jointly with the Bank progress of
implementation using the Estimated Implementation and Impact Indicators in this Annex which would
also provide the basis for the Annual and Mid-Term Reviews. The agreed on indicators would be
obtained from the monitoring data generated during the implementation of the Reform and
Institutional Development component of the proposed project (see para. 3.17 of the Staff Appraisal
Report).
2.    These indicators above would be reviewed during project implementation, and changes would
be agreed between the government and the Bank, as necessary.
C:AWPUMMS&BUPlANNEBXIV
Feb-y 16. 13



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 9
i."LVAf
AORICULTUALUZCToRmSOOa AMND uIIMENmr itOnor
PLSMWATION MD WAr OUCATS
KEY IMPACT INOICTOR
UAW        193             13             1to            1"             1O             199             l             TOmW
OISECrIVE I
IL Stmag Aalm            NMwAtof
to bo   .                Aa             S pA                          7                                                                          27
otmawuh1diwd                            3              3                                                                                          6
b. NumLm. Agod_            Awolu
In NRP eA uuieud                                      U                                                                                          20
OBJECTIVE U
_swoo             19             111            11W            11W            1997           IllS
MAO 1hAwK.O1Y
00i4dm1I.daMi/I9)           Ratio     1/2.           Int            in1            In              Il                            In
CENTA Ndedcl 1-IOY
m ob. u(sd11)                Rs&       20             2/            2./            21             2.n            241             2I
MAO ashW  W
usamom4OOBS+Pf)              aIo       93s           SI              US             US             US              7US            7S
CENTA bi.JjiAalai
r.eCOOESt+PI                 Redo                                                   X 7S  7<S  7S  7DS            US              7DS
OJITIVE m
---_              11993          11             119 to"        191 7                          199D          Total
Ro9mmla_                 NId
VWr pmodo
B3;;1alouhAnhesA                         2              3              5               3              3              S              3              IS
Llwg*IIlu w                              I              0              2               5              3              S              S              Is
Fna  & V    e_uAAWm                      2
Sams CPoIDo                                            0               5                                            *              3              Is
A*WodCfpAd                               I
Sam Ca Pellbo                                          0               S                             3              3              3              13
Nuuml Ru.ux/Mon                          0              0               2              3              3              5              3              14
OBIECTIVE IV
F_RU              1953          1W             11W           Io             1997?           li            TOl
Faam Padivt
-m In MAG esmuim smos
Maim/San Ankm             mUtlb        2.47
C111MIIO               PMNW             61
TO.At0m6.CP              MKlbk          to
/ascp                     Mlb          09
F        _amaw*OLta.    l-            1472
lacd.ol am.             HN           7JL41
ma-



ANNEX IV
ELSALVADOR                                                                        Page 3 of 9
AGRXCULTUAL S                R FORM AND MVSTMET POIECT
9I LEML4TATION AND WAC* INDWATOtS
WORM ND INEVrIlONAL DVE.O142N rOONT I4l fA^1ION IMNIATOtS
Wi.                           19t3              *994               If45               *99               1 97               199S              T.a*
1. INSMVmNAL PLANNiNG AND flRAYDMY
UwJuaUe.ad                       _-
at3No. NnbbNs
ad, u"w                         ,h**                                                                                          
LRGAL FRAMEWORKC
Lqnhdw Ada=  -om                                              on" taw   MAOsOpdc Lw
ad  -        ~ad apwpim
MAO ntgioLaw
TRAININO                    No. ctPmph
Dnw*  Pk-in                                                          30                30                 30                 30                 20                30                1tO
Mwas...Tallbs                                                       210               210                210                210                210               2*0               1200
L"dTna1a                                                            5I                 Is                 is                 is                 *5                is                 go
I9L HUMAN RESOURCES MANACM
MAO STAFF RATIONAW4ATION PLAN                   *99               *99                1994               *99               3996               *99                *99
MAO Tht 4of 8iatCmjdWwaZat yd)o
Taw                                             1971               *46               3436               *46               *46                *4                 146
Mm.wh*w A0dT.w(3.10)                            90                 773                73                73                773                713                773
AmdMv(1l.13)                              46                237                237                23                23                 23                 237
8upm mt1449)                                    795                471               471                471               471                an1                471
S%( ffI*v  e(MAO+CEfrA)                                          Is"
(umk s*IIm qm0Wfcsd tIr aobh)
CERrA TotalStff (9Amudaihaazyqtaa*
Tad                                             2441              1*97                 1534             1341              1*34                1343              1341
uMiNmIa* aT.bf**                                949                390               954                954               954                94                 954
AdMWTT                                         If42               19S                *90 Ig45                             19ff               *907               a9d
S (1-                                           41                 237               227                227                2                 227                237
undo-                                              1~~       ~      ~~~~~96  Igo        196                396               196                 996
Mau.haww    Taadow                                                  34                84                 34                84                 34                 84
PAanabt*e.                                                         63                 63                 83                63                 a3                 63
St("4-lf)                                       7R5                49                 49                 49                49                 4n                47
Bhlde." Pccdadm                                                      20                29                 20                20                 20                 20
Muns"M1     dTea                                                   1*4               14                 14                 14                14                 134
SM   _l        1T4                                                                    14                 14                14                 *4                 14
curTfasmgmi                                                          77                1?                 77                 77                 17                77
Im     _                                        637adTo*dW         162                1D                 1                 192                12                 12
At                                              t                  227 is            2I                 22 Is              Is                 Is                 i
Hmmum                                                               122               336                136                I36               126                136
UMa mw,*aT.c.1                                                      79                93                 93                go                 93                 93
Adbkau*w                                                             s                 S                  S                 S                  S                  S
Sat                                                                 St                33                 30                33                 3                  38
F    _anm                                                          6773               o3                go3               on                  03                g3
Mmoda d kape*iehm                                                  at                751                751               75*                751                751
AdaaI1iS                                                            76                76                 78                78                 18                 76
.qm                                                                 78                78                 76                78                 78                 76
44Pam               4           9USAff                            Si4
Totbhiaad q                    usdl =MI=                            Si9 U
Ilhtyl Iav  (ab                USI .                                                                                          I                  I         
S't*1                                                               5D                5Dm as*y1                                                                  5
-  wto, mkcd   l
*mhe.  w                                                                              0u*hM              9                  90                0 
It nm 04w  we lDvii  bwis  a                                                                                                                                       sfmxdww   evbu.th   mOef  di    



ANNEX IV
EL SALVADOR                                                    Page  4 o:
AGRICULTURAL SEOR WRORM AND JVESMMN  PROJECT
EaUNTAnoTN AD IMPACr INDICATORS
PWORM AND IN$rvnONAL DEVELOWMdEK COMPONENT 1PLUAINTATION INDICATORS
Utlb                   1993          1994          1995          1996           399            399
. MUM  RESOURCES MANAGUINT (O      )
IRA Aus P d
(of its *M)             Pi                          10             6
m. MANAO2MErT INFORMATON SYSrE4S AND PROCEDURES
misyoda4d                                    iuv"a
2.WMgs
3-
dodm
9Ma1ulzdpmwdmm                                2.wMcbs      I poaam.
and sy   ad d                                  mwm            -  m
-             3.
6.psm  4l
-ma-ato
ProdAdiig                                                    2.A Icks     I.pwv _60004    1. 1M11     3. peocum.
Imiadm kzvbmmd                                              SimacIaI      wm6mbuag       2. psoml      w~uubmI.g
-3mw-at      3).aadl4z 4. vMdm
6.pusmml       4--l-
m-VW         d_mialm                        5. mdhilz
MAG/CENTAumuuls          mm_aU                 AdMbulw
bo                     P
Opu,ubrd(59S)  Opmal=900S)
suffT
TmhiItns&a-            lad.ksaa                     159            S9            159           159            159           159
Tm in PC              g#     .MLAft                 596            5m3           426           426            426            46
Iz3Jamndal dM15         S fhMIS                     50S           I0S5
1eIummauIaiCLS          S Of CIs                                  ICO%
IV. MAO HEADQUARTES BUILDING
C_mumlm bid                                        IwO
&WAikgoaq,Iclai                                     255            75S
Saff mom                                                         IOS



ANNE f
ELSALVADOR                                                                  Page 5 c
AORICULTURAL SECTOR   FORM ANDINV UENT POrVr
IUN TATION MED AMPcr INDICATORS
RESEARCHI MD EefiN51ON COMPONENr 1MPMENTATION INDWATORS
Wta                        3993             5194              15"              396              19i7              19
RESEALCH
Tr* VW p                     Sv
B$lAgtaim                  93                                  36               a                112              119               119              In
Livi3ack                                                       12               24                42               59               59                $9
Nal   _                                                         9               24                46               60               63                63
Ftdw ea V ,_as                                                 20               40                46               So               S1                SI
AtClaft-fib COW                                                 7                12               I6               25                ?                2?
Ttadl                                                          4               133              262              313              319               321
Toal Tadaiad Sisa lid (aloWadv  a - otyad)
SAN ANDRES                    otslaff
Beu! Gah.                                                      17               20                52 20                             59                20
Livetock                                                        2                3                 3                3                3                 3
Nuwul Ruwot                                                     4                4                4                 4                4                4
Fats mI Val_abb                                                 2                3                 3                3                3                3
AuoWl&WAWC*p                                                    2                3                3                 3                3                3
TOl                                                           27               33                33               33               33                33
STA. CRUZ PORRLLI
3BunoOrhn                                                       4                5                5                 5                5                S
Na;-:i R   _m                                                   I                I                 I                I                I                1
F:At md Vqalm                                                  13         '      14               14               14               14                14
A.olo6strICaor                                                  7                a                g                 a                I                 8
Tota                                                          252 82                                              23 2                               21
MLCO 
Baa! Gmbh                                                       5                6                 6                6                6                 6
LUok                                                                             8                 S                                 S                 8
Naul R     _AIII I                                                                                          I                                          I
Fndta ad Ve.Wih                                                 £                3                 3                3                3                 3
Total                                                          15               la               to               I8                is               Is
MORAZAN
BiIGCh.                                                         3                3                 3                3                3                 3
lIOck                                                           2                3                 3                3                3                 3
Nabuau R   _awuw                                                6                7                 7                7                7                 7
Tot4                                                          12                14               14               14                14               14
e                          393              19%4      1995                     1996             1997              1998
EXTENSION
PoidaPhIsa                 D Apoludeaytad                      43               64                64               64               64                64
Amimh A.ta                  9. ysuad                          344               544              544              544              544               544
Total WinExuMm                 Rado                           U116             I/10             m/o0             3/30              Illo             3/30
Cotac Faaam,lm                 Rlio                            16                i8               24               32               32                32
TLWG   coomaFaa...             DuAl
fT.menCommaotFain                                            342              3m               1i24              1124             3/2              3/4
Fa     _Am-                    RA                             16D              IgO300 2D0                         223              2W                280
FPaina   u                Toeal 9Mymd
iz                                                     50Si            97923            la               11960            141440            35320
TWuWoNG ANGEMETm
Fhu3qor t_ U              Cin3a yum                             9                17               6                 2
II/Thu aaama autoum. Di&lmdTORI ohaup(a) psotddaloacWahalt _l_ama   b) mito b phd s
ad               (c) to . s s pan Smmo_t                             ul .      t alicn. arbIM sM ae
Shiai atwalo  M-an nr  m() nn.Slrtopap.t-hg a n                              _ wao  o t-aa  vwsa 0 i balddhhoti.to   ol.



ANNEX IV
uLSALVADOI                                             Page 6 of 9
AG'MC INAL . O0 RFRM MND OE*VETE FPREiOW
DEONRMATN AND 5WACr EINATOM
RBSEMOANDTECMlNCOON WEWACE ATORB
RBSRaa AND FAR RA.I VU1OD
cVr: SMN ANDOR
MAO _I    u              NOOeaui _ _m ,4A u1m
RP_gdy *b orktalW _}M =
mlz.                                        5.9?
9.n1
m                                          2.                       12 413
hum                                         OAt                      0Vs                       Xs
sar_                                       M1                        1.4a                      la
um                                          4514                     13                        175
b~~~~i 9--  mwi Mm)
.aq3                                         IP                      di0                      :40
1   ^                                     la 0    *                 54                      I7Z
Dm  11_ni                                    26                      310                       3
agD                                          1                        171                      320
M,ll_                                       too                       350                      70
mU    _  1u 75D                                                       00                       Soo



ANNEX IV
ILSALVAo                                               Page 7 of 9
Ac'LvUMLSOM aM AND EWY w  aocr
SGIAMION ND IPACr NUTO3
EAMMD0C        MO NCOTM :AOrWWATMOU
RUEARH  MD FAM  AfU  IJIDM
car: =ALCO
MAl_ _in.                N_00sm                   Aumwkhxaniml
ma-                                         in1
eC          _44
2.4                     22                         2
.ara_                                        IJ                      13.                       I2
do                                          .3                       4.4                      457
PvOadmam tiata,   dpdinlsr.q 0
maimO03                                                               14                       142
bum                                         347                       m                        30s
pA                                         IU                       127                       1X
doe                                         122                      IM                        s
_q.mwa1.ob -m ib IEai_iinmin£l
-*-n upSa~im jp*Ib hUS*(~umId ni                                                               610
am _                                         XO                       310                      I.1
mU  1310                                         la
1                                            7A ls                    go                       73
Oak                             ~~~~~14M                  1X0                      too



ANNE
m.IALVADOR                                                             Page 8
AOR1ULTURAL SErOR REFORM AND VEsM rT ROJEC
aLaNTATIoN AND WEACr 2DICATORS
RESEARCH AED E     USON COOMONI DPACT INDICATORS
RL¶EAICH AND FARM YA.DE  VIEID
CDT:r SAA CtUZ PoMLLO
MAOsmWsoic m                    NOO' ammim &no                  Am iiba amin
R.mseecb$Mse ctpullty cap (in.uI.uth)b
main                                                    S.71
ucqIam                                                   2.4
elm                                                    17.4
maim                                                    2.29                            2.25                            1.64
bern                                                    0."                             O.9f                            0.67
imabIsm                                                 3.38                             1.2                            0.94
do                                                      4X                              3.45                            3.4
PM&A  O   Kmo   k wpe Wd.iA otpdo.It MPs O)
-i                                                       130                             142                             152
bm                                                       2531                            276                             325
Sin                                                      130              l43                                            172
elm                                                     1D                              173                             175
aub                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~580
_mflmlmie                                                240
-39 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~4                                                        63 0                            XO
,,_ nmbule                                              2SD                              3XI                             330
Cob                                                      me                              170                             130
bwi                                                     leow                             SS 
sml. rumba"                                              700 I0                                                          SO



ANNE IV
. auLVAoR                                                                   Page 9 of 9
AQRCULTURAL S8CMR RUORM AD A"    TMI 
DLiUUWATTION AND 1WA  INDICTORS
RESEARCH AND ETrENSION COMONENT DIPJAT DIDICATORS
RESEARCH AND FAM  BASENE YEIDS
CDT: MORAZAN
MAO          -                    NwOs alms                          Amu wkb&A 0h1
Ran    yed of peldl MP (/,b IBt)
man                                                           .71
bem                                                           1.7
uqiee.                                                       2.36
F pee                                                        4.5
Feam yieWs of peleeltepa (umaew .mIlm)
mIne                                                         1.31                               1.16                              3.0
e                                                            0.74                                0.7                              0X5
mrgla                                                        1.16                                1.3                               0.9
do*                                                          3.92                               3.33                              3.4
PFa&w  coew pot wa of dAps of pdel amp tW
nairs                                                        167                               1to                                16
b-                                                            269                               363                                30
sat                                                           160                               183                                17n
el                                                            161)                              176               175
Ebmw    epwmimyhM   l  mk(pe
meule                                                         450
on" tamm                                                      240
Fs=  meelmylelds toa @silaO* (          tam)
en                                                            690                               60                                 750
emi ,,_as                                                     30)                               330                                SW
M-  labi 09111
cUle                                                          175                               145                                110
woi mI1me                                                     80                                 65                                 40
Ue                                                            650                              720                                 SOD
emil _r  s                                                    5S                                425                                400



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 3
EL SALVADOR
Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment Project
Academic Training Program
TABLE 1
Masters - Education Program
(Data in person/year)
Ygar of th- Prol4et
1    2    3..   4    5    6            n,tal    No  of
Areas                                                           ScholarshiRs
Investigation
Central Administration    1    1   -    -    -    -         2         1
Basic Grains              -      4    8    4   2    2      20        10
Livestock                   1    3    3    2   1    -       10        5
Horticulture                1    3    3    2   1    -       10        5
Agroind PFarsing          -      1    1   -    -    -        2        1
Natural Resources          3    6    5    3   1    -        18        9
Biometry                    1    1   -    -    -    °       2         1
Agricultural Sconomy        1    2    1   -    -    -        4        2
Technology Information    1    1   -    -    -    -          2        1
Library                     1    1   -    -    -    -        2        1
Sub-total                 10   23   21   11   5    2       70        36
Extension area
Central Administration
Headquarters                1    1   -    -    -    -        2        1
Coord Prog Rural Women    1    1   -    -    -    -         2         1
CDTs                         1    3    3    1   -    -        8        4
Water Conservation/
Harvesting             1    1   -    -    -    -        2         1
Sub-total                  4    6    3    1   -    -       14         7
Administration/Support
Planning                    1    2    2    1         -       6        3
Human Resources             1    2    1   -    -    -        4        2
Sub-total                  2    4    3    1   -    -        10        5
TOTAL                           14   33   31   15   5    2    100         50
Speciaon and Number of S               by A
Research
Central Administration - Research Management (1)
Basic Grains - Agronomy (4), Physiology (1). Phytopathology (2). Entomology (1).
Improvement (2)



ANNEX'
Page 2 of
Livestock - zootechnology (2). agrostology (1), ruminant nutrition (1), non ruminant
nutrition (1)
Horticulture - agronomy (1). phytopatology (1). post-harvest physiology (1),
entomology (1), horticulture improvement (1)
Agroindustrial crops - agronomy (1)
Naturals resources - soil conservation (2), soil nutrition ferlTlity (2), soil microbiology
(1), forest production (2), agrosylvopastorallst systems (2)
Biometry/applied statistics (1)
Agricultural Economics (O)
Tecnological Information (1)
Ubrary Sciences (1)
Extension
Central Admirnstration = Extension Methodology (1 for Headquarters and 4 for
CTD's) for soil conservation and water management
Rural Women Program - Sociology/extension methods (1)
Administration!Support
Planning - Research Planning and Management (1), Monitoring and Evaluation (1).
Information systems (1)
Human Resources - Administration



ANNEX V
Page 3 of 3
TABLE 2
Overseas short-term courses
average of six weeks
Years of the Prnlect
1   2   3   4    5   6   Total
Research
Basic Gralns       2   2    3   4    5   5   21
Livestock           1   1    2   3   3   4    14
Horticulture       -    1    1   2   2   2    8
Natural Resources    -    1    1   2   2   3    9
Agroindustry       -   -    1   1   2   2    6
Technology Info.    -       -     1   1   1   1    4
Blometry           -   -   -   -    1   1    2
Economy            -   -   -    1    1   1    3
Laboratory         -    -   -    1   1   2    4
sub-total          3    5    9   15  18  21   71
Length                   1   3    5   8   10  10   37
Administrative/Support
administration     -   -    1   1   1   1    4
Human Resources    -   -   -   -    1   1    2
Planning                -    1   1   2   2    6
sub-total           -   -    2   2   4   4    12
TOTAL                   4    8    16  25  32  35  120
C:FW 1 1.3WFV
F_Inay 16. 1US



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
EL SALVADOR
Agricultural Sector Reform and Institutional Development Project
Supervision Plan
1.    The proposed operation Is relatively complex, and given the recent lack of experience in El
Salvador with Bank operations, would require close supervision. A project launch workshop
would be held immediately after effectiveness, including key MAG and CENTA staff.
2.    The supervision calendar for the first two years of the project is as follows. Task manager
would input 6 weeks, and others 2 weeks each per activity.
a.    Project launch workshop, first quarter 1993. Focus on project concept and
implementation, procurement, and disbursement problems likely to occur.
Bank participants would be:
Task manager (planning and budgeting)
Agricultural research and extension specialist
Disbursement specialist
Procurement specialist
Institutional development specialist (2)
TOTAL                                                       16 weeks
b.    Second supervision and first annual review before September 30, 1993:
Focus on issues in restructuring of MAG and establishment of CENTA.
Bank participants would be:
Task manager (planning and budgeting)
Agricultural research and extension specialist
Institutional development specialists (2)
Information management specialist
Civil Engineer
TOTAL                                                       16 weeks
c.    Third supervision and mid-term review before November 30, 1994:
L7ocus review of project objectives and progress in implementation.
Bank participants would be:
Task manager (planning and budgeting)
Agricultural research specialist
Agricultural extension specialist
Soil conservation specialist
Institutional development specialists (2)
TOTAL                                                       16 weeks



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
3.    Staff requirements for the initial three supervisions would be about:
Summary of Bank Supervision for First
24 Months of Project Implementation
Task                                                           Time
Required
(staff-weeks)
Planning, programming
and budgeting                                                   18
Procurement and
disbursement                                                     4
Technical supervision
Agricultural research and extension                            8
Institutional development                                      12
Soil conservation                                              2
Information management specialist                              2
Civil engineer                                                 2
TOTAL                                                        48
4.     Fourth supervision and third annual review before September 30, 1995:
focus on research and extension. Bank participants would be:
Task manager (planning and budgeting)
Institutional development specialists (2)
Research and extension specialist (2)
Monitoring and evaluation specialists
Natural resource conservation specialist
TOTAL                                                      18 weeks
5.     The strategy for subsequent years would be to focus for the:
(a)   reform and institutional development component, issues raised
in the periodic follow-up workshops on evaluation and readjustment
of norms, structures and procedures; and
(b)   research and extension component, agricultural sustainability and
other issues raised during the monitoring process of CENTA's
activities.
C:W"1PI8AI&BUFANNUS.VI
Dew*r 17, 199



ANNEX VII
;                                                                  Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF EL SAL2VADO
Ministry of Aariculture and Livestock
Ref: CN/417/92
San Salvador
September 24, 1992
Mr. Michael Baxter
Chief, Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Baxter:
We refer to the Agriculture Sector Reform and Investment Project,
now in preparation, which would receive a World Bank loan of US$45 million.
This letter is intended to serve as official notification of the
agriculture sector development policy of the Government of El Salvador.
1.    During the 1980e, the agriculture sector experienced the most serious
crisis of any sector of the economy, the period 1978-86, when the
aggregate index of per-capita agricultural production declined by 29%,
being especially difficult. Imports of agricultural products rose and
exports declined, while increased concessional imports of commodities
created unfair competition for domestic producers. The social
consequences of these economic events were dramatic, and were reflected
particularly in high indicators of unemployment and undernutrition.
2.    Macroeconomic policies, especially in the exchange, trade and taxation
arenas, were the main cause of poor agriculture sector performance,
affecting the structure of real agricultural prices adversely and
placing the sector in a vulnerable position. Between 1978 and 1988,
real agricultural prices fell by an average of 42%. The combination of
policies in those three arenas resulted in an actual protection rate, in
1985, that was negative for the agriculture sector (-25%) and positive
for the industrial sector (27%).
3.    In conjunction with the impact of macroeconomic policies, the impact of
sector policies was also adverse. Marketing actions on the part of the
Government, subsidies, price controls and trade restrictions all
increased, reducing profitability in the sector and acting as
disincentives to investment in agriculture.  The public agriculture
sector adapted itself to support both the interventionist model of the



ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 7
previous decade and agrarian reform, while financing of the armed
conflict and the economic crisis together accounted for a reduction of
81% in real terms in government spending on agriculture between 1981 and
1990. The composition of this spending became distorted, resulting in
an inefficient personnel policys  in 1991, for instance, personnel costs
absorbed 91% of the operating budget, the allocation for per-employee
operating costs was reduced, the salary scale was also reduced, and the
ratio of technical to administrative and support personnel was cut back
substantially. Another consequence of the distortion caused by
excessive operating costs was that new investment was halted, the only
capital expenditure being that called for under previous commitments to
provide irrigation project counterpart funding equivalent to 48% of the
Ministry's total operating budget.
4.    In June 1989, at the time President Alfredo Cristiani took office, it
was recognized that El Salvador's comparative advantage, although
diminished by distortions, lay in the agriculture sector, so that any
short-term economic recovery would have to be based on recovery in that
sector. However, there was also a general conviction that this type of
recovery would require substantial changes in the implementation of
economic policy.
5.    Consequently, the Cristiani Administration initiated the 1989-94
Economic and Social Development Plan, which had two fundamental
objectives:
(i)   To create the conditions necessary .or achieving sustainable
development.
(ii)   To improve the welfare and standards of living of the population,
especially the poorest groups, as a means of achieving lasting
peace.
6.    The action strategy called for under the Economic Development Plan
consisted in part of a Stabilization Program backed by two standby
agreements with the International Monetary Fund and a structural
adjustment loan from the World Bank. It also incorporates reforms in
trade policy, public administration, monetary and interest-rate policy,
the financial and agricultural sectors, and social programs. Some of
the specific reforms proposed are liberalization and standardization of
exchange and interest rates, reduction in tariff dispersion, elimination
of quantitative restrictions on imports and exports, and elimination of
direct government intervention in setting commodity prices and
controlling commodity marketing. Support for many of these reforms
comes through the structural adjustment loan.
7.    These reforms have had a positive impact on the agriculture sector,
which has experienced some relief from the discrimination it was
suffering by contrast with the industrial sector. In the course of
1990, the Government lifted all controls on basic grain prices and the



ANNEX VII
Page 3 of
majority of quantitative restrictions on trade in agricultural
commodities, introduced a price range for imports of yellow maize and
rice, revised the structure of export taxee on coffee, and rescinded t
provisions legalizing the monopoly powers of the parastatals responsib
for marketing coffee (INCAFE) and sugar (CNA7UCAR) and the sole-buyer
powers of the Cotton Cooperative (COPAL). In August 1991, the Supply
Networks Institute (IRA) was closed down and its staff given severance
payments; the Government is currently negotiating the sale of IRA
assets, giving priority access to producers of basic grains. These
actions are being supported by the World Bank, IDB and USAID.
8.    As part of its Development Plan, one of the main aims of which is to
create conditions more conducive to growth in the agriculture sector,
the Government has redefined the role of the public agriculture sector
giving it a mandate as facilitator, regulator, provider of services fo:
small and medium producers, and monitor of the rational utilization ant
conservation of natural resources. Direct government intervention in
agricultural commodity and input markets is excluded. This sector
strategy requires a refocusing of expenditure to enable these functioni
to be carried out more efficiently, its objectives and the actions thei
require being presented in the accompanying chart.
9.    This chart summarizes the six chief areas of the present Government's
agriculture sector policy: institutional strengthening, irrigation,
agricultural credit, marketing, animal and plant health, and natural
resources strategy. In each case, details are given on the following:
objectives, steps taken and to be taken, approximate timing of the
latter, and supporting donors.
10.   With the support of institutions such as the World Bank, the Government
is confident that it will be in a position to meet the challenge of
revitalizing the agriculture sector.
Yours truly,
/s/ Antonio Cabrales
Minister of Agriculture and Livestock



MAJOR AGRICULTURE SECTOR POLICIES. EL SALVADOR. 1989-94
OBJECTIVES                           ACTION TAKEN                              ACTION PLANND                                 TINING                   00113
1. Institutionrl Strerathenina Polin,
To imqprove capacity to              Reorganization of Ministry of             To put a RAG Organic Law before the           1993                     IBRD
analyze, propose. disseminate        Agricutture (NAG) to respond              legislature.
information on, and maintain         better to the new definition of
an econmic and legal-                the rote of the public                    To strengthen the regulatory                  1993                      lBRD,
adrinistrative franework             agriculture sector.                       departments of NAG, part;cularly                                       tOB.
conducive to efficient sector                                                  those responsible for monitoring;                                       IICA
developent.                                                                    copliance with sector policies;
rational utilizat4on and conservation
of natural resources; and plant and
animal health control measures.
To ieprave the efficiency of         Creation of a cqaterized                  To reorganize expenditure so as to            Prior to                 lIBD
pLblic institutions In the           database on NAG persomet and              achieve more efficient resource               negotiations
sector in carrying out their          freezing of NAG recruitmnt, so           allocation coapatible with NAG's new
new role as sources of               as to facilitate the                      rote (e.g. elimination of integrated
inforation, regulators,              reorgnization of expenditure.             rural development Jobs; increase in
providers of services for                                                      allocations to operating costs).
m-l  nd mediu  prers,                                                          This refocusing will be evident in
nd monitors of the recovery,                                                   the 1993 budget and in the NUG
rational utilization  and                                                       eorgnizatifor Ptan.
cuon    tion of natural
resowcs.
Reassigrent of agricultural
research (on coffee. sugar nd
cotton) to private entities.
Plaming of the fmctions of each           Sdmission of draft legislation               Prior to                  lIED
department of NAG and CENTA.              creating CENTA (National Center of           negotiations
Agricultural and Forestry Technology)
to the Office of the President for
sihseqent presentation and debate In
the legislature. Envisioned as an
automous aseny sobJect to public
law, CEUTA will be responsible for
research in agriculture, livestock,
forestry, and agricultural extension                                        0
targeting sall and aedium producers.                     
o H
CMh 
IhM



DUECTI WED                          ACTIZ  TAI                               ACTIONr PUOA                                 TIlING                 DI_
Forujiation of an institutional             Prior to
developemnt progrm  for AG wnd              negotiations
CENTA; Include determination of their
optiml staffing  nd professional
cawposition, Job descriptions, and
design of a new sytem of incentives
(copensation, training).
Adoption of the NAG and CEUTA               Prior to                 IBRD
Reorganization Plan.                        effective date
Adoption of a ptpn of ction for the         Prior to                IBRD
modernzation of NAG and CENTA               negotiations
finaneial nd persormel system.
Execution of a pilot project            Expansion of the objective-based             1993                    IBRD
using the objective-based               extension project to the nationa
extension methods designed for          level.
use with small and medium
protueers (15 extension                 Coordination with NGOs.                      1993                    IBRD
agencies).
Increased delivery of extension         Execution of a plan of action to             1993                    IBRD
services to wm.n producers In           promote participation by these women
the group of beneficiaries.             beneficiaries, through recruitment of
en extensian agents and setection
of contact farmers.
To achieve greater operations       Commencement of application of           Rehabilitation and improvement of the        1994                    GTZ
and maintenance efficiency in       this policy in the Lewpa-Acahuapa        Zapotitin and Atiocoyo districts.
existing irrigation                  irrigation district (under
districts, through transfer         construction):  Mi) direct               Solution of land tenure conflicts and
to users and recovery of all        administration by users; and             drawing up of "user rolls."                  1993                    103
0 & N costs.                        0ii) definition of 0 & N tariffs
to ensure full recovery of costs        Setting up of user associations (with
as per voluLetric consumption.          their own legl and institutional             1993                    IDB
status) to plan the operation,
maintenance and conservation of
irrigation works and to collect 100X
of applicable tariffs.
Establishment of the conditions to                                           4
surround collection of amortization                                       Sta
payments an investments (subject to
relevant statutory provisions).             1993                     IDB  '4



OUJECTIVES                             ACTION TAKEN                               ACTION PUUIED                                   TINING                   DONOR
Revision of Yater Act.                     Finalize revisions and submit amended          1993                      USAID
text to legislature for approval.
111. Agricuturtl Credit Policf
To improve and ensure                 BFA (Agricultural Development               Study of rural financial markets to            1992                      USAID/
availability of credit to              Bank) interest rates brought into          identify the best mechanisms for                                         IBRD
fuid fixed assets and working          line with coomercial bank rates.           improving access to credit for snall
capital needs of small and                                                        and medium producers.
medium producers.
irplementation of recoimendationf              1992t93                   1BRD/
resulting from the study to identify                                     USAID
strategies and rbchanisms for
improving access to credit, following
discussion with World Bank.
IV. Trade Poli
To eliminate price                     Formulation of a plan of action            Finalization of privatization of               1993194                   IBRD/
distortions and improve                for sale of BFA and IRA marketing          these facilities.                                                        USAID
accounting practices and               facilities.
efficiency at markets.
Determination of price ranges for          Standardization of tariffs applicable          1993                      Govern-
maize, rice and sorghum.                   to wheat, wheat flour, powdered milk,                                    ment
soybeans, soybean flour and
miscellaneous products (maize gluten
feed, vegetable oil).
Liberalization of trade in basic           Elimination of non-tariff                      1993
grains.                                    restrictions on trade in agriculturat
products, price controls, icport and
export licenses, etc.
Control of grants and
concessional imports.
V. Animal and Planit Health Polici
To reduce economic losses             Agreement on coordination of                Updating of regulations governing use          1994                      IDB
caused by diseases.                    regional animal and plant health           of agricultural inputs.
systems.
ON



OBJECTIVES                          ACTIN TARBI                              ACTIE PUIIED                                 TIRIII                  DlMO
To reinforce regulations                                                     Adoption of International Code of            1994                    IDB
governing quality control of                                                 Cordurt on Pesticide Use.
agricultural products and
inputs.                                                                      Iqwrove application of animtal and           1994                    IDB
plant health legislation through a
program for institutional
strengthening of the Animal and Plant
Health Department.
VI. Naturat Resource StrateLv
To promote rehabilitation,          Creation of the National Council         Strengthening of capacity to carry           1994                    USAID/
rational use and conservation       on the Ervirorent (CNAIAMA). with        out envirorvnental impact studies,                                   IDB
of the country's natural            a wandate to reorganize the              through:  (i) training;
resources and envirornent.          institutional framework for              (ii) formulation of guidelines for
actions affecting the                   evaluating and assigning priority to
envirorment.                            agricultural projects and activities;
and (iii) updating of databases used
in the management of natural
resources.
Quantification of major envirormental       1994                    USAID
problems.
Revision of legislation and             Approval of amendments to legislation        1993                    USAID
regulations governing                   (Water Act, Forestry Act). amencuent
enviromnental matters.                  and approval of the Industrial Wastes
Act, and adoption of Envirorvental
Code and its implementing
regulations.
Development of an ecological                1992/93                 USAID
education program, to include a
master plan for rational use and
protection of the envirornment to be
followed by the public at large.
_~ 17. lwa 
0o 4



ANNEX VIII-
Page 1 of I
CONSULTANTS' TERMS OF REFERENCE
A.          Contract for Technical Assistance to CENTA -  Institutional
Twinning Program
I.          Background
1.          The Government of El Salvador, through the MiniLtry of Agricultur
and Livestock (MAG), wishes to contract a public institution specializing in
research and technology transfer in agriculture and forestry, and having
experience in the management and execution of research and technology transfei
in Latin America, to assist CENTA, as part of an institutional twinning
program, in the following activities:
(a)   Identifying research priorities, within guidelines previously
established by CENTA, to resolve the problems zf small
crop/livestock and/or forestry producers.
(b)   Preparing and implementing research projects and technology
transfer actions, within the priorities identified.
(c)   Training of extension agents.
(d)   Implementing validation and demonstration plots.
(e)   Institutional administration and management.
2.          The specialists contracted will replace local personnel while the
latter are undergoing specialized training. The contractor will coordinate
its activities with those of a firm of consultants in agricultural and
forestry extension operations already contracted by the NAG. There will be an
evalu&tion for possible readjustment of the agreement during the mid-term
review of the proposed project. Issues raised during the mid-term review will
be followed-up in subsequent reviews.
II.         Responsibilities
3.          The contractor will have the following responsibilities:
(a)   To provide up to 34 person/years of technical assistance, in line
with the specialties, duration schedule and starting times shown
in appendix 1, together with all the coordination and supervision
required to ensure full performance of the contract. The
individual terms of reference are set out in section VII.



ANNEX VII:
Page 2 of
(b)   To remove and replace any specialist who for any reason does not
perform the tasks assigned.
(c) To ensure that each research specialLst, under the supervision c
the research coordinator and in conjunctLon with the local
speclalists, prepares a research program designed to solve the
production problems of small and medium size producers.
(d)   To ensure that its specialists observe CENTA's priorities in the
tralning of extension agents (using the results of research
generated in El Salvador or elsewhere), the testing and
demonstration of appropriate technology, and the preparation and
implementation of research projects.
(e)   To ensure that a maximum of two specialists will be used over th
total period required for each specialization, except for the
reasons descrLbed in II(b).
III.        inimua  Requirements
4.          The MAG will ensure that the institutions invited to participate
in this bidding competition meet its minimum requirements, including the
specifications for each specLalist.
IV.         Documentation Reouired
5.          Curriculum vitae (CV) for each speciallt, observing the
stipulations described in SectLon VII. Each CV should include:
(a)   Time and experience in the pertinent specialization.
(b)   A lint of research projects carried out, together wLth their
possible application to the problems of small and medium
producers.
(c)   Experience in the training of extension agents.
(d)   List of original theoretical and technical works published,
including information pamphlets, etc.
(e)   Photocopies of documents attesting to the information presented I
each CV.
6.          A coordination and supervision program to be established,
including office and support staff requirements.
7.          The total cost of the contract and the individual annual costs of
the technical and administrative personnel to be provided. These costs must



ANNEX VIII-A
Page 3 of 17
include all coordination and supervision costs (including the specific
personnel for these purposes), transportation in El Salvador and office
equipment and supplies. The cost per person/year will be the basis for making
small increases or reductions in the time for which the specialists are
required.
V.          Payment Procedure
8.          The form of payment will be determined by direct negotiation with
the winning bidder.
9.          CENTA will provide offices, laboratories, equipment and materials
for research/technology transfer, and support and clerical staff, to those
participating in this contract.
VI.         Results Expected
10.         Full performance of technical assistance activities for the
management, support and execution of research projects, the training of
extension agents, and validation and demonstration of appropriate technology,
all with the purpose of solving the production problems of small and medium
producers, the emphasis being on the sustainability of production.
11.         Quarterly reports on the progress of, and any difficulties and
obstacles encountered in, the execution of the program, along with suggestions
for resolving these problems.
12.         Audiovisual material and handbooks, etc., for use in training
extension agents and technology transfer to small and medium size producers.
13.         Proposal for a medium-term research program in the special field
of each expert, at the end of his/her stay in El Salvador.
Viz.        Terms of Reference
14.         The following are regarded as minimum requirements for all the
specialists to be contracted:
(a)   Professional training at the master's or, preferably, the doctoral
level (Ph.D., D.Sc. or equivalent).
(b)   Five yeare' experience in the field, working as part of a team.
(c)   Command of Spanish and English (reading).
(d)   Good health, with no travel restrictions, so as to allow those
contracted to work under difficult conditions in remote locations.



ANNEX VIII-J
Page 4 of 1'
15.         The following specific terms of reference per specialist
1.    Research Planning Specialist
Functions:
(a)   To design research planning programs and systems to permit
(i) identification of problems and symptoms; and (ii) preparation
of research projects, along with their technical and socioeconomic
justification, linked to technology transfer.
(b)   To define procedures and criteria for establishing research
priorities, in light of CENTA's clientele and within the
guidelines laid down by it.
(c)   To coordinate the development of systems for the technical and
socioeconomic evaluation of research programs and projects, in
conjunction with t'ae subject specialists (monitoring and
evaluation of pro,ects and agricultural economics).
(d)   To be CENTA's Director of Research's main advisor.
Additional requirements:
(a)   Experience as a researcher.
(b)   Minimum of 10 years' experience as a research planner.
(c)   Experience in the preparation of regional or national research
plans.
2.    Specialist in Information Communication and Dissemination
Functions:
(a)   To coordinate and participate in preparing a communications and
dissemination program for the Technical Services unit.
(b)   To organize technical information that can be used rapidly and
efficiently by CENTA specialists and other institutions requesting
this service, including the preparation of a computerized
database, microfiches, etc.
(c)   To help gather technical information generated in El Salvador and
elsewhere.
(d)   To help prepare instructional and audiovisual material for
transferring technology to extension agents and producers.
Additional requirements:



ANNEX VII1-A
Page 5 of 17
(a)   Minimum of five years, experience ln an information, communications
and/or technology transfer unit.
(b)   Knowledge of computers (word processing, data banks, etc.) and of
modern equipment uaed in data gathering and dissemination (storage
on CD-ROM, etc.).
3.    Specialist in Monitoring and 3valuating Research Projects
and Extension Activities
Functions:
(a)   To participate in prepa:ing a system for monitoring and evaluating
the following research and extension activitiest technical
aspects of production (productivity and production, working tools,
etc.), socioeconomic aspects (cost-benefit analysis of programs,
projects and activities, impact on communities, etc.) and
utilization of human resources (time dedicated to different
projects, etc.).
(b)   To help prepare an information system enabling management to take
rapid and appropriate decisions.
Additional requirements:
(a)   Experience in the development of a monitoring and evaluations
system.
4.    Specialist in Agricultural Economics
Functions:
(a)   To help prepare and analyze research programs and projects by
ensuring that the experiments are properly designed.
(b)   To train research and extension personnel in the principles of
production economics and cost-benefit analysis.
(c)   To help identify economic and socioeconomic problems faced by the
producers.
(d)   To prepare and implement research projects related to the problems
thus identified.
Specific requirements:
(a)   Experience in the preparation and execution of socioeconomic
research projects targeted at small and medium producers.



ANNEX VIII-A
Page 6 of 17
(b)   Experience in the design of research projects permitting cost-
benefit analysis.
S.    Specialist in Applied Statistics
Functions:
(a)   To advise researchers in the design of research experiments.
(b)   To analyze, in conjunction with the researchers, the results of
research experiments.
(c)   To advise management and other CENTA units on issues pertaining to
applled statistics.
(d)   To participate, along with the monitoring and evaluation
specialist, in preparing a system for m.;:itoring and evaluating
research and extension activities.
(e)   To train researchers in applied statistics, experiment design, and
the analysis and interpretation of results.
Additional requirementes
(a)   Minimum of 10 years' experience in applied statistics.
(b)   Experience in the design of applied research projects.
6.    SpecialLst in Laboratory Organization and Operation
Functions:
(a)   To prepare and implement a program to reorganize, merge and
consolidate the laboratories supporting research projects.
(b)   To prepare a basic list of specialized equipment required by the
laboratories in light of an evaluation of existing equipment
(including the possibillty of repairs).
(c)   To identify, in conjunction with the researchers, the analyses and
vervices required.
(d)   To develop, in conjunction with the Human Resources Unit, a
training program for laboratory personnel.
(e)   To train technicians and auxiliaries in analytical techniques.
(f)   To prepare the manuals needed for the analyses required.



ANNEX VIII-1
Page 7 of 1'
(g)   To prepare and implement a program for computerizing the results
of the analyses.
(h)   To help select a company to maintain scientific equipment.
Additional requirements:
(a)   Experience in laboratory organization and operation.  It is
possible that the requirement for a graduate degree could in this
case be waived if the candidate has the necessary experience.
7.    Specialist in Maize and Sorghum Management and Production
Functions:
(a)   To participate in preparing a research program.
(b)   To help identify, launch and implement research projects within
the priorities identified.
(c)   To assist in training extension agents in production techniques
appropriate for small and medium producers.
(d)   To work with extension agents in validating and demonstrating
appropriate technology.
(e)   To assist extension agents and other researchers in basic grains.
Additional Requirements:
(a)   Extensive experience (minimum of 10 years and knowledge of maize
and sorghum production systems).
(b)   Experience in the utilization of sustainable technology for
hillside producers, emphasizing water and soil conservation.
8.    Specialist in Bean Management and Production
The functions of and requirements for this specialist are similar
to those for the maize and sorghum specialist.
9.    Specialist in Plant Pathology of Basic Grains.  One year.
Functions:
(a)   To participate in preparing a research program.
(b)   To prepare and implement research projects.
(c)   To train researchers and laboratory technicians.



ANNEX VIII-A
Page 8 of 17
(d)   To participate in tr&iniag extension agents (disease
identification and control).
(e) To help identify the principal disease problems in basic grains
and to rank the latter as they affect the farms of small and
medium producers.
Additional Requirements:
(a) Minimum of 10 years' experience in identifying diseases, and their
control by chemical and biological agents and genetic and
integrated measures, in areas agroecologically similar to El
Salvador.
10.   Specialist in Natural Resource Management
Functions:
(a)   To help prepare a !4atural Resource Management research program
together with the specialist in agro-silvo-pastoral specialist,
along the line of recommendations of the Bank's Natural Resource
Management Study. The main focus would be water and soil
conservation.
(b)   To prepare and implement research projects, in conjunction with
the crop management specialists, with a view to developing better
conservation systems.
(C)   To train researchers and extension agents in appropriate water and
soil conservation methods, in relation to annual and perennial
crops, pastures or woodland.
(d)   To help researchers and extension agents set up conservation tests
and/or demonstrations.
(e)   To collaborate with the research program specialists.
(f)  To make, in conjur.ction with the Agricultural Economics
specialist, a detailed cost-benefit analysis of the various
methodologies employed in the tests and demonstrations.
(g)   To collaborate with other agencies working with Natural Resource
management (i.e. SEMA).
Additional Requirements:
(a) Extensive experience in the generation and transfer of sustainable
technology for water and soil management.
11.   Specialist in Soil Microbiology



ANNEX VIII-A
Page 9 of 17
Functions:
(a)   To organize the microbiology laboratory.
(b)   To cooperate with the laboratory organization specialist and
technicians to prioritize equipment needs and analytical
methodologies.
(c)   To help identify priority problems in soil microbiology.
(d)   To participate in preparing a research program.
(e)   To prepare and implement microbiological research projects to
improve cultivated soils and pastures.
(f)   To train researchers and extension agents in the importance of
soil microbes and factors affecting variations in these microbes.
Additional Requirements:
(a)   Experience in microbiology laboratory techniques.
(b)   Experience in setting up field tests.
12.   Specialist in Agro-Silvo-Pastoral Production
Functions:
(a)   To identify priority geographical areas and production systems for
introducing and/or increasing agro-silvo-pastoral production.
(b)   To help prepare a Natural Resource Management research program
together with the Natural Resource Management Specialist (see
above 10.). Main focus would be Agro-Silvo-Pastoral Production.
(c)   To prepare and implement research projects in agro-silvo-; 'storal
production.
(d)   To train researchers and extension agents in production systems
and methods on the basis of experimeri's in agroecological zones
similar to El Salvador.
(e)   To collaborate with the specialists in all the research programs
in developing appropriate and sustainable production systems.
Additional Requirements:
(a)   Minimum of 10 years' experience in research and technology
transfer in conditions similar to those in El Salvador.



ANNEX VIII-A
Page 10 of 17
13.   Specialist in Soil Fertility
Functions:
(a)   To help identify the principal soil fertility problems.
(b)   To participate in preparing a research program.
(c)   Together with the management specialists, to prepare and implement
research projects and make acceptable recommendations in terms of
their technical and financial sustainability, with special
reference to the utilization of organic fertilizers and plant
material.
(d)   To train researchers and extension agents in matters relating to
soil fertility and the utilization of soil analyses, in order to
make recommendations.
Additional Requirements:
(a)   Extensive experience (minimum of 10 years) in the generation and
transfer of technology appropriate to marginal soils.
(b)   Experience in methods of enhancing fertility, alternatives to
chemical fertilizers (organic fertilizers, incorporation of
pulses, compost, etc.).
14.   Specialist in Ruminant Production Systems
Functions:
(a)   To help identify the principal livestock production problems.
(b)   To work with experts in other research programs in developing
economical and sustainable farm production sydtems.
(c)   To prepare technology validation tests and practical research
projects to solve the priority problems identified.
(d)   To train extension agents in cattle, eheep and goat prodtuction
systems on the farms of producers raising mixed herds.
Additional Requirements:
(a)   Practical experience in livestock production.
(b)   Ability to grasp the role of livestock production in the context
of total farm production.



ANNEX VIII-A
Page 11 of 17
15.   Specialist in Pasture and Forage Crop Production and
Utilization
Functions:
(a)   To help identify priority problems and prospects in the production
and utilization of forage crops.
(b)   To participate in preparing a research program.
(C)   In conjunction with the agro-silvo-pastoral systems specialist,
develop and implement research projects designed to solve the
priority problems of small and medium producers.
(d)   To train extension agents in pasture and forage crop production
and utilization (including trees and shrubs) as part of total farm
production.
(e)   To cooperate with the specialists in other programs to design
sustainable production systems that enhance water and soil
conservation.
Additional Requirements:
(a)   Training and experience (10 years minimum) in the production and
utilization of annual and perennial pastures and forage crops, and
the association of grasses and pulses and of forage trees and
shrubs.
17.   Specialist in Fruit and Vegetable Peet Control.  three
years.
Functions:
(a)   To help identify the principal fruit and vegetable pests affecting
the production of small and medium producers.
(b)   To participate in preparing a research program.
(C)   To prepare and implement research projects designed to solve the
priority problems thus identified.
(d)   To train researchers, extension agents and specialists in the
identification of pests.
(e)   To train extension agents in pest control using chemical and
biological agents and genetic re'sitance, and in integrated pest
management.
Additional Requirements:



ANNEX VIII-A
Page 12 of 17
(a)   Specific experience in integrated management (minimum of five
years).
18.   Specialist in Fruit and Vegetable Pathology
Functions:
(a)   To help identify the principal pa.chological problems in the main
fruit and vegetable crops.
(b)   To participate in preparing a research prograw.
(c)   To prepare and implement research projects in the context of the
most urgent priorities.
(d)   To train extension agents in the chemical, genetic resistance and
integrated control of fungal, bacterial and viral diseases.
(e)   To train researchers, extension agents and specialists in
identifying diseases in the field and the laboratory
(technicians).
Additional Requirements:
(a)   Minimum of 10 years, experience in fruit and vegetable plant
pathology in agroecological zones similar to El Salvador.
32.         Specialist in the Participation of Rural Women in Farm Development
Functions:
(a)   To help improve research and extension programs as regards the use
of farm products in family nutrition, the processing of products
to increase their sale value and the marketing of processed or
semi-processed pro ucts.
(b)   To train re&earchers and extension agents in the technology
availabl': nationally and internationally in the above-mentioned
areas.
(c)   To sensitize extension agents working in production technology
transfer to the importance of the participation of rural women in
farm development.
(d)   To help the central government develop principal indicators to
monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
participation of rural women.
(e)   To work directly with extension agents in the field.



ANNEX VIII-A
Page 13 of 17
Additional Requirements:
(a)   Minimum of 10 years' experience in programs targeted at rural
women on small and medium farms, both at the institutional level
and in the field.
(b)   Formal training in rural sociology with some specialization in
human nutrition.
TIME REQUIRED      STARTING TIME
SPECIALIZATION                                   (YEARS)             (YEAR
Research planning                                   2                  1
Communications/Dissemination                        1                  2
Project monitoring/evaluation                       1                  2
Agricultural economics                              2                  1
Applied statistics                                  2                  2
Laboratory organization/operation                   2                  1
Maize/sorghum management                            2                  1
Beans management                                    2                  1
Plant pathology/basic grains                        1                  1
Natural Resource Management                         2                  1
Soil microbiology                                   3                  2
Agro-silvo-pastoral production                      2                  2
Soil fertility                                      1                  2
Ruminant production                                 1                  2
Pasture and forage crop production                  3                  1
Fruit/vegetable pests                               3                  2
Fruit/vegetable pathology                           2                  1
Participation of rural women                        2                  2
TOTAL                           34
The terms of reference above are provided as a refertnce. At the time
of issuing inivitations for proposals, detailed TOR would be prepared
including: (a) expected date of initiation and completion of
assignments; (b) outputs to be provided and impact expected from each
assignment; (c) interim review of progress and proceduree for adjustment
of program and under what circumstances issues arising would be
discussed during the Bank's annual reviews; arnd (d) evaluation methods
to prepare "Twinning" arrangement evaluation for the mid-term review.



ANNEX VIII-I
Page 14 of 1
CONSULTANT DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
B.          Contract for Technical Assistance to CENTA for the Academic
Training Program, to include: (1) 3election, advice to and monitoring of
scholarship holders for training courses at the master's level; and (2)
administration of a program of short courses for training professionals
outside El Salvador. It is expected that the contract will start in 1993, anc
last until the last academic degree is granted, or upon completion of the
project whichever is soonest.
I.          General
The Government of El Salvador, through the National Agricultural
and Forestry Technology Center (CENTA), wishes to contract an institution with
experience in the management of training programs for professionals in the
agriculture and forestry sector of Latin American institutions to help CENTA
in the following activities:
(a)   selection and monitoring of and advice to scholarship holders for
training courses at the maste:"s level in agricultural and
forestry sciences;
(b)   assistance in the selection of the most appropriate institutions,
programs and/or courses providing instruction and training that
matches the needs of the scholarship holder and CENTA.
Annex V of this Staff Appraisal Report show CENTA's needs in terms
of master's courses (with the corresponding areas of specialization), and
short-duration courses, respectively.
U.          Responsibilities
The contractor will have the following responsibilities:
(a)   To assess the qualifications of the candidates in order to
determine the likelihood of their acceptance by institutions
and/or regional and international courses;
(b)   To help candidates identify any academic upgrading they may need,
by making pertinent recommendations;
(c)   To recommend public and/or private institutions in El Salvador for
purposes of improving the appropriate language skills, during a
period of 6 to 12 months;
(d)   To advise candidates on the selection of the universities,
programs and/or courses providing them with their beat options;



ANNEX VIII-B
Page 15 of 17
(e)   To help candidates in the process of applying to and being
accepted by these universities, programs and/or courses, including
the preparation of documents;
(f)   To pay, whether in El Salvador or abroad, the stipends, fares,
subsistence expenses, matriculation and insurance costs and other
items (books, etc.) needed by the scholarship holders;
(g)   To monitor the scholarship holders in order to advise them on
their course programs and their theses;
(h)   To train the local counterparts in the Human Resources Unit,
designated by CENTA, in the entire process; and
(i)   To remove and replace any consultant who, for whatever reason,
does not perform the work assigned.
III.        Minimum Requirements
(a)   The contractor and the consultants proposed must have five years'
experience in similar activities with three or more Latin American
institutions in the agriculture and forestry sector;
(b)   The consultants must have a good command of Spanish and English.
IV.         Documentation Required
The contractor must provide CENTA with the following documents:
(a)   A description of the methodology to be used in selecting both the
candidates for short courses and master's degree courses and the
universities, programs and/or courses in question;
(b)   Curriculum vitae (CV) of the consu_tants, with copies of documents
to substantiate the inlormation contained in each CV;
(c)   Substantiation of the contractor's experience through a list of
previous clients, along with copies of the relevant contracts; and
(d)   The total cost of the contract, including personnel, subsistence
expenses, supplies, national and inte:.aLlwnal transportation,
supervision, cost per year and total cost of the service to be
provided, including the payments to scholarship holders and their
costs.



ANNEX VIII-B
Page 16 of 17
V.          Payment
(a)   Payment will be made as follows:
(i)   80% of the cost of the first year of the contract at the
time it is signed and 15% at the end of that year if the
contractor has performed satisfactorily;
(ii)   payment on each anniversary of the contract of 80% of the
cost of the following year, 15% being paid at the end of the
year;
(iii)   5% of the amount due each year will be withheld pending the
satisfactory completion of the contract.
(b)   CENTA will provide offices for the consultants, counterparts to be
trained in the process and who will help provide the information
required, and support staff.
VI.         Results Expected
(a)   Full performance of the activities; and
(b)   A half-yearly report on the progress of:
(i)   the language training and/or academic-technical upgrading of
the scholarship candidates;
(ii)   the scholarship holders on language courses and short
duration courses in El Salvador and specialized courses
elsewhere; and
(c)   The national counterparts being trained in the process.



ANNEX VIII-
Page 17 of
CONSULTANTS' DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
C.    Contract for a Chief Technical Advisor in Institutional
Development, to provide long-term technical support to DIPEI during the first
phase of implementation of the reform and institutional development component
FUNCTIONS
1.    Assist DIPEI in ensuring the technical quality of analytical work of
tasks related to the reform and institutional development component.
2.    Assist DIPEI in the identification, selection, contracting and draftinc
of terms of reference for short term consultants. In close coordinatic
with DIPEI staff responsible for module monitoring, provide appropriate
briefing and debriefing of short term consultants, evaluate their work
and ensure continuity and follow-up of consultant contributions.
3.    Take responsibility for specific tasks under any module of the componer
and consistent with his knowledge and skills.
4.    Assist DIPEI in the preparation of documentation and reports as require
by the World Bank and in support of supervision missions.
5.    Assist DIPEI in liaising with other agencies of the GOES, especially
those concerned with UNDP's Management Development Program, so as to
help ensure consistency with the project.
6.    Provide on-the job-training/coaching to DIPEI staff in all matters
pertaining to Institutional Development and assume responsibility for
the procurement and coordination of the management development/training
program, including the high level seminar on strategic planning.
7.    When required, support the work of short term consultants and in close
coordination with the DIPEI staff member responsible for the pertinent
module.
8.    Other tasks of technical support or coordination within the scope of
REFORMAG as may be required and determined by the Coordinator.
DURATION OF THE CONTRACTs  Initial 3 months contract to be extended for 2
years of continuous service in residence in San Salvador.
QUALIFICATIONS: Qualified professional with graduate level degrees in Public
Administration or pertinent field of the Management or Social Sciences or
equivalent experience, and extensive field experience in projects of
Institutional Development and Reform, preferably in the agricultural sector.
Fluent in Spanish with interpersonal abilities to perform as advisor and
technical consultant as well as to undertake on-the job training and coaching
C:\WP51\PRISA.BUF\ANNEX.8
December 17, 1992



ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 1
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1.    Ben Ezra, Plan de Operaciones de la Primera Fase del Programa Nacional de
Extensi6n Dirigidas a Objetivos (EDO), febrero 1991
2.    Ben Ezra, Plan de Operaciones del Programa Nacional de Extensi6n Dirigida
a Objetivos (EDO), marzo 1991
3.   CIapin,  M.  El  Salvador's  Environment:  Problems  and  Institutional
Responses. Background Paper, August 1990
4.    FAO/CP, El Salvador. Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment Programme.
Soil and Water Conservation, June 1991
5.    MAG, Estudio Nacional del Sector Agropecuario,  Encuesta sobre uso y
tenencia de tierra. 2 Vols., enero 1989.
MAG/CENTA, Componente Tecnologia Agropecuaria, mayo 1992
6.    McReynolds,  S.  et  al,  Agricultural  Practices  and  Environmental
Sustainability in El Salvador, Draft not for citation, February 1992
7.    Rodriguez, R. El Papel de los Organismos no Gubernamentales y Pederaciones
de Cooperativas en la Generaci6n y Transferencia de Tecnologia
Agropecuaria. Caso El Salvador, octubre 1991
8.    Rodriguez R. y Ojeda P. Inventario de Organismos no Gubernamentales que
trabajan con Agricultura en El Salvador, octubre 1991
9.    UNDP, El Salvador: Programme for State Modernization, December 1991
10.   USAID, Project for Increasing the Efficiency of the Public Sector, July
1991.
11.   USAID, Alternativas park la Reestructuraci6n de la Divisi6n de Tecnologia
de Semillas del CENTA, marzo 1992.
12.   USAID, El Salvador: An assessment of the Impact of Recent Policy Changes
in Agriculture, December 1991
13.   World Bank,  A Preliminary Economical and  Institutional  Analysis of
Selected Agroforestry Projects in Central America, Draft, March 1992
C:\WPSI\PRISA.BIJFANNEX.DC
Dac2mbcr 23, 1992



Lok.                                          b Pbdia r&.r4 "
Ayarao Co
GUATEMALA              G G;l'              SANTA   CHALATE NANGO
TCandeperte   A1                          So*nTejull;  ElCarrrfaIl
b~~~~~tIa  Conc.pclftn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onN
Swag~ ~ ~ OfoYo  (Fedr   U,    ANDU *                                q. San Ra*,I 
14-M  G.                           sonfSoneno.    A                        ft  ,t
P.b~,.  ~,a RamonGmd
uac   ]-tpanu ) |
AHUAH    Aa                                                    a         L
feC6reno.                                     ,EomI e         uS
;  . .0      EL. SA&VA0C  R                                2g7    
NATIONAL CENTER FONRA A UTURAL.
*  TECHNOLOY (CENTA)w Ar -
.CENThRS FOR TECHNOLOGY toEVELOP- .- WT's>
RESEARCH STATIONS ND~ EXtESON AGE9ttC-fE$:0  
ONE  lWO-A  iWO-B  THREE   UBTIOS            DEVELOPMENT                0    NATIONALI.CP
-                               - -^i XD
MAN
O                                  SANTA CRUZ PORRILLO        - 
__ _           _                  0NlORAZAN                       .      f  SC
PROJECr PHASE$     CENTERS FOR TECHNICALNA
~~~~.-           8 , w                    - 5t/>. .- st 



