Page  1
April 3, 2001
His Excellency
Mr. José Luis Trigueros
Minister of Finance
Blvd. de los Héroes
San Salvador, El Salvador
Re:
El Salvador: Loan No. 3576-ES
(Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment Project)
Fifth Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment 
Project) between the Republic of El Salvador (the Borrower) and the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated September 30, 1993, as amended 
(the Loan Agreement).  Whenever used in this letter, the several terms defined in the 
Loan Agreement have the respective meanings set forth therein.
Pursuant to your letter dated March 9, 2001 requesting the Bank to amend and 
reallocate funds from the Loan, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as 
follows:
I.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement is amended as set 
forth in Annex 1 to this amendment letter.
II.
In Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, the Part D of the Project is amended as 
follows:
(a)
The heading is amended by adding the words "and earthquakes" after the 
word "and Mitch";
(b)
The words "for the Rural Sector" are deleted; 
(c)
The following subparagraphs (8), (9) and (10) are added to read as 
follows:
(8)
Rehabilitation and/or reconstruction of MAG and CENTA’s damaged 
building including the engineering designs required thereto and 
the supervision of the works carried out. 
(9)
Rehabilitation, reconstruction and/or construction of the rural 
productive infrastructure for community use selected, carried out 
and supervised in accordance with the criteria and procedures to 
be approved by the Bank pursuant to the provisions of the last 
paragraph of this Amendment Letter, including the engineering 
designs required thereto and the supervision of the works carried 
out.
(10)
Training and technical assistance to farmers as required to assist 
in the reactivation of productive activities in areas damaged by 
earthquakes."
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing the two originals of 
this letter and returning one fully signed original to us.  Upon receipt by the Bank 
of such fully signed original and the criteria and procedures required for purposes of 
Part D (9) of the Project, the amendments set forth in this letter will be effective 
as of  February 17, 2001.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  2
By /s/ Donna M. Dowsett-Coirolo
Country Director 
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
By /s/ 
signed by the Authorized Representative
