Page  1
February 24, 1999
His Excellency 
Mr. Manuel Enrique Hinds 
Minister of Finance 
Blvd. de los Héroes 
San Salvador, El Salvador
Re:
El Salvador: Loan No. 3576-ES (Agricultural Sector Reform and 
Investment 
Project) Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment 
Project) between the Republic of El Salvador (the Borrower) and the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated September 30, 1993, as amended 
(the Loan Agreement). Whenever used in this letter, the several terms defined in the 
Loan Agreement have the respective meanings set forth therein.
Based on discussions between staff of the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and 
Livestock and the Bank and pursuant to your letter dated February 10, 1999, requesting 
that the Bank to cancel the incorporation of the Rural Financial Markets component 
since it was not approved by the Salvadoran Legislative Assembly, the Bank agrees to 
cancel and leave without effect the Loan 3576-ES letter amendment dated June 30, 1998 
containing the Rural Financial Markets component and agrees to amend the Loan 
Agreement as follows:
I.
Paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the 
Project and shall cause it to be carried out as set forth in 
paragraph (b) below, all with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, economic and environmental 
practices and standards, and shall provide, promptly  as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.”
II.
Paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Section 3.01 are relettered as paragraphs (c), 
(d) and (e) respectively, and a new paragraph (b) under Section 3.01 is added to read 
as follows:
“(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause Parts A, B, and D of the Project to be 
carried out 
through MAG, with the assistance of CENTA in respect of the CENTA 
Subproject and Part D. 4 
of the Project; and (ii) cause Part C of the Project to be 
carried out through Registry;”
III.
Article III is amended by adding a new Section 3.08 to read as follows:
“Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, through CENTA, ensure that in 
accordance with its 
relevant national laws, and in general, in accordance with 
the policy statement set forth in 
Schedule 7 to this Loan Agreement:  (i) only 
pesticides approved by the Bank, from among the 
list of pesticides which meet the 
present standards established by the Food and Agriculture 
Organization and the World 
Health Organization will be used; (ii) persons handling 
pesticides will be 
provided with protective clothing and equipment, including health kits, 
and shall be 
adequately qualified and trained to handle pesticides; (iii) adequate advance 
notice 
will be given to local population in the areas to be sprayed with pesticides; (iv) 
the labeling, packaging and storage of pesticide containers, and the disposal of 
pesticides 
and pesticide containers, will be carried out in accordance with the 
internationally 
accepted general standards provided for under the 
International Code of Conduct on the 
Distribution and Use of Pesticides 
published by the Food and Agriculture Organization; and 
(v) suitable pesticide 
Page  2
effluent disposal mechanisms will be made available to prevent 
environmental 
pollution and pesticide leakage into groundwater, including leakage resulting 
for 
the rinsing of pesticide containers.”
IV.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement is amended as set 
forth in Annex 1 to this amendment letter.
V.
In Schedule 2  to the Loan Agreement a new  Part D of the Project is added as 
follows:
“Part D:
 Hurricane Mitch Emergency Program for the Rural Sector
(1)
Carrying out of animal and plant disease prevention and control 
activities.
(2)
Restocking of animal and plant varieties in areas affected by Hurricane 
Mitch. 
(3)
Rehabilitation and maintenance of irrigation systems, stabilization of 
water 
catchment areas, rehabilitation of agricultural productive areas and 
carrying out of 
agricultural disaster mitigation measures. 
(4)
Carrying out of crop recovery activities, including the refencing and 
demarcation of 
property limits and the purchase of agricultural inputs such as 
seeds, fertilizers, and 
pesticides. 
(5)
Rehabilitation of artisanal fisheries and restocking of small scale fish 
ponds, 
provision of inputs for local fishermen to repair fishing boats 
and engines and to 
manufacture fishing nets. 
(6)
Rehabilitation of rainwater catchment works.
(7)
Monitoring of activities in support of emergency response, including 
hiring of 
auditors.” 
VI.
A new Schedule 7 is added to the Loan Agreement as set forth in Annex 2 to this 
amendment letter.
VII.
The attachment to the supplemental letter dated September 30, 1993 signed by Ms. 
Mirna Lievano de Marques on behalf of the Borrower and confirmed by Mr. S. Shahid 
Husain on behalf of the Bank is also hereby amended to include new implementation and 
impact indicators for Part D of the Project as set forth in Annex 3 to this letter.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing the two originals of 
this letter and returning one fully signed original to us.  Upon receipt by the Bank 
of such fully signed original, the amendments set forth in this letter will be 
effective as of the date of this letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna M. Dowsett-Coirolo
Director 
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
Page  3
By /s/ Manuel Enrique Hinds
Authorized Representative
Date:   March 3, 1999
