Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8109
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1231-MAU)
OCTOBER 17, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL US ONY
THE WORLD BANK
Washir,gton. D.C. 20433
06Ke ofioomtm-Cai                           i
opmatm EvMMtiMJn
October 17, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTt Project Completion Report on Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Fourth Highway Proiect (Credit 1231-MAU)
Attached, for iitformation, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on IsIlaic Republic of Mauritania Fourth Highway Project
(Credit 1231-MAU)" preparad by the Africa Rtegional Office. No aadit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has a restrice distribution and may be used by recile nte only in the pfoannae
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwie be dbclsd without Wold Bank authorrintb



FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 1231 MAU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
P?Me No.
Preface  ..*.*                                                        ...............
Basic Data Sheet................................ lii
Evaluation Summary  ................ .                               v
IT   INTRODUCTION.      .   .. ................                      1
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION, AND APPRAISAL ..........    3
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COSTS ............................   8
IV.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE          ................       . .  10
V.  ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION ................ ........... * .         10
VI.  THE ROLE OF THE ASSOCIATION ........*..**..*......*....*....   11
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............................  11
TABLES
Estimated and Actual Disbursements, by Project Component ...  13
ATTACHMENTS
1. Comments from Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development ,...   14
2.  Comments from Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development..   15
MAP   IBRD 15467R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 1231-MAU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth Highway
Project in Mauritauia, for which Credit 1231-MAU in the amount of US$4.0
million was approved on April 13, 1982. The Credit was closed on
June 30, 1988, three years behind schedule. The last disbursement took
place on January 4, 1989 and the remaining outstanding balance, US$62,000,
was cancelled shortly thereafter.
The PCR was prepared by the infrastructure Operations Division,
Sahelian Department, of the Africa Regional Office and is based, inter
alia, on the President's Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between tha Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.
This PCR w4s read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and Cofinanciers for comments and
they are attached to the Report.



- ii -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURTANIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 1231 MAU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY   PROJECT   DATA
Actual
Item                         Original            or
Current Estimate
Total Project Cost
(US$ million)                    14.3 la          14.3
Cost Over/Underrun (X)
Financing (US$ million)                10.3 /b           10.2
Credit IDA Amount                       4.0              4.0
Disbursed                                          3.9
Cancelled                                          0.1 /c
Repaid                                             0.0
Outstanding                                        3.9
Completion of Physical
Components (date)                  12/31/84          06/30/88
Proportion Actually Completed           25               100
by ibove Date (2)
Economic Rate of Return (2)             N/A /d           N/A Id
CUMULATED ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(USS  illion)
Item             FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89
Appraisal Estimate                  0.5   1.4   2.4   3.2   3.7   3.9   4.0
Actual                                           0.7   0.7   1.4   3.9   3.9 Ic
Actual as 2                                      29    22    38    100   98
of Estimate



- iii -
O T H E R   P R O J E C T  D A T A
Item                      Original     Amended      Actual
Project Brief                                            08/06/79
First Mention in Files          02/09/77
Negotiations                     09/80                     12/81
Board Approval of the Loan       12/80                   04/13/82
Loan Agreement Date                                      05/20/82
Lffectiveneus Date                                       09/14/83
Closing Date                    06/30/85    06/30/86    06/30/88
06/30/87
Borrower                          Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Executing Agencies             Ministry of Equipment, Transport and
Telecommunication through its
Department of Public Works
Follow-on Project                     Fifth Highway Project
Fiscal Year of Borrower              January 1 to December 31
/a Excludes taxes and duties
b  Includes US $5.1 M from the Kuwait Fund and US $5.2 M from the Arab Fund
and the Government.
/c US$62,00p was cancelled.
/d  A Staff Appraisal Report was not prepared for this project  (pare. 2.06).
fSt!f wks'-
FY       Z&  zi n   zZ    2   n   0e s    a   2   a         1   01 e7 a0    I daL
Pr,.ppiuaI  -  -  -   -    -    5.1    18.1  -  -  -   -    -    -   -   -   18.2
Appraisal  -  -   -   -    -    -   6.7    28.8  .4  -  -   -    -   -   -   SO.3
Negotiation  -  -  -  -    -    -    -   8.6    11.6  -  -  -    -   -   -   15.2
Supervision  -  -  -  -    -    -    -   -    2.2  6.3  4.6  6.0  8.4  8.9   6.6    88.4
Other     .1  .0  -   -    -    -    .2   .5   .8  -   -    -    -   -   .8  1.6
TOTAL     .1  .0    -  -   -    5.1    20.1    27.4    14.4  6.8  4.8  6.0  8.4  8.9   6.9    98.7



- iv -
M I S S I O N    D A T A
No.     Mission     Man       Date
Item              Mo./Yr.    of       Compo-    Weeks        of
Persons   sition               Report
La
Identification              03/79       2        H,E         1    08/06/79 /b
Identification              10/79       2        H,E         1     11/29/79
Preparation/Appraisal       02/80       1         H         1.5   04/01/80 /c
P')st Appraisal             10/80       1         H        0.5        n/a
Co-lender Meeting           02/81       1         H        0.5    02/17/81
Post Negotiation            02/82       2        H,E         1     03/10/82
Supervision 1               06/82       1         E        0.2        n/a
Supervision 2               01/83       1         H         1.5    02/25/83
Supervision 3               08/83       1         H        0.5    0)9/07/83
Supervision 4               09/84       1         H          1     11/25/84
Supervision 5               06/85       1         H         1      07/15/85
Supervision 6               02/86       1         H        0.5    04/17/86
Co-lenders Meeting          01/87       1         H        0.5    02/12/87
Supervision 7               03/87       2         H          1     04/23/87
Supervision 8               12/87       1         H         1      12/24/87
Supervision 9               031t88      1         H          1     08/05/88
Supervision 10
Supervision 11
Supervision 12
Supervision 13
Supervision 14
Supervision 15
La  E  - Economist
H - Highway Engineer
T - Training Consultant
LO - Loan Officer
lb  Project Brief
le  Issues Paper.  The mission prepared the President's Report; a Staff
Appraisal Report was not required.



-v -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT '231-MAU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiective
The project was designed as a bridging operation as it consisted
of studies essential to the preparation of a comprehensive road maintenance
project, and the studies, design and completion of betterment works carried
out under the Third Highway Project (para 2.06).
Implementation Experience
The Credit Agreement was signed in May 1982, but the Credit did
not become effective until 16 months later because of delays on the part of
the Government in ratifying the credit documents (para 2.16).
The completion of the highway maintenance study, a key component
of the project, was delayed for s.-ral years because of lack of
coordination with the Association on the part of the co-lenders
(para 3.07).
After the initial delay in selecting consultants, the IDA part of
the project prcacfded reasonably well (para 6.02).
With the exception of start-up delays, the borrower's performance
was satisfactory (para 7.02).
IDA's performance was adequate and supervision was good (para.
7.03).
Results
The project provides a sound basis for a follow-up project
(para 7.05).
Findings
Lessons learned include that performance will be enhanced when:
(i) the Borrower is willing to institute organizational reforms and to
shift the execution of periodic maintenance from departmental forces to
contract; (ii) engineering work is completed before construction is
started; and (iii) co-lenders financing is pooled rather than restricted to
specific project components (para. 7.06).



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOURTH HIGiHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 1231 MAU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
T. INTRODUCTION
1.01.     The road sector of Mauritania is characterized by very high
construction and maintenance costs due to vast distances, difficult
topography and climate, a lack of materials in some areas, and a shortage of
skilled manpower. The road network is subJzct to flash floods during the
rainy season and storms during the dry season, which accelerates
deterioration and increases maintenance costs.
1.02.     Bank Group involvement in highway maintenance started with a
maintenance study financed under the First Highway Project (CR. 69-MAU).
Under the Second Highway Project (Cr. 159-MAU, FY69), the Equipment Division
of the Directorate of Public Works was reorganized, and new procedures were
introduced. Four brigades for road maintenance and improvament were
established, and new maintenance equipment was purchased. By project
completion, 80 percent (400 km) of the road improvement as well as 60 percent
(1,800 km) of the annual routine maintenance targets had been achieved.
Training for senior level personnel was successful, but only about 40 percent
of junior personnel were trained. In addition to insufficient training, the
Project Performance Audit Report of February 2, 1978, identified two other
:actors as hampering project objectives: (i) establishment of too many
brigades at one time to carry out operations when there were shortages of
qualified personnel and locvi funds; and (ii) diversion of project equipment
to unscheduled activities.
1.03.     Under the Third Highway Project (CR. 519-MAU, US$3.0 M, FY75),
which inter alia included 365 km of betterment works, the Government and the
As3ociation sought to address some of the above issues. The project
concentrated on strengthening two maintenance brigades, which required fewer
managers and trained personnel. A bilingual trainir.g expert was recruited
and materials for teaching provided, and additional mainteiiance equipment was
financed. Unfortunately, a number of unforeseeable political and economic
difficulties hindered achievement of project objectives. War, successive
droughts, accelerated Mauritanization of the civil service without regard to
qualification, paralysis of economic activity and a rapid deterioration of
public finance, all adversely affected project implementation. Under these
circumstances, force account work of the magnitude envisioned at appraisal
proved beyond the capacity of the Government to implement, end delays in
project execution led to a substantial cost overrun.
1.04.     In 1979, the Credit Agreement was amended to reduce the scope of
the project from 365 to 215 km of road improvements. To alleviate the
pressure on the already constrained Government budget, IDA and the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development (KF), one of the major contributors to



Mauritania's road sector, agreed to finance 100 percent of project costs. At
tie same time, the Government made efforts to improve management, namely by:
(1) appointing a Mauritanian project manager to work exclusively orn the
project; (ii) providing the new management unit with an accountant; and (iii)
establishing, a simplified procurement system. In spite of these efforts,
due to the persistence of problems outlined in para 1.03, project
accomplishments were limited. Although earth works were implemented on 215
km, no drainage structures were provided due to delays and lack of funds.
Work on these road sections, which were being damaged by flash flooding in
the rainy season, faced certain destruction if they remained unprotected.
They are to be completed under the proposed Fourth Highweay Project.
1.05.     Implementation and maintenance problems encountered during and
after the execution of the Third Highway Project, convinced the Government
and the external donors financing the project of the need to reconsider their
approach to the road sector. These problems provided further evidence to the
Government, and persuaded external donors, that absolute priority was to be
given to improving the country's institutional and financial capacity for
implementing works and maintaining the country's priority roads. In
preparation for the proposed Fourth Highway Project, the Government decided
to utilize pzivate contractors rather than use departmental forces to execute
all periodic maintenance and improvement works. It also carried out a review
of road maintenance administration in February 1980. After discussion with
the Association, it was concluded that preceding the es-ablishment of a more
permanent improved road maintenance structure, to be determined by further
studies included under the proposed project, two units should be created to
help improve maintenance efficiency. The first would be a central unit with
clear authority to plan road investments and effectively control the
execution of works carried out by contractors; and the second would be a road
maintenance and equipment unit to execute routine road maintenance operations
carried out by regional subdivisions and small force account brigades.
1.06.     In the late 1970s, the road network consisted of about 7,800 km of
which 1,500 km were paved, 600 were improved earth roads and the remainder
unimproved tracks. However, the size of the road network exceeded the
capacity of the maintenance organization. It was estimated by consultants in
1976 that the Government would need to spend about US $20 million p.a., or
about 10 percent of its budget, to maintain its entire road network to an
optimum standard. Thus, it became clear that provision of an adequate
maintenance budget would be a major drain on available domestic resources.
The maintenance study, to be carried c-: under the Fourth Highway Project,
would enable the Government and foreign donors to jointly determine an
economically viable maintenance program to be implemented on the basis of a
realistic assessment of available domestic and foreign resources.
1.07.     The Ministry of Equipment, Transport and Telecommunications (METT),
through its Public Works Department (PWD), was responsible for the
implementation of the project.
1.08.     This report is based on a review of Bank correspondence files, and
interviews with Bank staff associated with the project.



- 3 -
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION, AND APPRAISAL
Identification
2.01.     In view of the fu:lure of the Mauritarian adminiBttation to benefit
signif'cantly from earlier efforts in the road sector, the Association
decided to consider the creation of a semi-autonomous state entity for road
maintenance to be organized along the lines of SONADER, the rural development
agency which up to the end of 1978 had enjoyed considerable success. The
Association was motivated by "the tremendous pocential need for road
maintenance in Mauritania," both of existing roads included under the Second
Highway Pro4ect, and the new Nouakchott-Kiffa-Nema road.
2.02.     An IDA mission was sent to Mauritania in March, 1979, to initiate
discussion with the Government on the possibility of preparing a project,
mainly comprising a road maintenance component, which would be implemented by
a parastatal agency or any other appropriate procedure to be determined by
the mission. In the Project Brief dated August 6, 1979, the mission examined
various options and concluded that the best strategy would be to undertake an
"interim project" with only limited objectives. The project would "establish
a nucleus of a public corporation or a planning and contracting agency.
Contractors would execute the road rehabilitation and most urgent maintenance
activities on a reduced road network. Later, probably under subsequent
projects, the public corporation would increase its capacity and gradually
would take over the complete road network for maintenance and construction."
2.03.     The mission noted that the Third Highway Project had been plagued
by a series of inter-related institutional problems including: (i) a shortage
of qualified managers and engineers within the METT due to the lack of
trained people and low Government salaries; and (ii) disappointing results of
the trainJ.ng program. This mission concluded that the cost of maintaining
the network proposed for systematic maintenance would average about US $19.0
M per year including US $5.0 M for routine maintenance, US $10.0 M for
periodic maintenance of paved roads and US $4.0 M for periodic maintenance of
earth roads. About 50% of the maintenance budget would be used on the
Noakchott-Nema road, the main east west highway across the country.
2.04.     The mission examined the alternative approaches to maintaining the
road network includingt (i) increasing Government efficiency, the chances of
which were considered "remote;" (ii) involving the private secto= including
the use of at least two domestic contractors plus several subsidiaries of
foreign firms in the country; and (iii) establishing a Public Maintenance
Corporation which could entail some of the sAme types of problems already
encountered such as financial, staffing, and management. The mission
proposed an engineering credit be used to finance the legal, organizational
and technical studies leading to the establishment of a highway authority or
a planning and contracting office. The credit would also finance the
technical studies leading to cost estimates and bidding documents for
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works. The order of magnitude on the
estimates oost of the proposed project was US $50.0 M, which would be split
roughly into two with the participation of an interested co-financier,
possibly the Kuwait Fund (KF), which had already been involved on earlier
road projects in Mauritania.



-4-
2.05.     In November, 1979, a mission to gupervise the Third Highway Proj...:
reported that because of managerial, financial and technical problems, the
project had been classified as a "problem project" since 1977. The project,
which had been reduced in scope (para 1.04), was scheduled to be
substantially completed by March, 1980. It was 'not expected to achieve the
original objective in planning and execution of road maintenance. The road
bettorment works carried out under the project faced certain destruction by
flash flooding during the rainy season. Drainage structures were not
executed under the project because of the lack of funds."  The mission
recommended that "an urgent interim project be prepared that would at least
include design and construction of drainage structures on roads improved
under the ongoing project, and investrment studies of road maintenance and
reinforcement of paved roads."
Preparation and Aupraisal
2.06.     In February, 1980, a mission consisting of one engineer was sent to
Mauritania to prepare the interim project propozed above. The mission was
instructed to prepare a President's Report on its return, as it was not
considered necessary to propare a staff appr-isal report for an engineering
credit or supplementary financing. In the Issues Paper dated April 1, 1980,
the mission outlined project objectives, descriptlon and cost estimates. It
noted that if all the components proposed were Included, the cost would be
about US $10.0 M of which S0% would be foreign cost. The project was
designed as a bridging operation as it included studies essential to the
preparation of a comprehensive road maintenance project and the completion of
betterment works carried out under the Third Highway Project. "The (interim)
project would thus combine an engineering credit to prepare the Fourth
Highway Project, and supplementary financing to coryiete the works started
under the Third Highway Project."
2.07.     The issues included i) the project content and amount of financing
in the light of the lending program allocation of only US $3.0 H for an
engineering credit; ii) the possible participation of the Kr in the project
which was interested in arresting the deterioration on a road which it had
previously financed; iii) the need to continue to improve the management of
the PWD. The Government had recently simplified its procurement procedures
and had decided to do periodic maintenance works by contract and limit the
activities of the PWD to simple routine and maintenance works. It was
considered essential to get critical drainage structures in place by July,
1981, when the rainy season started so as to prevent destruction of the
previously completed betterment works (para 2.06).
2.08.     At the Decision Meeting held on April 15, 1980, the basic framework
of the project was accepted, subject to the following considerations. In
view of the great distances between centers of economic activity and the high
cost of maintenance, an assessment of the appropriate level of future road
maintenance and co-instruction expenditure was needed. It was decided that
feasibility and engineering studies should be carried out in two phases so
that design would only be done when it was economically justified. One road
was eliminated from the project to reduce the cost estimate to US $9.0 H, and
discussion centered on how to share the cost of the project between the KF
and IDA. The meeting decided that as a condition of negotiations, two



central units would be set up in the PWD, one to manage contract works and
the other to carry out routine maintenance by force account.
2.09.     Following the Decision Meeting, it was decided to refer to the
iLcerim highway project as the Fourth Highway Project. A post appraisal
mission in October, 1980 was sent to: i) ascertain the steps the Government
had taken to create an effective road organization; ii) discuss the project
concept and conditions as outlined in the decision memorandum; and iii)
prepare a detailed cost estimate of the project. In February 1981, a mission
was sent to Kuwait to discuss with the KF and Government representatives: i)
coordination of KF-IDA assistance; ii) detailed components of the proposed
project; iii) detailed cost of the project and its financing and iv) an
action plan for project processing and implementation.
2.10.     The KF suggested that the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development (AF) also be involved in the highway sector, as it had set up a
special fund to assist the development of the seven poorest Arab countries,
which included Mauritania. The KF supported IDA's condition of negotiations
which called for the Government to establish two independent units in the
PWD; the KF asked the AF to do the same. One of the Mauritanian delegates
tried throughout the discussion to eliminate all studies and to induce the
co-lenders to allocate all the funds to construction and equipment
procurement contrary to agreements already reached between IDA and the
Government. The KF assured the IDA that both it and the AF woulc. firmly
stick to their position to have appropriate studies conducted before carrying
out construction. The second Government delegate, representing the Minist-y
of Economy and Finance, expressed agreement with this position. The
following financing plan was agreed on at the meeting: KF - US $5.1 M, and
the AF - US $4.4 M, and IDA - US $3.0 M. The Government was also expected to
contribute to the financing. The three co-lenders agreed to coordinate their
assistance, including close consultation to take place between them in the
drafting of the TOR for each study. The TORs were drafted by the
Association; CPS requested substantial changes in the first drafts.
2.11.     The Loan Committee suggested the following main changes in the
documentss 1) add a covenant limiting construction of new roads; ii)
introduce a covenant assuring that all civil works would be carried out by
contractors; iii) set a minimum level of annual maintenance expenditures; and
iv) review the financing plan so that the Government would contribute at
least 5% of the total project cost. The Government was invited to negotiate
the project on May 1, 1981, on the condition that the two central units (para
2.08) had been established and their respective chiefs appointed.
2.12.     .n June, 1981, the Government indicated to a Bank mission its
reservations to two Credit covenants requiring it to: i) transmit its Five-
Year Plan to IDA for comment; and ii) consult IDA before carrying out road
investment of over US $2.0 M equivalent. Thu Government said these
conditions violated its principle of sovereignty. As regards the two central
units, the Government indicated that it had prepared a draft decree
establishing them in the PWD and that the unit heads had been identified.
However, processing was proceeding slowly due to a recent change in the
G,overnment, which did not agree entirely with the project concepts accepted
by its predecessor. The Bank informed the co-lenders of the situation; the
KF e.xpressed concern that its loan agreement was not being adhered to. It



-6-
added that it would take up these matters with the Government as its loan had
already been signed and declared effective. Representatives of the KF and
IDA met in Mauritania early in September, 1981 to discuss the above matters,
and again in Washington early in December.
2.13.     The files indicate some internal discussion within the Bank
regarding the delay in negotiation, but no specific reasons were identified
other than the difficulty in bringing the Borrower to the negotiating table.
The Projects Department pointed out that since the appraisal took place early
in 1980, some of its data was almost two years out of date.
2.14.     Finally, in December, 1981, over six months after the invitation to
negotiate had been issued, negotiations took place in Washington. The Loan
Committee agreed to change the condition of negotiations to Board
Presentation, as the reorganization of the METT was being carried out but the
decree had not yet been issued by the Government. The Govermnent asked that
the draft Credit documents calling for the feasibility and engineering
studies to be done under one contract, rather than two as proposed by IDA.
This was agreed to by IDA on the understanding that the work would be
executed in two consecutive phases.
2.15.     A post-negotiation misoion was sent out in February, 1982 to
resolve the remaining points needed to present the project to the Board. The
mission was given a copy of the decree, dated February 5, 1982, establishing
the two central units in the METT, and the METT indicated informally the
staff who had been chosen to head the units, both of whom the mission found
were qualified. Traffic counts were updated which enabled the staff to
complete the President's Report. A short list of consultants was agreed
upon. The total cost of the project was estimated at US $14.3 M of which US
$11.9 M or 83% was in foreign exchange.
2.16.     The project was presented to the Board on April 13, 1982, and the
Credit Agreement was signed on May 20, 1982. However, the Credit did not
become effective until September 14, 1983, because of delays on the part of
the Government in ratifying the Credit documents. This necessitated five
postponements by IDA of the deadline for effectiveness. By May, 1983, IDA
contemplated allowing the Credit to lapse in view of the seemingly lack of
commitment on the part of the Government. IDA was persuaded not to do so by
the KF which called for a 'more patient attitude' ln view of 'the difficult
situation faced by Mauritania, and the extensive recent changes in METT
senior office holders."
Project Obiectives and Description
2.:,.     The objectives of the proposed Fourth Highway Project were to: 1)
assist the Government in formulating a maintenance policy which took into
account its financial and institutional limitations; i1) prepare a follow-up
project, which would contribute to maintenance of paved and engineered earth
roads; and iii) complete and protect betterment works carried out under the
Third Highway Project.
2.18.     The project included the following elementss



-7-
a)   road maintenance studies including: definition of the network to be
maintained, maintenance operations, methods, and cganization,
research of suitable maintenance materials, staf. training,
financing, and proposals for broader maintenance and investment
priorities in the medium term;
b)   studies for rehabilitation and reinforcement of the Nouakchott-
Rosso (203 km) and Nouakchott-Akjoujt (256 km) paved roads;
c)   completion of works started under the Third Highway Project
including: i) detailed engineering and preparation of bidding
documents for the completion of earthworks and construction of the
drainage structures and studieb of bridges on a) the Boghe-Kaedi
(100 km) and b) Atar-Oued Seguelil (45 km) roads improved under
that project; and ii) completion of earth works and construction of
the drainage structures themselves and their approaches, excluding
bridges; and
d)   studies for reinforcement of the recently paved Nouakchott-Kiffa-
Nema road (1,150 km), and the execution of urgent maintenance works
on this road.
2.19.     Each co-lendee undertook to finance specific components of the
project.  IDA financed components were parts (b) and (c) Atar-Oued Seguelil
road only. The project was to be completed by December 31, 1984.



- 8 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COSTS
3.01.     Following Credit signature, over a year was taken up with the
select {on of consultants for the studies included in the project. The five
studies were grouped into three contracts to minimize contracting procedures.
All co-lenders had to agree on the short list and the firms selected to do
the studies. The METT was slow in preparing the package of letters of
invitations to submit proposals and TOR for consultant services for approval.
3.02.     The two supervision missions in 1982 and the three missions in 1983
were primarily concerned with expediting the effectiveness of the Credit and
the award of the studies. The mission of January 1983, noted that while the
project should be very easy to execute, if an acceptable rate of progress
and compliance with covenants was ever to be achieved, considerable
'handholding' would be required to assist the limited Borrower's staff.
3.03.     Proposals for the IDA financed study were received in May, 1983,
and were reported as being evaluated "with unusual thoroughness." The
proposed selections were acceptable to IDA and mobilization was expected late
in 1983. By September, 1984, the consultants on the IDA financed part had
submitted their feasibility report. The mission reported that the
consultants, a joint venture of three firms, had on the whole, done a
commendable job in unusual circumstances. As expected, the works were only
feasible if reduced to the barest minimum.
3.04.     In September, 1984, an IDA mission found that consulting work under
the parts of the project financed by the co-lenders, had been delayed for
over a year by a dispute between the Government and the agencies as to the
selection of consultants. Early in 1985, the Association learned that the KF
and AF had refused to f'nance the services of the firm selected by the
Government l/
3.05.     The mission of June 1985 reported that consultants were expected to
be selected for the KF and AF work by mid 1985. It found that the
feasibility studies and design work on the IDA financed portion of the work
had been completed and bid invitations for the civil work were ready and
acceptable. Civil works were expected to cost about 50% over the appraisal
estimates. The documents provided for local dry stone masonry con'truction
techniques, as well as other alternatives such as concrete and corrugated
steel. As maintenance needs of the project roads radically increased since
appraisal, the mission recommended that the civil works be supplemented by
including a maintenance component for the road for which drainage structures
only was included in the project. The METT agreed to this approach. Bid
invitations were not issued until December, 1985, about three months later
than the date agreed on with the Government by the June mission.
3.06.     Upon receipt of the draft bid documents, IDA found that an
additional clause had been added restricting firms eligible to bid to such
firms or groups having a "siege social" in Mauritania. IDA ruled that in the
light of this unacceptable restriction, bids should be returned unopened and
a new round of bidding called. The February 1986 mission found that the
Government had reissued the call for bids accordingly but they would not be
2 See Attachment 2, para 6.



opened until April, 1986. The mission reported further delays had occurred
in engaging consultants for the studies to be financed by the KF and the AF
because of a disagreement between the firms and the Government.
3.07.     Thus, unfortunately, the important road maintenance study which was
to be financed by the KF, was not started until four years after the approval
of the KF Credit. It was essential to have this study completed as it was
needed as a basis for IDA's next road lending operation in Mauritania. It
was urged that contacts be re-established, and a Joint supervision carried out
in April, 1986, provided that opportunity. 1/
3.08.     It was suggested at the time the project was handed over to a new
division during the recent Bank reorganization, that any savings on
construction work should be used to establish a maintenance brigade.  This
'would provide an apportunity for testing the will and capacity of the
Government to carry out limited maintenance works with tight monitoring of
financial resources used." Later, this proposal had to be dropped when it
was found that remaining funds were insufficient.
3.09.     A co-lenders meeting at the consultant's office in Germany was held
in February 1987, to discuss the draft report on road maintenance with the
consultants and the Government. It was agreed that the consultants report
was acceptable at the conclusion of Phase 1, and the consultant was
instructed to proceed with Phase 2 (the final phase). This report would
pro7ide a basis for IDA's next leading operation. The Government declared
that Its road maintenance policy was to i) reduce reliance of its own forces
and to rapidly increase the use of contractors; and ii) substantially
increase the allocation of funds to road maintenance and to give priority to
its road expenditure program. This policy change on the part of the
Government was of particular significance for executing future road works.
3.10.     Ais it now appeared that about SDR 300,000 would be left under the
IDA Credit, it was agreed that this sum should be used for a pilot exercise
in road maintenance by contract. This would replace the previous proposal to
establish a pilot force account brigade (para 3.08).
3.11.     The supervision mission of March, 1987, found that the final report
on road maintenance had been submitted but that it had some unsatisfactory
aspects, notably in the cost estimates and benefit analysis. The contractor
for civil works had been instructed to start work but his contract would not
be completed until February, 1988, thus necessitating a further extension of
the cloaing date. A contract for supervision of the civil works had also
been signed.
3.12.     In October, 1987, the AF suggested that as the study of highway
maintenance had been completed, a meeting of the co-lenders and the
Government be held to discuss needs of highway maintenance and translate them
into a program composed of several well defined projects. The Bank concurred
with the above proposal.
3.13.     The December 1987 mission found that progress of the civil works
and supervision by the consultant was satisfactory. The works were expected
I/See Attachment 2, para 7.



- 10 -
to be completed iu May, 1988.  The Closing Date had been extended earlier
to June 30, 1988. The final disbursement under the credit took place on
January 4, 1989, and approximately US$62,000 remaining in the credit
account were cancelled. The total cost of the project was US$14.2 million.
3.14     The IDA financed part of the project proceeded well after the
initial delay in selecting consultants. The remainder of the project was
delayed for several years because of the slow appointment of consultants
financed by the KF and AF. The Closing Date had to be extended three
times; however, disbursement fell far behind the appraisal estimate during
the early years but by the end of FY 88 they had caught up.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.01.     The Government was extremely slow to take the agreed on steps to
prepare for negotiaticns and ratify the project documents after they had been
signed. The long delay in effectiveness was mainly responsible for the slow
start up of project execution. The METT technical performance was reasonably
good given the scarcity of experienced personnel i.. the PWD administration.
It was unfortunate that it took the Borrower, the KF &dt AF so long to reach
agreement in the selection of consultants financed by these two co-lenders.
This resulted in several years' delay '-' completing the maintenance study,
which was essential to the preparatio.i of follow-up projects by all co-
lenders.
4.02.     The willingness of the Borrower to institute the organizational
reforms in the NWD administration and to shift the execution of periodic
maintenance from force account to contract is commendable, and hopefully will
result in better performance in future. This change in policy reflected the
emerging importance of personnel stability in the PWD.
V. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
5.01.     No economic rate of return was estimated for this project as a
staff appraisal report was not prepared.
5.02.     The project included a substantial studies component to help
improve the overall planning and organization of highway maintenance in
Mauritania. I.ese studies were essential to identifying the appropriate
steps for organizing road maintenance, and establishing the priority and
scope of further improvements. The studies were successfully carried out and
provided the basis for further lending for the road sector.
5.03.     The project provided for completion of earth works and drainage
structures on the Boghe-Koede and Atar-Oued-Seguelil roads which were begun
under the Third Highway Project. It assured that these highways remained
usable and that the benefits envisioned at appraisal were fully realized.
The investment ensured that the roads would last their full economic life.
In an improvement over past practice, construction was not carried out until
after the engineering work had been completed.



- 11 -
VI. THE ROLE OF THE ASSOCIATION
6.01.     The long delay after appraisal in negotiating the project would
indicate some inexperience on the part of the staff involved. The delay
almost necessitated a second appraisal, but fortunately the updating
Information needed was obtained by a post-negotiation mission.
6.02.     After the initial delay in selecting consultants, the IDA part of
the project progressed reasonably well. Supervision, although averaging only
about one visit per year between 1984-88, seemed adequate for the pace of the
work.
6.03.     Despite the agreement reached in 1981 to coordinate these
activities (para. 2.10), liaison among the co-lenders did not yield the
desired results because supervision of the studies component could not be
carried out jointly since the award of contract for the IDA financed part
preceded those two years. The maintenance study, which was one of the
principal reasons for IDA's participation in the Fourth Highway Project in
the first place w.a the most important part of the project as it provided the
basis for follow-up lending operations of all three co-lenders.
6.04.     This project provides another example of the mistake in agreeing to
parallel financing of key project components. If the co-lenders had pooled
their funds, and the project had been managed by the Association, or jointly
by the co-lenders, there is every reason to believe that the vital
maintenance study part of the project would have been completed years
earlier.
6.05.     The expectation that drainage structures could be built by July,
1981 (para 2.07), was overly optimistic and it was not until 1988 that the
last of the work was completed.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01.     The project suffered delays at various stages but it was finally
completed, although several years later than origiually scheduled. It was
designed as a bridging operation, and it was successful in that it provides a
basis for follow-up road projects financed by the Association and other
lenders.
7.02.     With the exception of start-up delays, the Borrower's performance
was satisfactory. The Government took a number of important steps to improve
its management of road maintenance operations which should benefit its future
performance in this sector.
7.03.     IDA performance was adequate; supervision was good, but greater
effort should have been made to expedite negotiations. The co-lenders did
not cot-dinate their operations with the IDA with unfortunate results for the
project.l/
However, see Attachment! with comments from KT on this PCR.



- 12 -
7.04.     The project provides another example of the mistake in agreeing to
parallel financing of key project elements.
7.05.     The project provides a sound basis of a follow-up road project, or
a road component in an infrastructure project which is under consideration.
7.06.     Lessons learned include that performance will be enhanced when: i)
the Borrower is willing to institute organizational reforms and to shift the
execution of periodic maintenance Lrom departmental forces to contract; ii)
engineering work is completed before construction is started; and iii) co-
lenders financing is pooled rather than restricted to specific project
components.



- 13 -
Table 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT - CREDIT 1231-MAU
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Estimated and Actual Disbursements, by Project Component
(SDR million)
1.  Studies                                                .60
Civil Works                            .85
Atar-Oued Seguelil (45 km)
2.   Supervision of Construction                            *14
3.   Construction                          2.55            2.61
Total                      3.40           3.35
Notes SDR = Special Drawing Rights
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 14 -                      Attaehment 1
CONIOENTS FROM KUWAIT FUND FOR ARAB ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
ZCZC OERP0304 JUS0385
OEDDI
.TCP TF
* OEDDI *
JJS0385 ZVU365 IN 22/08:32 OUT 22/09:30
440098 220832 2575644
KFAED 22613 KT
KFAED 22613 KT
COMPUTER MESSAGE - DO NOT INTERRUPT
REF : KF/GEN/1703
DATE: AUG 22, 1989
FROM : KUWAIT FUND FOR ARAB ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT7 KUUAIT
(REPLY TO 22025 ALSUNDUK OR 22613 KFAED KT)
TO   : MR. GRAHAM DONALDSON, CHIEF, AGRICULTURE, INFRASTRUCTURE
AND HUMAN RESOURCES DIVISION, OPERATIONS EVALUATION
DEPARTMENT, THE UORLD BANK, UASHINGTON D.C., U.S.A.
la         SUB  : MAURITANIA - HIGHUAY IV (CREDIT 1231-MAU)
w3                 PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UE THANK YOU FOR YOUR LETTEC. DATED 14 JULY, 1989 UITH RESPECT TO THE
SUBJECT PROJECT ANII FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO SEE THE BANKS COMPLETION
REPORT.  WE HAVE NOTED THE VARIOUS VIEWS EXPRESSED REGARDING
COORDINATION UITH THE KUWAIT FUND AND FEEL THAT THE BANK HAS NOT
BE'N FULLY INFORMED AS TO THE TRUE POSITIONS TAKEN BY THE FUND STOP.
FURTHERMORE7 UE ARE OF THE OPINION THAT THE MAIN PROBLEM HAS BEEN
AthD CONTINUES TO BE LACK OF SUFFICIENT EXPERIENCE TO CARRY OUT
PROCUREMENT EFFICIENTLY IN ACCORDANCE UITH NORMAL PROCEDURES, BE IT
FOR CONSULTANCY SERVICES, EQUIPMENT OR CIVIL UORKS.
UE HOPE THAT THE ABOVE COMMENTS ARE USEFUL FOR YOUR PURPOSE.
BEST REGARDS
HISHAM AL-UOQAYAN
DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS
KFAED 22613 K:
KFAED 22613 KT



- 15 _
Attachment 2
COMMS FROM ARAB FUND FOR ECONOMIC & SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT       Iage 1 of 4
ARAB FUND FOR ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
IEL ibS1u v 0   e :, ,AFA' '15i A.twAir CARLE IN.MAAI KUWAIT T1!L9X I AR3 22153 KT
KUWAli       ,     J   L -
Jt4 ,z1 ' l) 
FACSIMILE TRANSMISSION
URGENT
T  O :  Mr. Graham Donaldson  f
Chief, AgricUlturc-, Infrastritl.-ure d
Human Rerouxr .:. Divi-ion
Operations Evaluatia,n Department
W)rld¢ Bark ,              PntinFnr. ( .
FAX: 477*;'91
WEL T%1ANS!4IT TH1HE JTOrIWIrWf PAr,FtS   - LJWl:ij  zL2 h    JI   _.
Flhrf? PacPOst "n 'Ir      r A i^ri /t4iqtw&v TV Proir, i.-F
Isail E1 Zabri             --
Direetor, Tethnical Departmeur-         |



- 16-
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 4
ARAB FUND FOR ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
-t N48S1t - P 0 ROIC 2 t2 C4FAT 1308 KUWAfT rASIF iNMARAI KUWAIT TFIFX IklNMARAS '??l' K
Ref. TD/  S 11'    /89
Kuwait,- 3 SEP 1989
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture, Infrastruieture
and Human Resoures Division
Operations Fvaiuation Department
World Bank, W*ashington D.C.
aoAr Mr Donaldson,
Mauritanin/lighway TV (Credit 131 -MAL)
Pr*et Completion Report
.   T thank you for your letter dated 14 July 1989 transmitting a
"o'py of the draft completion rpport for the Highway IV project in
M;auritania. Wo are sorry for thf de-lay in anfwering you caused by
the absenee of our eoneorned1 staff on annua1 leave. Wp find  the
report Informativi, hiit we have the fwll;wnr enmnwnts-
I.  1      The projeiet siiffey#Pd lo ng dlplaye4 primar.ily beeaulso or the
ffi t g svery timited capnbitity of the Mintistry of F.qu,pm.>nt andf
p.g  Ti S'ranspmort (MAFT) to nvake d1eeisiofns, (-.pipeially eoneerning tho
Iq t; 8 e)  tlearainw  o f terms of reforoneo  fr ostudies and tho selection of
r A            con'slltatits. Howc%vPr, once e Ponfraet wvas ridgnen with  the
c*uns&t-Ant the Roghio-Kahedi RoAd eomponent of th  pirojeet
U U1U) ~       procoeded in *' -tisfactory manner. Other c.ontribuiting factors
ineilde thce lnn, delny  'n deeelarng the effeetiveu*ess of the
Arab Fundi loan agrfe4mnt (signattire was on 22 March 1982
whereas effectiveness was' dtfr-r-cd "vr* 12 Septemher 1983).
2.     The 1 .'oject wss not well prep.tt'd by IDA aend the volime of
MLu work: nLnd th.* rolnteod eot (We im*tat for the  'ml-Nvnint of
UL%v jPLuji;:t fill;ArILI( b1Y  "*,     Fs""i 1-- l       Road;
Wt-L-f  grU.,sly  -.rsi. ted.  Thir. .1-h   tc   h
tteation of MA, especialy Mr. Swn  Dahrwiu.  Thi  resuted
.,itt..  :7no



- 17 -
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 4
in some pl-tubms for the Funid an;i d4%aye'i tilo .es'ePaxtioIm of
our appraisil miwort. Moiwnvez. w  lhad to e-xtend an adidit!l.ial
l.jan (KD. 3.1 uiUlon or about $ 10.6 madUn) on 8/3/1989 but
z             the related loan agreemont has not yet been declared effective.
I-
W.     a.    The additional loan provides funds for: (1) construetion of the
E°f               road, (2) supervision of ennstruet1in, and (3) about 200
man-months of experts In variouis spectalizations to improve the
performance of the MET.
4.    The Boghie-Ka)hodi Road is pres.tntly under constriietton as an
asphalt road and is  *peeted to be completed by the end of
1990.
5.E    Contrary to your contention in paragrph 6.01 page 23 of the
ri  aproject completion report (PCR) the project as conceptualized
O  0              by mIA lent itself well to paraHlel financine. In fact from the
very beginning, It was understood that eaeh financier was to
look after the component(s) to be financed by it, and that the
Kuwait  Futnd  who  financed  the  maintenance  study  will
'o  r-            r*oordinzate elosely with the Arab Fmnd and IlA on this study.
Arab Fund has no complaintr in this regard.
S.    The Arab Fund drafted its own terms of reference for the
o   = n           Boghle-Kahedi Road  and  the  ron5slitant was  aleeted  In
0 -    ~ ;    accordance with its proredure-. The mnent1on in paraprsph
3.04 page 1* of PCR thtt the KF and AP  efiused to finance
the consultinz rerviees becalste the "profit element" in the
Po ;-             contvac-t was exc'essivc is not ar'c--Rte and we request that you
to ; C4           cvCa  .;dt.'-r  deldting  it or  else  invecRtigate  the  case  more
thoroughly.
o  o,       7.    We are disturled at yokur statement in paragraph 3.07 page 17
uf PCR that lIDA had the Imprer,inn thatt the two ?nind; were
"embarrassed" over the long delays in their work and that
t}ev had been "avniding" eont.art with MfA. We ask that you
dehtets thig sentnen because it it; not true and we ate not
aslam   Of anything and tt does not add anything to the PCR..



- 18 -
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 4
We  huipt  titit t{}e  pzeeetling  pIv;its  will be  takfsu  into
consideration when finalzing the PCtX. We would appreciste toieivixng
a .py of the final report.
Sineerely,
;w1~~ ' 'bri
Dli ecto-,' Toehnioal Th)-prtmrnt
ee Kuwait Fund, Kuwait
cc: Mr.. Cheik Ould Sidi Ahmed
Directour des Travaix rnhihie.
Ministere de l'Eqidprmeni
Nouakchott, Mauritania.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 15467R1
MAURITANIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
______  BElT FRM[tNT W'ORKS TO BE COMPLETED                                                                      A  F  R  I C  A
UNDE R THE FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECI
STUDICS UNOER THE FOURTH HIGHVAY PROJECT
BETTERME'IT WORKS UNDER PREVIOUS PROJECTS
STUDIfS UNDER PREVIOUS HIGHWVAY PROJECTS                              M  OROCCO
PAVED ROADS
PAVLD ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTiON                                                                                                      28
LATERITE EARTH ROADS
------- TRAILS                                          qAn un
RAILROAD                                                                                                  A L G E R I A
* AIprItLD6                                                       
_.-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                               \N.
o 50   Io 50  200  250                     FORMER                                                             '
KI.O50YER$                      SPANISH                |      )
-24                                              SAHARA                 j                                                                            24
DakNio Jo                                                                                 f 
IJ/~~~~~~ / 
.====E~~~, J  ......, 
MAL
JNouadhicou                                  rn,.          C e|
Lo Guena"o                                 
Atrt   b
AEO d   \ Ch6ngvetiE                                5                                         20
-20*                                           ,        BgE~III Seae                                                                                2
vA louit                                                       j!
NOUAKCIOTT
, p  ~~~BoUilmlt  C          al      ra3nlX                                                  OulT
Z  /    ^               Oe              Ip,+0Ta~~~~~~~Tmchakett                 ,5
-16          St L uis / +                                     M'           I   _
27~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ P20 0in  00p Mounde            J~ _L   '
DAKAR                                                   Bakel                                  M       A        L      I
16                                        12- 
JULY 1988



