Dme.I Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
CR. /4YQ4-27A
R1st No- P-3674-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMATION
OF THE
PRESIDEINT OF TE
IERNATIONAL DEVELOPIENT ASSOCIATION
TO TEI EXECTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 29.4 MILLION
la INDIA
FOR
A PILOT PROJECr FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAIND AREAS
November 16, 1983
Thk dudmmt b_ a mickd dkft1W5sm an my be =W by redpimb only In tlk  f
theibim doom Is u s my mn     t mehuiue be dimem   lu Wm  Book I



-ii-
CURRENCY EQUIVALETS
(As of Noveaber 8, 1983)
US$1.00      - Rs 10.340182
As  U.00     - USSO.0967100
Rs 1 milliou  US$96.710
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change-
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, eccept
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 9.75,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursent period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - Narch 31
Abbreviations Used in this Report
GOt      -   Government of Tndia
ICAR     -   ITdian Council for Agricultural Research
ICRISAT  -   International Crops Research Institute for
Semi-arid Tropics
NWDPC   -   National Watershed Development Policy Committee
SAU      -   State Agricultural University
VEE      -   Village Extension Worker
WDC      -  Watershed Development Council



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-iii-
INDIA
A PILOT PROJlECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IA RAINFED AREAS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:               The States of Autdhra Pradesh, Karnataka,
Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.
Amount:                       SDR 29.4 million (US$31 million equivalent).
Terms:                        Standard.
On-Lending Terms:            From the Govermcent of India (GOI) to the States
as part of Central assistance for State
development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time. GOI to bear the exchange
risk.
Project Description:         The pilot project would initiate a program to
increase and stabilize crop and forage yields
aud production of fuelwood and timber in rainfed
farming areas through widespread adoption of
improved technology and better farming
practices. It would be implemented in eight
watersheds totalling (about 250,000 ha) of the
four participating States. However, if the
project is successful, a series of follow-on
projects would be extended to other areas.
Major project components include: improved crop
and rangeland husbandry practices, soil and
water conservation measures, research, training
and technical assistance. The project would
also strengthen GOI-s and the States- capacities
to plan and implement such schemes and invoke
peoples participation at various levels. Major
project risks include: inadequate experience
for widespread application of new techniques in
farmers- fields; non-availability of inputs;
inability of the local institutions to organize
and coordinate a multi-disciplinary program
involving numerous agencies and a large number
of farmers; and inadequate farmer participation.
The risks are expected to be contained within
acceptable limits through the effective use of
research, technical assistance and training,
close monitoring of project implementation built
into the project, and farmers- continuous invol-
vement in the process of planning and implemen-
tation of the project activities.
This document has a restricted distrbution and May be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficial dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-iv-
Estimated Costs: 1/                                  US$ Millions
Local          Foreign          Total
Conservation Works                  11.96                            11.96
Forest Plantaticn                     6.75             -              6.75
Vehicles andi Eq'uipmeat              1.27            0.53            1.80
Salaries and Allowances               6.77             -              6.77
Operations and Maintenance           1.01             0.06            1.07
Research                              1.30             -              1.30
Mid-term Evaluation and Project
Preparation                       0.12              -              0.12
Technical Assistance and Training    0.08             0.63            0.71
Sub-Total                      29.26             1.22           30.48
Physical Contingencies               4.11             0.08            4.19
Price Contingencies                 10.59             0.20           10.79
Total Project Costs            43.96             1.50           45.46
.               = = =           = = _ _
Financing Plan:                                      US$ Millions
Local          Foreign          Total
GOI/States                          13.7               -             13.7
ODA (UK)                              0.1             0.7             0.8
IDA                                 30.2              0.8            31.0
Total                               44.0              1.5            45.5
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Millions
FY84  FY85  FY86   FY87   FY88  FY89   FY90  FY91   FY92
Annual         0.25   1.95   3.50   5.10   5.20   5.40   4.90   3.20   1.60
Cumulative     0.25   2.10   5.60  10.70  15.90  21.30  26.20  29.40  31.00
Rate of Return:         Economic rates of return of the three fully
appraised Watersheds range between 26% to 50%.
Appraisal Report:       No. 4561-IN, dated November 17, 1983.
1/ Including taxes and duties, estimated at about US$700,000.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TIE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR A PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
1.      I submit the following report and recolmmendation on a proposed develop-
nment credit to India of SDR 29.4 million (US$31 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms to help finance a pilot project f.ic watershed development in rainfed
areas in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and
Maharashtra. The project would increase and stabilize crop and forage yields
and production of fuelwood and timber in rainfed farming areas through improved
land and crop management, intercropping and sequence cropping and development
of fodder and tree plantations in non-arable areas. The Government of India
(GOI) would channel the proceeds of the credit to the State Governments in
accordance with its standard terms and arrangements for financing development
projects in the States. The exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I,
2.      An economic report, Economic Situation o)f I,idta and Resource
Mobilization Issues' (4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 19, 1983. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I_
Background
3.      India Is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) aad an annual per eaplta income of US$250. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture - 2.22 since 1950/51 - has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has beea slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4Z per year in _ae period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural productioq. Savings and investment have increased
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President-s Report for the Orissa Irrigation II Project (No.
P-3612-IN), dated June 9, 1983.



-2-
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five years. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less e;iphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India-s terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India-s exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expandiug world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2%, 1.6 per-
centage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector. This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inFlation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.    -



-3-
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/h3 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5X-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83. Thnis resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though
lessened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed
export markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was
able, however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the
momentum of the investment program through largely successful public sector
resource mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in sup-
port of this effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of vacrio's economic
policies mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon.
Continued improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace
than in the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the
drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Production of most other major
crops also declined in 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient manage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in India-s agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand.  The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain con-
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%.  This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance.
Nevertheless, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy.
Railway traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from
1981/82. The lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational
efficiency of the railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like
steel, iron ore, coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in
1982/83), after 10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There
were no major shortages ana there were improvements in the quality of coal.
Recent easing of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily



-4-
fron better utilization of existing capacity, but in the future :!.-st improve-
laeLt must result from added capacity. it is therefore critically important
that India maintain the pace of investment in these key Sectors and mobilize
sufficient resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenemenon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity.  Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited.  India-s gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4Z of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India-s low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there wag a significant
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.42 of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India-s ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980181 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP. The improvement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same timne led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India-s develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in 'other'
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of paynents will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of
suppliers- and export credits. India-s favorable debt service profile has
enabled India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over
relatively high underlying rates). In the period 1980-82 India contracted



-5-
commnercial loans totalling over US$2,000 million and suppliers- credits of
about US$520 million. The bulk of the loans are linked to specific development
projects in the public sector while the credits are linked, by and large, to
development projects in the private sector. India also reached an agreement
with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 2.5 billion have already been drawn. The
transfer of funds under the EFF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reser-
ves whLch had fallen to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
In 1982/83, in addition to continued use of the EFF, financing requirements
were met by increased non-concessional borrowing (about US$2,000 million in new
committments) and a 10X increase in net aid disbursement.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
nil). With good ecGnomic policies and reasonabli a.cwess to foreign savings,
indIa has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist.  Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government-s share in plan
investment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels.  However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates toi IndLa's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been
needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, tran-
sport and irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However,
there is scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater
efficiency and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors
clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been



-6-
made. As demonstrated in the last three years, performance in the basic serv-
ice sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus lead-
iLg to higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy.
At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the casu
of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this ia justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects. In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake fro.a known fields, offers much encouragement for India-s
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India wlll
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be tmportant in the future
since India-s current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments. In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences
of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India
with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional
assistance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing
on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Government's effort
to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efEticent environment requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
In:lia s still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous



-7-
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure.  The
fact that India has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 and
1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open Lrade policy and con-
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both Eoreign and domnestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would inake a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 683.8 million, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact thaL there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly
overestimated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the population growth
rate has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed,
firm judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However,
the results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the
health and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services.
These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise
in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from 'ts
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
nonr-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role foc direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhaiice the huaan capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary edutcation, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community hiealth
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India's poor.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INIJI 
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 160 dIevcilopment
credits to India totalling US$',183 million and US$11,851 r:IIIEii (otAh net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,387 aiiillion has been
repaid, and US$6,224 million was still undisbursed as of SepLtmber 30, 1983.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1983 totalled US$286 million, representing a decreai:- of about
2 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a tiIzmmA.ry State-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1983.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commltments in India totaliLng u1S$224
million, of which US$30 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and US$18
million cancelled. Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$8 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of
September 30, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and atr-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of mediumr and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
'nent finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
aUt[ve involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers'
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support.  A continued program of investments   .ed at rapidly increasing the
*lomestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-



-9-
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expanr
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have bten in short
supply and which tndia has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-
tatioa infrastructure would mitigate a key -.onstraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that fur th.r support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of Indias economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, there
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economuy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
deterioration in the ;world trade environment but also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim
to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component teads to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India-s poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the anount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to Indiaes needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its developmert prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank leading to supplement IDA assistince. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in pr'iductive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth shoutlI result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India-s external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of Indias
debt service to the level of exports was about llZ in 1982/83 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of Harch 31, 1983, outstanding loans
to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,471 million, of which US$1,854 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,617 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34Z of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disburseiments as compared with 50X, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India-s outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group-s share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA-s US$5.9 billion and IBRD-s Us$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India-s total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - RAINFED FAdUYING IN INDIA
Background
29.    About 70% of Indias net cropped area (143 million ha) is exclusively
dependent on rainfall. Even at full development of irrigation, about 50%
(70 million ha) would remain rainfed. Production from these areas is greatly
affected by the irregularity of the monsoon. Precipitation often occurs at
high intensity, reducing the potential for infiltration of moisture into the
soil and increasing the danger of soil erosion and crop damage on heavy soils
due to inadequate drainage. These conditions reduce farmers- willingness to
invest in costly inputs and better crop care and, as a result, overall
production from rainfed areas remains low and unstable and much land lies
seasonally fallow. Consequently, most rainfed cultivation is only subsis-
tence oriented.
30.    Although national investment priorities have been directed toward the
development of irrigable lands, because of the colossal acreage involved,
rainfed lands contribute over 40% of the total foodgrain produced in the
country. Improvement in rainfed farming is, therefore, of major importance
both for increasing overaLl food supply to the nation as well as for address-
ing the social and economic needs of many millions of farming families.
31.    Agro-climatic Features of Rainfed Areas. A tropical climate charac-
terized by a tigh incidence of solar radiation, high temperatures and unreli-
able rainfall resulting in spells of drought and flood, affects agriculture
in most of the western and central zones of India, including the States of
Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.  Selected for the
project are sub-humid areas within the States. They have annual rainfall
over 750 mm, but have poor possibilities for growing more than one crop
without major changes in cropping systems and soil and water management
practices. Red alfisols and black vertisols are the two predominant soil
types. The alfisols are erodable, deficient in soil nutrients, and moisture
retention is limited due to their texture and shallowness. The vertisols, on
the other hand, are sticky when wet, hard and deeply cracked when dry.
Present agricultural systems in rainfed areas are based on a single crop
grown in either the kharif (rainy summer season) or rabi (dry winter season)
with crops grown on residual moisture. The major crops grown, which are
largely for subsistence, include sorghum, millets, wheat, pigeon pea,
groundnuts, cotton and soybea s and fodder for family livestock. Between 10%
and 40% of a village area, usually located at the higher elevations of
catchments, are marginal for arable farming and should remain uncultivated.
The areas are eroded and denuded, mainly as a result of over-exploitation
through animal grazing and fuelvood collection. The arable lands are located
in the lower lying and flatter areas of the catchments. Increasing populo-
tion pressure, however, has expanded cultivation toward the upper reaches
where soils are shallower and slopes steeper, thus exacerbating erosion.



-11-
32.     Technology for Development.  Since 1970, considerable progress has
been made in the development of technology for improved rainfed farming.
Yields in rainfed agriculture now can be significantly improved by proper
soil and water management measures, an adequate level of inputs and proper
methods of crop husbandry. Of particular importance to this progress is the
work carried out under Credit 526-IN, the Drought Prone Areas Project, at
research institutes and programs such as those of the Indian Council oE
Agricultural Research (ICAR), the International Crops Research Institute for
the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), the Indo-United Kingdom Dryland Project, and
in the Kandi Watershed Project in Punnj3-b, (Loan 1897-IN), the Himalayan
Watershed Mtanagement Project (Ln. 2295-IN) and a number of operational
research projects at various other locations.
33.     It is estimated that proper crop husbandry alone would increase
yields by 50%-60Z in years of normal rainfall. The incremental benefits
derived from improved land management practices are estimated to be 1OX-20Z
in years of average rainfall, but considerably higher in years with abnormal
rainfall because the benefits from investment in land management works are
more in terms of reducing the effects of drought or floods and of
stabilizing, and eventually improving, the ecological conditions of a catch-
ment area. These strategies For land and crop -anagement have, so far, been
successfully tested in a number of operational research programs of 10 to 30
ha in extent, and all States expected to participate in the proposed project
have benefitted from such a program.
34.     Institutional and Inputs Support.  In each of the four States,
agricultural extension services have been reorganized with IDA assistance,
(IDA credits Z1l9-IN, 862-IN, 712-IN and 1135-IN), through introduction of
the -training and visit system. The extension services now need only inten-
sification to meet the special needs of rainfed areas. Agricultural research
which is the responsibility of the Agricultural Universities in each State
and ICAR is being strengthened through the IDA-assisted National Agricultural
Research Project (Credit 855-IN). To date, the main thrust for research on
rainfed agriculture has been provided by ICAR-s 23 centers of the All-India
Coordinated Research Project for Dryland Agriculture, located in different
agroclimatic regions throughout India. A number of other Indian agencies are
also involved in research in various specialized areas. ICRISAT at Hyderabad
has, since 1972, been involved in genetic and farming systems research for
rainfed agriculture. Progress in identifying and overcoming farmer level
constraints has been made by the State Universities and ICAR through
increased use of operational research conducted in farmers- fields.
35.     Outlets for obtaining input supplies such as seed, fertilizers,
agricultural chemicals, and tools and equipment are generally limited in
number and farmers often have to travel considerable distances to procure
their requirements. Improvement in farming systems and increased production
are required to provide incentives to private dealers or others to stock
increasing amounts of requirements. Marketing facilities for subsistence
crops are marginally developed and need strengthening. Availability of
production credit through cooperatives, private banks and medium and long-
term credit from various sources is also underdeveloped due to lack of demand
in the past. All watersheds are served by minimal road systems which are
adequate for present transportation needs.



-12-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
36.     The Project first croposed in 1976, was prepared by the Government of
India and the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and
Maharashtra, with assistance from the Bank-s Resident Mission. The long
gestation period reflects the difficulties in arriving at a consensus on the
project concept and choice of technology as well as the fluctuating impor-
tance assigned to this project by the Central and State Governments. It was
appraised by the Associationds missioas which visited India in September 1982
and Je_Uary 1983.  Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. in October 1983
with an Indian delegation coordinated by Mr. N. Misra, Director of the
Government of India-s, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance.
The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4561-IN), dated November 16, 1983, is being
circulated to the Executive Directors separately. A Supplementary Project
Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
37.     The overall objectives of the pilot project would be to develop
widespread adoption of technology for increasing and stabilizing crop and
forage yields, and production of fuelvood and timber in slo-eted rainfed
farming areas. This would be achieved by introduction of improved soil and
moisture management measures, better crop and rangeland husbandry practi:es
and reforestation. Furthermore, the project would focus on the efficiency of
the organizational structure for implementing essential works, and contain-
ment of the unit costs of such works and technical packages    important
criteria in determtning the further replicability of the development
proposals. A monttoring and impact evaluation capacity would be an important
feature of the project to assure early feedback and formulation o7 sound
future programs. In addition, strong backstopping from location-specific
operational research would be essential for the proper evolution and adapta-
tion of new technology.
Project Rationale
38.     About 70X of all farmers in India will remain dependent on rainfed
lands. Consequently, a concerted effort to increase and stabilize the produc-
tivity of their lands is urgently required. A body of experience exists in
development techniques for specific rainfed conditions. However, much of
this is based on a few years- experience only, and an Integrated effort by
communities involving measures for improving crop and non-arable lands in one
compact area has yet to be applied on a meaningful scale. Consequently, the
major thrust of the project would be the large scale verification of this set
of already developed technological packages which are applicable under dif-
ferent environmental and social conditions. As rainfed farming has to
optimize in the long terms the utilization cf rainfall for plant and animal
production within a catchment area, a comprehensive approach has to be taken
to erosion control and the husbandry of crops, rangelands, forests and
livestock. The project would focus on these essential activities which, if



-13-
the project proves successful at mid-term review to be conducted in the third
year of project implementation (para 59), would be replicated in other areas
(para 59). Other activities could, however, also be considered at the mid-
term review.
Project Description
39.     The project would, over seven years, develop about 250,000 ha located
in eight watersheds in the States of kadhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya
Pradesh and Maharashtra. One watershed (of about 25,000 ha) has been iden-
tified in each of these States for initial development. Four additional
watersheds would be selected from these States, based on agreed criteria.
Consideration would be given to only those areas with rainfall of 750mm
annually, soil types for which technological packages have been successfully
tested and, where basic supporting services (agricultural extension, markets,
iaputs, credit and transportation) are available.
40.     The development of watersheds would include crop production
activities, soil conservation works, oversowiag on grazing lands, replanting
with fuel and fodder trees on existing forest reserves, distribution of
seedlings, rainwater utilization, staff training, technical assistance,
project administration and preparation of a possible follow-on project.
41.     The basic unit of development would be the watershed, for which it
would be essential to establish full knowledge of existing conditions and the
potential for development before comprehensive watershed development
activities are planned. This requires a multi-disciplinary approach and
close coooeration between researchers and specialists in the various
disciplines, and among farmers. The project is designed to address these
needs. The disciplines involved would include forestry, agriculture, soil
conservation and sociology which would be provided from existing line depart-
ments of State Governments, agricultural universities and other research
institutions. To facilitate quick adoption of recommended measures,
budgetary assistance would be essential for some of these works even if
individual farmers are the sole beneficiaries.
Detailed Features
Watershed Plans and Criteria for Project Activities
42.     Before the preparation of a detailed plan for development of each
watershed, baseline surveys would be carried out covering socio-economic
conditions, including land ownership, land use, agro-climate and rainfall,
present cropping regimes, livestock and human populations. The survey,
together with a a topographic map, would form the basis for determining the
watershed eligibility for inclusion in the project. Baseline surveys have
been completed for the first four watersheds.
43.     Following approval, a phased Master Watershed Plan would be prepared
which would detail recommendations for changes in cropping rmtterns, cropping
intensity and crop husbandry practices, soil conservation works, on-farm land
development needs, and development to be undertaken on grazing and forest
areas. It would provide details of any additional requirements for agricul-
tural support services and also spell out the farmers- obligations. Master
Watershed Plans have been appraised for three watersheds. The watersheds



-14-
would be divided into sub-watersheds, for which Sub-Waters'ed Plans would
be prepared for implementation. The sub-watershed projects would be
appraised in accordance with the following criteria agreed between GOI and
the Association (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04): (a) the
adequacy of input supplies and services; (b) the use of up-to-date design
procedures for conservation structures; (c) evidence of fariners  willingness
to participate; (d) maximum cost criteria for (i) total costs per unit area
of the watershed (Rs 1,700 per ha) (ii) cost of works per unit area of cul-
tivated land (iii) cost of land development for irrigation (this would vary
amongst States) (Rs 5,000 ha) and (iv) cost of forestry development per mui-
area of public land (again varying amongst States); (e) limiting irrigation
investment to not more than 5% of total costs; and (f) adequacy of arrange-
ments for operational and onr-farm research. Sub-Watershed Plans will be
prepared and presented to the Watershed Development Committee for appraisal.
44.     Crop Land Development.  Soil and water conservation measures would be
directed at improving land and water management, leading to increased and
stable agricultural production and prevention of soil erosion. To reinforce
these proposals it would be necessary to reduce and contain the flow of water
from adjacent grazing and forest areas as well as crop land.
45.      The project would promote improved cultivation methods designed to
retain moisture in the soil profile, reduce soil loss and improve drainage.
Crops and crop production practices, which promote the optimum use of the
available rainfall in a restricted growing season, would be introduced.
Techniques to be employed would include the planting of improved crop
varieties, sequential cropping and intercropping, precision placement of seed
and fertilizer, and timely interculture for weed control. Introduction of
these technologies would require sound and timely professional advice and
provision of adequate and timely amounts of credit and farm inputs.
46.     To this end, the Project States would:  (i) strengthen the extension
services with additional staffing and reduce the number of farm families per
Village Extension Worker (VEW) during the project implementation period; and
(ii) permanently add to the strength of the supervisory staff and provide
subject matter specialists in soil and water management, fodder production,
pasture management and farm forestry (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.03).
The project would provide for transport, equipment and other expenses for
specialists assigned to the Watershed Development Teams and State Cells
(paras 55 and 56). Project States would provide improved seeds, and storage
of adequate seed supplies to meet weather induced changes in cropping pat-
terns (draft Project Agreement, Sections 3.04 and 3.06). Furthermore, the
project would plan for improvement in storage facilities for inputs and
produce at the watershed level. State Governments would ensure that credit
is also made available at locations convenient to farmers (draft Project
Agreement, Section 3.05)
47.     Development of Non-arable Land.  Development of nonr-arable land,
(including all public grazing land, forest land and individually-owned per-
manent fallows), would entail re-establishment of vegetative cover, which
would be augmented by protective soil conservation works. Livestock forage
production would be improved by oversowing all public and communal grazing
lands and about 70% of private fallow land with Stylosanthes hamata    a
hardy legume. Farm forestry would be developed on about 30% of all permanent
fallows and on about 5% of existing cropland ieemed marginal for crop produc-



-15-
tion and on field boundaries, about 8,000 ha in all. About 2500 trees
suitable for fuel and fodder, would be planted per hectare; Eucalyptus spp
would be the main type. Farmers would be responsible for planting and sub-
sequent maintenance-. Reforestation on public lands would be undertaken on
about 30% of existing forest reserves (14,000 ha). About 2,500 trees per ha
of mixed species including Eucalyptus spp, Pinus roxburghii, and Leucaena
leucocephala would be planted. The Forestry Department would be responsible
for planting and maintenance, as well as for producing or arranging the
production of seedlings.
Rainwater Utilization
48.     The project would support development of a limited number of farm
ponds and shallow wells to encourage better utilization of rain falling
within watersheds. The water impounded would provide drinking water for
livestock and support lifesaving irrigation Eor one to five hectares of
rainfed crops. Effective methods of pond lining, water usage and sharing
would also be developed. Information on groundwater resources would be
provided to the farmers to encourage construction of new shallow wells, using
existing institutional credit to provide water for supplementary irrigation
of rainfed crops. Until the completion of the mid-term review, development
of stock watering and farm ponds in diversion drains and existing nalas,
would be only on an experimental basis. Where the potential for supplemental
lifesaving irrigation is evident, water user groups would be set up to ensure
suitable distribution procedures, maintenance of works and cost repayment by
the benefiting farmers.   Works exceeding an average cost of Rs 5000/ha
(irrigated) would not be considered, except as a part of a research program.
Research and Local Training
49.     To ensure widespread feedback and exchange of information among
participating States, and dissemination of information from research
rganizations working on watershed development issues, a Technical Cell wotuld
be established in the Watershed Development Council (WDC). The Cell would
consist of a Research Coordinator assisted by five professional scientists
located at specialized research institutes, and necessary support staff.
These scientists would provide guidance to field-level technical staff,
extensian subject-matter specialists and researchers at the Indian Council
for Agricultural Research, and the State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) and
would publish information on new and innovative techniques and experience
being developed at research centers throughout India. The Research
Coordinator would arrange for the training of middle and senior level staff
responsible for project implementation, in the latest techniques available.
Provision would also be made to engage consultants to supplement expertise
not available within the Watershed Development Council.
50.     The project would support research on inexpensive ox-drawn implements
for land preparation and farming for different types of soils and farming
systems. It would also support a program to select improved Stylosanthes
cultivars. This would be directed by the All-India Coordinated Research
Project for Dryland Agriculture. The IDA financed National Agricultural
Research Project (Cr. 855-IN) provides funds to the SAUs for agricultural
research. Under the project these funds would be supplemented witlh grants
from GOI to enable SAUs to undertake research specific to the needs of
selected watersheds (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.03).



-16-
Provision would be made for additional professional staff and technicians,
equipment and vehicles, and for incremental operating expenses.
51.     Technical Assistance and Overseas Training.  The Overseas Development
Administration of the United Kingdom is expected to finance about 50 man-
months of technical assistance in: land-use planning (24 man-months), use of
satellite imagery (6 man-months), hydrological studies (6 man-months),
agricultural economics (6 man-months), and pasture development (8 man-
months).  Terms of reference have been discussed and agreed.  The project
would provide for 50 man-months of overseas training for about 25 individuals
in the above specialties and project management.
52.     Preparation of Follow-on Project.  The project would provide for
preparation of a follow-on project. Assistance would be provided to the
States for preparation of baseline surveys, including preparation of base
maps and/or satellite imagery, and commissioning of special studies to
evaluate such additional compoaents as roads, expansion of marketing, input
services or irrigation. The terms and conditions for preparations of follow-
on projects have been discussed and are acceptable to IDA.
Project Organization and Coordination
53.     Overall responsibility for coordination and executioa of the project
would be with GOI-s Ministry of Agriculture.  A National Watershed
Development Policy Committee has been created under the chairmanship of the
Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, and comprising GOI-s representatives with
responsibilities for animal husbandry, forests, finance, planning, ICAR,
agricultural extension, credit, plant protection and seeds, and concerned
Secretaries from the participating States and the Director of the Soil and
Water Conservation Institute.  A Watershed Development Commnissioner of Joint
Secretary rank has been appointed to act as the member-secretary of the
Committee. Appointments of three key *officials including a Research
Coordinator, Land Use Planner and Economist would be finalized by March 31,
1984. The Watershed Development Commissioner would be assisted by a
Watershed Development Council, in the Ministry of Agriculture, which would be
the central project unit and would have the day to day supervisory
responsibility. NWDPC would have the powers to approve or reject sub-
watershed projects.
54.     The main functions of the Watershed Deve.opment Council would include
appraisal of all master plans and their submission to NWDPC for approval;
ag.?r4isal of all sub-watershed plans until the mid-term review and on a
sample basis thereafter; release of funds for project implementation; techni-
cal assistance to the States; and project monitoring. The WDC would comprise
specialists in Forestry, Soil Conservation, Agriculture, Economics and
Sociology, and would include a Research Coordinator. The regular staff would
be supplemented by local consultants for appraisal and supervision of sub-
projects and for staff training. WDC would be provided with administrative
support staff and a monitoring unit.
55.     At the State level, a State Watershed Development Policy Committee
would be established at the start of project implementation, and would be
responsible for State level approval of the master plans and sub-watershed
plans prior to their submission to WDC. The Committee would review implemen-
tation progress, resolve problems, and ensure coordination among participat-



-17-
ing agencies. The Committee would be chaired by the State Chief Secretary or
the Secretauy of Agric,ulture, and would consist of the heads of other depart-
ments and agencies involved. The CommLittee would be assisted by a State
Watershed Development Cell headed by a Watershed Development Coordinator.
The main functions of the Cell would include: (a) watershed selection and
preparation of master plans; (b) technical assistance to the Watershed
Development Team; (c) appraisal of sub-watershed plans and release of funds
to implement them; and (d) project supervision and monitoring.
56.     At project District level, a District Watershed Development Committee
would be established under the District Collector (or Deputy Commissioner),
and would meet at least quarterly to review and approve watershed plans and
village implementation plans and implementation progress, coordinate line
department activities and resolve local problems. The responsibility for
detailed sub-project planning and imrlementation would lie with the Watershed
Development Team headed by a full-time Watershed Development Team Leader.
The Team-s composition would vary among States but, in every case, the Team
would be headed by an Additional Collector with technical staff seconded from
concerned line departments. The Team-s responsibilities would include:
preparation of a comprehensive watershed master plan with its implementation
schedule, sub-watershed plans, annual budgets, and financial and implementa-
tion reports. The team would also be responsible for plan implementation,
and would, with the assistance of the agricultural extension service and
local organizations, ensure farmers- participation in the planning and
Lmplementation of the project activities. The Project States would set up,
prior to the approval of watershed and sub-watershed development plans, the
State Watershed Development Policy Committees, State Watershed Development
Cells, District Watershed Development Committees and Watershed Development
Cells (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.05).
Monitoring and Evaluation
57.     Monitoring and evaluation of project progress and its impact would be
an essential feature of the project. It would be monitored at three
levels -- first at the sub-watershed, then at the State, and finally at GOI
levels. Each Watershed Development Team would ensure continued collection of
data during implementation on various project inputs, project activities and
physical and financial achievements. Monitoring at the State level would be
the responsibility of the State Watershed Development Cell and would include:
(a) a comparative examination of watershed development performance within the
State; (b) recommendations on areas that should be intensively monitored and
proposals for changes in the monitoring system; (c) provision of assistance
to Team Leaders in identifying and improving weak areas; and (d) collection
of monitoring reports and forwarding the collated report with comments to the
State Watershed Policy Committee and Watershed Development Council (GOI). At
GOI level, project monitoring would be the responsibility of the WDC. In
addition to the functions of the State Cells, WDC would be responsible for
coordinating thee mlionitoring reports from all the project States.  WDC would
submit to IDA six-monthly progress reports each June and December, giving
details of staff positions, a summary of activities undertaken in the last
six months, and physical and financial targets achieved and problems
encortettered during project implementation (draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.05b(iii)).



-18-
58.     Two categories of project evaluation would be undertaken during the
project period -- ongoing evaluation and a mid-term review. Ongoing evalua-
tion would include: (a) technical assessment of the success or failure of the
technical packages applied in project implementation; (b) behavioral evalua-
tion to examine people's response to and perceptions of project input
delivery systems and institutiLns; and (c) short-term special studies to
answer questions raised by the technical and behavioral evaluations and on
subjects directly related to project design and performance. GOI has iden-
tified competent institutions to carry out such evaluations and special
studies.
59.     Mid-term Review. Given the innovative nature of the project, GOI,
the Project States and IDA would undertake a joint mid-term review of the
project within the first quarter of the third year of the project (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02 and draft Project Agreement,
Section 3.02). The project concepts, design, allocation of funds, staffing
patterns, and components would be reassessed in the light of performance.
At the mid-term review, decisions would be taken on additional watershed
development in other areas of the States. If the project proves successful,
and if additional technical capacity has at that time been generated, this
review could become the first step in the preparation of a series of follow-
on projects that could be extended to other States.
Production and Disposal of Output
6o.      At full development, the annual incremental production from the
eight watersheds would be about 15,600 tons of foodgrains, 5,000 tons of
cotton, 6,600 tons of pulses, 8,700 tons of oilseed, 130,000 tons of fodder
and 194,000m3 of fuelwood. The project would increase the incomes of 45,000
farm families and 18,030 landless families living in the project area. There
exists a ready market in project areas to absorb most of the incremental
agricultural production. Watershed master plans would include plans for
marketing the surplus cotton, soybeans, maize and oilseeds. Cooperatives in
each State would be eligible for loans from existing instituttonal sources
for establishing marketing and storage facilities. The fuelwood produced
would satisfy local demand, and increased fodder production would offset
present shortages in livestock feed.
Cost Recovery
61.     The cost for project works oa public lands would not be recovered.
Existing State laws governing watershed development programs provide for
recovery of capital costs for soil conservatlon works .:arried out by governr-
ment agencies on private lands.  Marginal farmers, 1/ n"ill farmers, farmers
belonging to Scheduled Castes and Tribes and others identified under the
Integrated Rural Development Program, however, are entitled to subsidies
which range froin about 30% to 80% of the investment costs. Thus, in effect,
there is only partial recovery of capital costs in the case of these farmers.
Repayments are in the form of land cess recovered in equal annual install-
1/   Farmers owning less than 6 ha of farmland, or with less than Rs 3,600
income per annum from nonr-agricultural activities, are defined as mar-
ginal farmers for cost recovery purposes.



-19-
ments over 15 years with an initial five-year grace period. As an aid to
establishing and managing future cost recovery policy, the Project States
would review their present procedures Eor collection of loans given to
farmers as well as cost recovery policies, including an analysis of farmers-
ability to pay with respect to Project investments, and would submit the
findings to IDA at the time of the mid-term review (draft Project Agreement,
Section 3.08).
Project Cost and Financing
62.     Total project costs are estimated at US$45.5 million equivalent,
including taxes and duties of US$700,000. Foreign expenditure costs are
estimated at US$1.5 million. Major cost components are: conservation works
(US$11.96 million); forest plantations (US$6.75 million); vehicles and equip-
ment (US$1.14 million); salaries and allowances (US$6.77 million); operations
and maintenance (US$1.20 million); maintenance of developed land and conser-
vation works (US$0.53 million); research, mid-term evaluation and project
preparation (US$1.42 million); and technical assistance and training
(US$0.7 million). Physical contingencies (US$4.19 million) of 20% have been
applied to civil works and 10% to equipment, training and operating costs.
Price contingencies (US$10.8 million) have been applied as follows: local
prices at 7Z for 1983-86 and 6% for 1986/87 onwards and foreign costs at
7.5%.
63.     The proposed credit of US$31 million would finance about 68% of total
costs net of taxes and duties. The balance would be borne by the Government
of India and the State Governments. It is expected that the British Overseas
Development Administration would provide a grant of about US$0.8 million
equivalent to finance about 50 man-months of technical assistance and 50 man-
months of training. In order to ensure an early start of project actions,
retroactive financing of up to US$200,000 is proposed to cover eligible costs
incurred after March 1, 1983 for preparing base maps, and for urgently needed
planning staff (draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para 4).
Procurement and Disbursement
64.    Civil Works contracts for soil conservation and rainwater utilization
(US$17.5 million), project buildings (US$1.15 mitlion), and forestry planta-
tions (US$10.45 million) would be small and very widely dispersed, both
geographically and over time and would not therefore be suitable for interna-
tional competitive bidding. Labor would be the major component of soil
conservation works and forestry activities, and these would be carried out by
force account. Civil works for project buildings would be contracted under
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with established State
practices which are satisfactory.  Vehicles and equipment (US$1.6 million)
would be procured over five years in scattered areas in the four States. As
adequate maintenance and availability of spare parts would be of paramount
importance, it would be appropriate to purchase locally-made vehicles of
types already in use by Government departments and, therefore, these would be
procured according to existing Government procedures which are satisfactory
to IDA. The balance of the project costs (US$14.62 million) would consist of
salaries and allowances of tncremental project staff (US$9.6 million), tech-
nical assistance and training (US$0.8 million), research (US$1.73 million),
operating expenditures (US$1.66 million), and maintenance of developed land
(US$0.73 million), which would not involve procurement. All contracts for



-20-
civil works, vehicles, equipment and furniture estimated to cost US$1U0,UOU
or more would be reviewed by IDA before bids are invited and contracts
awarded. Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture would be
bulked wherever appropriate and goods valued at less thaa US$50,000 would
be )urchased by prudent shopping through normal trade channels.
65.     Disbursement of the proceeds of the credit would be as follows:
(a) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) and 75% of other local expendi-
tures for vehicles, equipment, furniture and materials and of amounts dis-
bursed for motorcycle and bicycle loans; (b) 100% of expenditures for
research, and evaluation; and (c) 70% of expenditures for civil works for
soil conservation and buildings, direct costs of forestry plantation,
incremental operating costs, and incremental staff costs for the State
Watershed Development Cell and the Watershed Development Team. Disbursements
for all force account work, salaries and operating costs, local training,
civil works expenditures costing Rs 300,000 or less and other procurement
involving expenditures costing Rs 150,000 or less each for vehicles and
equipment would be made against statements of expenditure. The certificates
of expenditure would be audited annually and the audit report would be sub-
Tntted to IDA. Supporting documentation for these expenditures would be
retained by the State governments for Inspection by Bank staff in the course
of review missions. All other disbursement claims would be fully documented.
Project Benefits and Risks
66.     Quantrftnble benefits from the project would be increased production
of crops, fodder and fuelwood. The increase, valued at about US$17.5 million
by year 13 of the project, would directly benefit 45,000 farm families.
Project implementation would create about 21 million days of employment. In
addition, about 780,000 days of incremental farm labor would be required.
The improved cultivation practices and conservation measures would result in
significantly enhancing the ecology in the project areas by reducing soil
erosion. The economic rates of return from investments in the watersheds,
based on the estimates on three fully appraised watersheds, range between 26%
and 50%.
67.     Because of its pilot nature, the project faces various technical,
agronomic, organizational and sociological risks. The technical risks
include inadequate land use planning capability for rational and comprehen-
sive watershed development. The project provides for technical assistance
and overseas training which would strengthen the capability of the Central
and State Governments in this area. The principal agronomic risk stems from
the fact that the project is an early attempt to apply improved cropping
techniques in conjunction with soil conservation woreks in farmers- fields
on a large scale. This risk would be minimized by the close monitoring
systems built into the project and the links with ICAR and the SAUs for
impact studies and operational research. In order to ensure adequate farmer
response, the proposed project provides for farmers participation and invol-
vement in various planning and decision making processes for watershed
development. In addition, the proposed improvenents in extension service,
coupled with the already growing public awareness of the potential and need
for development, should all facilitate the necessary farmer participation.
The main organizational risk is the capability of the numerous Central, State
and District agencies to coordinate their planning and implementation
functions.  To minimize this risk, wherever possible, existing policy commit-



-21-
tees and bodies have been incorporated in the organizational structure of the
project. Moreover, the project has strengthened the hand of the Watershed
Development Team at the district level by empowering them to authorize line
agencies to disburse Eunds against work carried out to their satisfaction.
Finally, the Watershed Development Team would receive technical backstopping
from the State Watershed Development Cell and WDC specialists.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.     The draft Credit Agreement between India and the Association, the
draft Project Agreemzent between the Association and the States of Andhra
Pradesh, Karnataka, i4adhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
69.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
70.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
November 16, 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
-                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX I
Page I of 5
lo                     - RSOCIAL INWDCATORR 1)84:. SHIRT
aDc tvtau   amps tCIOItTil AW-lRA(IS7r7
IlOtT                     (I(ST ROCER?T UTIHATI) Jh
'h Ib      L1tiCtT                    A LOW licUeS           NIDIPF S-NCUME
l 1970- ICSTIHAT          ASIA A PAc-VIC          ASIA 4 PAriFIC
ARIF (TtteaNSD .9 NW)
TOtAL                              328776      32R7.6      3217.6
ACRICULTURAL                       1760.7      17R0.5      1811.3
Clir PtR CAPITA (US$)                   70.0       10o.0       260.0              276.7                    10:8.6
IRLT ONm_luFrIll PEt CAPITA
(KgILDGRANs oF COAL FouTvALENT)     114.0       163.0       210.0              398 t                     792.6
lOlLLA'o  AN  VI )TAL STATISTICS 
POruLATtON.NID-11A3l (THOUSANDS) 434810.0   547569.0   690111.M
URNERAN poPILATtti   2 or TOTAL)-    16.0        19.N        23.7               21.5                      32.9
POPULATIONl PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                           1001,1                 *
STATIONARY POPULATION  tHILL)                            1838.3
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACUtC                             2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. PM.                       112.3       166.6       205.3              161.7                     2bO.7
PER SQ. KM. AtRI. LAD            247.0        307.5       372.7              363.1                    1696.5
POPULATWON ACE STRUCTUSE (2)
0-14 YRS                          40.9        42.7        39.7               36.6                      39.4
1s-64 YRs                         54.5         54.2        57.2              s5.2                       57.2
65 AND ABOVE                        4.6         3.1         3.0                4.2                       3.1
POPULATION CROWTIf RATE ()
TOTAL                               2.8         2.1         2.3                1.9                       2.3
URBAN                               2.5         3 3         1.7                4.0                       3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOlS)         41.7        40.0        35.4               29.3                      31.3
CRUDE DEAT" RATE (PER TNOUS)         11.H        16.7        13.3               10.9                       9.6
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9         2.7         2.4                2.0                       2.0
PANOLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORIS ANNUAL (TIOU)           64.0      3752.0      6826.0
USERS (Z OF MARRIED W011EN)          ..        12.0        2.0                468.1                     46.6
FMO AND NUMISTOtt
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. FER CAPITA
(196-71-7OO)                         96.0       102.0       107.0              111.4                     125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CA.ORIES (E or RSotIUTREWET)       96.0        90.0        87.0               98.1                     114.2
PROTEINS (CRANS PER DAY)           54.0        50.0        47.0               56.7                      57.9
OF 611CR kNThAL AND PULSE         17.0        15.0        13.0Ie             13.9                      14.1
CElLO (1AGE  t-4) DEATH RATE         26.2       Z.1         17.0               12.2                       7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT 11T71 (YCLlS)        43.2        45.1        32.2               59.6                      60.2
INFAMT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       165.0       139.0       121.2               96.6                      68.3
ACCESS TO SAFE VATER (%POP)
TotA                                 .         17.0        33.0/d             32.9                      37.1
URSAN                                ..        60.0        83.07d             70.8                      54.8
RItMAL                               ..         6.0        zo.07;             22.z                      26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                .         18.0        20.0/e             18.1                      41.4
UNNAl                                . .       85.0        J7.07;             72.7                      47.5
RURAL                                .          1.0         2.157e             4.7                      33.4
POPULArION PER PHYSICIM            4850.0      4890.0      3640.oeE           3506.0                    7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           10980.01a    8300.0      5380.07T           4797.9                    2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL.  D
TorAL                            2168.0      t650.0      131o.01d           1100.6                    1047.2
URBAN                                ..          ..       370.017            298.4                     651.1
RURAL                                ..          ..     1o10.07;T           5941.6                    2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER NOSPITAL BED            ..          ..          ..                 ..                      Z7.0
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.2         5.6         5.2/e
URBAN                               5.2         5.6         A.87 V
RURAL                               5.2         5.6         5.3 e
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROON
TOTAL                               2.6         2.8          ,.                  ..
URBEAF                              2.6         2.8
RURAL                               2.6         2.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTSL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAl.                               *.         '..''



BEST COPY AVAIABL pE
AMINEX I
Page 2 of 5
DDlllb          -~~SOCSL MOMMOR l&TA SKE
IIA                   -WIS ('cr  AVCERA=Sa 
1IOST                    (w5: RECEXr EST3f AE) fb
b  I9700-b             ~LOW I31om-MIDL
1960       1970G!   E               ASrA & PACIFIC         ASI    AC
AJUSIED ElRJLLNlr RATIS
mRIAmr:  *tL                     6SIX        n3.0       .6.0/f            96_1                    tot.2
KALE                   80_0       90.0       9o .7.F           107.8                    106.0
FDI.E                 40.0        56X0       61 07i             82.9                    97.5
SECONDARY=T:OM                   20_0       Z6.0        26.Off            30.2                     469
KALE                   30.0       36.0       3707i             37.3                    50_0
FVUILE                10.0        15.0       16a07M             222                     -4.6
VOC&TIOSL CZ OIF SD0A)              2.8        1_0         0.7/e             2.3                     18_5
PUCPD-TEACER RATI
-   na                           E 46.0     4t60       63.0/f             34.4                     32_7
SECOlmRV                         16.0       2t.0          _-               16.4                    23.4
AD.T LIEAIC RATE Ct)               27.8       33.4        36.0              53_5                     72.9
PA    tR CADSlrNZSAl !OP            0.6        1.1         1.3/f             1.6                     9_7
RIDIO EECEIIrSIIO0USAD POP         469        21_5       6.A-               96._                    113.7
V RECE2VENSITHIDOSA  POP            0.0        0.0         1.7              -_9                      50.1
EBISPAPER CDAILV CERE.
IEIERERr) CERCILATI
PEAR TI0ISAND POPULATIOS          20.6       16.2        19.7              16.4                     51.0
CTSERA ASIML ATTE%DA.CE/CAPMIT      3.Z        4.1         3.71.             3.6                      3.4
LABO POEK
TAL LABOR FORCE (TTm )         1I5951.0   Z19194.0   2:1179.0                 _                        _
FERALE (PERCE1T)                 30.7       32Z5        31._              33.3                     33.6
AClICOLTCRE CPERCET)             74_0       74.0        69.3              69.0                     50.9
ri1STRw  (PERCEST)               11.0       11.0        13_2              15.8                     19.Z
PATICIPArOK RATE CPERCENT)
rcupff6 42.8                                40.0        39.3              42.5                     38-6
KALE                             57.0       52.5        51.9              54.4                     50_7
FTVAL                            27.3       26.9        25.9              29.8                     26.6
EC0NO.IC DEPEIERC  RATO             1.1        1.1         1.1               1.0 1o
ZcE   DISTI3OuVwE
POt EraOF PRXVATE IrsNC3
RECEIVED IY
HIGIEST 5 OF  EO5ELDS            26.7       26.31k      ZZ.Z         '   16.5                      22.2
sICRES 20% OF qOUSEfLDS          51.7       4697;       49.47             43.5                     48.0
LOWEST 2  OF BOUSEIOLDS           4.1        6.77ii      707;              6.9                      6.4
LOWEST 4OZ OF  OUSEHODS          13.6       17.2IN      16.27;            17.5                     15.5
ESTIWATED ABSCL.E POVERTf 1.CGI
LEVEL CS5 PER CAPITA)
UR                                 ._         _.       132.0             133.9                    194.5
IMAL                               __          .       t14.0             111.6                    155.0
ESTUIATED RELATIVE PrVERTY IrCOAE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA;
ORBL                                _         _.          ._                ..                    17.0 
RlRAL um                            _.                    .        .        .                     164.8
ESTDArED POP. BELOU A5SGtfE
POVERTY l!CE LE E: CZ)
USDAB!';                           __                   40.3              *3.8                     24.4
RURAL                              _.         ..        50.7              5l.T                     41.1
R'r ATlA:E
-T APPLICABLE
S0 T E S
/ Ia The group averaes for esch Indicator are papulattoW-r-gted ar1ttS%tc usos. Coverge of couotrles amog the
Indicators depends on 1aIIablIIty of data and Is not muform.
lb  Onleas othervlse noted. -Data for 1960- refer to any year betueo 1959 snd 1961; -Dat for 1970 betwen 1969 and
1971I and data for   gILe R.eent Eati te betwse  1979 and 1961.
/c  1977; /d 1976- 1e 1975; /f 1978; L  1962; /h 195W-65.
Ay 1983



SAW                                                                        --j.nW-j                     ".jd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-
3-a-I g                                                                              a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a~3iaui-u  %Ine u--a,u
S.           -1-p    .uao-.-   -aauaj -   Itu).j                              t
l.a-a  -a-.a  u-a-u-suea-. ----                                 ~ atcs-auu -ud        Z.            `pa           -4ia5u-u   ai
i--a -- a-  PTid   33i             A     J1      ula            at                                   *uti-         3-aal             -Pa i-a -    .2    OI
iTltaM% 3a. a .1  osl --a-.,I-  a-u-   tou   .iou    s                                   . ~.A,.,  Zi.pIines    s        a g=                          -- ia
'- lsa   u.qa I-  (.ad-            -     aa   u     aac-a    ua    -tntwpi-aa.i                                                   aa-p-ua   ppt  1a.a
-  ut  atua   -1-    ItlOau- -~  i-i atnO-p  ta0      uitau                        - i -a-J paaou..    - 3uuu- - pa~uuda   .-ta    af   f   . a
-  uta-u -uqt  -3-sianan ISa  Ju-    n    aos- -i-Il                   -iata                      u    goa- ig,pj- -T.T 'f                              -tua-.*u
tat.-, a-a-au; aa-ana-g                      hU.                                                 flo ils
ua-Iaa-I P- ..    1    .Iqo    ai aipa oup-Taaua
a-  -sau  pau.-           asu   :ua-    -na               u-al      I2as                      adlapan               ua    uuaa-  o--uu%ua   la-o
*  ltt.    aOn     l---   ~- I.as    -c-o-na .ou-n.i  a-ae  sduaau  tap-  p  aa  aa   a-.n-a.-a--apa
-J~~~~~~~~~aaJi:t atuu
-il:  -ueat  1a-ie  l-upta  aau-i  ex -   l-iT-- ga-a-
-                                                    oaaug a-toi luau- a-t                     p-ua ala iaa~u  102M- a-g p-u ilua.a   aas adt.u adflAa uaitua a-
-i a pa (a paat suaauut.uuduaa. 02u  -aatt  taaaSq   1'g                                utupain.  u-  1.1   t-lti ?aonJ   oot t--nua~
vu-    a-,fl2-iu  - - - p-1-         -c---pa-.   nasuauauac uta    -a                                                       ut      a   :.t    a~uoda
btauaauuguaaaiu     ~       -3 -unu -a asaon- o-a tOol- ftugaIaafIa- -    tta a   .021                                         -iodCa   ltttt                   - 
-tup u p   li-   D0l ~uag   rI  13-aa-  .a-as-      a-tu,z-iaaa ies ~uguau  utuaalaa- 0uauu 2IbO~a lett.-Z                  u
a.-ttaaiatoau   hiug  t -a-   0-     ass.toul.s-ua    t--   utlta                                                    0   -  ,  uuu    auiot
-aSsa aqoijotu J  ofuuoa   -ougu  auui  l-a- 2a-.taa  alu-a-.-utiu-    -                               .    tu.-dpgu   -             li
-uoSCI  a  13SI    ~lWos            ~          4a  p5  u-an~u. uuldu mj-utl-t-u.   a    *C
S    10    E    8t-tu    -I.  a   ui-n                    1   uiiudd                                u    tl        aafs22paa    -1                      a41u        a
fIa     -to      aauul            *  .pa    n0-oh.  a  -aga nu   u  ta-ialulluuoia-uau   uag vlu3    ia
u-  t.y-    ua  ia-la3al-   a           .~   aa   utTa-.                            a              ua-,..   o              , -a-0 L-lm           -i-  o
37'q                   V~~a- u-un    fISO0



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                                             Ar I
PAte 4 of S
ECONOMIC DEVELMIEET DT
at
CsrPEt cAPrrA  is 11!981 U250-
GOSS SATIOSAL PROWCT 1S 19oiai2 b'                                                 ANAL RAXE cn  CRaOu  (:.    t     prks)
USS Bln.                      1955f56-1959160  1960/61-1964/65  1965j66-1969170  191ST71-1974/rS
GSP at Market Prices         165_38    100.0                     3.7             3_6             3.6             2_9
Cross Domestic Inbestmet    41.74    25.Z
Cross Natiala Savin          37.o6     22.8
Current Accont Balance       -4.08    - Z.4
OUTPUT. LAiiOR HMCE A50 PiaiDUCtV    LS 15978
Value Added (ar faccor cost)        Labor Force i/         VA. Prc worker
GSS Bil                        B          :                115S    - of Satial Average
Agrlculture                  39.8             39.6          180.6    70_7               220           56
Industry                     25.2             25.1           32.2    12.6               783          199
Se-vices                     35_5             35.3           42.6    16.7               833          211
TotallAverage                Ia.5            100.0          255.4   100.0               394          TOO
GOVE ,,r FrISE
rAneral Government         el                         entral Covermot
Rs_ Bin_      : of CUP                                  Rs. Bla.       2 of GOP
19M1       1981/82  197717E-198182                    19818E    1981/82 1977/78-1981/82
Current Receipts                285.77       19_4        19.1                            149_2E     10.1       10_
Current Ependitures             280.34       19.0        18.2                            155.0-    10.5        10.6
czrrent Surplus/Deficit          5S43         0_.         0.9                             -5.75    -0.4       -0.2
Capital Ependitre-s fE          116.91        7.9         7.S                             83.66      5.7        5.5
External Assistance (net) dl     16_45       11          1.0
IUW51. CA.QDIT AD PRICES         1970/71  1975/76  1976M   1977178  1978/9  1979180  1980181  1981182   February 1982         Februar_ 1983
(Rs Bin outstandin  at end of period)
loney and Quasi .ny             110.Z    224.6   277.8   329.1   401.1   472.3   554.5   625.5    615.5                           711.7
Bank Credit to Governcent(ner)    54.6     69.2    77.6    76.4    94.2   124.1   164.4   20s.4    292_2                          353.5
Bank Credit to Cmsrciai Sector 65.2    156.2   188.5   212.2   255.3   310.1   362.8   430.4    422.2                              87
(percentage or Index Nuabers)                        April-Feb 1961t82    April-7eb 1982183
.hny and Qasi honey
as _ of CDP                   27.4      30.3    34.6    36.5    41.2    "4.1    43.3    42.5
liolesale Price Index
(1970171 - 100)              100.0    173.0   176.6   185.5   185.8   217.6   257.3   2n1.3                2S1.7          2  .287 .3
Annual percentage chaoges In:
Wholesale Price  index            7.7      -1.1      2.1      5.2      -       17.1     18.2      9.3           10.0              *  2.0
Bank Credit to Governt (net)  15.0          6.3    11.1    16.3    16.0    25.6    29.6    19.1                 22.7           3 1   21.0
Bank Credit to Covercia  Sector  20.5      22.7    20.7    12.6    ZO.3    21.5    17.0    18.7                 20.9 l              15.5 hf
Al Ine per capitra C5P estimare is at market --ices. using world Bank Aaas methodology. bea  perlod 1979-1911
All ocher conversions to dollars In this table are at the averag  ezchange rate pevsalin  during the perid  overed.
bl Quick Estimates. Central StatEstical Organiation.
E/ Computed frm trend lne of GNP at factor cost series. Including on observation before first 'ear and one obsErvation after last
year ef listed perliod
d/ Ilrld Bank estimates of net disbursemen_; not necessarily cnistent with offiial figures.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All lons and advances to third partes bave be   netted out.
j/ Percentage change frm  endlbrch 1981 to end-Februay 19S2.
h/ Percentage cbange from  eand-rch 1982 to end-February 1983.
i, Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from Sixth Five Year Plan. Table 2.6 and Amne=re Table 13.8.



REfCOPt .4 
BALANCE OF PAMEMS              1979/80  1980181  19/3112  1912/33              RASDISE Expas (AvERACE 1978/79-1981/82)
cawSS Min-)                                                                                              USS mn.   :
Exports of Goods -t            7.9458    8.504   o.511    3.8t0              EG Goods                      901      11
Impor of Goods jI            -11.383  -16.119  -15.253  -14.801              Tea                           457      6
Trade Balance                 -3,435  -7.615   -6.742   -6.001               Cm                            759      10
mS  (net)                      1.042    1.365    1.I20    1.018              Clothig5                      556       7
Teather & Leather Products   470       6
Resorce Balance               -2.393   -6.Z50  -5.622   -4.913               Jute laufacues                279      4
ion ore                      352       4
Interest Income (net) ki         257      600      ZIZ    -129               Cotton Texctles               319      4
Set Transfers  lf              1.852    Z.771    1.577    1.668              SWr                           Ia4       1
Otbers                      3.789     47
Balance on Current Account       -254  -Z.879  -3.833   -3.373
Official Aid                                                                 Tatal                       7.986     100
Gross Disbursements            1.Z18    1.629    1.821    1.933              EMMAL DEMT. !R3CR 31. 1982
Amortization                    1.894    2.338    2.475    2.569
115 billion
Transactions with 1F             -       1.035     690    1.980              O        ng and Disbursed              18_3
All Other Ites of               -740    -130  -1.075       -358              lldi      i                            8.5
Outstading.including               26.8
iserease In Reserves C-)        -22'      345   2.397    -182                  Un26_S
Gross Reserves (end yez ) j/   7.204    6.859    4.462   4.644
Set Reserves (end year) a/     7.204    6.532    3.498    1.703              DEBT SERVIcE RAIO FEO 198182 t/ af 8.9 per cent
Foel and Related SaterLals                                                   IUS/IDA LtWDIC. as of Febnuarv 283 1983
Imports (Petroleus) jI         4.046    6,657    5.570    4,686                                                  USS million
tBIUR       IDA
Outsnding and Disbursed          L.357        6.688
Undisbursed                      L.96         4.270
Outstanding including
Uldisbursed                    3.253       10.95S
RaTE OF EKCRLE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971          USSI_OO - Rr 7.50                    spot R#te e      hd-Hzcb 1983: U$1.00- Rs 10_03
Re 1.00 - uSS0_13333                                          RU s00 -  USSO.0997
Mid-December 1971 to  d-Jme 1972:       USSI_O 0    Rs 7_27927
Rs 1.00 -11SS0.137376
After end-June 1972               :     Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1981      :      USSI.00 -  s 9_099
Re 1.00 - IISSO.110
Spot Rate end-December 1982      :      USS1.D - Rs 9_634
Rs 1_00 - USSO-104
it Estimted.
kI Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major paymmts are interest on foreign loans and dharges Pad to
1!F. and major receipts is interest earned on forei   s .
I/  Figures given iLnlude workers' rettances but exclude official grant assistance  blich is inluded vithin
official aid disbfrsements.
a/ Excludes net use of l!F credit.
'El Amortzation and interest pnyments on foregn loans as a percentagz of exports of goods and serviee.and curre      transf-.
ol Includes commercial borrowing.
it Excludlng gold.
gl Set of crude petrolea exports.



BEST COPf AVAILABLE                                              II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROU-P OPERATIONS IN MNDIA
A. STAIEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit  Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
48 Loans/                                            1,688.0          -
83 Credits fully disbursed                               -        4,759.0           -
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                      -           30.0         11.56
502-IN    1975     Rajasthan Canal CAD                  -           83.0          6.83
521-IN    1975     Rajasthan Dairy                      -           27.7          6.30
522-.N    1975     Madhya Pradesh Dairy                 -           16.4         -0.11
598-IN    1976     Fertilizer Industry                  -          105.0          3.12
604-IN    1976     Power Transmission IV                -          150.0          3.95
610-IN    1976     Integrated Cotton DevelopFent        -           18.0          3.25
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation          145.0          -           44.92
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                    25.0          -           15.89
1335-IN    1977     Bombay Urban Transport              25.0          -            4.77
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development            -           30.0         13.37
682-IN    1977     Orissa Agric. Development            -           20.0          3.30
685-IN    1977     Singrauli Thermal Power              -          150.0          7.45
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -          12.0          10.29
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                   14.0          -            4.08
712-IN    1977     M.P. Agric. Development              -           10.0         0.49
720-IN    1977     Periyar Vaigai Irrigation            -           23.0          6.99
728-IN    1977     Assam Agricultural Development       -            8.0          3.96
736-IN    1978     Maharashtra Irrigation               -           70.0          4.05
1475-IN    1978     Industry DFC XII                    78.5          -            2.49
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage             -          107.0         61.57
756-IN    1978     Calcutta Urban Development II        -           87.0          6.51
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                          -           8.0           5.81
1511-IN    1978     IDBI Joint/Public Sector            25.0          -            2.54
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power        105.0          -            8.38
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                 -          117.6         52.30
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                  -          200.0         47.64
*    806-IN    1978     Jammr-Kashmir Horticulture           -           14.0         11.01
808-IN    1978     Gujarat Irrigation                   -           85.0         19.30
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries             -           17.5          9.98
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                    -           16.0          8.88
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII             120.0          -           22.27
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                       -          150.0         76.70
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II               -          196.0        156.24
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                      -         190.0          48.31
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage       -           38.0          8.48
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research       -           27.0          18.96
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -            25.0          7.58



BEST copy A. VAILAB EANNEX II
XBESI cp  AVALA  B| LE         Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit  Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
871-IN    1979     National Cooperative Development
Corporation                        -          30.0           5.51
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power            50.0          -            50.00
874-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             -          200.0         41.57
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                    -          129.0          61.80
899-IN    1979     Maharashtra Water Supply             -           48.0          15.25
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II       -          175.0         21.96
925-IN    1979     Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry        -           23.0           8.05
954-IN    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation II            -          210.0         82.85
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry           -           37.0         15.27
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                     -           20.0          17.90
981-IN    1980     Population II                        -           46.0         36.41
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                 -           32.0         23.97
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                -          175.0        121.65
1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                            -           22.0         18.24
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                 -          300.0        213.36
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension        -           10.0          8.99
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport             -           56.0         23.21
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                -           54.0         41.38
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -            80.0          61.54
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                  100.0          -           10.61
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power               25.0          -           25.00
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                -          225.0        170.60
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0         -            23.46
1925-IN    1981     Bombay High Offshore Development  400.0           -             7.41
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                    -           35.0         23.58
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                   -           83.0          72.77
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II           -          42.0         29.04
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation               -          140.0        128.41
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII               -         314.0         176.21
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation            -           54.0          53.45
1125-IN    1981     Hazira Fertilizer Project            -          400.0        281.64
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.        -           23.0         20.24
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.         -           28.0         23.88
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -          37.0         35.73
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -         125.0         106.34
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II        -         400.0        367.32
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation      -          220.0        199.76
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0         -            61.58
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry           -          29.0          25.41
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -          25.0          21.68
2051-IN    1982     ICICI XIV                           150.0         -           104.43
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0         -           300.00
2095-IN    1982     ARDC IV                             190.0         -           121.32
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -             6.0           5.50
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization          200.0         -           171.60
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III           304.5         -           300.00
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   20.3         -            20.00



BESfi LUe'1 IIWILAUU.
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4-
USS million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                         Bank        IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                    -           60.0         45.33
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                  -          72.0          71.39
1286-IN    1983     Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -           33.0         31.06
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh                -           -
Irrigation II                      -           31.0         26.94
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation               -         127.0         121.37
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5         -           158.92
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0          -          197.04
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -          200.0        197.01
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development       222.3         -           219.01
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                 -         150.0         143.60
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubevells II              -         101.0         101.00
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power           -         170.0         170.00
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power         156.4         -           156.01
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III*       -         147.0         147.00
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization         -          32.0          32.00
2308-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7         -            22.64
2283-IN    1983     Central Power Transmission*         250.7         -           250.70
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2         -            46.08
2329-IN    1983     Madhya Pradesh Urban*                24.1         -            24.10
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II*                 -         105.0         105.00
Total                                   5,183.2    11,851.2
of which has been repald              1,251.2        136.1
Total now outstanding                   3,932.0    11,715.1
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/       3,932.0    11,715.1
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         2,100.45    4,124.24
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on the dates of disbursement.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                      x  II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                  Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                      Loan     Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.8        -        0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                 1.4        -        1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2        -        0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4      1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8       1.3      13.1
1964            Lakshni Machine Works Ltd.             1.0       0.3       1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1       0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-chemicals Ltd.             15.1       3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                        6.6        -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                           4.0        1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5        1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited        15.9                15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0           -      38.0
1981            Nahindra, Mahindra Limited            15.0        -       15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.            2.9       0.3       3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited              2.3        -        2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited               1.5        0.2      1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                 28.0        -       28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8         -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.7        -       15.7
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.            8.3         -       8.3
1984            The Gwalior Rayon Silk Xanu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.       4.2                 4.2
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS        211.6       12.1    223.7
Less:   Sold                         53.0        3.4     56.4
Repaid                       30.1        -       30.1
Cancelled                    16.1       1.4      17.5
Nov Held                    112.4        7.3    119.7
Undisbursed                  82.9        -       82.9



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Six years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of India and the State Governments
assisted by Bank Group staff.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and date
of first mission to consider the project
1976.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission-
September 1982.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
October 1983.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
February 1984.
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) Subwatershed projects to be appraised in accordance with
agreed criteria (para. 43);



RSL-i COPY AVAILABLE
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Participating States to provide additional agricultural
extension officers and village extension workers
(para. 46);
(c) Project States to meet the increased demand for improved
seeds (para. 46);
Cd) Project States to ensure that required amounts of inputs
and credit facilities are made available at locations
convenient to farmers (para. 46);
(e) GOI to appoint a Research Coordinator and other key
staff in its WDC by March 31, 1984 (para. 53);
(f) Project States to set up WDPCs, SWDCs, DWDCs and WDCs
(para. 56);
Cg) GOI and the Project States to undertake a joint mid-term
review of the project within the first quarter of the
third Project year (para. 59);
Cli) GOI and the project States to review cost recovery
policies (para. 61).



N                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NDIA
4 t ,>  (SerrrnehrrlCwrrJPILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED
DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
AFGHANISTAN
j-.  j   i  <   \    rJ>4)r    UblrJ.   Project aNoter,sheds  -=    DO  Ar,jacl rc -ai  r )4,,ete-s
',~~~. j  .   ~ ~ dSOILS                                 -    A'-.n E~   m CeMnt-eers
VerhsoI5 ~~~~~~~~~~'' *c.' R:ders
01             A,s,,  n., of Al,ols  cc Vertiscis   Stte cw;ora 
n| | Otherinof  lfolsznds  0  SelecteIe s Tow-,
Po- - -    r:?,  Tr.d    ,   wrrs
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E
-                 N~~~~~~>  ~~~~~~1~~~ifKWit4/BHUTAN ~
A'AJA!7~-~AN    JAIPUR -*  KW,/j,gf
- .  -~~~~L A-..-.



H A R                                                                PL7HAL
'.  AC,ARTAL       - - 
_lo                            MERWA                m                                                  ~~~ca^"                                                                                          aoA:
TRI                                    .,,                                                                      s                          ,HOPAL                   |
GU   Al  MAD                                                                           ~~~~~~~~8ENVGAL                    k 
ZC'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'o                                                                                      .                                                             e 
CAL    TA        I
BURMA
BOMBAY,             MH ,
0* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~      
of
r aob, a n                                                                                                                     FUNSA
PANA
HO'                      KERAIA                TAM/I~~~~~~ MARA
NdICOBAR                O
IS LAND S
TRIVAND
~~-~>      ~ ~ SRI LANKA
I"w All Ale, c~~~~~qw.0 0~~~ VA. ~~t1 lute  1  l ~~~~ 00                                                 0      ?.~~~~  2CC    3.~~~ ~CC    5CCr
r*  4a,16-11 804  4 CLV"1  kwe ft  ,,I.w  ,.    C4 flu  Iff'  Be,* vd  ft  tiN alamb                                                                              2      3OD-
F.VWc.Cpa.  A   ,d                 tb.d. 0W,  PM -W  dg 'W ,u                                                                                                      LC'6'ETEAS
B' t illOfTA.0'0*1Bu WdftI U.0fugwf.Coahor bw P'os



