Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  15107
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
A PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
(CREDIT 1424-IN)
NOVEMBER 20, 1995
Agricultural and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
A PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
(Credit 1424-IN)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At appraisal (September 1984) - US$1.00 = Rupees (Rs.) 9.75
At PCR (June 1994) - US$1.00 = Rs.30.85
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
GOI: April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AED                Agricultural Engineering Directorate
AEO                Agriculture Extension Officer
APAU               Andhra Pradesh Agriculture University
CIAE               Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering
CS&WCR&TI          Central Soil and Water Conservation Research and Training Institute
DA                 Department of Agriculture
DEA                Department of Economic Affairs
DPAP               Drought Prone Areas Project
DwDC               District Watershed Development Committee
FAO/CP             Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Programme
GOI                Government of India
ICAR               Indian Council of Agricultural Research
ICRISAT            International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-arid Tropics
IDA                International Development Association
IG&FRI             Indian Grasslands Fodder Research Institute
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA                Ministry of Agriculture
NARP               National Agricultural Research Project
NBSS&LUP           National Bureau of Soil Survey and Landuse Planning
NLRCDC             National Land Resources Conservation and Development Commission
NWDPC              National Watershed Development Policy Committee
ORP                Operating Research Programme
PKV                Punjabrao University (Maharashtra)
SAU                State Agriculture Universities
SWDC               State Watershed Development Cell
SWFC               Subswatershed Farmer Committee
SWDPC              State Watershed Development Policy Committee
UAS                University of Agriculture Science (Karnataka)
WDC                Watershed Development Council
WDT                Watershed Development Team



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluabon
November20, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on India
Pilot Project for Watershed Development in Rainfed Areas (Credit 1424-IN)
The India Pilot Project for Watershed Development in Rainfed Areas, supported by Credit 1424-
IN for US$3 1.0 million equivalent, was approved in December 1983. The Project Completion Report
(PCR) was prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. No comments on the PCR were received from
the Borrower.
The project had two objectives. First, to develop technologies that would increase crop, forage,
fuelwood, and timber production, and reduce the variation in crop yields, in selected rainfed areas of
Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, and Maharashtra, totalling about 250,000 ha. Second, to
develop criteria, procedures, and guidelines for replication in other areas of successful technologies. The
main components of the project were the development of arable and non-arable lands through soil and
moisture conservation works; strengthening extension systems and farmer access to inputs; and the
strengthening of training, research, and administrative institutions at the State and watershed levels.
The project succeeded as a pilot action because it promoted innovation and learning, some of
which is paying off on a broader scale in Bank-supported projects and government programs. But
implementation was marked by several weaknesses. The project paid insufficient attention to land tenure
and ownership, and beneficiary participation, required by the project's design, was minimal in practice.
Monitoring and evaluation were underdeveloped and, as a result, data are insufficient to recalculate an
economic rate of return. The decision to adopt vegetative techniques for soil and water conservation
following the mid-term review was sound, but the exclusive use of vetiver grass limited the impact of
these measures.
The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory because of the learning and that took place.
Institutional development is rated as modest because arrangements for working with villagers on
common and public lands were underdeveloped. Sustainability is rated as uncertain because beneficiary
participation was not sought and farmers were reluctant to take responsibility for activities about which
they had not been consulted.
The main lessons of implementation are that pilot programs must be managed as experiments,
with higher than normal standards of monitoring and evaluation; improving resource conservation on
common lands requires equal attention to conservation techniques and to institutional arrangements for
management; and, farmers will adopt soil and water conservation methods on their private lands if the
incentives they face make it sufficiently attractive.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
A PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
(Credit 1424-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .................................................                                          i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ................................................ ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...................                                 I
1. Project Identity                                     .1
2. Background .
3.  Project Objectives and Description                               .2
4.  Project Design and Organization.                                                       3
5. Project Implementation.                                                                 5
6. Project Results .                                                                      I1
7.     Project Sustainability ......................14......................            .. 1 4
8. Bank Performance .15
9. Borrower Performance.15
10. Lessons Learned                                     .1 6
11. Adherence to Covenants .16
12. Consulting Services .17
13. Project Relationship.                                                                 1 7
14. Project Documentation and Data .17
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ................                              1 8
(not received)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...............                                          19
1.  Related Bank Loans and Credits .19
2. Project Timetable .19
3. Credit Disbursement .20
4.    Project Implementation ................................................................... 21
A.    State-wise and Treatment-wise Targets and Achievements .21
B .    Details of Targets and Achievements for Watershed Treatments .22
5.  Project Cost and Financing            ..25
A. Project Cost .25
B . Project Financing .27
6. Project Results    ..27
A. Direct Benefits .27
B. Economic Impact .28
C. Financial Impact .28
7. Status of Covenants .29
8. Use of Bank Resources.                                                          30
A. Staff Inputs.                                                             30



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
A PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
(Credit 1424-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Pilot Project for Watershed
Development in Rainfed Areas in India for which Credit 1424-IN in the amount of SDR 29.4
million (US$ 31.0 million equivalent) was approved on Decemb r 8, 1983. SDR 5.2 million and
SDR 3.0 million were cancelled on December 5, 1991 and May 1, 1993, respectively, as part of
the funds redeployment exercise. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1993, two years
behind schedule. With Government of India's (GOI) refund of the unused balance of the Special
Account on June 15, 1994, the undisbursed balance of SDR 2.16 million was cancelled.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by a Food Agriculture Organization/World
Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) mission which visited India in May 1994. Borrower's Part
ll and comments have been requested but have not been received. PCR preparation was based on
a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and legal documents, supervision reports, project
files, and correspondence, field visits to project sites in all the four states where the project was
implemented, and discussions with officers of the project implementing agencies concerned and
Bank staff associated with the project.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
A PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
(Credit 1424-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Objectives
1.    The overall objectives of the pilot project were to: (a) develop, on a watershed basis, and
through the use of appropriate organization and management systems, suitable technologies for
increasing and stabilizing crop and forage yields, as well as the production of fuelwood and timber
in selected rainfed farming areas; and (b) define technical criteria, administrative procedures and
investment limits useful in replicating watershed development activities in other areas. Thus, the
emphasis was not only on the development of technologies and the parameters for their
implementation, but also on the establishment of an organizational and institutional structure for
their sustainable implementation.
2 .    The means to attain the above objectives covered a range of measures that included the
implementation of improved soil and moisture management measures, better crop and grassland
husbandry practices and reforestation to improve productivity of both crop and non-arable lands.
The measures are directed so as to mitigate the effects of variation in the quantity and distribution
of rainfalll by exploiting such opportunities as: (a) introducing more stable farming systems; (b)
retaining more water in the soil profile so as to recharge the groundwater for expanding or
increasing the intensity of irrigation; and (c) controlling erosion by providing safe disposal of
runoff and drainage.
3.    The project provided for the development of about 250,000 ha of land covering eight
watersheds, two each in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Kamataka, Maharashtra, and Madhya
Pradesh. The main components of the project were: (a) the development of crop land through
conservation works; (b) stabilization or improvement in crop production through strengthening
extension services and access to inputs; (c) the development of non-arable lands through
conservation works and forest plantations; (d) provision of increased staff training, research and
operational research programs; and (e) institutional strengthening of project administration at State
and Watershed levels. Project support also included the strengthening of the Watershed
Development Council of the Government of India (GOI), monitoring and evaluation of project
progress, and the preparation of a possible follow-on project.
Implementation Experience
4.    Despite an initial delay in project start-up, and a subsequent change in project focus from a
concentration on engineering structures to the use of vegetative approaches to soil and water
conservation, the project's physical targets were largely achieved. Soil and moisture conservation
on arable lands included a combination of measures, such as land smoothing, graded bunds and
grass waterways, diversion channels/interceptor drains, waste weirs and check structures, and,
particularly, the promotion of in-field vegetative barriers. These have been considered very
effective by farmers. The promotion of only one type of in-field vegetative barriers, vetiver
(khus), however, limited the prospect of an even wider impact of conservation measures on arable
private lands. Afforestation on private lands was also very successful and the majority of farmers



iv
have continued to protect and maintain their woodlots. Adaptive research covering in situ
vegetative soil and moisture conservation measures in the project area was also effectively carried
out by all the three research agencies in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra. Quantitative
parameters are now available for a variety of conservation measures. Project implementation with
its technological bias, however, overlooked land tenure or ownership and other general
sociological issues. As a consequence, the same technical conservation measures did not succeed
on the non-arable or common property lands.
Results
5.    The project was more successful in meeting its physical objectives than in attaining its
institutional or organizational goals. It has been successful in demonstrating the benefits from a
range of soil and moisture management measures as evidenced by the satisfactory adoption rates of
the technologies promoted by the project. The introduction of vegetative techniques (vetiver
bainiers) for soil and moisture conservation has been successful in parts of the areas, but the over-
emphasis on one particular species to the exclusion of others has limited a wider possible impact.
Research in alternative approaches started toward the end of the project and was unable to have any
major impact.
6.    Improved agronomic techniques (contour cultivation and vegetative barriers) and inputs
(seeds, fertilizers and pesticides) along with project conservation measures, had some impact on
agricultural production. However, a fortuitous change in relative prices provided the incentive for
farmers in general to respond. As a consequence, farm incomes from non-project farmers have
also increased almost at the same rate as that of participating farmers. It is, therefore, difficult to
isolate and quantify the benefits and the associated costs from specific project supported
investments. The objective of establishing financial parameters to evaluate cost effectiveness was
not achieved. Also, the pilot nature of the project, which covers a wide range of management
measures not all of which were successful, does not permit a rational evaluation of the economic
rate of return (ERR) even for comparison purposes. Furthermore, the project, either through its
monitoring mechanism or evaluation studies, had not compiled any data on the costs and benefits
of interventions in any individual watersheds. For these reasons, it was not possible for the PCR
mission to reestimate ERRs for individual watersheds, as was done at appraisal.
Sustainability
7.    While farmer adoption rates of the project-promoted soil and moisture conservation
measures have been satisfactory, beneficiary involvement in project implementation was minimal,
and the continued implementation of project components by project staff is not sustainable for the
Government. The experience with conservation measures on private arable land, however,
indicates acceptance and maintenance of structures where a distinct and clear linkage to increased
productivity can be established. Conservation and afforestation measures on private non-arable
land also appear sustainable as farmers have undertaken active maintenance measures. However,
the sustainability issue--both in respect of the methods of implementation and maintenance works--
will remain a clear problem for watershed management on common property resources unless
appropriate mechanisms for community participation and benefit-sharing are developed.
Findings and Lessons Learned
8 .    There are two important lessons to be learned from the project. The first relates to the
requirement of flexibility. Project design should ensure flexibility to tune the prescriptions for
watershed management to the specific characteristics of the watersheds. Flexibility should include,



v
not only the adoption of measures to cover a wide range of micro-agro-ecological environmenits
(with varying rainfall, slope and soil conditions), but also the prospect of a combination of both
vegetative and limited engineering solutions. The second relates to the need for explicit farmer
insvolvement as part of implementation strategy. Sustainability issues, both from the point of view
of cost efficiency of the conservation measures. as well as for the maintenance of the stuLictures
constuLicted, require an active beneficiary involvement in watershed management.






I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
A PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
(Credit No. 1424-IN)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name      :  A Pilot Project for Watershed Development in Rainfed Areas
Credit No.        :  1424-IN
RVP Unit          :  South Asia
Country           :  India
Sector            :  Agriculture
Sub-sector           Rainfed Area Development
2. Background
2. 1      About 70 percent of the net cropped area in India is based on rainfed agriculture. Even
at full development of irrigation in the distant future, about 105 million hectares of crop lands
would remain rainfed. National investment priorities in India have been however traditionally
directed toward the development of irrigable lands, and, until the early 1980s, relatively little
economically promising new technology was available to farmers in rainfed areas. The risk of crop
failure due to the hazards of weather has been deterring farmers from investing in inputs and
expensive crop care, resulting in generally low and stagnant productivity from rainfed areas.
Compounding this overall environment in most rainfed farming areas, increasing population and
livestock numbers have led to denudation of vegetation for fuel and feed, and increasing cultivation
of fallow, often marginal and sloping lands leading to accelerated erosion. It was, therefore,
considered urgent to develop, at least on a pilot basis, a program for the development of rainfed
farming areas. Based on past experience, two aspects were recognized. First, the sustenance and
income of the Indian rainfed farmer depended on the crop and livestock products derived by him
from his arable land and from public land in his vicinity. Second, rainfed farming development has
to address one key problem: that is to optimize, in the long-term, the utilization of rainfall for plant
and animal production within a catchment area.
2.2       It was against the above background that the project in question was conceived to
develop technologies and mechanisms for increasing agricultural production in areas receiving
reasonably dependable rainfall by improved land and crop management, intercropping and
sequence cropping, and development of fodder and fuel in non-arable areas.



2
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        Project Objectives. The overall objectives of the pilot project were: (a) to develop, on
a watershed basis, and through the use of appropriate organization and management systems,
suitable technologies for increasing and stabilizing crop and forage yields, as well as the
production of fuelwood and timber in selected rainfed farming areas; and (b) to define technical
criter-ia, administrative procedures, and investment limits useful in replicating watershed
development activities in other areas. Thus, the emphasis was not solely on the development of
technologies and the parameters for their implementation, but also on the establishment of an
oreanizational and institutional structure for their sustainable implementation.
3.2        The mneans to attain the above objectives covered a range of measures that included the
implementation of improved soil and moisture management interventions, better crop and grassland
husbandry practices, and reforestation, to improve productivity of both crop and non-arable lands.
These measures were directed so as to mitigate the effects of variation in the quantity and
distribution of rainfall by exploiting such opportunities as: (a) introducing more stable farming
systems; (b) retaininig more water in the soil profile so as to recharge the groundwater for
expandinig or increasing the intensity of irrigation; and (c) controlling erosion by providing safe
disposal of runoff and drainage.
3.3        Project Description. The project provided for the development of about 250,000 ha
cover-inig eight watersheds: two each in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra and
Madhya Pradesh. Initially a single watershed (of about 25,000 ha) was to be selected for
development in each state and this was to be followed up by the development of an additional
watershed in each state. Selection of watersheds was to conform to an agreed development criteria
an(d characterized by rainfall (above 750 mm annually), soil types, and the availability of basic
agricultural sUpport services. Actual watershed development plans were necessarily to vary
accordinlg to climate. land capability, population density, accessibility, and existing level of
development.
3.4        The development of watersheds was to include:
(a)    crop production activities including provision of staff, equipment and
training:
(b)    constructioni of soil conservationi works on crop lands to include about 300
kms of drains, drop structures, graded bunds/terraces and waterways over
140,00() ha, of privately owned farmland including land smoothing (60,000
ha), and land shaping (10,500 ha), and rehabilitation of existing soil
conservationi structures on 30.000 ha. It also included construction of soil
conservation structures to protect about 55,000 ha of public lands including
10,000 brushwood/stone check dams, 400 wire crate dams and 100 drop
structures:
(c)    oversowing of 45,000 ha of grazing lands with fodder legumes, replanting
with fuel and fodder trees of about 14,000 ha of forest reserves and reveniue
lands, and distribution of seedlings for tree planting on about 8.000 ha of
permnanent fallow and marginial waste land:



3
(d)    development of rainwater utilization through limited project investment im
farm ponds;
(e)    provision of increased staff training, research and operational research
programs at four State Agricultural Universities (SAU) and three Indian
Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) institutions, and of 50 man-months
of technical assistance and 50 man-months of overseas training; and.
(f)    establishment of project administration at State and watershed levels and
strengthening of the Watershed Development Council of the Government of
India (GOI) for appraisal of sub-projects and for monitoring and evaluation.
3.5        Project Costs and Financing. Total project costs (including contingencies) over a
seven-year implementation period were estimated at US$45.5 million (Rs.443.3 million). These
were to be financed by an IDA credit of SDR29.4 million (US$31.0 million), a grant of about
US$0.8 million from the British Overseas Development Agency (ODA) and contributions from the
Government of India and participating states of US$13.7 million. Project costs included about
US$0.7 million in duties and taxes and US$1.5 million in foreign costs.
3.6        Mid-term Review. Given the innovative nature of the project. an agreemenit was
reachied at negotiations that a Mid-Term Review of the project would be undertaken by a joint team
from GOI, the participating States, and the Bank during the third year of the project (see para 4.5).
It was noted then that the exercise could result in substantial modifications to the project and
approach originally approved.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1        Project preparation dated back to 1976 and culminated in a final round of preparation
which started in March 1981 as a joint effort of GOI's Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). the
participating State Governments and the Bank's Resident Mission. Formulation of project
concepts, the choice of technologies, and the selection of participating states required considerable
time to arrive at a consensus. In addition, there were also fluctuations in the priotity assigned to a
project of this type, both by GOI and State Governments. Two Bank missions which visited India
in September 1982 and January 1983 appraised the project and produced a Staff Appraisal Report
dated November 17, 1983.
4.2        At the time of preparation. India had little substantive experience in the planning and
implementation of systematic programs for the development of rainfed areas. The technological
base, as well as the management and economic aspects relevant to such efforts, were not well
established. The pilot approach adopted by the project was, therefore, well suited to the objective
of establishing the parameters for watershed management. This implied large-scale verification and
extension of technical packages which are applicable under different environmental and social
conditions in the four selected states, including those already developed prior to the project and
those introduced by the project. In addition, the efficiency of the organiztional structure for
implementing essential works and the unit costs of such works and technical packages remained
important criteria in determining the replicability of the development proposals.



4
4.3        Project design emphasized flexibility in its approach to project interventions and laid
down technical and financial criteria for both crop land and non-arable land development. While
some variation in the financial criteria among the different watersheds was permitted, an overall
financial criterion was established to limit the investment needed for eventual large-scale
replication. Project design also recognized the need for establishing cost effectiveness of the
different known technical approaches and for any newer ones, by providing resources for
research through the State Agricultural Universities and other research institutions, as well as for
technical assistance and training. But perhaps the most significant element in project design was
the considerable emphasis given to project organization and management, particularly with respect
to farmer involvement. The project concept emphasized the need for selecting components which
were acceptable to the local populations and also that the great majority of people living within the
areas selected for rehabilitation should perceive themselves as direct beneficiaries of project
activities and be involved in the planning and execution of the project activities. A three-tier
structure for project implementation at the Center, at the State, and at the District/Watershed level
was supported by a multi-disciplinary approach in the design of specific interventions and
measures to ensure farmer participation, not only to promote project "ownership", but also to
formulate the measures for cost recovery.
4.4        While the project design and organization were appropriate, in retrospect it became
apparent that in its attempt to cover a wide range of technical variations the project overextended
itself. The desire to provide a 'normalized' menu of solutions applicable to both private,
communal and state lands in a wide range of (micro) agro-ecological environments (with varying
rainfall, slope and soil conditions) was also over ambitious. As a consequence, despite the
emphasis on flexibility and on the need for the application of measures to suit specific watershed
requirements, it was inevitable that practical aspects of implementation resulted in the application of
the same technical packages for each watershed, and this impaired their effectiveness significantly.
Added to this, treatments were based purely on physical land capability criteria and, despite
conceptual statements on the need for the involvement of people of the area, did not take into
account the socio-economic and socio-political conditions prevailing in the communities living
within the watersheds. Furthermore, project success criteria as described in the Staff Appraisal
Report were based on physical targets rather than the development and adoption of processes.
Although the project's evaluation studies were careful to assess the verification and adoption of
technical packages introduced by the project, the project's own monitoring system, following the
guidelines of the Staff Appraisal Report, concentrated on measuring the coverage of watershed
treatments against strictly controlled project physical targets and annual budgets. The inclusion of
process monitoring involving the application of efficiency parameters and the qualitative evaluation
of watershed management measures in project design would have given the project a better chance
of identifying and linking a variety of approaches to the specific technical specifications of the
different areas.
4.5        As already noted (para 3.6), the project design included a Mid-Term Review which
was extremely useful in changing the focus of the project. The overall concept of integrated
watershed development was retained by the Mid-Term Review. However, affordable, simple and
replicable technologies with greater reliance on contour cultivation, in-situ moisture conservation,
vegetative (khus) contour hedges (porous barriers), became the main strategy of the project. The
Mid-Term Review recommended a systems approach which integrated conservation and
production in the three sub-systems identified by maximizing the utilization of vegetative measures
through the super-imposition of appropriate mixes of productive crops, grasses, shrubs and trees.



5
It must be noted that this change of approach was immediate in that it did not involve any phasing
in or out of technical packages. The technical approaches proposed by the Mid-Term Review were
as follows:
(a)    Arable Land - Vegetative contour hedges/strips, contour cultivation, dead
furrows at appropriate intervals, cropping systems - high-yielding drought
resistant varieties, integrated nutrient and pest management with elements of
organic farming, appropriate farm implements and machinery, contingency
farming, etc., replacing the more expensive and land-consuming engineering-
based earth bunds and grass waterways with drop structures.
(b)    Non-arable Land (rangelands. wastelands, degraded forest) - vegetative
fencing/social fencing, stabilization through vegetative contour barriers,
contour furrowing, seeding of grasses and legumes and planting of shrubs
and trees.
(c)    Natural Drainage Courses - Diversion drains, gully control and bank
stabilization through bio-engineering and vegetative measures, storage and
management of run-off in natural depressions/partially dug out structures
with low dams to promote the recharge of groundwater, and decongest
blocked drainage lines. Farm ponds were not promoted in post-Mid Term
Review stages because they occupied space on crop land, suffered from
seepage losses, and did not suit marginal farmers with small and scattered
holdings.
4.6        The Mid-Term Review also recommended that, in place of a single second watershed
of about 25.000 ha, the States could select two to three watersheds of about 8,000 to 10,000 ha
each located in different agro-climatological zones.
5. Project Implementation
5.1        General. The project became effective on June 29, 1984 and was closed on December
31. 1993, two years behind schedule. Project implementation was initially very slow and, by the
original closing date, project disbursements totalled about 40 percent of the total credit. The major
reason for this slow disbursement was a slow start-up of project actions.  The rate of
disbursements was also affected by the declining value of the Rupee vis-a-vis the US Dollar (at
appraisal US$1=Rs.9.75;  current value US$1=Rs 31.00) as well as the movement in the
US$/SDR exchange rate which implied a substantial increase in local currency resources, and
therefore, a slower drawdown of the IDA credit. As a result, SDR 5.2 million and SDR 3.0
million were cancelled in December 1991 and May 1993, respectively, as part of the funds
redeployment exercise. Between 1990 and the extended closing date, GOI in agreement with the
Bank, extended the scope of the project to cover additional watersheds in the participating States.
This resulted in a substantial increase in disbursement over the last two years of the project
reaching SDR 19.04 million as against the revised credit amount of SDR 21.2 million. With
GOI's refund of the unused balance of the Special Account on June 15, 1994, the undisbursed
balance of SDR 2.16 million was cancelled. A problem that persisted throughout the project
implementation period was the delay by State Governments in seeking reimbursements from GOI
for amounts already spent. This was pointed out by several Bank supervision missions.



6
5.2        Physical Progress. The project's physical targets were largely achieved. In addition
to the four original watersheds, the project covered twenty three new ones. The land area covered
is about 350,000 ha located in 27 watersheds (compared to 250,000 ha in 8 watersheds targeted at
appraisal). Details of targets and achievements by each state are set out in Part III/Section 4. For
the four states together, a ready comparison with the main targets set at appraisal reveals the
following:
Achievements
as % of
Revised  Achieve-   Revised
Treatment               SAR a/   Targets    ments      Targets
Soil conservation on arable lands (ha)    170,000   185.304   154,745  84
Horticulture (ha)                       -       15,270    16,792      110
Afforestation (ha)                    22.000   51,763   42,700        82
Silvipasture/pastures (ha)            45,000    16,196    12,326      76
Drainage line treatment structures (no.)   10,500   40,651    44,542  110
a! SAR targets refer to the original estimate of approximately eight watersheds. Both the
number of watersheds and the nature and variety of treatments were changed as a
consequence of the Mid-Term Review. It is useful to make comparisons for achieve-
ments against the revised targets.
5.3        Soil and Moisture Conservation Measures on Arable Land. The physical
achievemenits of the project's soil and moisture conservation program were impressive and reached
84 percent of the revised targets on 27 watersheds. Although watershed development packages
remained the same for all the States. individual treatments (and their terminology) varied between
the States and watersheds as evidenced by the achievement of physical targets under nine key
indicators which are consistent for all watersheds (see Part lI/Section 4). The treatment of arable
lands with land smoothing, graded bunds and grass waterways has significantly helped reduce the
hazards of soil erosion and, together with other agronomic and financial packages, aided a revival
in rainifed production. Farmers reported that earthen bunds had been 75 to 90 percent effective in
checking run-off from their fields and 75 to 80 percent effective in preventing soil loss. It was also
revealed that productivity of crops increased by 10 to 15 percent, other factors being equal.
Farmners were frequently not satisfied with earth bunds constructed by project-managed bulldozers:
compaction levels were low and longitudinal and cross sections were uneven, consequently bunds
lost their shape and gaps appeared within one monsoon season. Because farmers were rarely
involved in the design, siting and construction of the bunds and waterways, they tended not to
maintain the channel and repair the breaches, even at the risk of increased erosion. Farmers much
preferred the man- and bullock-made bunds; they participated more and quality was consistently
better.



7
5.4        Diversion channels/interceptor drains constructed along the contour between non-
arable and arable lands were very successful in protecting the crop land from unwanted run-off of
upper catchment areas, which previously caused severe sheet and gully erosion in cultivated fields.
and guiding it safely into farm ponds and/or natural drainage lines. Some farmers used the
diversion structure as a V-ditch along which they planted lines of horticultural and forest-produce
trees. As there was no community involvement in their design, siting and construction. farmers
were not willing to maintain and repair the diversion channels - unless there was some personal
gain attached. such as fodder trees and farm ponds.
5.5        Waste weirs and waterway check structures made of maintenance-free boulders and
live hedges were also well built and effective in arresting silt and reducing the erosive velocity of
run-off water collected by the earth bunds while guiding it safely into farm ponds and drainage
lines.
5.6        The promotion of in-field vegetative barriers, for the interception of run-off and
prevenition of soil erosion, was perhaps the single most important contribution of the Mid-Term
Review. Although, in principle, a variety of vegetative barriers were envisaged for trials, project
implementation appeared to have been largely involved with only one type of vegetative barrier --
khus, or vetiver -- to the neglect of other possibilities. This is because research establishments at
the state agricultural universities started testing alternative vegetative and bio-engineering
techniques, including several grass and shrub species. only recently (in 1990) and significant
results were not available for dissemination in the field.
5.7        The experience with vetiver as the major element in vegetative conservation, however,
has been variable. In the upland areas of Maharashtra and Karnataka, vetiver worked well as a
conservation measure. Farmers were ready to accept and maintain vetiver barriers planted in
association with their boundary bunds, especially in the lower sections of their fields where run-off
water (and silt deposits) collected before overtopping and draining from the field. In Andhra
Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, however, the vetiver-based vegetative barrier was not successful.
Farmers found the survival rate of the khus to be extremely poor with no visible impact on
increased productivity and many of them, therefore, ploughed up the areas planted.
5.8        The disparate achievement of vetiver as a technology for soil and water conservation
brings out a number of technical points. Since most of the vetiver was planted by the project, there
was little or no commitment on the part of the farmers to manage it. This aspect had a significalnt
impact on the eventual adoption rate. Farmers were unwilling to participate and wait for a three-
year establishment period before any visible impact on productivity could be seen. There were also
questions on the establishment of the vetiver hedges. Vetiver's hardiness as a crop that required
little or no attention was oversold. In point of fact, losses of 25 to 50 percent within individual key
lines under "good" conditions and failure in the majority of total barrier plantings were not
uncommon. Furthermore, there were cases of die-back after the establishment period of three
years. Success with vetiver seemed to be associated with rainfall in areas in excess of 1000 mm,
while its impact in semi-arid and arid areas was poor. What was most significant, however, was
that vetiver was over-prescribed as a soil and moisture conservation measure on the flat vertisols
where the majority of the slopes were less than 2 percent. Vetiver barriers are not strictly necessaiy
in many of the places where they have been planted -- contour cultivation and dead furrows would
be more appropriate in dry areas, drainage channels where water logging is a risk. As a
consequence, farmers ignored both earth bunds and vetiver barriers. Furthermore, for areas with



8
small farm holdings, the introduction of the vetiver barriers on farmers fields resulted in the
dissection and loss of productive land which was already in short supply. Watershed management
plans which should have focused on Land Classes IV to VI (according to Land Capability) instead
invested a considerable amount of resources in soil conservation measures on Class I and II lands
when all that was required was more appropriate tillage systems and improved cropping practices.
5.9        Afforestation. The project's afforestation program on private lands was successful,
and awareness of the farm forestry program was high (80-90 percent) among farmers. More than
80 percent have continued to protect/maintain their woodlots through some form of fencing,
watering and replacement of dead seedlings. Nearly all farmers requested that the project provide
watering facilities (through farm ponds or wells) and fencing before the planting of tree seedlings.
Some farmers also felt that the seedlings should have been planted at increased depths to avoid
further moisture stress. Farmers generally ranked the benefits of farm forestry as follows: fuel,
cash crop/monetary return, served as fencing for cropped fields, timber for the home and
agiicultural implements, and higher milk yields due to improved supplies of fodder. Continuous
contour 'V' ditches were applied on farm forests and block plantations and have now been widely
accepted as the basis for land preparation for trees. Survival rates with 'V' ditches were mainly
above 80 percent (if protection was provided) and improved growth rates were also evident.
Afforestation on public lands was not relatively successful. With the exceptioll of Andhra
Pradesh, which recruited forest guards to protect the project's forestry plantations, the survival rate
of Block Plantations was very low (0 to 40 percent, and usually below 10 percent). A lack of
genuine participation from the local communities in the planning and implementation of forestry
works meant that there was little interest in managing the forest resources and, without the
provision of forest guards, the plantations were left unprotected and soon became overgrazed and
irreparably damaged. Towards the end of the project, particularly in the additional watersheds, the
forest protection committees for managing the rehabilitated community forests were formed. This
was generally after the project had completed the plantation works; the users were not directly
involved in the selection of species, density and mix of planting, construction of water-harvesting
ditches, etc.
5. 10      Perceived as part of the treatment for the management of non-arable land, dryland
horticulture was an innovation introduced during the course of the project and has been relatively
successful, particularly in the states of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. The production and
provision of quality grafts and seedlings was the main project activity. The major species
demanded by the farmers included mango, guava, pomegranate, jack fruit, custard apple, tamarind
etc. While the survival rates of the trees at first year of planting varied between states, they were
reasonably high. Farmers were conscious of the benefits, and demand for planting materials was
high.
5.11       Drainage Line Structures. This covered a number of measures such as check dams,
nala bunds, and other run-off management structures. In general, most of these structures were
effectively implemented. Depending on the specific type, the measures had the effect of reducing
the velocities of flood water flow, restricting the deepening and widening of gullies and inducing
large quantities of silt to collect upstream which have helped recharge local groundwater. They also
frequently became vegetated and added further strength to the structure and gully stabilization
objectives.
5.12       Despite an abundance of potential sites and a pressing demand from farmers, farm
ponds (stop dams and small tanks) were not constructed after the Mid-Term Review. The project



9
replaced farm ponds with more affordable run-off management structures which were constructed
on public land and benefitted more farmers. However. Kamataka disagreed with this decision and
continued to construct farm ponds after the Mid-Term Review. Wherever farm ponds were
constructed, they generally performed well in providing much needed water for livestock and
supplementary irrigation for tree seedlings and horticultural crops. Farmers did not see the siltation
of ponds as a problem; they frequently cleaned out the silt and used it as additional fertilizer on
their fields.
5.13       Pasture/silvipasture development constituted an additional measure to improve land
management and to increase average productivity of the farmers' non-arable land. Pasture
development was generally confined to sowing of stylo seeds on bunds and ridges of contour
ditches. Typically all activities under the program -- ploughing, clearing of the area and sowing --
were undertaken by the project with no involvement of the farmers. Farmers were of the opinion
that pasture development was not possible because it was impossible to stop open grazing without
some form of fencing. Although no data on the productivity of the pastures was available, visits to
the project area by evaluation teams have shown that the area degenerated to its original state under
grazing pressure.
5.14       Conservation on Public/Common Property Lands. Soil and moisture conservation
interventions on private lands as stated above were well implemented. Project implementation with
its technological bias however overlooked land tenure or ownership or other general sociological
issues. As a consequence, the same technical conservation measures did not succeed on the non-
arable or common property lands. This was very apparent in the afforestation and drainage line
structures implemented on common property areas. The project failed to take advantage of lessons
leamt from social forestry projects (ILO, ODA, World Bank) which had previously identified the
need for the formation user groups for the planning, implementation, and management of these
resources. Towards the end of the project period, particularly in some of the additional
watersheds, there was a more successful effort to involve the beneficiaries in the management of
common resources. The design and management of conservation measures for common property
resources need further development.
5.15       Research.  Adaptive research covering in situ vegetative soil and moisture
conservation measures in the project area was effectively executed by multi-disciplinary teams of
the research agencies in the three states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra.
Quantitative parameters are now available for a variety of conservation measures. Research was
also undertaken by the SAU at Bangalore on a more flexible bio-engineering approach to soil and
water conservation on arable lands. This compared the efficiency of vetiver contour key lines and
graded earth bunds on alfisols (sandy loams and sandy clay loams) with slopes of 2.5 percent.
The research concluded that a combination of small graded earth bunds (cross section - 0.35 m),
vetiver key lines and land smoothing produced the best results for minimizing nutrient, soil and
water losses. To maximize the conservation of water, the SAU also included a series of waste
weirs, grass waterways and small farm ponds in this package. The SAU further concluded that the
maintenance costs to the farmer for large earth bunds, vetiver contour key lines, and a combination
of small bunds and key lines, were the same, and consequently, the most appropriate approach to
the problem would be to leave the choice of technology to the farmer who could seek the
cooperation of his neighbors when necessary. All construction works were carried out by the
SAU with maximum participation of the farmers. The involvement of farmers at all stages,
including the choice of technology to be introduced contributed to a perception of "ownership" and
the prospect of maintenance by the farmers later.



10
5.16       Project Organization and Management. The three-tier structure for operation and
maintenance envisaged at appraisal was established but its effectiveness was variable between
states. Overall responsibility for coordination and management was vested with the National
Watershed Development Policy Committee (NWDPC) at the level of GOI which met once a year to
appraise watershed masterplans submitted by participating states.  Operational responsibility
vested in the Watershed Development Council (WDC) was appropriately managed. The WDC,
which was established as a special project unit within the Ministry of Agriculture for the
coordination of World Bank assisted projects, was upgraded to an operational division responsible
for rainfed agriculture within the Ministry, including coordination of all watershed development
projects, irrespective of sources of funding. WDC was also responsible for monitoring and
supervision of project implementation, and this was effectively carried out. Independent evaluation
studies comprising of a bench-mark survey followed by a final evaluation study were
commissioned by each of the states.
5.17       A  State Watershed Development Policy Committee (SWDPC) was eventually
established in each state and was responsible for the approval of masterplans for watersheds and
project plans for sub-watersheds before their submission to the WDC for review and funding. In
addition to the differing priorities provided by the states, the multi-disciplinary concept of
watershed development requiring the expertise of agriculture, land use planning, soil conservation.
forestry and socio-economics was difficult to achieve in the vertical administrative structure of the
Indian Government. The States found it difficult to establish the SWDPCs, most takin, two to
three years to achieve, and in the case of Madhya Pradesh, as much as five years. As a
consequence, SWDPCs were never fully operational.  District Watershed Development
Committees (DWDCs) were intended to act as sub-committees to the existing Distlict Coordination
Committee. In most states the DWDCs did not function effectively, the district authorities
preferring to coordinate multi-disciplinary actions and sanction watershed development
interventions through existing administrative organizations. Watershed Development Teams
(WDTs) were the actual operating arm of watershed development responsible for detailed sub-
project planning and implementation. As a rule, all WDTs were adequately staffed and functioned
well to achieve project targets despite an agricultural or soil conservation bias within their staff.
Like the SWDPCs, the WDTs also took two to three years to establish. Project components during
the intervening period were implemented by the respective technical line departments. What is
important, however, is the fact that until the start-up of the development of the 23 additional
watersheds, all project funding were channelled through the individual line departments. Although
watershed masterplans were designed in an integrated manner (linked through a 'fixed' land
capability classification), the funding mechanism worked against a multi-disciplinary approach, in
that. each team member prepared work plans and budgets for his own technical requiremenits. It
was only during the last three years of the project when all sub-watershed funds were channelled
through the WDTs that sub-project implementation began to be coordinated in a more integrated
mnanner.
5.1 8      Even so, non-agricultural sections like forestry were not constituted as conceived, nor
fully staffed, and therefore rarely integrated into WDT operations. There was also a tendency to
overlook land use planning, and socio-economic and livestock inputs into the WDTs. WDTs did
not develop a calendar of operations and a roster of inspections for their treatment programs to
coordinate management of their working practices and ensure timely implementation and
monitoring of their planned interventions. Likewise, there were few periodical meetings and
seminars to: (a) discuss progress under the various components and their allied activities; (b)



II
promote the success of tested technologies, and (c) analyze the causes of any failed interventions --
the continued plantation of unprotected government forest land was an example of the latter point.
Furthermore. WDT staff were not fully trained in the skills required for integrated development
and community participation which seriously affected their understanding of common property
resource management and the need for communicating with the local people.
5. 19      Beneficiary Participation. The involvement of farmers at district and sub-watershed
levels was incorporated in project design. Farmers' representation on DWDCs, discussions
between the WDTs and residents from each village for deciding and locating development works,
formation of village action groups, and preparation of action plans on agreed priorities were
envisaged at appraisal. However, at the time of the Mid-Term Review in 1988, beneficiary
involvement was limited to a subdued presence of two farmers' representatives in DWDC meetings
only. There was very little evidence of farmer's involvement and community participation
regarding the planning and implementation of project actions. A number of project interventions
were considered not sustainable because village communities were not prepared to operate and
maintain the structures and plantations handed over to them on completion of the micro-watershed
development works. In a number of cases, the treatments soon fell into disrepair and were lost to
the communities.
5.20       The formation of forest protection committees in all four states during the last two
years of the project was based on a user group concept but cannot be considered as people's
participation per se. The block plantations were usually planned and implemented by the forest
departments who, towards the end of the project and for budgetary reasons, were required to
withdraw their forest guards and turn over the protection and management of the forests to the local
communities. Project forestry officers, with a limited background in social organization, helped
users to elect a management committee, briefed them on the care of the tree species they had
inherited, and handed over all responsibility to them. Training of the beneficiaries in the formation
and management of user groups usually entailed two or three joint meetings between forest officers
and community leaders. Whether this 'turnover' approach will work or not is too early to say but
experience from Madhya Pradesh has shown that rural communities preferred to be involved from
the vety beginning in the planning and implementation of common property resources to meet their
local needs. Often this meant a preference for particular species for specific uses. A combination
of forestry with improved fodder grasses ('silvipasture') which required a less dense planting of
trees, and planting of trees and grasses on earth buinds ('agro-forestry'). were treatments
frequently requested by fanners which. where implemented, proved quite successful. Under the
project's more top-down approach, species, densities and mixes were pre-selected by the forest
departments. Where these did not satisfy the needs of the intended users, the local communities
were not prepared to provide protection and management of their common property assets when
handed over to them.
6. Project Results
6.1        Project results have been more impressive on the physical front than on the
institutional side. For a pilot project of this nature, project results are to be seen from the impact
on the adoption rates of the technologies promoted. Information on these are available from the



12
bench-mark and final evaluation studies' undertaken by four independent agencies, as part of
coiisultancy services provided in the four states. Adoption rates were assessed by the number of
farmers adopting new cultural practices promoted by the project (e.g. contour cultivation and
horticulture), maintenance of conservation works constructed (e.g. gap-filling of earth bunds and
vegetative barriers) and protection of plantations. Taking 50 percent farmer adoption as a success
criteria, evaluation studies indicate the following watershed management measures as having been
successfully adopted by the farmers: contour cultivation, dead furrows and intercropping;
diversioni channels, earth bunds, grass waterways, and land smoothing; horticulture; farm forestry;
silvipasture and fodder farms; check dams and run-off management structures and farmponds.
Although proven successful at project-supported research stations and in some localized micro-
watersheds, a number of other watershed treatments do not appear to have been universally
accepted and require further trials for their technical and social applications. These include:
vegetative barriers and key lines; community forestry/government plantations; silvipasture on
community/govemment land; nala bank stabilization/plantation or, more generally, the management
of c&r)moon property resources.
6.2        Adoption rates for soil and water conservation measures have been generally higher in
respect of the more gently sloping and marginal alfisols of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka rather
than on the flat and more fertile vertisols of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Watersheds in
Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra had more than 60 percent of their land belonging to Land
Capability Class I to III with a greater percentage of large landowners. The adoption rates for earth
bunding and vegetative barriers were low as farmers saw little benefits from these measures. On
the contrary, watersheds in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka had less than 30 percent of the land
within the same classification. The adoption of watershed treatments was higher in these
watersheds with a greater proportion of land in the Class IV-VI category (marginal and non-
arable), with a greater slope and a higher density of small holdings.
6.3        Applied research carried out by the SAUs was productive and well organized. The
impact of the results, however, was limited as this research concentrated primarily on only one
vegetative aspect of conservation -- vetiver. Research in alternative approaches, which started
toward the end of the project, was unable to have any major effect on project implementation.
There was little attempt also at linking research to an organizational framework relevant for the
treatment of common property resources.
6.4        On the institutional side, the project's most noteworthy achievement has been the
establishment of the Watershed Development Council (WDC) as a permanent division of the
Ministiy of Agriculture, responsible for the coordination of all watershed development projects,
thereby increasing the prospects of learning from the experiences of watershed development
proojects in other areas of the country. This has had an impact in that WDC has adopted a number
of additional measures in the second generation of watershed development projects currently under
implementation in India. Actual implementation, however, continues to be dominated by a
centralized top-down strategy with a heavy reliance on district level watershed development teams
(WDTs) for actual implementation. As a result, the emphasis given in watershed management has
often reflected the technical background of the team leader -- usually from an agricultural extension
or soil conservation background. Thus, for example, Maharashtra used extension workers to
consult farmers for improving crop production while Madhya Pradesh showed an engineering bias
l     The final evaluation studies were not completed in two of the four states, viz.,
Karnataka and Maharashtra.



13
to achieve targets for soil conservation works without consulting the farmers. The multi-
disciplinary approach for watershed management was adopted largely as an ad hoc measure and,
excepting for Karnataka which has an independent division of watershed management within the
Department of Agriculture, none of the other states have adopted the approach as standard.
6.5        Project achievements in terms of ensuring beneficiary involvement in planning and
implementation have not been commensurate with the level of physical achievements because of an
inadequate attention given to this aspect. A limited effort at farmers' involvement at the planning
stage was attempted through the participation of two farmer representatives from each sub-
watershed in DWDC meetings, but, by and large, the project was implemented by project staff
and/or hired labor. Added to this, farmer representatives were usually large landowners nominated
by the District Collectors and not elected by or typical of the sub-watershed communities they
represented. Farmer involvement during project implementation and subsequent operation and
maintenance was also minimal. Watershed management measures in the last three years of the
project had attempted a formn of beneficiary involvement through the formation of micro-watershed
user groups, e.g. forest protection committees in all states, sanghas (farmers' associations) in
Karnataka and agricultural cooperatives in Maharashtra. During this short period, the farmers
became responsible for most sub-project decision-making, and extension of watershed
management treatments with the help of technical assistance from the WDTs. Similarly, the
associations have been organizing paid labor for treatment works from within their own
communities, generating much needed local employment. However, this marginal involvement
was insufficient to provide the grounds for any cost recovery as envisaged at appraisal.
6.6        Project conservation measures were combined with a greater emphasis on extension
which focused on the expansion of gross cropped areas, through increase of cropping intensities,
largely as a consequence of the conservation measures. More importantly, it included changes in
the cropping pattern (introduction of safflower, inter-cropping -- pigeon peas with sorghum, soya
beans, groundnuts and finger millet; cotton with green gram), and the increased use of better
technical approaches (contour ploughing) and inputs (better seeds, improved varieties, fertilizers
and pesticides). The impact of these changes on improving farm incomes has been significant in
the case of Karnataka vis-a-vis other states. Also, in Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.
fortuitous changes in relative prices in favor of oilseeds and beans provided a major incentive for
farmers in general to respond. As a consequence, production and farm incomes for non-project
farmers have also increased at almost the same rate as that of project farners. Net finanicial farm
incomes for farmers, at current prices, before project, without project and with project situatiolns
are as follows:



14
Current     Current
Farm        Before      Without       With
Farm Models              Size        Project     Project a!    Project b/
(ha)        (Rs.)       (Rs.)        (Rs.)
Madhya Pradesh (ParuLa Nala)       2             7.790       16.500       18.720
Andhra Pradesh (Maheswaram)        2             4,370        5,429        5,960
Karnataka (Kabbalanala)           1.50           2,590        4,600       10,300
Maharashtra (Manoli)                             6,590       -            14,300
a/ For non-project farmers.
b/ For project farmers
6.7        Benefits accruing to farmers as a result of the project, as stated earlier, were largely as
a consequence of a change in cropping pattems (Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh) and only
partly due to an increase in cropping intensity (Karnataka). The financial results in the table above
(para 6.6) indicate the marginal nature of incremental benefits with respect to Andhra Pradesh and
Madhya Pradesh, but significant with respect to Karnataka. Given this variation, the objective of
establishing financial parameters to evaluate cost effectiveness was not achieved. There is.
therefore, a great need to clearly establish the costs and benefits from the range of watershed
management measures as such an assessment was not attempted during the evaluation studies
supported by the project.
6.8        An economic rate of return (ERR) for the project as a whole was not estimated at
appraisal, but ERRs were estimated for three individual watersheds initially to be covered in the
states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Maharashtra. Re-estimation of the economic impact of
the project for the sake of meaningful comparison is seriously constrained because: (a) the project
introduced a wide range of interventions and no data are available on the extent to which these
different interventions were actually implemented in each single watershed so as to rationally
determine the project-supported investment costs: and (b) it is also difficult to segregate and
quantify the benefits due to the project supported interventions for the reasons expressed in para
6.6 above. Furthermore, the project. either through its monitoring mechanism or evaluation
studies, had not compiled any data on the costs and benefits of interventions in any individual
watersheds. For these reasons, it was not possible for the Project Completion mission to re-
estimate ERRs for individual watersheds, as was done at appraisal.
7. Project Sustainability
7. 1       The lack of fainer involvement in the implementation of the project raises a number of
questions regarding project sustainability. Public expenditure covering virtually the entire costs of
watershed management measures for private gains (from private crop land) while attractive to the
farmer is unlikely to be sustainable for the Government. The financial burden of the project-
developed watershed management measures. if replicated for countrywide implementation, would
be far too large for the government to absorb. However, now that the beneficial effect of



15
watershed management measures on private crop land has been amply demonstrated, farmers are
quite willing to group together and participate in some measure of cost sharing. Consequently, the
second generationi of watershed management projects under implementation in India lay significanit
emphasis on farmer participation both in planning and implementation and maintenance of pro'ject
components.
7.2       In the above conitext, project measures on private crop land can be viewed as
sustainable provided the necessaiy adjustments to operational modalities are made. The packet of
measures for the management of common property resources. however, cannot be consider-ed to
be sustainable. There is a need for the development of technical and. more importantly,
organizational modules2 before watershed managem-ent measures for common property reSOurCeS
canl be considered sustainable.
8. Bank Performance
8. I       As one of the first in a series of resource manlagemenit projects supported in India. the
Banik has made a significanit contributioni to the development of technologies for wiatershed
management. Lessons from the experience of this project have already been applied to some of the
other (second generation) projects currently under implementation in India.
8.2        The main strength of the Bank has been its abliity to adapt and change its technical
approach to the problem. Despite an initial emphasis on watershed management along traditionial
en gineering lines implicit in the Staff Appraisal Report, the Bank was able to change its focus to a
vegetative-based approach that is more cost effective and allows easier replication. In addition, the
Bank's strength was reflected in regular and effective supervision of the project. Its decisionl to
cancel a part of IDA credit as a consequence of savings in local currency alising from SDR:LUS$
and US$:Rupee exchange rate movements was most practical. The Bank was also tlexible in
allowing expansion of areas to be covered by the project to permit the inclusion of additional
watersheds and extension of the closling date of the pro ject to capitalize on a momentum that had
takeen lon,ger to generate than oiiginally anticipated. A weakniess in the Bank's role however was
the adoptioni of an almost doctrinal approach to one particular line of vegetative-based watershed
manag,ement technology. Despite the significant input of supervision missions which repeatedly
identified difficulties with a blanket vetiver-based approach. there was a persistence in applying the
same approach across widely different ecological environments. This was however modified
towards the end of the project period when a greater focus was placed on other vegetative
measures.
9.  Borrower Performance
9.1        Despite some variances between individual States, overall periformlance of the
Borrower was positive. There were initial delays in the establishment of the institutional
flairaewor-k for project implementation, but once this was established, project implementation
proceeded at a reasoniable pace. Despite the difficulties of organizing multi-disciplinary teamis fromn
staff belonging to distinct line agenicies, the Govemiment was reasonably quick in the fomnation of
the teams. However, staff continuity remained a problem and project management was affected by
2     For example, appriopriate mechanisms for community participation and bellefit
sharing.



16
a high rate of turnover in top level project management. Although an implicit objective was the
institutionalization of the multi-disciplinary structure for watershed management, participating
states did not continue with that structure. Only one state. which in any case, had adopted the
multi-disciplinary approach before the project, continued its support after the project had ended.
21         Although Borrower's performance on beneficiary participation was inadequate under
this project, by learning from its experience it has responded well in this respect under the second
generation of projects for watershed management. The formation of farmer user groups is now
being actively undertaken to ensure beneficiary involvement in both planning and implementation
stages.
10.   Lessons Learned
10. 1      The main lessons that can be leamed from the project are as follows:
(a)    Project design should ensure flexibility to tune the prescriptions for
watershed management to the specific characteristics of the watersheds.
Flexibility should include not only the adoption of measures to cover a wide
range of micro-agro-ecological environment (with varying rainfall, slope, and
soil conditions) but also the prospect of a combination of, where
appropriate and possible, both vegetative and limited engineering solutions.
For instance, the focus on the introduction of a single vegetative
conservation technology (vetiver), which was successful only in relatively
higher rainfall areas, should have been adjusted to include other varieties
under this project. Project design should avoid the provision of a
"normalized" menu of solutions applicable to both private, communal and
state lands. More specifically, there is a need to establish the institutional
mechanism and treatmnents for the management of common property
resources in a manner different from that of individual resources. Project
success resulted in large part because of the administrative and technical
flexibility introduced at the Mid-Term Review and the strong practical
orientation of the Bank's supervision effort.
(b)    Project impact has not been commensurate with the level of physical
achievement because of inadequate beneficiary involvement. If the project is
to be sustainable, and replication at a national level is to remain an objective,
farmer involvement has to be an explicit part of implementation strategy.
(c)    Project supervision needs to focus on the overall objective of the project in
addition to that of the simple quantitative elements. Where new technologies
are being tried there should be an effort to attempt alternative approaches to
develop a menu of technologies.
11. Adherence to Covenants
11.1       All major project covenants and requirements were complied with. However, there
was a need to strengthen staffing of the agricultural extension services in the Master Watershed
Plan for all states.



17
12.  Consulting Services
12.1      Consultancy services were utilized for undertaking a bench-mark socio-economic
survey followed by a project impact study at the end of the project. These studies were adequately
undertaken by four independent agencies in the four states.
13. Project Relationship
13.1      Relationships between the Borrower and the Bank were cordial throughout the project
implementation period mainly through frequent communication between the Implementing agencies
and the staff of the Resident Mission in India. The decision to close the project appeared to have
been somewhat abrupt since the Borrower was under the impression that the project would be
extended one more year.
14. Project Documentation and Data
14.1      The Staff Appraisal Report provided a basic framework for the Bank and the
Borrower during project implementation. The Mid-Tenn Review Report also provided a revised
and firm operational basis for project implementation. Project supervision reports contain
considerable data on the project largely focused on the physical and financial aspects of project
implementationl. A good deal of relevant infonmation and data are also available from the reports of
the base-line and end-of-project studies of the four external agencies involved in project impact
evaluation. However, the evaluation studies could have managed to establish the costs and
benefits from the range of watershed management measures supported by the project so as to
facilitate the evaluation of the economic impact of the project supported investments.
14.2      Under the adaptive research component, a number of useful technical booklets and
manuals were also published.



18
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(NOT RECEIVED)



19
PART II1. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Lcans and Credits
Law/Ciit Tle                             Purpa                    Yewr of       Stw                 Cm_ts
Kandi Watenhed and Arta   To tackle the degradation problem of      19S0      COsed 1988   PCR cites one benefit as the
Development Project        the Himalayan sub-mountainous zone in                           generation of a great number
(Punjab)                   Punjab.                                                         of lessons relevant for similar
(LA1897-IN)                                                                                P
Himalayan Watershed        DEwlop and apply technologies to         1983     C. oe t       PCR cites substantial succs in
Management Project         increa  and stabilize rainfed crop,            "VD  Sept. 92  incrasing agricultural
(CrG2295-IN)               forage, fucwvood and timber production,                         productivity and farm incomes
speciflly through impm-ed soil nd                               but a medio;re performunce in
moisture and crop production methodL                           fosy and soil conservation
measures.
Rainfed Areas Watershed    Pilot project to increase crop and forage  1983   Clo sXee    Quality of implementation
Development Project        yieids and production of fuchvood and             31 Dcc. 199'  vanes considerably between
(Cr.1424-IN)               timber.                                                         StateL
Integrated Watershed       Watershed development through            1990       On-going    -
Development (Plains)       stabilization of selected watenshed.
Project
(Cr.2131-IN, Ln31974N)
Integrated Watershed       Remedial measur  to slow and reversc     1991       On-Oing    Supervision cites need to
Development (Hills) Project  degradation of the natural environment                        improve people's participation
(Cr.2100-IN, LnU3175N)     of the Himalayan Foothills and improve                         in projet implementation.
agricultural production
2. Project Timetable
Activity                                               Planned                                   Actual
Identification)
Preparation   )                                          1976                                1976 to 1981
Pre-Appraisal Mission                              Aug-Sept. 1982                           Aug-Sept. 1982
Appraisal Mission                                   Jan-Feb. 1983                            Jan-Feb. 1983
Loan Negotiations                                   October 1983                             October 1983
Board Approval                                                                            December 8,1983
Loan Signing                                                                               February 8, 1984
Loan Effectiveness                                                                           29 June 1984
Loan Closing1/                                   December 31, 1991                        December 31, 1993
/ Two extensions.



20
3. Credit Disbursement
Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(USS million)
FY      Appraisal Estimate    Revised Estimatel/    Actual Total    Actual as % of Appraisal
Estimate (up to FY91) and
Revised Estimate (after FY91)
1984            0.25                                     0                     0
1985            2.10                                    no                     0
1986            5.60                                   0.50                   9
1987           10.70                                   1.50                   14
1988           15.60                                   3.20                   21
1989           21.30                                   5.00                   23
1990           26.20                                   7.50                  29
1991           31.00                                   11.80                  38
1992             -                  22.35             15.70                  70
1993                                22.35             20.8                   94
1994            _                   22.35             25.76                  115
i/Credit amount was reduced by SDR 8.2 million (equivalent to USS8.65 million).



4. Project leplmeentation
A. State-vise ard Treett t-visa Targets wid Achdeveawnts
S.     Key Indicators    Ihift      SA          Andhra Pradesh                Karnataka                Adhyea Pradesh              Pdiewashtre                   Totals
ho.                               Targets
Tgt    Aich               Tgt      Adch      X       tt       Ach       X       Tgt      Ach        X       Tot      Ach       X
1 Soil Conservation on Arable Lands:
1 1) earth bunds      ha                3000    5316       177    11800     5900       50    13400    10602        79    7146      7556      106   35346   29374         83
& waterways
11) vegetative      ha               42600  28339        67    51490   40788         79   30340    28468        94   25528   27776         109  149958  125371         84
barriers
i11) total          ha      170000  45600  33655         74    63290   46688         74   43740   39070         89   32674   35332         108  185304  154745          84
2  Land smoothingl    ha         70500       0       0        0    11000    2851         26      239      239      100      450       28         6    11689    3118        27
shaping
3  Diversion            km         300     113      55       49      447      411       92       223      174       78      132      113        86      915      753       82
Channels
4  Horticulture         ha                8085    8196      101     6363     5977       94        94     1204     1281      728     1415       194    15270    16792      110
5 Afforestatf0n
1)   private        ha        8000  31400  23046         73,                        -       2015     2092      104      247      215        87      -        -        -
1i)government/      ha       14000   6892   6220         90                                 2551     1418       56    3626      2611        72                        ,       rs
community
M) totat            ha       22000  38292  29266         76     5032     7098       141     4566     3510       77    3873      2826        73   51763   42700         82
6  Silvipasture/        ha      45000    7180   4400         61      573     1300       227    2004      1677       84    6439      4949        77    16196    12326       76
Pastures
7  Wasteland            ha                1550    1207       78      -                          600        42        7      745      631       85     2895      1880      65
Development
8  Drafnage Line       (ha)    (55000)
Treatment
Structures          no       10500    1759   4979       283    21110   24609        117    4113      5786      141    13669     9168        67   40651    44542       110
9  Form Ponds/Stop    no       Limited      70    207       296      145      543      374         2        2      100        8       39      488       225      791     352
Dam
* Footnotes: I - Nission EstiMate; 2 - Stream Bank Protection; 3 - includes Sericulture; 4 - Agave Plantation
5   Targets are Based on Watershed Nasterplans (includes final (Post-NTR) revision of four original watersheds and final plans for 23 additional watersheds)



H. Details of Targets end Achieventt  for Watershed Treat na
Andhra Pradesh
S.No.              Key Irdicators                Lknit            Naheshuarm Watherahed                   Additional Watershedh (7)                 Totats of Uatersheds (8)
(25,331 ha)                              (53,330 ha)                               (78.661 ha)
Tgt          Ach           X            Tgt           Ach            X             Tgt          Ach           X
I Solt Conservation on
Arabia Lands:
I) earth bunds & waterways             ha              3000         5316           177             0             0             0          3000         5316           177
If) vegetative barriers                ha              6000         7396           123         36600         20943            57         42600        28339            67
111) total                             ha              9000        12712           141         36600         20943            57         45600        33655            74
2  Land smoothing/shaping                  ha                                                             - 
3  Diversion Channets                      km            -             -            -                113            55            49           113           55            49
4  Horticulture                            ha               500         4085          817           7585         4111             54          8085         8196           101
5 Afforestation
i)  private                            ha                 0            0             0         31400         23046             73        31400        23046            73
11) goverrmnent/coummity               ha              2673         3819           143          4219          2401            5'          6892         6220            90
III) total                             ha              2673         3819           143         35619         25447             71        38292        29266            76
6  Sltvipasture/Pastures                   ha             2880          1858           65           4300          2542            59          7180         4400            61
7  Wasteland Development                   ha                   -                   -               1550          1207            78          1550         1207            78
8 Drainage Line Treatment
Structures                             no              1020         1805           177            739         3174            430         1759          4979          283
9  Farm Ponds/Stop Dams                    no                                                         70           207           296            70          207           296
* Footnotes: 1 - Mission Estimate; 2 - Stream Bank Protection; 3 - Includes Sericulture; 4 - Agave Plantation
Karrutaka
SNo.               Key Indicators                Unlt              KbbsIinala Watershed                   Additionat Watersheds (5)                  Totaels of Wstersheds (6)
(29,803 ha)                              (100r768 ha)                              (130,571 ha)
Tgt          Ach            X            Tgt           Ach            X            Tgt           Ach           I
1  Solt Conservation on
Arabie Lands:
1) earth bunds & waterways             ha             11800         5900            50              0            0              0        11800          5900           50
11) vegetative barriers                he              1750        538            334         49740         34950             70        51490         40788           79
ifi) totat                             ha             13550        11738            87         49740         34950             70        63290         46688           74
2  Land smoothing/shaping                  ha             11000         2851            26              0            0              0        11000          2851           26
3  Diversion Channels                      km               112          262           234           335           149             44          447           411           92
4  Morticulture                            ha              1288         2085           162          5075          3892             T7         6363          5977           94
5 Afforestation
I)  private                            ha                          -                           -             -             -             -             -



11) government/community              he            -                                                     -             -
111) total                            he              1600         4031          252          3432         3085             90         5032         7098           141
6  Sflvipasture/Pestures                  ha              255          694           272           318          606            191          573         1300          227
7  Wasttlard Development                  ha            - e                                     -             -             -             -            -            -
8 Drainage Line Treatment
Structures                             no             3790         4416          117         17320        20193            117        21100        24609           117
9  Fare Ponds/Stop Dasn                   no               55          414           753            90          129            143          145          543          374
Footnotes: I - Mission Estimate.
NRd"qe Pradesh
S.1o.              Key Irdicators              unit               Peru  Uala Watershed                  Additional Watersheds (4)                Totals oaf Wtersheds (5)
(30.524 be)                             (42.100 he)                              (72.624 ha)
Tgt          Adc           I            Tgt          Adc            X            Tgt          Adc           S
I Solt Conservation on
Arable Lards:
I) earth bunds & waterways            ha             13400        10602           79             0            0              0        13400        10602           79
11) vegetative barriers               ha             4340         11437          264         26000        17031             66        30340        28468           94
111) total                            ha            17740         22039          124         26000        17031             66        43740        39070           89
2  Land smoothing/shaping                 ha              239          239           100             0            0              0          239          239          100
3  Diversion Charwels                     km               98          153           156           125           21             17          223          174           78
4  HorticuLture                           ha              300          683           228           670          521             78          970         1204          124      rJ
5  Afforestation
I)  private                           ha              315           494          157          1700          1598            94         2015         2092           104
11) goverrnent/comn.fity              ha             1251          1002           80          1300          416             32         2551         1418           56
111) total                            ha              1566         1496           96          3000         2014             67         4566         3510            77
6  Sltvipasture/Pastures                  ha              954         1144           120          1050          533             51         2004         1677           84
7  Wasteland Development                  ha                0            0             0           600           42              7          600           42            7
8 Drainage Line Treatment
Structures                            no              1625         3089          190          2488          2697           108         4113         5786           141
9  Farm Pords/Stop Dams                   no                2            2           100             0            0              0            2            2          100
Maharashtra
S.1o.              Key Indicators              Lint                Nanoli Watershed                     Additional Watersheds (7)                Totals of Watersheds (a)
(25,403 ha)                             (40.821 ha)                              (66.224 ha)
Tgt          Ach           I            Tgt          Ach            X            Tgt          Ach            S
I Soil Conservation on
Arabta Lands:
I) earth bunds & waterways            ha             6915         7396           107           231          160             69         7146         7556          106
11) vegetative barriers               ha            13910         16599          119         11618        11177             96        25528        27776           109
III) total                            ha            20825        23995           115         11849        11337             96        32674        35332           108
2  Land smoothing/shaping                 ha              450           28            6              0            0              0          450           28            6



3  Dlversion Chanels                      km               52           62          119            80           51 S                       132          113           86
4  Horticulture                           ha              226         1078          477           502          337            67           728         1415          194
5 Afforestat ion
I)   private                          ha              247          215           87        -             -                             247          215           87
11) goverrinent/con0.nity             ha             1436          770           54          2190         1841             84         3626         2611           72
Ill) totat                            ha             16U3          985           59          2190         1841            100         3873         2826           73
6  Sltvipasture/Pastures                  ha             1547         1222           79          4892         3727            76         6439         4949            77
7  Wasteland Development                  ha              385         421           109           360          210            58          745          631            85
8  Drainage Line Treatmnt
Structures                            no              132          242          183         13537         8926             66        13669         9168           67
9  Farm Ponds/Stop Dow                    no                8           39          488             0            0             0             a          39           488



25
5. Project Cost and Finance
A. Project Cost (Rs million)
~mgmy                   134   19844   1984   19887   19874   19664    1964              1990.     19-2   1992-3    1993,4         Toda
ANDHRAFDB                             P_AMFLod r E9 
F- j d                                                                  ad      -
Cld Works               0"07      .36    2.1131 31006    3.00S    7.323       9:m2       7.35      1986    2L.796    30.256    114.061
Vahclas  EqpmaeW       1.102    0.00S    0.00S   o0.sr    0.005 o o                     0.309     2.4B0    4.900      2.027     10.894
Mtorcyyc Loan           09       0.030    0.034    0.027    001     0.100     0.100          -     0.4S0    0.480    0S20        1.88
Inc. Staff SWy a        0o32   1J         164    1.9S    2.154    2.400 1     3.4        3W0       6.300    S400       7.700     40.462
Op  Cost
Fot PRnmWan             0.462    I."     I.03    1.736    1.736    7.500      44200      7.600     5.335   1o.670      0.660     50.700
sarch                               -                          .   0.7110     0.600    0DAM        1.680    5.600      3.150     12.540
MTR& Fo  o w                                   p               .   0.154      0.050      0.150     0.380    0.30       0.350      1.404
(Ml&E)
1TOAL                  3.195    4.61    5.848    6.794    6.916   16.167    16.187    20.1t4     36.300   59.206    52.663    232.048
C_apy                  164   196"4   194   197   19674   16                 1 0         1S990.    1S99-21  4   199.   1993-43/    TstU
Cld Works                        1.072    1.03    1.361    0.93    o8          1.191     2.159    19.071   23.532      0.250     51.798
VdNcWs & Eq4mant            -        -   Q2t    0.313                         033        0.258     2.131    0.196      0.011      3.813
MooeycI. Loon                                     CA.      O.09     0.100     0.091          -         -    1.035          -      1.421
fcr    d staff Siy               can      1.7n1    2044   216       Z796      3.29       334       6.411    11.302     2.88      37.r83
Opeavtion Cost
Forst FPilon                -            1.87    4.390   L650    4.533        4940       8.126    12113   15.627       1.799    61.945
Oenmt d  hi
Research                         Q010             0.250    QSO    o           0.6sa      0.a00     1.9       1.030         -     554
UTR & Folow- p                           &14111            0.150    0.11S     0.115      0.Qll     0.136    0s2s -                1.456
(MLE)
TOM iL                          1.1   t    O.9Z 1    8454   12.51o    at6    10702    I1i        43.341   53W7        4.746     164.4
Cld Works               0O3    1.853    2.640    2640    2.840    1.800       3.6        4.980    33647   29.447    20.493    104.409
Vaises & Equlpmant      1.923   o001    0.081    0.086    0.013    0.006      0.167      0.200     1.925    1.426      o.646     6.694
Motorcycl Loan             0        0        0        0        0       0          0         0          0        0         0          0
Inc Stff Sal            1534    196    1.94    250    262           2.908     3.603      4.01     25.255   23.317    20.955      90.758
Opeatlon Cost
Forest Plantations     0Qes    1.716    2.287    2.472    2.499    2.555      4.701      6.335    27.964   37.253    26.378    115.060
GWKM"O tdh
Resach                  Z5O      2.100    2.100    Z100    1.300    1.300     1.300         0          0        0         0      12Z700
MTR & Foowup               0    0.10D    0.050        0    0.250    0.280     0.500         0          0        0         0       i.150
(M&E)
1UrAL                  7.718    720    L72    98           UV32     19    1367         156    a.79    91.443            0      3305
td S_
COl Works                         27n    1.320    2.937    1.349    2.e6s     6313       7.578    26.616   17.225    16.179      64.757
Vedkas & Eu4pment                   0    1.161    0.108        0    0.021     036        0.126     2.039        0          0      3.491
Motoreyda Lon                       06       0        0        0       0          0         0          0        0         0          0
Imc Staff Selary L               0.380    OJ09    2ze      5.126    4.667     5.334      7.176    10.890   20.616      e.203     66.141
Opetorn CoSt
Foret Plmnttone                  021    2.636    3.996    2.7r4    3.134      6.186      9.181    26.769   26.907    24.154    110.033
Govwnfut of awt
RFarch                               , 
mm & FokW.                           .       -        -        -        -         -          -         -
(M&E)
OrAL                      k/   o99       596      us    939   107x1          19.74    24.03    66314   86.748  4/535           264S73
Ji/ E)vwxftjre  UPto ,t 1993.
/  d n   by  aogy not a_labLe
I/ epwim up           upat 1993.



26
Conory               113.4  1958   195586  1986-7  190876   19884   1984W0    t19-1    1991-2   112-    19934               Tobl
SMHArA                                                          PFrdEen
FRtea Stnt
CMIY Works             1.340    3.110   4.345   4.605    4.605    4.075    2.096     3.7n8    22.554   27.231    27.164   104.931
Vehicles & Equlpment   1.102    0.062    0.007   0.002   0.005    0.003                        1.400    0.070     0.210     2.861
Motorcycle Loan       0.091    0.096                                -         -         -                            -      0.189
Inc. Staff Salary A    0.910    1.888    2.006   2.114    2.223    2.332   2.429     4.454    13.688   15.275    19.170    66.489
OperaIon Cost
Forest Pantatons       0.199    0.552    0.913   1.001    1.038    1.038   0.943     8900      8.229    6.148     4.374    31.775
Goniunart of bus
Rearch                  e76    0.313   0.267    0.267    0.267    0.267    0.267     OJ60      0J0      1.175     1.177     6.536
MTR & Folow-up                             -        -       -            -         -         -          0.140     0.766     0.906
(MAE)
TTAL                  4U1     am 2      u7ai    T.m    La1   7 rt.5       S.735    I&= 4awta     mm             52Sam    213J8T
PI  Snt
Ch4 Works                 -   0.535    0.750    1.605    1.356    0.854    0.936     3.712    18.933   20.450     3.706    52.837
Vehies A EquIpment        -   0.071    0.005   0.3W         -       -         -         -     0.013    1S79       0.013     2.381
Motorycle Loan            -        -       -        -   0.032    0.084        -         -         .        -         -     0.116
Inc. Staff Salary &       -   0.316    1.199   2.742    3.240    3.946     4.451     4.592     5.087    5.795     2.072    33.440
OperaIon Cost
Foret Pantaons            -        -   0.025    .687    1.0WO    t.        1.W00    6.979      4.787   68.12      2.275    24.565
Research                  -        *   0.276    0.484    0.379    0.818    0.697     0.820    0.634    0.890      0.312     5.310
MTR A Follow-up           -        -       -       -   0.023   0.050       0.147    0.10D         -              0.148      0.468
(MAE)
TOTAL                    0   O        t1      58      630  I.752         7.231    16 2f     2454   359S         65      119.117
MADHYA PRADES                                                    FPied E -e
Pe    Sn"
CMI Works                  -   0.202    3.286   5.957    6.711    6.763    8.785    18.208    37.885   22.552    38.880   146.99
Vehkcls A Equlpment       -   1.O00    1.124                -           -                     0.300    1.000      1.000     5.424
Motorcycle Loan                        -
Inc. Staff Salary A       - 5A         5.400    5.400    5.US00    5.6W    5.600     5.OW      9.4aS    8.083     7.300    62.889
Operation Coat
Forest Flantatorts        -     080    0.320   0600    1.200    1.600       .800     3.100    6.677    3.080      2S64    20.8D1
Gawwnunent at kiSt
Research                  -   0.82    0.242   0.242    0.242    0.242      0.242    0.7W       1.420    1.200     3.194    8.379
MTR & Followup            -        -       -        -       -       -         -     0.150     0.250    0.105      0.400    0.905
(MAE)
TOTAL                     -   7344   10.372   12.19   13.753   14.25    1422       27.151    56.01a   36s       53.108   244.37
6~
Pred Sne
CMI Works              0.021    0.209    0.730   1.883   4.901    7.107    11.855    8.286    18.425   11.863     2.190    67.480
Vehicles A EquIpment      -        -       -   0.673    0.143        -     0.272     1.119     0.132    0.557        -      2.898
Motorcycle Loan           -                         -          -        - -*600                            -         -      0.600
Inc. Staff Salary a    0.197    0.993    2.459   2.965    3.622   4.098    4.213     5.492     6.693    7.323     1.892    39.947
Operatlon Cost
Forest Phlntations        -        -   0.180    0.230    0.327    0.358    1.771     3.15     8.679    4.834     0.300     4.350
Gowenune a l
Reserch                   -                     0.409    0589    0.407     0.50      0.700     0.880    0.600        -     0.195
MTR A Folow-up            -        -       -   0.045    0.105        -        -      0.045        -        -         --
(MAE)
TUlAL                 0.2U1    121t    334    6.205    9T   11M70    18J1    1a778    35.3n7   2497r             4.6    135.U



2 7
B. Project Financing
Original Credit Amount                                SDR29.4 million
Amount Cancelled                                      SDR 8.2 million
Revised Credit Amount                                 SDR21.2 million
Expenditure Category           Planned           Actual    Actual as % of
(SDR'000)               Planned
Civil Works                               9,280.00         8,189.30       88
Vehicles, equipment, farm materials        740.00            421.70       57
Loans: motorcycles, bikes                   100.00            91.30       91
Incremental staff operating costs         4,000.00         4,048.50      101
Forest plantations                        6,120.00         5,771.00       94
Borrower - Research                        740.00            445.20       60
Borrower - Review                          220.00              0.00       0
Total                                    21,200.00        18,967.00
Difference due to cross exchange rates on
disbursements to the Special Accounts                         72.80
Total Amount Disbursed                                    19,039.80       90
Undisb. Balance Cancelled on June 15, 1994                 2,160.20
Cancelled December 5, 1991                                 5,200.00
Cancelled May 1, 1993                                      3,000.00
Original Credit Amount                                    29,400.00
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
SAR Estimates    PCR Estimates
Benefitting Area (ha)                   250,000.00       348,000.00
Benefitting Farm Familities              45,000.00        59,000.00
% of Benefitting to
Total Families                            67               63
Employment creation (additional)         18,000.00         NA



28
B. Economic Impact
The SAR did not estimate an ERR for the project as a whole. Individual ERRs
however were prepared for three watersheds (AP, Karnataka, and Maharashtra). It was not
possible for the PCR mission to reestimate ERRs for the watersheds for any meaningful
comparisons due to reasons given in para 6.8 of Part I.
C. Financial Impact
Notwithstanding the difficulties of isolating the specific benefits from project
interventions, farm incomes have been estimated for four watersheds. The changes in farm
incomes due to the project are lower than those estimated by the SAR, except in the cases of
watersheds in Karnataka and Maharashtra.
Percentage Change In Farm Income Due To Project
SAR Estimate'/                   PCR Estimate2'
A-P.(Maheshwaram)                89%                               10%
Karnataka(Kabbalanala)           81%                              124%
Maharashtra(Manoli)              68%                              117%
M.P. (Paruanala)                                                   13%
Based on the difference in future farm incomes between with (participating) and without (non-
participating) project situation.
2/ This reflects the change in income between participating and non-participating farmers.



29
7. Status of Covenants
Seon          S-    y   -                                                         Type of Covenwt               Lev/l of Compiance b
AP 2.02       Prepare and Implement sub-watershed projects.                              TCH                             1
AP 3.01       Maintain separate records and accounts and furnish accounts and            ADT                             1
financia statements not later than 9 months atter end of such year.
Furrish Audit Report Immediately upon finaization.
AP 3.03       Strengthen the agricultural extenslon services as Indicated In Master     MAN                              2
Watershed Pan, hi terms of staffing.
AP 3.04       Makae arranements to provide for loa storage ot adequate seed              ORG                             1
suppies of alternafve crops and varieties.
AP 3.05      Ensure that required amounts of Iptutas      credit faciities ere made     ORG                              2
avilble to farmers at convenient locatlon
AP 3.07       Enrure that mb-watershed projects approved and started under the           ORG                             2
project are completed
KkR 2.02     Prepwre and Implement sub-watershed projects.                              TCH                              1
KAR 3.01      Mantain sepwate records and accounts nd furish accounts and                ADT                             1
financial statemernts not later than 9 months after end of such year.
Furmish Audit Report Immediately upon finalization.
KAR 3.03      Strengthen the agricuturial extenaion aervices as hdicated hi Master      MAN                              2
Watershed Pan hI terms of stafng.
KAR 3.04      Make arrangements to provide for local storage of adequate seed           ORG                              1
supplies of alternative crops and variees.
MAR 3.05      Ensure that required amounts of inputs and credit facilities are made     ORG                              1
available to tarmers at conveneant locations.
KAR 3.07     Ensure that sub-watershed projects approved and started under the          ORG                              2
project are completed.
MAH 2.02     Prepare and Imptement sub-atershed projects.                               TCH                              2
MAH 3.01      Mantaln separate records and accounts and tunish accounts and             ADT                              3
financial statements not later then 9 months after end of such yer.
Furnish Audit Report Immediately upon finalization.
MAH 3.03     Strengthen the agricuitural extenslon services as Indicated In Master      MAN                              2
Watershed Pbn hi terms of staffing
MAH 3.04      Make arrangements to provide for local storage of adequate seed           ORG                              1
stpplies ot altemative crops and varieties.
MAH 3.05     Ensure that required amounts of Inputs and credit facilities are made      ORG                              2
avaiable to frmers at convenient locations.
MAH 3.07     Enswe tht sub-watershed projects approved and started under the            ORG                              2
project are completed.
MP 2.02      Prepare and implemert sub-watershed projects.                              TCH                              2
MP 3.01      Maintain records and accounts and fumrish accounts to the Associton         FIN                             1
not later then 9 months after the end of each financial year.
MP 3.03       Strengthen the agricultural extnslon services as indicated in Master      MAN                              2
Watershed Pan hi terms of staffing.
MP 3.04       Make arrengements to provide for local storage of adequate seed           ORG                              1
supplies of altemative crops and varietles.
MP 3.05       Ensure that required amounts of inputs and credit faciities are made      ORG                              2
available to farmers at convenient locations.
MP 3.07      Ensure that sub-watershed projects approved and started under the          ORG                              2
project are completed.
WDC 2.02      Prepare and implement sub-wetershed projects.                             TCH                              2
WEC 3.01      MaintsJn separate records and accounts and turnish accounts and            ADT                             1
finci stiatements not later thian 9 months after end of such year.
Furnish Audtt Report Immediately upon finalizstion.
&/ Codes for Type of Cownasnt                      k/ Codes for Level of Compliance:
ADT - Audit                                     1  Fully Complied
CRY - Cost recovery                             2 - Prtialy Complied - not affecting Implementation
RN - Fhnia                                      3  Non-compliance
MAN - Management and Staffing                                    4 - Not yet due
ORG   Or-gantzatlonal                           5 - Covenant no longer applicable - shouLid be deleted/modffied
Ri' - Reporting                                 6 - Compliance date requires revision
STD - Studbes                                   Al - Audit 1 year overdue
TCH - Technical                                 A2 - Audit 2 or more years overdue



30
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Watershed Development Staff Inputs (SWS)
st   of         Prd-  YW   eY     FYB2 FY84 FY8M    FM8 FY88   FY8    FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94  TOWl
.-;ect eCk    1Y82
Identification/P   65A   40.6  52.3   -      .     -       -       -      -       -       -      .       .       -  15830
reparation
Apprisl            .      .  67.7  14.4         .          -       -          -       -           -      -       -  82.10
Negotiations       -                 4.9     .     -              .       .       .       .      .                    4.90
Supervision        -      .     -   9.6   9.8  203    17A    17.1   102         5.6  12.03    10.4   7.75      5.7  125.88
TOal            6SA   40.6  120.0   29    9.   20.3   17A    17.1   102         SA   DM        IOA    7.73     5.7  371L.






IMAGINGC
Report. NO:      15-107
Type: FOR



