Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.
Ltb -Is)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
A PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
November 17, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance ot
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = Rupees (Rs) 9.75
FISCAL YEAR
India Fiscal Y2ar = April 1 to Mlarch 31
UEICITS AND MEASURES
MIetric System
TERMS
Alfisols        -   Shallow red soils with low moisture holding capacity
Kharif          -    lain crop-growing season (rainy season-June to October)
Nala            -   A gully or natural drain
Panchayat       -   Elective corporate bodies at the village, sub-district
and district level
Rabi            -   Dry season-October to February
Vertisols       -   Black cotton soils of generally heavy texture
Watershed       -   For the purpose of this project, this is a catchment area
containing about 25000 ha, from which water drains
toward a si'ngle outlet
Sub-watershed  -   Means a specific area (about 2500 ha) within a watershed,
in which activities will be carried out under the
project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
AEO       -  Agriculture Extension Officer
AICRPDA   -  All-India Coordinated Research Project for
Dryland Agriculture
APAU      -  Andhra Pradesh Agriculture University
AU        -  Animal Unit
CIAE      -  Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering
CS&WCR&TI - Central Soil and Water Conservation Research
and Training Institute
DA        -  Department of Agriculture
DEA       -  Department of Economic Affairs
DPAP      -  Drought Prone Areas Project
DWDC      -  District Watershed Development Committee
FAO/CP    -  Food and Agriculture Organization
Cooperative Program
cOI       -  Government of India
ICAR      -  Indian Council of Agricultural Research
ICRISAT   -  International Crops Research Institute for
the Semi-arid Tropics
IDA       -  International Development Association
IG&FRI    -  Indian Grasslands Fodder Research Institute
JNKVV     -  Jawaharlal Nehru University (Mladhya Pradesh)
M&E       -  Monitoring and Evaluation
MIOA      -  Mfinistry of Agriculture
NARP      -  National Agricultural Research Project
NBSS&LUP  -  National Bureau of Soil Survey and
Landuse Planning
NLRCDC    -  National Land Resources Conservation and
Development Commission
NWDPC     -  National Watershed Development Policy Committee
ORP       -  Operational Research Program
PKV       -  Punjabrao University (Maharashtra)
SAU       -  State Agriculture Universities
SCF       -  Standard Conversion Factor
SMS       -  Subject Matter Specialist
SWDC      -  State Watershed Development Cell
SWFC      -  Subswatershed Farmer Committee
SWDPC     -  State Watershed Development Policy Committee
T&V       -  Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
UAS       -  Univeristy of Agriculture Sciences (Karnataka)
VEW       -  Village Extension Worker
WDC       -  Watershed Development Council
WDT       -  Watershed Development Team
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ~~-ii-
INDIA
A PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOP1IENT IN RAINFED AREAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND .................................                  1
A. Introduction...                                                             I
B.  Background .. .......................1...           ,     . .....          I
C. Institutional Support...    3
D. Lessons Learned. . . ....    5
E. Project Rationale....                                                      7
II. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                                  9
III.     THE PROJECT ............................................                      13
A. General Description.                                                      13
B.  Watershed Plans .........................................    14
C.  Criteria for Project Activities.                                         15
D .  Detailed Features., ............ ....                                   17
IV.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING                       ..... 23
A. Cost Estimates ........                                                   23
B. Proposed Financing ..                                                     24
C.  Procurement ........................................                     25
D.  Disbursement and Audit ..................................    .           27
V.    ORGANIZATION AND IMANAGEMENT ..................................                28
A. Organization                      ....28
B. Involvement of Farmers.                             . . ..   33
C. Monitoring and Evaluation                    ....34
VI.    PRODUCTION MARKETING FINANCIAL RESULTS AND COST RECOVERY ....                  36
VII.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                    . . .38
A. Benefits.                                                                 38
B. Economic Analyses...                                                      39
C. Project Risks    ..42
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEM'IENTS TO BE REACHED              .     .. .         44



-iii-
ANNEXES
1. Project Costs
Table I -  Summary - Project Component by Time
Table 2  -  Watershed Development Team
Table 3  -  State Watershed Development Cell
Table 4  -  Incremental Cost - Watershed Development Council
Table 5  -  Technical Assistance and International Training
Table 6  -  SAU Estimates for Operational Research
2.  Implementation and Disbursement Schedules
Table 1 -  Implementation Schedule
Table 2  -  Schedule of Estimated IDA Disbursements
3. W4atershed Plans
Item 1  - Appraisal Criteria
4. Watershed Development Council Staff Terms of Reference
5. Technical Assistance Terms of Reference
6. Terms and Conditions for Administration of Grants to StAte
Agricultural Universities
7. Basis for Economic Analysis
Table 1 -  Economic Prices for Traded Crops
Table 2  -  Fertilizer Prices
Table 3  -  Financial and Economic Prices of Outputs
Table 4  -  Financial and Economic Prices of Inputs
Table 5  -  Economic Cost and Benefits Stream, llaheswaram, Andhra Pradesh
Table 6  -  Economic Cost and Benefits Stream, Kabbal Nala, Karnataka
Table 7  -  Economic Cost and Benefits Stream, llanoli, Maharashtra
Table 8  -  Cost and Recovery Indices
8. Project File
CHART - World Bank 24839
MAP   - World Bank 17002, India






INDIA
A PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
IN RAINFED AREAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01    Opportunities exist for increasing agricultural production in areas
receiving reasonably dependable rainfall by improved land and crop management,
intercropping and sequence cropping, and development of fodder and fuel in
non-arable areas. Under the proposed project, the Government of India (GOI)
would implement a pilot investment program for larger scale development of
rainfed farming areas in a number of selected watersheds. Preparation of this
project dates back to 1976. The long gestation period is partly caused by the
innovative nature of the project and the fact that agricultural development of
these areas has previously not been tackled on a systenatic basis. Formulation
of project concept, the choice of technologies, and the selection of participat-
ing states required considerable time to arrive at a consensus and there were
also fluctuations in the priority assigned to a project of this type, both by GOI
and state governments. The final round of project preparation started in March
1981 and has been the joint effort of the Central Mtinistry of Agriculture, four
state governments (Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and M1aharashtra)
and the Bank's Resident Itission. During ensuing discussions, the format of pilot
projects for development of rainfed farming was agreed to by the concerned
States. This report is based on the findings of IDA missions which visited India
in September 1982, and again in January 1983, and which consisted of Messrs. J.H.
Lindt, M.O. Farruk, L. Ljungman, J. Kampen, D.W. Haslen , Ms. Y. Kimaro (IDA),
Mr. H.H. Groenewold (FAO/CP), Messrs. Appa Rao, K. Singh, S. Kahlon and
R. Noronha (Consultants). Assistance was also provided by Mlr. C.P.R. Nottidge
and Its. S.R. Aldecoa.
B. Background
The Role of Rainfed Farming in India
1.02    About 70% of the net cropped area (143 M ha) in India is now exclusively
dependent on rainfall. Even at full development of irrigation in the distant
future, about 70 It ha of crop lands would remain rainfed. Production from these
areas is, however, greatly affected by the irregularity of the monsoons, as total
rainfall fluctuates widely between years and there are unpredictable variations
in the onset, continuity and withdrawal of the monsoon. Precipitation often
occurs at such high rates of intensity that substantial runoff occurs, thus
reducing the potential for infiltration of moisture into the soil and increasing
the danger of soil erosion and crop damage on heavy soils due to inadequate
drainage. Furthermore, the risk of crop failure due to the vagaries of weather
reduces the individual farmer's willingness to invest in costly inputs and better



-2-
crop care. In these circumstances, farmers continue to prartice low-cost tradi-
tional husbandry methods, and as a result, overall production from rainfed areas
remains generally low, unstable and stagnant, and much land lies seasonally
fallow due to lack of drainage, inadequate infrastructure or a reluctance on the
part of farmers to invest in new technologies. Consequently, most rainfed cul-
tivation is largely subsistence oriented and many farmers are struggling for
survival. Nevertheless, by virtue of the colossal acreage involved, these lands
contribute 42% of the total foodgrain production of the country. Improvement in
rainfed farming is, therefore, of major importance both for increasing overall
food supply to the nation, as well as for addressing the social and economic
needs of many millions of farming families. National investment priorities,
however, have been traditionally directed toward the development of irrigable
lands.
1.03    Agro-climatic Features of Rainfed Areas.  A tropical climate charac-
terized by a high incidence of solar radiation, high temperatures and unreliable
rainfall which result in spells of drought and flood, affect agriculture in most
of the western and central zones o- India including the states of Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Within these states, there exist
sub-humid areas which have annual rainfall over 750 mm, but have no possibilities
for growing more than one crop without major changes in cropping systems and soil
and water management practices. These areas of higher total rainfall have been
selected for the purpose of this project. In addition, two of the major soil
types of India, i.e., red alfisols and black vertisols are predominant in these
areas. The alfisols are erodable, deficient in soil nutrients, and have limited
moisture retention due to their texture and shaLlowness. The vertisols (mont-
morillonite clays), on the other hand, are extremely sticky when wet; hard and
deeply cracked when dry. The heavy texture of i:hese soils, and the primitive
implements and small draft animals used to pull them make timely soil tillage
difficult. Vertisols, however, have high water retention capacity (which often
results in waterlogging) but are eaLsily eroded and often low in nitrogen and
phosphorus. The alfisols and vertisols of the Deccan plateau are underlain by
hardrock formations which prevent the downward movement of water and restrict the
accumulation of groundwater to small pockets of low yield relatively near the
surface.  Normal yields of wells are 2 to 6 m3 per hour while wells usually    3
considered feasible for irrigation purposes would have yields in excess of 10 m
per hour.
1.04    Present agricultural systems in rainfed areas are based on a single crop
grown in either kharif (rainy season) or rabi (dry winter season) with crops
grown on residual moisture. Alfisols, by virtue of their limited moisture reten-
tion, are generally limited to kharif cropping while many vertisol areas, because
of waterlogging and difficulty in weed control dLuring the rainy season, are
utilized only for rabi crops. The crops grown are largely subsistence oriented,
producing basic staples for local consumption, small surpluses for the market and
fodder for the family livestock. Cropping patterns vary according to soils,
climate, farmer preference and to a limited extent, market demands. Sorghum,
pearl millet, finger millet, wheat, pigeon pea, groundnuts, cotton, and soybeans
are among the more important crops grown. To help meet stock feed requirements,
farmers prefer growing crops with high yields of stover or straw.
1.05    Typically, between 10% and 40% of a village area remains uncultivated and
consists of government or communally-owned forest or grazing lands, and
privately-owned land unsuitable or marginal for arable farming.  These areas
serve as grazing grounds for villagie livestock and as a source of fuel supply.



-3-
The government lands are normally located at the higher elevations of catchments
and are badly eroded and bare of trees - even forest reserves often have only
some bush cover. The communal grazing lands are also severely denuded and eroded
with thin stands of vegetation being left. As a result, these upper catchment
areas are the sites where most erosion originates.
C. Institutional Support for Rainfed Agriculture
1.06    Since 1970, considerable progress has been made in the development of
technology for improved rainfed farming.  Sorghum yields (largely through genetic
improvement and the use of limited amounts of fertilizer) have increased by a
compound annual rate of over 3% between 1969/70 and 1980/81. Intercropping,
especially with pigeon peas; sequence planting with grain legumes and oilseed
crops; and introduction of new crops, such as soybeans and maize have all
resulted in improved cropping intensity and production. Research has been par-
ticularly successful for the deeper vertisols, which have good moisture storage
capacity and where intercropping methods, combined with premonsoon sowing,
improved cultivation, better land management and fertilizer application all show
promise. The benefits of "life saving" irrigation fron storage of excess rain-
fall have been successfully demonstrated. For shallow vertisols and alfisols,
the development of new technology is less advanced, but nevertheless, promising
cropping systems and cultural packages have been identified and tested.
1.07   Research.  Agriculture research is the responsibility of State Agricul-
tural Universities (SAU) and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR).
The capability of SAU to serve rainfed areas is being strengthened through the
IDA-supported National Agriculture Research Project (NARP), Cr. 855-IN. To date,
the main thrust for research on rainfed agriculture has been provided by ICAR's
23 centers of the All-India Coordinated Research Project for Dryland Agriculture
(AICRPDA) located in different agroclimatic regions throughout India. AICRPDA is
a cooperative program with SAU, coordinated (and partly financed) by ICAR; the
regional centers are operated by the respective SAU. The National Bureau of Soil
Survey and Landuse Planning (NBSS&LUP), with five regional centers operated by
ICAR, undertakes soil surveys and prepares landuse maps required for research and
development programs. ICAR's Central Soil and Water Conservation Research and
Training Institute (CS&WCR&TI) at Dehra Dun and its 6 regional centers conduct
specialized research and training on soil and water conservation; research on
land-water-plant systems on a watershed basis has recently been initiated.
Research on soil and water management with special reference to agricultural
implements is undertaken at the Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering
(CIAE), Bhopal and, at most, SAU. Research at the Indian Grassland and Fodder
Research Institute (IG&FRI) at Jhansi and under the All-India Coordinated Project
on Fodders and Forages also contributes to knowledge in thece areas. The
Indo-United Kingdom Dryland Farming Project at Indore, ltadhya Pradesh (1974-1980)
generated considerable experience in rainfed agriculture on vertisols with medium
rainfall. The International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
(ICRISAT) at Hyderabad has, since 1972, been involved in genetic and farming
systems research for rainfed agriculture. Some of ICRISAT's approaches toward
the development and management of more productive areas, especially deep ver-
tisols, are now being tested and adapted in on-farm experiments in several
States. Important progress in identifying and overcoming farmer level con-
straints has been made by SAU and ICAR through increased use of operational
research conducted in farmer fields.



-4-
1.08    Agricultural Extension.  The reorganization of the agricultural extension
services through introduction of the "training and visit system" (T&V) has
strengthened the ability of Departments of Agriculture to identify production
constraints, and with the availability of appropriate technology, to advise
farmers on the application of improved farming methods. IDA has assisted with
the introduction of professional agricultural extension in the four states
included in the proposed Project. 1/ The impact of these extension efforts will,
to a large extent, continue to depend on the progress of research and the effec-
tiveness of the linkages between research (SAU and ICAR) and extension (State
Departments of Agriculture).
1.09    Soil Conservation.  Development of soil conservation plans and implemen-
tation of works is the responsibility of the State-level Soil Conservation Serv-
ice, generally located within the Department of Agriculture. Past programs have
been largely limited to erosion control by construction of bunds, and development
and protection of natural drainage ways. Considerable funds and efforts have
been devoted to soil conservation, mainly bunding, over the years. The bunds
often follow ownership rather than topographical patterns and are poorly main-
tained, presumably because production effects are negligible without interbund
treatment and cropping adjustments. There is now a recognized need for increased
farmer involvement in better land management, especially in contour cultivation
and land smoothing practices requirted to improve rainwater utilization.
1.10    Forestry.  Over-exploitation through animnal grazing and fuelwood collec-
tion is the main cause of the degenetration of vegetative cover and of increasing
erosion on public and community lands.  In the past, Forest Departments spent
considerable funds for reforestation programs.  The overall objectives of these
programs have been to halt degradat:ion of the vegetative cover and erosion on
public and community lands, as well as to augment the supply of fuelwood and
fodder. Problems concerning selection of species and supply of planting material
have now been largely overcome (para. 1.18). However, these efforts have been
piecemeal in nature, and in the absence of acreages sufficient to satisfy local
demands and of a rotational harvesting system acceptable to nearby villagers,
reforestation programs on public lands have had 'Little overall impact.
1.11    During recent years, much more attention has been given to the estab-
lishment of woodlots on privately ovmed land which is narginal or unsuitable for
cultivation. Generally, participating farmers are provided with free planting
material and advice, and undertake establishment and protection. The results of
such farm forestry have been encouraging, and in some states, Forestry Depart-
ments have developed extension wings and systems to provide widespread technical
advice to farmers and substantial quantities of tree seedlings. Statewide
programs to encourage such plantings are now being undertaken in all States
participating in the proposed Project.
1.12    Inputs and Credit.  Essential for the application of improved technology
on rainfed farms is the availability of inputs such as fertilizer, seeds, animal
power, human labor, better tools and credit. The optimization of benefits lar-
gely depends on the timely completion of on-farm husbandry practices. Hience,
1/ The Agricultural Extension Projects are: Andhra Pradesh, Cr. 1219-IN; Kar-
nataka (Composite Agricultural Extension), Cr. 862-IN; Uladhya Pradesh I, Cr.
712-IN; HI.P. II, Cr. 1132-IN; and Maharashtra, Cr. 1135-IN.



-5-
among the ingredients for the success of any new technology is the presence of an
institutional framework, including a road network and riarkets, that is capable of
providing physical and monetary inputs of the right quantity and quality, and at
the right time and place. The prevailing inadequacies of some of the agricul-
tural services, particularly credit, have proved to be the greatest obstacles to
large-scale improvements in rainfed agriculture. The project would seek, in
part, to address these issues (paras. 3.16 to 3.20).
D. Lessons Learned from Watershed Development and Rainfed Farming
1.13    The experience with watershed development and improvement of rainfed
farming in India is largely restricted to the lessons learned from the work under
the Drought Prone Areas Program (DPAP), 1/ at research institutes and programs
such as those at AICRPDA, ICRISAT, the Indo-United Kingdom Dryland Project, and
in the Kandi Watershed Project in Punjab, 2/ as well as in several operational
research projects at various locations.  DPAP indicated the need to restrict the
number and complexity of components in pilot projects, the necessity of a
mid-term review, and the need for a body at district level to coordinate line
agencies and gain the commitment of farmers and local policv makers. With regard
to irrigation development, the project identified the difficulty of controlling
investments which serve the interests of a very small number of farmers. DPAP
also demonstrated the potential for range improvement through overseeding. The
Indo-UK project clearly demonstrated that quick and denonstrable benefits gain
farmers' confidence in adopting other project activities. Furthermore, it indi-
cated the necessity of an institutional framework for effective implementation of
soil conservation works when combined with water disposal. Both projects also
illustrated the need for accurate benchmark studies and detailed monitoring of
project impact. From these experiences, data on run-off, soil erosion and silt
loads are, however, scarce. Hydrologic studies at ICRISAT over 6 years on ver-
tisols fallowed during the rainy season have indicated that, of the total rain-
fall potentially available, approximately 25% is lost through run-off, 25%
through evaporation from the bare soil of the fallow, 9% goes into deep percola-
tion and only 41% is available for rabi season crop growth; erosion is serious
under this system. By contrast, when crops are grown during the rainy season,
run-off is reduced to less than 15% of the annual rainfall, on average, and
erosion is minimal.
1.14    Information available on the techniques, econonic impact and farmer
acceptance of treating land for the improvement of in situ rainwater utilization
is increasing. Traditionally, most bunds have been placed on field boundaries
with little or no effect on the movement or retention of water; in fact, crop
yields have often suffered from stagnating water and accidental breeches of bunds
have frequently been the cause of considerable damage lower down in the catch-
ment. Most states are now sponsoring the construction of graded bunds on
alfisols and, for vertisols, are recommending the control of rainwater movement
through in-field cultivation systems connected to communal waterways. Some
objective information exists on the opportunities, techniques and economics of
water recycling for life saving irrigation of rainfed crops. Farm ponds, so far,
have been constructed only on a few farms, and the problems related to water
1/ Credit 526-IN.
2/ Loan 1897-IN.



-6-
sharing and cost recovery, seepage control, water lifting and conveyance need
further solution.
1.15    It is well-recognized now thal: the cropping systems and yields in rainfed
agriculture are determined by the interaction between soil and water management
measures, level of inputs used and methods of crop husbandry. Much progress has
been made in the formulation of comprehensive agronomic practices.  For the
alfisols, operational research conducted by AICRPDA has been path breaking. For
vertisols, the original work of ICRISAT, supported by operational research in
conjunction with AICRPDA, SAUs and State Departments of Agriculture has given
significant results. The essential ccmponents of l:hese technologies are:
(a) agronomic cropping systems and crop management practices that establish a
crop as early as possible during the rainy season and that are likely to
make most efficient use of the amounts of water which can be expected to
become available for crop growth;
(b) land management systems suitable for farmer execution, that reduce
run-off and erosion, give improved surface drainage, water infiltration,
better aeration and workability of the soil; and
(c) community drains, rainwater collection and soil conservation works
benefitting the community at large.
1.16   Detailed recommendations are developed and published by SAU and ICAR, and
are incorporated into pre-crop season extension and training programs and, more
importantly, refined to suit localized conditions during monthly exten-
sion-research training workshops. It is now estimated that proper crop husbandry
alone would increase yields by 50-60% in years of normal rainfall. The incremen-
tal benefits derived from improved land management practices are estimated to be
about 10-20% in years of average rainfall, but considerably higher in years with
abnormal rainfall, i.e., the benefits from investment in land management works
are more in terms of reducing the effects of drought or floods, and of stabi-
lizing and eventually improving the ecological conditions of a catchment area.
1.17    These strategies for land and crop management have, so far, been success-
fully tested in a number of operational research programs (ORP) of 10 to 30 ha in
extent, and all states participating in the proposeid project have benefitted from
such programs.
1.18    Forestry Departments have also accepted that the need for forage, which
villagers have been accustomed to gather from public lands, cannot be ignored.
They have, therefore, introduced rangeland improvement as an essential part of
their tree planting programs. Initially, the emphasis was on the regeneration of
indigenous grasses through the closing of lands to all grazing animals. Sub-
sequently, rangeland improvement also included some essential soil conservation
measures and the introduction of perennial grasses sown in contour furrows. The
latter did not prove successful. In spite of high establishment costs, the
impact of rangeland improvement on the productivity of an area, i.e., dry matter
yield per hectare, remained too small to significantly improve feed conditions
for the prevailing stock numbers. Livestock owners were, therefore, not prepared
to participate and the conditions of over-exploitation persisted. A technical
breakthrough occured through the activities of the Drought Prone Areas Project.
Drought resistant forage legumes (Stylosanthes spp.) were introduced and estab-
lished by low-cost oversowing of natural grassland and have had a rapid impact on



-7-
overall fodder production and its quality. Due to the poor palatability of
Stylosanthes spp during the early part of the monsoon, grazing animals prefer the
grasses and about three months after establishment, these legumes seed freely;
thus, closing of rangelands after oversowing is not required, or if done, closure
can be for the four months of the monsoon only. Oversowing thus opens better
possibilities for accomodating existing stock numbers and of obtaining the volun-
tary participation of livestock owners in pasture regeneration. IMore recently,
Leucaena leucocephala has been planted as a forage tree and the results appear
promising.
E. Project Rationale
1.19    The sustenance and income of the Indian rainfed farmer depends on the
crop and livestock products he derives from his arable land and from public lands
in his vicinity. Although some progress has been made, he is falling behind,
when compared with his neighbor who has been fortunate in attaining access to
irrigation. In any event, about 70% of all farmers will remain dependent on
rainfed lands and a comprehensive effort to stabilize and increase the produc-
tivity of their lands is urgently required. Rainfed farming development has to
address one key problem, i.e., to optimize in the long term, the utilization of
rainfall for plant and animal production within a catchment area. This requires
a number of activities related to erosion control and the husbandry of crops,
rangelands, forests and livestock. It is important that a pilot project for
rainfed farming development has a clear focus on these essential activities and
that it eliminates those which contribute only marginally to the principal objec-
tive, and which complicate program execution and evaluation of impact of key
components. A body of experience exists in development techniques by individuals
for specific rainfed conditions. However, much of this is based on the results
obtained during a few years only, and a comprehensive integrated effort by com-
munties involving several measures for improving crop and non-arable lands in one
compact area has yet to be applied on a meaningful scale.
1.20    The major objective which this project sets out to achieve must now be
the large scale verification of this set of already developed technological
packages which are applicable under different environmental and social condi-
tions. Furthermore, the efficiency of the organizational structure for
implementing essential works, and the unit costs of such works and technical
packages are important criteria in determining the further replicability of the
development proposals. A monitoring and impact evaluation capacity would, thus,
be built into the project to assure early feedback and formulation of sound
future programs. At the same time, strong backstopping from location-specific
operational research will be essential to bring about the proper evolution and
adaptation of new technology.
1.21    All rainfed farmers hope to obtain access to irrigation and this is duly
reflected in ongoing Government programs which always have a strong emphasis on
civil works for the expansion of irrigation. However, experience has shown that
such expenditures generally favor a few farmers only, often at a high cost per
farm, and these works detract attention from the overall task of improving the
lot of substantial numbers of farmers. The proposed project would, therefore,
endeavor to include only those works for water utilization which are important
for ecological reasons and would be aimed at innovative and low-cost approaches
for utilizing available water in support of rainfed agriculture. Expansion of



-8-
irrigated farming would obviously continue simultaneously under the various
existing programs of state governments.
1.22    Given the need for the comprehensive, rather than piecemeal, approach to
the controlled utilization of rainfall and erosion control, the basic unit of
development would be the watershed. The borders of individual fields and other
administrative boundaries seldom coimcide with watershed boundaries.  Thus,
wherever comprehensive watershed devielopment activities are planned, it is essen-
tial to establish full knowledge of the existing conditions and the potential for
development in the given location. This kind of development requires a
multi-disciplinary approach, and only by close cooperation between specialists in
the various disciplines and among farmers can it be successfully planned and
implemented. The vertical administrative organization prevailing in India makes
this cooperation difficult. The project, however, seeks solutions to these
difficulties.
1.23    Under the project, the above planning principles would be incorporated
into watershed development procedures. The disciplines involved would include
forestry, agriculture, soil conservat:ion and sociology. These would be provided
from existing line departments of state governments, agricultural universities
and other research institutions.
1.24    The mode of financing watershed development is of importance if the full
benefits are to be derived. It is necessary that those works, both on-farm and
those affecting the community at large be synchronized. Experience shows that
dependence on institutional credit for construction of all on-farm and related
works results in slow uptake of recommended measures. Budgetary assistance is,
thus, essential for some of these works even if individual farmers are the sole
beneficiaries. In the past, soil conservation works on individual land and some
minor irrigation works have been constructed with budgetary finance and the full
cost recovered over a 15-year period as a land cess. Such a method of financing
proved successful but state governments are now considering not recovering the
costs of those works that are of benefit to the community at large and are
preparing appropriate legislation to define such works and distinguish these and
the methods of cost recovery from those works that benefit the individual only
(para. 6.05).
1.25    The heavy density of farm ruminants is obviously a major cause of
ecological decline in rainfed areas. In order to keep project actions simple and
avoid distracting farmers' attention from the primary need to develop his crop
lands and to restore the productivity of grazing and forest lands, it has been
decided at this time, not to identify other livestock activities which might be
taken up in support of watershed deveLopment. Appropriate measures could,
however, be considered at the Mid-term Review of the proposed project (para.
5.30). In deciding the amount of land to be planted to trees, discussions have
been held with farmers in three of the watersheds and with officials in the
participating states, and it has been decided that closing up to 30% of public
and government lands for afforestation under the project would not present undue
hardship to cattle owners, particularly as the resalts of over-seeding should
quickly be apparent in the form of additional fodder.



-9-
II. THE PROJECT AREA
2.01    In selecting a number of watersheds for development under the project,
the following basic criteria have been assumed: only those areas with more
reliable rainfall (above 750 mm annually) would be considered with soil types
for which technological packages have been successfully tested for improved crop
production and resource management, and where at least basic supporting services
(agricultural extension, markets, inputs, credit and transportation) are avail-
able. (See Annex 3 for further details).
2.02    One watershed of about 25,000 ha in each of the states of Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka, IIadhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, which meet the above basic criteria,
have been selected for initial development. Alfisols are the main soil types in
the areas chosen in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka and are repre-
sentative of large tracts of cropped land in the eastern sections of the Deccan
Plateau. The soil types in the watersheds chosen in the states of Maharashtra
and H4adhya Pradesh are vertisols and, again, representative of large areas of
agricultural land located throughout the western Deccan Plateau (IBRD Map 17002).



-10-
2.03    Some major characteristics of the selected watershed are tabulated below:
Table 1. Characteristics of Selected Watersheds
State               Andhra Pradesh  KaLrnataka    M1adhya Pradesh  Mtaharashtra
District            Ranga Reddy    |Ba!ngalore   |Sehore-Bhopal  |Akola
Name of Watershed  Maheswaram        |Kabbal Nala |Parua Nala       |Manoli
Soil Type           Medium to deep  Medium to   I Mlediun to deep Medium depth
alfisols         shallow        vertisols       |vertisols
alfisols                      l
Land Shape          Rolling           Br oken/hillyl Rolling        |Rolling
Ave. Rainfall (mm)    770            |   876       |    1,320          861
Rainfall Dis-       80% during        91% during    93% from mid-  92% between
tribution         June to          Ma!y to mid-   June to end-   June and
September        November       September        October
Total Watershed          25,331         29,803           34,206         33,961
(ha)                                                              I
Public Lands (ha)         8,556         12,593            2,653          2,685
Forests                 4,709          8,877               500         1,105
Revenue                 1,799          1,462    |         __      |   1,580
Communal                2,048      |   2,254     |      2,153    I      __
Non-agricultural
Lands (ha)                385            728    |       2,986            541
Privately-owned
Lands (ha)             16,390      |  16,482    |      28,566     |  30,735
Rainfed (including
current fallows)    14,720        |  14,953           24,819        25,847
Tank Irrigated            --       |     572               - _           463
Well Irrigated          1,126      |     875            3,443    |   1,255
Permanent Fallows         544             82               304    |   3,170
No. of Subwatersheds          8      |      12                - _            7
No. of Villages              23      |     110                74    |       75
Total Population         25,267         92,110           39,772         39,718
Farm Families             2,804      |  13,696             5,226         7,159
Ave. Farm Size (ha)        5.8       |    1.2      |        5.5      |    4.3
Landless Families         3,937      |    613      I         824         1,966
No. people/ha of
non-arable land /a       2.8             7.3            13.5            6.8
Number of Animal
Units                  18,884          74,397            __           27,815
AU/ha Total Area           0.8             2.5              __            0.8
AU/ha Non-arable
Land /a                  2.1       |     5.9    I        __        |    4.8
/a  Including permanent fallows.
2.04    Climate.  All four watersheds receive, on average, more than 750 mm of
rain annually, but there are important differences in the rainfall patterns among
them. The Manoli Watershed near Akola in Maharashtra and Parua Nala Watershed in
Mladhya Pradesh receive a relatively short, unimodal rainy season of about 16



-11-
weeks duration, with a generally dependable time of onset in mid-June. 1/ During
the monsoon period, the probability of receiving rain in excess of 20 mm per week
is above 50%; the risk of crop failure due to spells of drought, however, still
remains. In Akola District, dry spells of more than 10 days duration occurred
during 11 of the last 20 years.
2.05    The watersheds in the States of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka have longer
rainy seasons, i.e., about 20 weeks starting end of Mlay in Andhra Pradesh and 30
weeks starting end of April in Karnataka. In Andhra Pradesh (Maheswaram
Watershed), the period during which the 50% probability of rainfall exceeds 20 mm
per week is limited, particularly from end of June onwards. In Karnataka (Kabbal
Nala Watershed) rainfall is not dependable during the first half of the monsoons;
the probability of receiving more than 20 mm of rain per week reaches 40% only,
and this occurs during the 10 weeks at the tail end of the rainy season. The
Kabbal Nala Watershed receives a bimodal rainfall pattern with a considerably
higher dependability of rain during the second peak.
2.06    Soils and Crops.  The vertisols of the Manoli and Parua Nala Watersheds
are derived from Deccan trap (weathered basalt). On the slopes and upper
reaches, soils are light-colored, shallow and poor. In the lowlands, the soils
are deep and generally have a high moisture holding capacity (10 cm of available
moisture/m of soil depth), and therefore, can produce a dry season crop (rabi) on
residual stored moisture.
2.07    The soils of Mianoli Watershed have a relatively high sand content and do
not create the severe cultivation problems normally encountered with typical
black soils. About 95% of arable land is under kharif crops; cotton and sorghum
constitute about two-thirds of all crops grown. The soils of the Parua Nala
Watershed are heavier and range from clay loam to gravelly clay in texture.
About 55% of arable land is planted to kharif crops, mainly sorghum, with a
further (the heavier soils) 50% under rabi crops, mainly wheat and green gram
(Phaseolus aureus).
2.08    Alfisols in the eastern tracts of Andhra Pradesh (Naheswaram Watershed)
and Karnataka (Kabbal Nala Watershed) are derived from granite. Soil depth
depends on topography; being shallow on slopes and relatively deep in the val-
leys. The Maheswaram Watershed has predominantly medium to deep alfisols of
sandy loam texture; in Kabbal Nala Watershed, soils are shallower and loamy in
character. These soils have a low pH and exchange capacity, are deficient in
organic matter, low in plant nutrients, have low water storage capacity and,
under rainfed conditions, can be used for kharif cropping only.
2.09    In the Kabbal Nala Watershed about 80% of the arable lands is under
cultivation during kharif, and finger millet is the predominant crop. In H1ahes-
waram Watershed, about 40% of arable lands remain fallow during the rainy season.
Sorghum and castorbean are the main crops grown.
2.10    Status of Soil Conservation.  In all four watersheds, the upper catchment
areas are badly eroded and denuded. Top soils have been lost completely from
1/  The interpretation is based on data for Akola, Indore, Hyderabad and Ban-
galore from Rainfall Probability Estimates for Selected Locations of
Semi-Arid India, Research Bulletin No. 1, ICRISAT, 1982.



-12-
some areas and this has resulted in the deposition of coarse material and gravel
on adjacent slopes. State-sponsored soil conservation programs on arable lands
have been in operation in all watersheds but there is little evidence of their
success and permanence. The only exception is in the Kabbal Nala Watershed where
in some areas, a comprehensive and well maintained system of field bunds, land
levelling and disposal of surplus water through grassed waterways has been estab-
lished by farmers. Farmers in this particular area of Karnataka are more con-
scious of the benefits to be derived from good land management.
2.11    Land Use.  The percentage of all lands cropped varies between 55% and
63% in the red soil watersheds and about 80% in the black soil watershed areas.
Typically, the arable lands are located in the 'Lower lying and flatter areas of
the catchment, and slopes do not generally exceed 2-3%. Increasing population
pressure, however, has expanded the area under cultivation toward the upper
reaches of catchments where soils are shallower and slopes steeper. In the
absence of effective measures to control soil erosion, some farmers have aban-
doned regular cultivation in these higher areas and the land now lies as per-
manent fallows; in the Manoli Watershed, about L0%, in Parua Nala iWatershed about
1% and in Kabbal Nala and Maheswaram less than 3% is permanent fallow.
2.12    Available information indicates that average holding size in the red soil
watersheds is about 3.5 ha.; in the black soil catchments, the average farm size
varies between 4 and 5 ha. All fotir catchments have a skewed land ownership
pattern; about 60% of all farmers cultivate approximately 30% of arable land.
2.13    The Supply of Fuel.  All the upper (non--arable) reaches of the four
watersheds were under forest in the past. However, the increasing demand for
fuel, timber and fodder has led to the present denudation of forests. Annual
fuel requirements worked out by the State authorities, assume an annual require-
ment of 2.5 t of fuelwood equivalent per household of five persons.  About 25% of
this is met from cow dung and another 25% from by-products of arable crops and
the rest from public forest area. Only in areas with extensive cotton produc-
tion, i.e., the Manoli Watershed, can a larger percentage of fuel requirements be
met from the farmers' resources. Fuel collection on public lands is the daily
chore of women and children, and is often combined with the daytime herding of
farm animals. On average, a rural family spends about 10% of its daily labor
for this task and people have to walk long distances in search of suitable
materials.
2.14    Livestock Husbandry and Feed Supply.  Livestock fodder budgets in all
project watersheds are negative, providing only about 50% to 60% of the theoreti-
cal dry matter requirements of the existing animal population. In vertisol
areas, with larger farm sizes, an average of about 70% to 80% of feed originates
from privately-owned lands, and the remainder from public lands. In the alfisol
watersheds, with smaller farm sizes and higher livestock density, only 30% to 40%
of fodder needs can be met from arable lands; 60% to 70% has to be provided from
off-farm sources. About 40% of all animal units kept are bullocks for draught,
30% are cows and cattle below three years of age. Cattle are nondescript
draught-type animals, with cows having lactation yields of 300-400 kg of milk.
A further 20% to 25% of animal units are buffaloes kept for milk production and
the remaining 5% to 10% are sheep and goats.
2.15   Research and Operational Support.  SAU and ICAR provide research support
on campus, at research stations, and in operational research locations. The
important programs are:



-13-
(a) Andhra Pradesh - the Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University (APAU) Campus
is 25 km from the watershed, and the AICRPDA operational research station
adjacent. ICRISAT is also nearby.
(b) Karnataka - the University of Agricultural Science (UAS) Campus is 60 km
from the watershed and is the main source of information and support.
(c) Madhya Pradesh - There are research activities nearby at the Central
Institute of Agricultural Engineering (CIAE) at Bhopal, and located on
the campus of Sehore Agriculture College (a part of Jawaharlal Nehru
University (JNKVV)), and at Indore (180 kn).
(d) Maharashtra - Operational research conducted by Punjabrao Agricultural
University (PKV) is located near the watershed and also on the main
campus at Akola.
2.16    Availability of Inputs, Markets and Credit.  Outlets for obtaining input
supplies such as seed, fertilizers, agricultural chemicals, and tools and equip-
ment are generally limited in number and farmers often have considerable distan-
ces to travel in order to procure their requirements. Improvement in farming
systems and increased production, however, would provide incentives to private
dealers to stock increasing amounts of these requirements. Marketing facilities
for subsistence crops are marginally developed and would need strengthening,
especially for new crops such as soybeans and maize, and for storage, processing
and disposition of increased production of present crops. The availability of
production credit through cooperatives and private banks and medium and long-term
credit from various sources is underdeveloped due to lack of demand in the past.
2.17   Transportation.  All watersheds are served by road systems which are
adequate for present transportation needs, but requirenents would be reconsidered
during the Mid-term Review.
2.18    Conditions for Group Action Among Farmers.  Mlany problems of agricultural
development affect not only individual holdings, but larger environmental units.
Indications from research to date are that in the absence of expensive, central-
ized administrative control, local group action can only be based on rules which
establish a society of reciprocity rather than redistribution. Willing par-
ticipation can only arise if the resource in question works in the same way for
all its users. The project would provide a sociologist to assist in developing
group action among farmers.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01    The overall objectives of the pilot project would be to develop, over
seven years and through the use of appropriate organizations, widespread adoption
of technology for increasing and stabilizing crop and forage yields and produc-
tion of fuelwood and timber in selected rainfed farming areas. This would be
achieved by introduction of improved soil and moisture management measures,
better crop and rangeland husbandry practices and reforestation. The project
would seek to identify technical criteria, administrative procedures and invest-
ment limits useful in replicating watershed development activities in other areas
of India. In addition, the project would strengthen associated research and



-14-
staff training, provide technical assistance where necessary, and monitor and
evaluate project activities.
3.02    The project would provide for development of about 250,000 ha located in
about eight watersheds. Initially, it would provide for the development of a
single watershed (about 25,000 ha) in each of the states of Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Thereafter, funds would be provided
for development of an additional four watersheds in these states, which would
meet agreed development criteria (paras. 3.04-3.13). 11atershed development plans
would necessarily vary according to climate, land capabilitv, population density,
accessibility and present level of development.
3.03    The development of watersheds would include:
(a) Crop production activities, including strengthening of extension serv-
ices through provision of staff, equipment and training, and provision
of credit, and input supplies, from existing state resources, for crop
production and development of storage and marketing facilities.
(b) Construction of soil conservation works on croplands to include about 300
km of drains, drop structuress, graded bunds/terraces and waterways over
about 140,000 ha, of privately owned farmland including land smoothing
(60,000 ha), and land shaping (10,500 ha) and rehabilitation of exist-
ing soil conservation structures on 30,000 ha. Also, construction of
soil conservation structures to protect about 55,000 ha of public lands,
including about 10,000 brushwood/stone check dams, 400 wire crate dams
and 100 drop structures.
(c) Oversowing of 45,000 ha of grazing lands with fodder legumes, replanting
with fuel and fodder trees of about 14,000 ha (30%) of forest reserves
and revenue land and distrilbution of seedlings sufficient for tree plant-
ing on about 8,000 ha of privately owned permanent fallow and marginal
waste land.
(d) Development of rainwater utilization through limited project investment
in farm ponds and the construction of wells through available institu-
tional credit.
(e) Provision of increased staff training, research and operational research
programs at four SAU and three ICAR institutions, and of 50 man-months of
technical assistance and 50 man-months of overseas training.
(f) Project administration at State and Watershed levels and strengthening
of the GOI Watershed Development Council (WDC) for appraisal of
sub-projects, monitoring and evaluation of project progress and prepara-
tion of a possible follow-on project.
B. Watershed Plans
3.04    Baseline Survey.  For the purpose of this project, watersheds are defined
as natural drainage areas of about 25,000 ha. Before preparation of a detailed
plan for development of each watershed, data would be collected by district line
officers, with the advice of the State Watershed Development Cell (para 5.12),
for a Baseline Survey (see Project File, Item 5) which would provide details of
existing socio-economic conditions, including land ownership patterns, land use,



-15-
agro-climatic and rainfall data, present cropping regimes, livestock and human
populations. The Survey would be accompanied by the preparation of a topographic
map of the Watershed. After review by the State Watershed Development Policy
Committee (para 5.10), the Baseline Survey would then be passed to the National
Watershed Development Policy Committee (para 5.05) which would determine the
eligibility of the watershed for inclusion in the project. Guidelines for the
selection of watersheds are listed in Project File, Item 4.
3.05    Watershed Development Master Plans.  Once approval has been given, based
on these data, a phased Watershed Development 21aster Plan would be prepared by
the Watershed Development Team (WDT) (see paras 5.13 to 5.18). The plan would
detail recommendations for changes in cropping patterns, cropping intensity and
crop husbandry practices, soil conservation works required on private as well as
public land, on-farm land development needs, including land smoothing and
development to be undertaken on grazing and forest areas. The Plan would also
spell out the farmers' short and long-term obligations under the proposed Plan
and provide details of any additional requirements for agricultural support
services (see Project File, Item 6). Prior to project appraisal, one watershed
plan in each of the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra was
prepared. These were found satisfactory. The Guna Watershed Plan prepared by
Iladhya Pradesh State was found technically unsuitable and the State is to submit
a detailed watershed plan for the Parua Nala Watershed to W4DC prior to the
initiation of project activities.
3.06    Sub-watershed Plans.  In preparing the Watershed Master Plan for detailed
planning purposes, the watershed would be divided into about 10 sub-watersheds.
The sub-watershed would be made up of a cluster of contiguous village lands
falling, for the most part, into a common catchment. Under the project, these
plans would be reviewed and approved by the State Development Policy Committee
(para. 5.10) and would then be submitted to NWDPC. The Watershed Development
Council (para. 5.06), acting on behalf of NWDPC, would appraise the watershed and
sub-watershed plans, on the basis of which NWDPC would release funds to the State
Governments for implementation of development proposals. In the event that
sub-watershed projects do not meet both technical and financial criteria, these
would be returned by NWDPC to the States for revision. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that all sub-watershed projects appraised by WDC prior to the
Mid-term Review (para. 5.30) would be sent to IDA for comment and approval before
sanction of NWDPC. Thereafter, in light of their experience, copies of appraisal
reports would be retained by NWDPC for review by IDA in the course of project
supervision.
C. Criteria for Project Activities
3.07    Considerable flexibility would be required in the preparation of
Watershed Mlaster Plans, however, certain technical and financial criteria have
been developed as the basis for preparation of future watershed plans and are
based on experience gained by the States in preparation of plans for project
appraisal and the findings of the IDA Appraisal mission. These criteria would be
reconsidered in the light of further experience and modified, if necessary, at
the time of the Hid-term Review (para. 5.30). Additional project details are
given in paras. 3.14 to 3.40.



-16-
Criteria for Crop Land Development
3.08    The major thrust of the project would be on:
(a) land use according to its capability;
(b) the stabilization and improvement of the basic drainage systems, so as to
ensure the safe disposal and/or storage of surplus runoff of rainfall;
(c) on-field works comprising, where appropriate, graded bunding, land
smoothening and implementatiLon of graded cultivation (bed and furrow)
systems in order to make best use of rainfall for maximum plant growth
while simultaneously providLng erosion control and/or drainage; and
(d) use of appropriate agricultural implements.
3.09    Per hectare costs of these operations on cultivated lands would differ
between States depending on slope, soil conditions, rainfall, cultural practices
and available implements and have been limited as follows:
Activity             A. Pra,lesh   Karnataka   M. Pradesh   Maharashtra
--------------Rs/ha--------------------
Construction of Waterways         175           150        200           200
Graded Bunds/Terraces             400           500        500           450
Land Smoothening                  250           150        200           200
Land Shaping                      500           600        600           600
Maximum Average Total Cost    1,100           1,100      1,350         1,350
Criteria for Non-arable Land Development
3.10    The development of non-arable land, which includes all public graz-
ing/forest land and individually owned permanent fallows 1/ and lands not suited
to cultivation would essentially entail the re-establishment of vegetative cover.
The following criteria would be applied:
(a) protection, where necessary, through construction of brushwood/ stone
check dams, wire crate dams and drop structures. These would be con-
structed by the concerned department and would be undertaken following
detailed surveys;
(b) farm forestry would be developed on about 30% of all permanent fallows
and on about 5% of existing cropland deemed marginal for crop production
and on field boundaries. About 2500 trees, either suitable for fuel or
fodder, would be planted per hectare; and
(c) Reforestation on public lands would be undertaken on about 30% of exist-
ing forest reserves and ac,zompanied by oversowing of all public and
private grazing lands with forage species.
1/ Permanent fallows are lands not cultivated within the past five years.



-17-
3.11    For the major activities, which may include the below, maximum average
costs per hectare would be:
Activity                   Andhra   Karnataka   Madhya   Maharashtra
Pradesh               Pradesih
--------------------Rs/ha------------------
Oversowing with forage legumes       160         160        160         160
Farm forestry                       1120        1120       1120        1120
Reforestation on public land        3320        3445       3320        3320
Soil Conservation Works               50          50         50          50
Rainwater Utilization
3.12    Until the completion of the Hid-term Review, the project would support
the development of stock watering and farm ponds at a limited number of suitable
locations in diversion drains and nalas with adequate arrangments for monitoring
and evaluation. In cases where the potential for supplemental lifesaving irriga-
tion is evident, development of water storage for this purpose would require the
setting up of water user groups to ensure suitable distribution procedures,
maintenance of works and cost repayment by the benefitting farmers. Works
exceeding an average cost of Rs 5000/ha (irrigated) would not be considered,
except as a part of an ORP. The development of groundwater would be from
institutional credit.
Overall Costs
3.13   Based upon the expected costs of various activities, and to limit the
investments needed for large scale replication, the maximum average total costs
for all proposed cropland and non-arable land development activities (excluding
the costs of project staff and their operation) would be limited to Rs 1700
(US$180) per ha. Further, given the nature of rainwater utilization activities
(para. 3.30), such development costs would not exceed five percent of total
project investments. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the above
criteria (para 3.04 to 3.13) would form the basis of the preparation, appraisal
and sanction of watershed development projects, and that additional components
would not be included without prior agreement of the Association.
D. Detailed Features
Crop Development
3.14    Crops, Cropping Systems and Crop Management.  Based on current SAU and
ICAR recommendations, examples of which are given in General Items 2, 3 and 6 in
the Project File, and which would be supplemented by local recommendations
developed at monthly Extension-Research workshops attended by SAU researchers and
SIIS from the extension service, the project would promote improved cultivation
methods by farmers so designed as to retain moisture in the soil profile, reduce
soil loss caused by erosion and, where necessary, improve drainage. Complemen-
tary to better cultivation methods would be the introduction of crops and crop
production practices which promote the optimum use of the available rainfall and
restricted growing season. Techniques to be employed would involve the planting
of improved varieties resistant to pests and diseases, crop substitution (e.g.,
soybean in place of sorghum on vertisols), planting of more suitable crop
varieties (e.g. early maturing sorghum hybrids), sequential cropping (cowpea



-18-
following millet on alfisols), intercropping (sorghum and pigeon pea); all aimed
at reducing risks of crop failure. In addition, precision placement of seed and
fertilizer, and timely interculture for weed control would be among the practices
to be introduced.  Introduction of these technologies, whicb are area specific,
would require sound and timely professional advise and provision of adequate and
timely anounts of credit and farming inputs such as seed, fertilizer, pesticides,
etc.
3.15    Agricultural Extension.  All four states have recently reorganized their
extension services to provide for regular visits by VEIT, thus ensuring effective
coverage of most farms in a watershed. Continuous and relevant in-service train-
ing of extension workers is built into the system. However, present emphasis is
limited almost entirely to crop production practices. Land and water management,
fodder and tree production and animal husbandry receive little or no attention.
Utilizing the strengthened agricultural extension services, the project would
broaden and intensify the extension effort to respond more specifically to the
needs of rainfed agriculture. More attention would be paid to promoting better
land and moisture management, fodder production and farm forestry. The States
would provide for a more diversified extension support to farmers through:
-   temporarily increasing the number of VEW in project areas by reducing
the present ratio of about 800 farm families per Village Extension
Worker (VEW) to about 400:1 during the project implementation period,
and
-   permanently adding to the strength of supervisory staff and providing
subject matter specialists (SMS) in soil and water management, fodder
production, pasture management and farm forestry;
At negotiations, the States provided assurances that they would strengthen
agricultural extension services in terms of additional staffing, and as indicated
in the Master Watershed Plan, in order to provide for a more intensive coverage.
The project would provide for three specialists to be initially assigned to each
Watershed Development Team (para. 5.15). Althotugh their responsibility would
primarily be planning, they would frequently interact with local extension
agents. Transport, equipment and other expenses for specialists would be
provided for.
3.16    Inputs.  Increased use of improved crop varieties, fertilizers and pes-
ticides are important ingredients for increasing production in project water-
sheds.  The present production and distribution of improved seeds are, however,
at best limited to some well-known hybrids of sorghum, pearl millet and cotton -
and a few other crop varieties mostly grown under irrigated farming. With better
land, water and crop management practices, the demand for improved seed would
increase. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the States would
make appropriate arrangements to meet the increased demand for improved seed.
3.17    Aberrant weather conditions - delayed onset of the monsoon, early
withdrawal of rains, prolonged drought, etc, often generate a sudden recommenda-
tion for seed of crops/varieties not readily available either with farmers or at
local markets. Such recommendations are fruitless without seed of the recom-
mended variety. Thus, it would be necessary to stock seed of the most probable
alternative crop varieties required. It is alsc, possible that seed required to
meet these contingencies might remain unsold for long periods and require
renewal. It would therefore be necessary to provide adequate storage and to



-19-
underwrite the cost of seed not used as a result of prolonged storage. At nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained that the States would make provision for
supporting agencies to provide for local storage of adequate seed supplies of
alternative crops and varieties.
3.18    Fertilizers and pesticides - sold by private traders, cooperatives or
government departments - are generally available on denand but not necessarily at
the right place. Consequently, the project would plan for improved storage of
inputs at the watershed level, thus ensuring that farmers have access to sale
points within 5 to 7 km of their farms.
3.19    Adequate and timely supplies of credit and inputs would be vital to the
success of the project. None of these are in short supply. WDT would work
closely with the staff of cooperatives, commercial banks and input organizations
to ensure timely and adequate provision. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that state governments would ensure that the required amounts of inputs
and credit would be made available at locations convenient to farmers.
3.20    Storage and 21arketing.  In order to provide for orderly marketing of
additional produce originating in project areas, agricultural cooperatives
(except in Karnataka, which has a State-supported program) would be eligible for
loans under terms of the on-going National Cooperative Development Corporation
Project (Cr. 1146-IN; see Report 3300-IN for details) to meet storage require-
ments. The phasing of storage facilities would be included in watershed plans
and it would be the responsibility of WDT to assist societies in obtaining the
necessary credit.
Crop Land Development
3.21    Soil and water conservation measures would be directed toward the
improved use and management of land and water leading to increased and stable
agricultural production and prevention of soil erosion. To reinforce these
proposals, it would be necessary to reduce and contain the flow of water from
adjacent grazing and forest areas as well as from crop lands.
3.22    Depending on the condition of the farming, forest and grazing lands
encountered in a selected watershed (e.g., the severity of soil erosion and
gullying, existence of bunds and/or drains, previous land leveling within cul-
tivated fields, etc.), recommended soil and water management and conservation
works would be determined. 1/ The task of determining the appropriate solutions
would be assigned to land management technicians, research and extension workers
and farmers.
3.23    The works required wou'ld include:
(a) Catchment protection works. To augment soil erosion control and to
protect croplands, villages and roads, the project would construct: (a)
soil conservation works on public owned non-arable land; (b) diversion
bunds or drains to ensure safe disposal of surplus runoff from upper
1/ Selection criteria and specifications for various practices and works are
available in Annex 6 and ICAR Manual of Soil and Water Conservation Practices
in India CS&WCR&TI, 1981.



-20-
catchment areas. Where appropriate, surplus water would be stored
through construction of small reservoirs (i.e. farm ponds); and (c)
improvement and stabilization of the main natural drainage systems in
each watershed through embankment protection and gully control.
(b) On-field works. Includes the construction of graded bunds and field
drains, limited land smoothiing and shaping, and where appropriate, con-
struction of graded bed and. furrow systems. Where necessary, the recon-
struction of previously built conservation systems would be undertaken.
In addition, provision would be made for appropriate drop structures to
ensure safe disposal of excess rainfall.,
(c) Community Works. Construction of a watershed development center consist-
ing of small offices and a group meeting room.
Development of Non-arable Lands
3.24    Forage Production.  The project would develop a program for improving
livestock forage production by oversowing with Stylosanthes hamata, public and
communal grazing lands and privately owned permanent fallows. Broadcasting seed
into the existing vegetation would be carried out by livestock owners employed
for this purpose and acting under the guidance of project staff working through
village headmen. Sowing would take place in May and June and, as germination or
plant establishment may be poor in years of below average rainfall, the project
would provide sufficient seed to repeat oversowing in two consecutive years. The
oversowing program is designed to cover all public and communal grazing land and
some 70% of privately owned fallow lands, and would be phased over a seven-year
period.
3.25    To ensure an adequate seed supply, the project would establish a seed
multiplication program in each participating state. Seed would be grown on
contract by farmers. Foundation seed would be supplied from seed farms of
Forestry and Animal Husbandry Departments which exist in the States of Andhra
Pradesh and lIaharashtra. In Karnataka and Miadhya Pradesh States, the project
would establish a 5 ha seed multiplication farm, equipped with irrigation for
this purpose.
3.26    Farm Forestry.  Trees supplying firewood or fodder would be planted on
about 30% of all permanent fallows and 5% of marginal cropped land (usually along
farm boundaries). Species to be grown are well tested and known, and would be
selected according to ecological conditions and in consultation with the local
population so as to meet their needs. The major species planted would be hybrid
Eucalyptus spp. Farmers would establish about 2500 6-month old seedlings per
hectare and be responsible for thei:r planting and subsequent maintenance. These
private plantations would, to the extent possible, be planned so that neighboring
farmers cooperate in the protection of saplings. The requirement for planting
material in any one participating State would build up to about 2 million sap-
lings per year.
3.27    Reforestation.  Plantations of fuel and fodder trees would be planted on
about 30% of forest reserves and revenue land.  In addition to hybrid Eucalyptus
spp., Pinus roxburghii, Robinia pseudoacacia, Acacia spp. and Leucaena
leucocephala would be the major species planted. Forest Departments would be
responsible for planting (about 2,500 trees/ha) and subsequent maintenance. The



-21-
requirement of planting material would build up to approximately 4 million sap-
lings per year in each state.
3.28    To reduce transportation cost, temporary tree nurseries would be estab-
lished in each sub-watershed and would be operated by the Forest Department. The
Project would also endeavor to introduce the multiplication of planting material
through contract growers.
3.29    To augment erosion control through establishment of improved vegetative
cover, the project would support a limited civil works program to address criti-
cal points from where severe erosion is spreading to adjacent areas.
Rainwater Utilization
3.30    The project would support the development of a limited number of farm
ponds and shallow wells to encourage better utilization of rain falling within
watersheds. The aim of these structures would be to provide drinking water for
livestock and supplementary (lifesaving) irrigation for rainfed crops. As little
is yet known about the technical and economic viability of farm ponds and the
sociological implications of impounding water which may have drained from the
land of others, these problems would be addressed under the project as a research
activity and would be closely monitored and evaluated by SAU (para. 3.37).
3.31     The project would finance the construction of about 100 farm ponds.
Surface runoff from small catchments would be collected in partly excavated ponds
of 1,000 to 5,000m3 capacity, located in or near natural drainage lines. The
water impounded would only be sufficient for lifesaving irrigation of about one
to five hectares of rainfed crops. Effective methods of pond lining, water usage
and sharing would be developed.
3.32    Groundwater.  Using existing institutional credit, the project would
encourage the construction of wells to provide water for lifesaving irrigation of
crops and to enhance domestic supplies. Information on groundwater resources of
project watersheds and the potential for new wells would be provided for in
Watershed Master Development Plans. Overexploitation of water would be avoided by
limiting the number of additional wells developed.
Research and Training
3.33    A key issue in a pilot project of this type is that of identifying which
components of watershed improvement have the most effective impact at the lowest
cost. Consequently, the project would include resources for research as well as
for technical, sociological and economic (including cost recovery) studies.
Further details are in paras. 5.25-5.29.
3.34    ICAR Research and Training Support.  To ensure widespread feedback and
information exchange between participating States, and to ensure that information
generated by research organizations working in the areas of watershed management,
soil and water conservation, rainwater utilization for rainfed crops, and fuel
and fodder production would be disseminated, the project would support the estab-
lishment of a Technical Cell within WDC. The Cell would consist of a Research
Coordinator (based centrally) and assisted by two professional scientists located
at AICRPDA in Hyderabad (farming systems), two at CS&WCR&TI in Dehra Dun (soil
and water conservation and management), and one at CIAE in Bhopal (farm imple-
ments), together with the necessary support staff. These scientists would



-22-
provide guidance to field level technical staff, extension S1IS, and researchers
involved at ICAR institutions and SAU, publish information on new and innovative
techniques and experiences being developed at research centers throughout India.
As part of the program for disseminating information, the Research Coordinator
would be responsible for the training of middle and senior level staff respon-
sible for project implementation. This training would generally be located at
AICRPDA or CS&WCR&TI. Provision would also be made for engaging consultants to
supplement expertise not available within WDC.
3.35    Cheap ox-drawn implements for land preparation and placement of seed and
fertilizer and for land shaping are required to ensure that full advantage is
taken of the short rainy season and the cropping sequence and varieties recom-
mended. Such implements are present:ly not commercially available, although much
research has been carried out at SAIJ and other institutions throughout India.  In
order to speed up the process and iTI recognition of the urgent need, the project
would provide funds to CIAE to prepare an overvieaw paper on ox-drawn implements
for different soil types and farning systems and, thereafter, for the develop-
ment, testing and introduction of bullock drawn esquipment. These funds would be
channelled through ICAR.
3.36    Forage Research.  The project would support a selection program, within
existing Stylosanthes cultivars, to find and multiply strains particularly suited
to the low cost establishment methocls proposed. As the fungus disease Anthrac-
nose could occur in India at any time, early attention to the introduction and
testing of resistant cultivars would be essentiaL. Research would be carried out
under the direction of AICRPDA, Hyderabad. The project would strengthen the
capacity of AICRPDA to undertake thjis work by providing for a Senior Pasture
Agronomist. Terms of reference are in Annex 7.
3.37    State Agricultural Universities.  NARP provides funds to SAU for agricul-
tural research. In addition to these funds the project would provide additional
support for research specific to the immediate needs of the selected watersheds.
The project would, utilizing the administrative procedures developed under the
National Agricultural Research Project, strengthen the capability for rainfed
crop research at four SAU (Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University at Hyderabad,
University of Agricultural Sciences at Bangalore, Punjabrao University, at Akola
and Jawaharlal Nehru University campus at Sehore). Assistance would be provided
in the form of additional professional staff and technicians, equipment and
vehicles, as well as for incremental operating expenses. At negotiations GOI
provided assurances that grants made to SAU would be on terms and conditions in
accordance with standard arrangements, which it was understood, would be similar
to the criteria already developed for NARP as modified in Annex 6.
Technical Assistance and International Training
3.38   The Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom would
provide financing for about 50 man-months of technical assistance in landuse
planning (18 to 24 man-months), use of satellite imagery (6 man-months),
hydrological studies (6 man-months), agricultural economics (6 man-months),
pasture development (8 man-months) and training (6 man-months). Terms of
reference are at Annex 5. Fifty man-months of overseas training for about 25
individuals in the above specialities and project managemert would also be
provided.



-23-
Preparation of a Possible Follow-on Project
3.39    The project would provide Rs IM for the preparation of a possible fol-
low-on project to be located in any of the States of India. Authorized expendi-
tures would include preparation of base maps and use of satellite imagery. At
negotiations, it was discussed and understood that funds allocated for the
preparation of a possible follow-on project would be expended on baseline sur-
veys, maps, special studies and project preparation.
Project Administration
3.40    Facilities, operating expenses and staff would be made available to
project units at state and watershed level for landuse planning, preparation and
implementation of development plans and for coordination and monitoring of
project activities. Provisions have been made under the Himalayan Watershed
Management Project for the establishment and general support of the Watershed
Development Council (WDC) which would serve the needs of both projects. The
proposed project, however, would require additional staff and support to WDC.
Details are given in Annex 1, Table 4. Details of project organization and
management are provided in paras. 5.01 to 5.13.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01    Detailed cost estimates inclusive of taxes and duties and based on
incremental costs for carrying out the Project over a seven-year period are given
in Annex 1, Table 1. The following tables summarize the costs:
Table 4.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component
Rs M                     US$ M
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Base Costs
Watershed Development        260.15   4.95   265.10    26.68    0.51   27.19
State WD Cells                  9.52   0.87    10.39      0.98    0.08    1.06
Watershed Dev. Council         14.78     -      14.78     1.52       -     1.52
Technical Assistance &
Int'l Training              0.78   6.13      6.91      0.08    0.63    0.71
Total Base Costs              285.23  11.95   297.18    29.26    1.22   30.48
Physical Contingencies          40.10   0.78    40.88      4.11    0.08    4.19
Price Contingencies            103.25   1.95   105.20    10.59    0.20   10.79
TOTAL PROJECT COST             428.58  14.68   443.26    43.96    1.50   45.46



-24-
Table 4.2: Summary of Project Costs by Expenditures 1/
Rs M                      US$ M            % of
Base
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Costs
Investment Costs
Conservation Works   116.63        -   116.63    11.96       -      11.96   39.4
Forest Plantations    65.79        -    65.79       6.75     -       6.75   22.2
Vehicles                 5.77    1.92    7.69       0.59    0.20    0.79    2.6
Equipment                2.09    1.39    3.48       0.21    0.14    0.35    1.1
Recurrent Costs
Salaries/Allowances   66.03        -    66.03       6.77     -       6.77   22.3
Operation Vehicles       4.48    1.93    6.41       0.47    0.19    0.66    2.2
0 & if                   4.68    0.58    5.26       0.48    0.06    0.54    1.8
Maintenance of
Developed Land          5.13     -       5.13      0.53     -       0.53    1.7
Special Funds
Research                12.70     -      12.70      1.30     -       1.30    4.3
Mid-term/Preparation   1.15       -       1.15      0.12      -      0.12    0.4
Technical Assist-
ance/Int'l Trng.    0.78    6.13    6.91         0.08    0.63    0.71    2.0
Total Base Costs         285.23   11.95  297.18    29.26    1.22   30.48  100.0
Physical Contingencies  40.10    0.78   40.88         4.11    0.08    4.19       -
Price Contingencies    103.25    1.95  105.20    10.59    0.20   10.79           -
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    428.58   14.68  443.26    43.96    1.50   45.46           -
1/  Cost estimates are based on February 1983 prices.
These costs include about US$ 0.7M in duties and taxes and an estimated US$ 1.51M
in foreign costs. Physical contingencies of 20% have been applied to civil
works, and 10% to equipment, training, and operating costs. Price contingencies
have been applied in accordance with current Bank estinates of expected inflation
rates in India (local prices 83/86-7%, 86/87 onwards 6%; foreign costs 7.5%) and
compounded accordingly.
B. Proposed Financing
4.02    Finance to cover total project costs of Rs 443.3M (US$ 45.5M), including
contingencies, as follows:
Amount
Source                 US$ Million              Percentage
IDA                       31.0                     68.1
ODA                        0.8                      1.8
GOI/States                13.7                     30.1
Total                45.5                    100.0



-25-
The proposed IDA Credit of US$ 31M would be on standard terms to GOT, and would
finance about 69% of project costs for agreed project activities, net of taxes
and duties, but including estimated foreign exchange costs. At negotiations GOI
gave assurances that the proceeds of the IDA credit would be channeled through
the Ministry of Agriculture to ICAR and to participating states in accordance
with GOI arrangements applicable at the time for IDA-assisted development
projects. The balance of project financing beyond ODA grants for technical
assistance would come from state government sources and GOI.
4.03    Complementary Funding.  Various related development activities such as
agricultural credit, agricultural extension, research, irrigation, social
forestry and development of market facilities are sponsored by World Bank and
other donors including: United Kingdom Overseas Development Adrinistration,
United States Agency for International Development, Canadian International
Development Agency, United Nations Development Program, etc. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that prior to the approval of Watershed Master Plans
(para. 3.05), GOI would identify the sources of financing for each of the project
components in order to avoid duplication of funding.
4.04    In order to ensure an early start to project action and speedy and effec-
tive implementation thereafter, retroactive financing not exceeding US$200,000,
would be provided fron March 1, 1983 to the date of Credit signing for prepara-
tion of base maps, additional staff who need to be in a position for the prepara-
tion of plans and for purchase of a limited amount of equipment and vehicles.
4.05    Since the National Watershed Development Policy Committee (NWDPC, para.
5.03) would approve master watershed plans and subwatershed projects over five
project years, the completion of those approved in the fourth and fifth project
years would extend beyond the seven-year project period. Consequently, assuran-
ces were obtained at negotiations that GOI and the states would complete the
development of all subwatershed projects approved and started under the project.
C. Procurement
4.06    The main items to be financed are:  civil works; vehicles, including
motorcycles; equipment and furniture; training; research; project monitoring and
evaluation; incremental staff and operating costs. Civil works contracts
(US$18.65M) for soil conservation, rainwater utilization, and project buildings
and forestry plantations (US$10.4511) would be small and dispersed, both
geographically and over time; therefore, they would not be suitable for interna-
tional competitive bidding. Soil conservation works and forestry would be
accomplished by force account. All other contracts (buildings) would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, following local advertisement, and in
accordance with established state practices which are satisfactory to IDA.



-26-
Table 4.3: Procurement a/
(US$ M)
 ----- _Procurement Method ---------
Force                       Total
Project Elements             ICB     LCB       Account    Other      NA      Cost
Investment Costs
Soil Cons./Rainwater        -       -         17.50        -       -       17.50
Forestry                    -       -         10.45        -       -       10.45
Project Buildings           -     1.15           -         -       -        1.15
Vehicles                    -      1.09          -         -       -        1.09
Equipment                   -      0.51          -         -       -        0.51
Recurrent Costs
Salaries/Allowances         -       -            -         -      9.60     9.60
Operation Vehicles          -       -            -         -      0.91      0.91
0 & M Other                 -       -            -         -      0.75      0.75
Maintenance Development
Land                     -       -            -        0.73      -       0.73
Special Funds
Research                    -       -            -        1.73      -       1.73
Mlid-term Rev./Preparation  -        -           -        0.23      -       0.23
Tech. Asst./Training        -        -           -         -      0.80      0.80
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                           45.46
a! With price and physical contingencies.
4.07    Vehicles (US$ 1.10M) of various types would be required under the
project. They would be purchased in small quantities over five years and would
be widely dispersed in rural areas. As adequate maintenance and availability of
spare parts would be of paramount importance, this would necessitate purchase of
locally made vehicles of types already used by government departments. Thus,
procurement would be according to existing government procedures, which are
satisfactory to IDA. Motorcycles and bicycles would be eligible for purchase by
individual staff from loans provided by the state government.
4.08    There are numerous qualified local contractors to carry out the proposed
work. Arrangements for preparing tenders and overseeing construction were dis-
cussed during negotiations. All contracts for civil works, vehicles, equipment
and furniture estimated to cost $100,000 or more would be reviewed by IDA both
before bids are invited and contracts awarded. Orders for purchase of minor
equipment and furniture (US$ 0.50M) would be bulked wherever possible and pur-
chased according to established local bidding procedures, except where valued at
less than US$50,000, when they would be purchased by prudent shopping through
normal trade channels. At negotiations assurances were obtained that the
procurement procedures mentioned in paras. 4.06-4.08 would be followed.



-27-
4.09    The balance of project costs (US$14.7511) would consist of 50 man-months
of Technical Assistance (US$0.55M) and international training (US$0.25M),
incremental salaries and allowances (US$9.6M1), incremental operating expenditures
for offices and vehicles (US$1.65M) special funds (US$2.OM), and maintenance on
developed land (US$0.70M). All of the above figures include contingencies which
amount to US$15.01I.
D. Disbursement and Audit
4.10    Disbursement under the credit for approved watershed and sub-watershed
plans would extend over seven years and would be made against:
(a) To the Project States:
i. Civil Works for soil conservation and buildings - 70% of expendi-
tures;
ii. Vehicles, equipment, furniture and materials - 100% of foreign or
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) and 75% of other local expen-
ditures;
iii. The amounts disbursed for motorcycle and bicycle loans - 75%
iv. Incremental operating costs (excluding salaries and land maintenance
costs) 70% of expenditures; and
v. Incremental staff costs for SWDC and WDT - 70% of expenditures.l/
vi. Direct costs of Forestry plantation - 70% of expenditures.
(b) To MIOA for the Watershed Development Council:
i. research conducted by SAU or ICAR - 100% of expenditures; and
ii. expenses incurred for preparation of the Mid-term Review and a fol-
low-up project - 100% of expenditures.
4.11    Disbursements against expenditures for motorcycle and bicycle loans,
forestry plantations, research, fellowship studies, staff and operating costs,
training, payments for locally procured vehicles and equipment of Rs. 150,000
or less and payments under civil works contracts not exceeding Rs 300,000 would
be against certified statements of expenditures, the documentation for which
would not be submitted to IDA for review but would be retained by state govern-
ments and WDC. These documents would be available for inspection by IDA during
the course of project review missions. Disbursement against all other items
would be fully documented. Certificates of expenditures would be audited at
least once every year and a report submitted to IDA promptly thereafter. All
disbursement applications would be forwarded and processed through WDC and the
1/ Incremental staff costs eligible for partial reimbursement would be: salary
and applicable allowances.



-28-
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA). Schedules of implementation and project
disbursements are presented in Annex 2, Table 1 and 2. The disbursement schedule
differs from the disbursement profile for IDA agricultural credits in South Asia
mainly in the early to mid-term period when disbursement are likely to be slower
due to phasing of project works prior to approval of additional watersheds at the
Mid-term Review.
4.12    Assurances were obtained at negotiations that separate accounts of expen-
ditures made under the project would be kept. These would be audited annually
by the Auditor General of India and the Accountants General of the Project States
for each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied and the audit reports submitted to IDA as soon as available. In addi-
tion, certified copies of project accounts would be submitted to IDA within nine
months of the end of the fiscal year. Such reports and audits would show, inter
alia, that the funds withdrawn were used for the purpose intended, that goods had
been received or work performed, and that payments have been made.  All reports
would be submitted by the states through WDC to DEA (GOI) for onward transmission
to IDA.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
5.01    Overall responsibility for coordination and execution of the project
would be with the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).  The linkages between Committees
responsible for project policy and guidance at central, state and district level,
as well as for associated project implementation units are illustrated in Figure
1. Farmer representation would also be required; farmers at the district,
sub-watershed and village levels would participate in the planning and implemen-
tation of the project.
-Figure 1
Organization and Management of Watershed Development Project
Policy Committees                Technical Units            Farmer Participation
National Watershed            Watershed Development
Development Policy            Counci:L (WDC)
Committee (NWDPC)
State Watershed Development  State Watershed Development
Policy Committee (SWDPC)      Cell (SWDC)
District Watershed            Watershed Development         Farmer - representa-
Development Committee (DWDC) Team (WDT)                     tives at district,
and sub-watershed
level



-29-
At the Center
5.02    By recent Gazette Notification, GOI has established a National Land Board
to approve the national policy for management, conservation and development of
land resources.  Headed by the Union Minister of Agriculture, the Board would
comprise the Union Ministers for Irrigation, Works and Housing, and Environment,
one Minister from each of the States and Union Territories, and the Member
Agriculture of the National Planning Commission. An officer of the status of
Joint Secretary/Watershed Development Commissioner (GOI) (para 5.03) would be the
member-secretary of the Board.
5.03    The National Land Resources Conservation and Development Commission.  As
part of the same Gazette Notification, GOI has also established a National Land
Resources Conservation and Development Commission (NLRCDC) to formulate national
policy and perspective plans for conservation, management and development of land
resources in the country taking into account appropriate land use, soil
capability and other relevant factors. NLRCDC is also expected to review the
progress of implementation of programs concerned with conservation of soils,
integrated land management in catchments of river valleys, ravine reclamation,
flood control, social forestry, etc. NLRCDC would be headed by the Member
Agriculture in the National Planning Commission and would comprise Secretaries
from the Ministries of Agriculture, Irrigation, Rural Development, Works and
Housing, and Environment, other Central Government agencies, and experts and
representatives from five states. The member-secretary of the National Land
Board (para 5.02) would also be the member-secretary of NLRCDC.
5.04    NLRCDC would be provided a Secretariat, located within MOA and with
responsibility for coordinating the planning and implenentation of programs
related to land resource management, conservation and development. The
Secretariat would be headed by the member-secretary of NLRCDC and of the status
of Joint Secretary/Watershed Development Conmissioner GOI (paras 5.02 and 5.03)
and who, for administrative purposes, would be responsible to the Secretary for
Agriculture. The Secretariat would contain a Watershed Development Council (WDC)
which would have overall responsibility for execution of the proposed project and
the recently negotiated Himalayan Watershed Management Project.
5.05    Overall responsibility for coordination and execution of the project
would thus be with MOA. WDC (para 5.06), acting under the direction of the Joint
Secretary/Watershed Development Commissioner, would appraise watershed and sub-
watershed projects submitted by the participating States and in accordance with
the general criteria set out in paras 3.04-3.13. Appraisal reports would then be
submitted to a National Watershed Development Policy Committee (NWDPC), chaired
by the Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture (GOI) and conprising the Agricultural
Commissioner (GOI), Animal Husbandry Commissioner (GOI), Inspector General of
Forests (GOI), a representative of the Ministry of Finance (GOI), Chief of the
Agriculture Division, Planning Commission, Director General ICAR, Agricultural
Extension Commissioner, Joint Secretary Credit, Joint Secretary Plant Protection
and Seeds, Research Coordinator, concerned Secretaries from the participating
States and the Director, Soil and Water Conservation Research and Training
Institute. The Joint Secretary/Watershed Development Commissioner would act as
member-secretary of NWDPC. NWDPC would have the powers to approve or reject
subwatershed projects and would have overall supervisory responsibility for
execution of the Project. These latter functions, on a day-to-day basis, would
be carried out by WDC (para 5.06). The proposed national level organization is
illustrated in chart World Bank 24839.



-30-
5.06    The Watershed Development Council (WDC), would be the central project
unit located within the Secretariat. WDC would comprise specialists in soil
conservation (landuse planning), forestry, agriculture, range/forest management,
economics and sociology, and would include a research coordinator and research
staff to coordinate the increased needs for applied and adaptive research (Terms
of Reference are at Annex 4). The regular staff would be supplemented by hiring
of consultants for appraisal and technical supervision of sub-projects, and
provided with administrative support.  WDC would be responsible for the appraisal
of the technical and economic feasibility of master plans for watershed develop-
ment prepared in the states.  It would subsequently submit these to IDA for
review and approval before submission to NWDPC for sanction and release of funds.
Although, ultimately, the detailed appraisal of sub-watersheds would be carried
out at a state level, WDC would, until the date of the Mid-term Review (para.
5.30), appraise all sub-watershed plans prepared by each participating state;
thereafter, in light of experience, it would continue to appraise a repre-
sentative sample of such plans and provide advice to the states in appraisal and
implementation as well as assist with training. WDC would maintain continuous
responsibility for monitoring and evaluation and ongoing supervision of project
implementation by the states.
5.07    The Watershed Development Council would. have the following functions:
(a) Appraisal of the technical and economic feasibility of all master plans
for watershed development and submission of these plans to NWDPC;
(b) Appraisal of all sub-watershed plans for each state until the date of the
mid-term review and thereafter, in light of experience, for a repre-
sentative sample;
(c) After sanctioning of sub-watershed plans and annual budget alloc- ation
by NWDPC, administer the release of funds to states for project implemen-
tation;
(d) Visiting sub-watershed projects on a regular basis, reporting on progress
and problems in implementation and providing advice either through WDC
staff or consultants on suitable remedial measures;
(e) Identify requirements for research and studies as well as liaison with
various agencies carrying out such activities; appraise new research
proposals and identify agencies for the execution;
(f) Organize and contribute to training of staff;
(g) Prepare a project implementation manual;
(h) Assist with and monitor sub-project implementation by:
(i) reviewing six-monthly reports prepared by State Watershed Development
Cells on physical implementation and prepare summary progress reports
for NWDPC and IDA;
(ii) reviewing statements of expenditure to ensure authenticity and
eligibility, review claims for reimbursement from IDA, process budget
requests, review annual statements of audited accounts; and



-31-
(iii) recommending to NWDPC required policy changes and measures to improve
coordination and project management.
5.08    During negotiations of the Himalayan Watershed Mlanagement Project,
assurances were obtained that:
(a) GOI would create the required staff positions for WDC; and
(b) Appoint the Joint Secretary/Watershed Commissioner by September 30, 1983.
5.09    During negotiations of the project, assurances were obtained that:
(a) GOI would appoint the following staff on a full time basis: Research
Coordinator, Soil Conservationist (Landuse Planner), Economist, and
necessary support staff for WDC by MIarch 31, 1984;
(b) Representatives of WDC would make on-site supervision visits, at least
twice in each fiscal year, to watershed projects under implementation and
communicate to IDA, the results of such visits;
(c) The Joint Secretary/Watershed Development Commissioner would by March
31st of each year, furnish IDA with the annual work program of WDC; and
(d) The Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, would ensure that a Project
Completion Report would be prepared and submitted to IDA within six
months of the Project Closing date.
At the State Level
5.10    The State Watershed Development Policy Committee (SWDPC) 1/ would be
responsible for state level approval of masterplans and project plans for
sub-watersheds prior to their submission to WDC for final review and funding.
The SWDPC would ascertain adequate staff deployment, review implementation
progress, resolve problems in execution, ensure coordination between participat-
ing agencies and suggest adjustments in project content and focus on the basis of
feedback from experience in implementation.
5.11    The SWDPC would consist of (i) Secretary of Agriculture or Chief
Secretary (Chairman), (ii) Secretary of Forests, (iii) Secretary of Finance, (iv)
Vice Chancellor, SAU, (v) Director of Agriculture, (vi) Additional Director of
Agriculture (Extension), (vii) Director of Animal Husbandry, (viii) One WDC
Nominee (Research Coordinator or other officer), and (ix) Watershed Development
Coordinator (para 5.12)
5.12    The State Watershed Development Cell (SWDC).  This Cell would be headed
by a Watershed Development Coordinator of the equivalent rank of Additional
Director. To facilitate its planning and coordinating function, SWDC would be a
multi-disciplinary cell having expertise in agriculture, land use planning,
1/ In most States existing committees may be suitably expanded to serve this
function.



-32-
forestry and economics; it would also have adequate administrative support staff.
Responsibilities of SWDC would be:
(a) Watershed selection, preparation of master plans and decisions on
sub-watershed phasing;
(b) Technical assistance to WDTs in master plan and sub-project preparation;
(c) Appraisal of the technical and economic feasibility of sub- watershed
plans;
(d) Determining budgetary requirements and submission of these to SWDPC;
(e) Release of funds for implementation of sub-watershed projects;
(f) Project supervision including regular visits to project areas to review
and inspect physical progress;
(g) Provide liaison with the State Planning Commission;
(h) Ensure coordination with oither development agencies to ensure that
scheduled project activitites are included in the respective annual work
programs;
(i) Identify research requirements, summarize findings of project associated
research and propose policy modifications; and
(j) Review and transmit financ-ial, reimbursement and other required reports
to SWDPC, WDC and IDA.
At the District Level
5.13    The District Watershed Development Committee (DWDC) headed by the Dis-
trict Collector (Deputy Commissioner), would normally be a sub-committee of the
existing District Coordination Committee (in some states known as the District
Level Officers Committee or District Development Board). DWDC would meet, at
least, quarterly and would approve watershed masterplans and sub-watershed
projects, review village implementation plans prepared by the WDT (para 5.15),
review progress, coordinate line department activities, and resolve local
problems associated with implementation of development plans.
5.14    The DWDC would consist of:  (i) Collector (Deputy Commissioner or his
nominee) - Chairman, (ii) Heads of concerned line departments, (iii) At least two
farmer representatives from Sub-Watershed Farmers' Committees, and (iv) Watershed
Development Team Leader (Secretary)
5.15    The Watershed Development Team (WDT) would be headed by a full time
Watershed Development Team Leader and be responsible for detailed sub-project
planning and implementation. 1/ The WDT's composition would vary somewhat among
States, but in every case, the Team would be headed by an Additional Collector
1/ In some states WDT would be part of existing District Technical Multidis-
ciplinary Cells for agricultural development.



-33-
with technical staff seconded from concerned line departments (landuse planning,
soil and water conservation, agriculture) and supported by clerical and account-
ing staff. This Team would be responsible for:
(a) Formulation of a comprehensive and integrated watershed development
master plan and implementation schedules;
(b) Preparation of sub-watershed plans (with the assistance of line depart-
ments, SWDC and Sub-watershed Farmers Committees);
(c) Preparation of annual budgets for submission to SWDC and financial con-
trol of allocations made;
(d) Plan implementation, preparation of monthly financial and physical per-
formance reports, assistance to research projects and aid to monitoring
and evaluation units in collection of data; and
(e) Initiation of suggestions for modifications.
5.16    At negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI that the State
Watershed Development Policy Committee, State Watershed Development Cell, Dis-
trict Watershed Development Committee and Watershed Development Teams would be
set up prior to the approval of Watershed and Sub-Watershed Development Plans and
that these bodies would be maintained during project implementation.
B. Involvement of Farmers
District Level
5.17    Farmers living in watersheds would participate in the formulation of the
masterplan; two farmers representing sub-watersheds where development is being
planned or under implementation, would participate in DWDC meetings. Watershed
plans would also be discussed with local extension workers, who would encourage
farmer participation and advise them of project proposals.
Sub-watershed Level
5.18    Since each sub-watershed would generally cover more than one Village
Panchayat, 1/ area and as the project affects all residents within the
sub-watershed, agreement to resolve common issues would have to be arrived at.
Wherever possible this would be arranged through existing panchayat organiza-
tions, or failing that, a SubWatershed Farmer Committee. These committees would
ensure local participation in planning and determination of priorities, implemen-
tation of proposals and protection/maintenance of structures developed. The
sequence of actions involved would be:
(a) discussion of proposed project activities with the residents in each
village, explaining reasons for different components and the purpose of
each. The formation of village action groups would then follow;
(b) preparation of an action plan based on agreed priorities;
1/ Elective bodies at village, sub-district and district levels.



-34-
(c) discussion of the action plan in each village and obtaining agreement on
(i) locations where project actions are to be carried out, (ii) extent of
peoples participation required in execution, and (iii) people's respon-
sibility for protection of project works; and
(d) where appropriate, setting up water users groups for equitable distribu-
tion of water and maintenance of irrigation structures.
5.19    The main stages of the Project Cycle an,d responsibilities of different
institutions are given in Annex 3 and Project File, Item 2.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.20    An essential feature of the project would be the monitoring and evalua-
tion (M&E) of project progress and its impact. The M&E system would generate
data with which to measure output, effects and impact of project actions, thus
providing management guidance to those responsible for project implementation and
permitting in-depth studies to enable a realistic assessment of longer term
effects brought about by the project.
5.21    Project MIonitoring.  Monitoring would ensure continuous gathering of
information on project inputs and activities, and on conditions and complementary
activities that are critical to the success of the project. It would utilize
basic information prepared during the project design/ preparation phase and data
generated by the Watershed Benchmark Survey (para 3.04) and continue throughout
the project's lifetime, comparing the data collected against the original objec-
tives and standards. Monitoring would thus help in alerting project management
and policy makers to implementation problems requiring corrective action and also
provide the nec:essary information for project evaluation.
5.22    The project would be monitored at three levels.  First at the Sub-
watershed (by the WDT), then at State and finally the GOI level. Prior to
preparation of a Watershed Master Plan, a Baseline Survey would be prepared by
the SWDC. Equally, it would be necessary for the Watershed Development Team
Leader to continue to collect data during implementation on various project
inputs, project activities, and physical and financial achievements.
5.23    Monitoring at the State level would be the responsibility of the State
Watershed Development Cell and would include: (a) a comparative examination of
watershed development performance within the State; (b) recommendations on areas
that should be intensively monitored and proposals for changes in the monitoring
system; (c) provision of assistance to Team Leaders in identifying and improving
weak areas; and (d) collection of monitoring reports and forwarding the collated
report with comments to the State Watershed Policy Comnittee and Watershed
Development Council (GOI).
5.24    At GOI level, project monitoring would be a responsibility of the WDC,
especially the Economist. This Unit would perform the same functions as the
State Cell except that in addition, it would be responsible for coordinating the
monitoring reports from all the project States and forwarding these to IDA at
prescribed intervals. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOI and
the States would submit to IDA six monthly progress reports each June and Decem-
ber, giving details of staff positions, a summary of activities undertaken in the



-35-
last six months, and physical and financial targets achievec and problems
encountered during project implementation.
5.25    Project Evaluation.  Evaluation would ensure a continuous analysis during
project implementation, of project outputs, effects and developmental impact.
This would provide project management and policy makers with analytical support
that may be necessary to enable them to assess and, if required, adjust policies,
objectives and institutional arrangements and resources affecting the project
during implementation. Evaluation studies would also provide feedback for
preparation of new watershed development projects.
5.26    Two categories of evaluation would be undertaken during the project
period: (a) ongoing evaluation, and (b) a Mid-term Review.
5.27    Ongoing evaluation would consist of three activities:  technical evalua-
tion, behavioral evaluation and special studies. Technical evaluation would
involve an examination of the project's success (or failure) in various com-
ponents and of the modifications necessary to the technical packages applied in
project implementation. Behavioral evaluation would be primarily concerned with
people's response to, and perceptions of, the adequacy of project input delivery
systems and institutions. The data so collected would provide an additional
dimension to the information gathered under the monitoring system. The areas
covered by such studies would include success of people's participation efforts
in planning and implementation, reasons for adoption or non-adoption of on-farm
land development works and of forestry and pasture management practices, and
access to various inputs.
5.28    Both technical and behavioral evaluations could lead to the need for
special studies which would be short-term in nature (covering a period not more
than six months) on subjects directly related to project design and performance.
5.29    An approved agency would, under a long term contract, be responsible for
project evaluation under the overall direction of the IJDC, especially the
Economist or Sociologist. The project would provide separate funds for this
purpose. All proposed evaluation and special studies would require the approval
of the Watershed Development Council; use would also be made of ongoing evalua-
tions (e.g., under the agricultural extension system). During negotiations an
understanding was reached that: (a) technical and behavioral evaluation of
project implementation and short term studies would be carried out in cooperation
with competent institutions, and (b) upon completion of the studies, GOI would
submit the reports to IDA for review.
5.30    Mid-term Review.  Given the innovative nature of the project, an agree-
ment was reached at negotiations that a mid-term review of the project would be
undertaken by a joint team from GOI/States/IDA within the first quarter of the
third project year. This exercise would be in the nature of a re-appraisal
wherein the project concepts, design, allocation of funds, staffing patterns, and
components would be reassessed in the light of performance. This could result in
substantial modifications to the project and approach originally approved. At
the Mid-term Review, decisions on additional watershed development in other areas
of the States involved would be taken.



-36-
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FINANCIAL RESULTS AND COST RECOVERY
Yields and Production
6.01    The project would, in addition to benefits derived from erosion control,
increase production of foodgrains, cotton, pulses, oilseeds, livestock fodder and
fuelwood. These increases would be brought about as a result of project actions
due to (i) changes in cropping patterns and planting of higher value crops;
(ii) increased inter and sequential cropping, (iii) wider use of inputs and
better agronomic practices which would increase and stabilize yields; and
(iv) increased cropping intensity made possible by improved soil water retention
capacity. Substantial improvements in the presently low yields are anticipated,
even without the project, as the result of increased agricultural extension
activity and the response to farmers' demand for increased agricultural services.
At year 13, about 67% of the farmers are expected to achieve the yields sum-
marized below. Yield assumptions are given in Project File, Item 11.
Table 6.1:  REeresentative Yields (kg/ha)
(Rainfed)
Future w/o Future w/
Present   Project   Project
Foodgrains
Sorghum
Local                               525        675        850
HYV                                1100       1525       1800
Pearl Millet                            500       800       1000
Finger Millet HYV                      .500       800       1200
Oilseed Crops
Castor                                  300       400        600
Groundnut                              700       1000       1150
Sesamum                                150        200        300
Sunflower                              300        450        660
Pulses
Cowpea                                 250        325        450
Chickpea                               500        700        850
Pigeon Pea (intercropped)               140       200        300
Cotton
HYV                                     500       650        900
Hirsutum                               250        500        800
Pastures                                  400       4nn       1500
Fuelwood (m3)
Farm Forestry                             -        28         47
Reforestation of Public Lands            -         3.5        35
6.02    By project year 13 the annual incremental production from eight water-
sheds would be about 15,600 tons of foodgrains, 5,000 tons of cotton, 6,600 tons
of pulses 8,700 tons of oilseeds, 130,000 tons of fodder and 194,000m3 of fuel-
wood. Net incremental value of this production would amount to US$ 17.5M.



-37-
Marketing of Produce
6.03    There exists a ready market in project areas to absorb most of the
incremental agricultural production resulting from the project. Therefore, no
marketing problems were anticipated. Watershed Master Plans would include
marketing plans for the balance, namely cotton and oilseeds (para. 3.20). Fuel-
wood balance studies, in the three initial watersheds, where planning is com-
pleted, show that the fuelwood produced would satisfy local demands. Increased
fodder production would offset the present shortages in livestock feed.
Farm Incomes
6.04    At full development the project would benefit some 45,000 farm families.
A detailed examination of farm models for each of the three watersheds reveal
that there is a potential for substantial increases in farm incomes as a result
of project activities. The project would also benefit some 18,000 landless
families living in the project area through additional employment opportunities
for hired labor and improved grazing conditions for their animals. Details are
given in Annex 8 and summarized below:
Watersheds                       Mlaheswaram      Kabbal Nala   Mlanoli
States                            Andhra State    Karnataka   Maharashtra
Sample farm sizes(ha)                 5.0              2.0          5.0
Farm incomes (Rs)
Present (P)                       1,187           1,339         3,075
Future Without Project (W)        2,147           2,032         5,781
Future With Project (W)           4,048           3,673         9,723
Increment (W-W)                   1,921           1,641         3,942
% Change                            89              81            68
Cost Recovery
6.05    Under existing State laws governing watershed development programs,
provision is made for recovery of capital costs of soil conservation works car-
ried out by Government agencies on private lands. Activities covered include
bunding, land shaping and smoothing, etc. The cost of project works on public
lands would not be recovered and only a proportion of investments executed by
Government agencies on private lands for soil conservation works is recovered
because many farmers benefit from subsidies given to encourage their development,
Farmers owning less than 6 ha of farmland, or with less than Rs 3,600 income per
annum from non-agricultural activities are defined as marginal farmers for cost
recovery purposes. Marginal farmers, small farmers, farmers belonging to
Scheduled Castes and Tribes and others identified under the Integrated Rural
Development Program are entitled to subsidies which range from about 30% to 80%
of the investment costs. Repayments are in the form of land cess recovered in
equal annual installments over 15 years with an initial five year grace period.
As an aid to establishing and managing future cost recovery policy at nego-
tiations, the participating states gave assurances that they would review
their present procedures for collection of loans given to farmers, as well as
cost recovery policies including an analysis of farmers' ability to pay with



-38-
respect to Project investments and would submit to IDA the findings at the time
of the Mid-term Review.
6.06    Operation and maintenance of soil conservation works on private lands
for the first two years following land development would be carried out by the
Government agencies and charged to the farmers as a part of land cess. From the
third year following initial development, farmers would be expected to carry out
regular maintenance of soil conservation works. In the event that maintenance of
soil conservation structures are neglected, the Soil Conservation Wing or other
agencies have a legal right to undertake the work and charge the full cost of the
maintenance to farmers by increasing the land cess. Labor required for the
maintenance of on-farm soil conservation works and drainage ways is estimated at
2.5 days/ha per year. The project would encourage the formation of farmer groups
to perform this maintenance on a regular basis.
6.07    In the initial three watersheds in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Kar-
nataka and Maharashtra 50%, 60% and 35% of the land areas are owned by marginal
farmers. The weighted average annual land cess per ha, based on the existing
subsidy rates, are Rs 28, Rs 44 and Rs 42 for the three States. At full develop-
ment, annual land cess payments would constitute 6-8% of farmers' annual project
rent. If farmers' contribution of labor for operation and maintenance of soil
conservation works are valued at average annual wage rate, the rent recovery
would range from 9% to 16%. Estimated in Present Values over the project life,
and including farmers' contribution to operation and maintenance, the rent
recovery ratio ranges from 6% to 10% for the three watersheds and 7% cost
recovery could be achieved for the project costs as a whole (Annex 7, Table 8).
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01    Incremental Production.  The directly quantified benefits from the
project would be increases in production of crops, fodder, and fuelwood which
would satisfy local demand and introduce commercialization of agriculture in
project areas. These increases would directly benefit the 45,000 farm families
living in the eight watersheds treated under the project (para 6.04).
7.02    Employment Generation.  Implementation of the soil conservation, refores-
tation and forage development programs on public lands are expected to generate
some 9.3 M days of employment in the first three watersheds over the seven-year
implementation period. If average employment creation of 83 mandays/ha is
extrapolated for the entire 250,000 ha, the project would generate 20.8 M days of
employment for unskilled labor. The primary beneficiaries would be the landless
and near landless families. In addition, 780,000 days of annual incremental farm
labor would be required. Though a large proportion of the increased farm labor
requirement would be met by family labor, there would be some additional demand
for hired labor, especially for cotton production.
7.03    Environmental Effect.  The direct production effects generated by project
actions provide sufficient economic justification for the project. The project
is a pilot scheme leading to a long-term program for the control of erosion in
rainfed farm lands and reduction of rainwater runoff. However, little data is at
present available to evaluate the economic effects of controlling erosion and
flooding. The project would, nevertheless, contribute to improving the data base



-39-
for the evaluation of such effects. The overall net positive effect of the
project would be the improvement in the utilization and conservation of resour-
ces.
B. Economic Analyses
7.04    Economic Analysis.  For the purpose of economic analysis, quantifiable
benefits only from incremental crop and forest production have been considered.
Benefits from the prevention of siltation of reservoirs downstream, changes in
groundwater flows, improved control and reduced damage from surface water
run-off, prevention of soil erosion, etc. are substantive, but excluded from
estimates of project benefits, so as to avoid possible double counting of
benefits already reflected in higher crop yields. Economic rates of return are
estimated for the three watersheds as representative models rather than by
individual components which may be interrelated and conplementary.
7.05    Project investment costs and benefits are discounted at the estimated
opportunity cost of capital of 12% over 25 years. The net present values (NPV)
and rates of return (ERR) for each watershed are:
NPV           ERR
(Rs Million)         x
Maheswaram Watershed, Andhra Pradesh            18.5          25.9
Kabbal Nala Watershed, Karnataka               65.8           50.0
lfanoli Watershed, Maharashtra                  90.2        Greater than 50
The major assumptions underlying the ERR estimates are:
(a) Investment costs: All investment costs are exclusive of taxes and price
contingencies. Foreign exchange components have been valued at official
exchange rate. Local costs for materials and equipment are adjusted by a
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.80. Costs at the GOI level,
including half the cost of establishing the WDC for the recently approved
Himalayan Management Project with which the Council is to be shared, have
been equally attributed to the eight watersheds.
(b) Output Prices. Economic farmgate prices for internationally traded crops
such as sorghum, groundnuts and cotton are derived from 1995 projected
world market prices expressed in constant 1983 dollars. All domestic
costs for transportation, handling and processing were adjusted by the
SCF. Prices of non-traded crops, e.g., millet, cowpeas, pigeon peas,
chickpeas, sesamum, castor and safflower are assumed to follow the price
trends of traded crops that are their closest substitutes. Prices thus
projected are adjusted by the SCF to estimate their economic values.
Market prices of fodder and fuelwood are adjusted by SCF to estimate
their economic value.
(c) Input Prices. Economic farmgate prices of fertilizers are based on their
projected 1995 world market prices in constant 1983 dollars. Domestic
costs for transport and handling are adjusted by the SCF. Prices of
other agro-chemicals are assumed to follow the long-term price trends of
fertilizers. These prices are then adjusted by the SCF. Prices of other
non-traded inputs, such as seeds and planting materials have also been



-40-
projected following the long-term price trend of tbe relevant crops, and
adjusted by the SCF.
(d) Economic Cost of Labor. Arnnual average daily market wage of Rs. 6.0 has
been adjusted by a shadow wage rate of 0.6 to estimate the economic value
of rural unskilled labor. For Maheswaram watershed in Andhra Pradesh, a
higher shadow wage rate (0.80) has been applied to reflect a considerable
urban pull for unskilled labor due to its proximity to an urban center.
Since farm employment is the first alternative employment opportunity for
unskilled labor engaged in project soil conservation and reforestation
activities, the shadow wage for farm labor derived as above was used for
unskilled labor employed by Government, though the financial wage rate is
higher for the latter (Rs. 7.0/day) because of minimum wage regulations.
7.06    Sensitivity Analysis.  The base case of the project assumes a 67% farmer
participation rate (in terms of cropland coming under recommended practices).
Switching values indicate that the watersheds' economic viability is relatively
sound, capable of withstanding a fall in total 'incremental benefits between
39-79%, or a rise in investment costs of 42-372%. Relatively high economic rates
of return are expected since the yield base in the project areas is low and much
of the agricultural potential remains untapped. The variations observed between
watersheds are largely due to differences in yield potential caused by varying
soil types, crop mixes and higher economic cost of labor in Maheswaram (33% above
others). The project was further t:ested against:
(a) lower than anticipated farmer participation (Test cases 1 and 2);
(b) slower benefit build-up (Test case 3);
(c) delay in soil conservation works (Test case 4); and
(d) substituting 1995 economic prices with lower 1983 economic prices (Test
Case 5).



-41-
Table 7.1: Sensitivity Analysis
Maheswaram   Kabbal Nala   Ilanoli
Switching Values (7)
Base Case
Total Benefits                               - 51           - 67          - 79
Total Costs                                  +105           +205          +372
Test Case 1.
Farmer Participation lowered
by 25%:
Total Benefits                         - 43           - 61          - 73
Total Costs                            + 75           +156          +265
Test Case 2.
Farmer Participation lowered
by 50%:
Total Benefits                         - 31           - 52          - 61
Total Costs                            + 45           +108          +158
Test Case 3.
Slower Benefit Build-up:
Total Benefits                         - 30           - 65          - 75
Total Costs                            + 42           +189          +295
Test Case 4.
Delayed Implementation of
Soil Conservation Works:
Total Benefits                         - 47           - 64          - 75
Total Costs                            + 88           +175          +305
Test Case 5.
1983 economic prices
Total Benefits                         - 42           - 55          - 74
Total Costs                            + 71           +121          +281
Economic Rates of Return (%)
Base Case                                          26             45   Greater than 50%
Test Case 1.
Farmer Participation lowered
by 25%                                       22             36        "      "    "
Test Case 2.
Farmer Participation lowered
by 50%                                       18             28            38
Test Case 3.
Slower Benefit Build-up                        17              38            50
Test Case 4.
Delayed Implementation of
Soil Conservation Works                      24             35   Greater than 50%
Test Case 5.
1983 Economic Prices                           22             29   Greater than 50%
7.07     Switching values for Test cases 1 and 2 show that the Project is more
sensitive to farmer participation. The economic rates of return, however, remain
well above the 12% opportunity cost of capital in both cases, even if farmer
participation falls by 50%, implying that only 33% of croplands would adopt
improved farming practices recommended by the Project. Test case 3 assumes



-42-
on-farm yield build-up and switches in cropping pattern will be achieved over 6,
rather than 4 years after a farm is brought under the Project. Case 4 tests the
effects of delay in the implementation of soil conservation works by 2 years.
Soil conservation works is the largest single cost component of the Project. It
was assumed that the real cost of soil conservation would increase by 14% due to
the delay, and benefits on croplands would also be delayed by 2 years. The last
three test cases have only marginal effects on economic rates of return and
switching values, and the Project continues to remain resilient to further nega-
tive movements in benefits due to yield or price decline, or both, and also to
possible further increases in Project costs.
C. Project Risks
7.08    The project is a pilot attempt to evolve an organizational and management
framework for development of rainfed farming which can readily be replicated over
large areas. As such, the project faces various technical, agronomic, sociologi-
cal and organizational risks. Efforts have been made to anticipate major risks,
and measures have been incorporated into the project design to reduce their
impact, wherever possible. A Hlid-term Review has also been built in so that
lessons learned from the first two years of project implementation may be incor-
porated in the plans for watersheds to be developed thereafter.
7.09    Technical Risks.  The soil conservation works are relatively simple, the
techniques well known, and implementing agencies have already built up con-
siderable expertise over the years. However, land use planning capability on
which rational, comprehensive watershed development depends, is generally lack-
ing. The project would include 50 man-months of technical assistance and 50
man-months of overseas training to strengthen the land use planning capabilities
of the States and GOI.
7.10    Production Risks.  Considerable headway has been made in research on
improved agronomic practices to increase production on vertisols and alfisols
under rainfed conditions. However, the Project is an early attempt to apply
improved cropping techniques in conjunction with soil conservation works to
farmers' fields on a large scale. Farmers' response to recommended agronomic
practices and their impact on farm incomes would be monitored, and findings would
provide a basis for further refinement of recommendations. The Project has made
provision for a built-in monitoring system and for close links with SAU and ICAR
for project impact studies and operational research. It has also made proximity
to an agricultural research station one of the criteria for watersheds selection
during the initial stages of the Project. The specialists on WDT would provide a
part of the research-extension linkage.
7.11    As in all rainfed farming, the Project beneficiaries will be subject to
uncertainties of weather. Based on rainfall data collected in the Project areas,
the Watersheds can be said to have reasonably dependable rainfall. Soil conser-
vation measures and improved agronomic practices should have a stabilizing
influence on farm production during the periods of moderate weather disruptions.
Operational research to investigate technical and economic viability of small
farm ponds for lifesaving irrigation has also been included in the Project. In
anticipation of those years in which patterns of monsoon onset change dramati-
cally, a provision has been made for advising, and for storing seeds of alterna-
tive varieties or crops in sufficient quantities to enable farmers in the Project
area to effect a crop switch without undue loss of time.



-43-
7.12    Farmer Participation.  Under the existing laws, consent must be obtained
from a sufficient number of beneficiaries to cover at least 67% of the land area
to be developed before soil conservation works can proceed. Farmer reluctance to
give such consent may arise from: (i) their unwillingness to assume future
repayment obligations for such works; (ii) the possibility of foregoing produc-
tion on a part of their farm lands for bunds and other soil conservation struc-
tures; and (iii) the prospect of temporary closure of grazing land for animals
and forest land for fuelwood.
7.13    The project would provide for farmer participation and involvement in
decision-making from the early planning stages of watershed development.
Long-term income benefits from soil conservation would be stressed during inten-
sified extension efforts in the project areas. All civil works on private lands
would be carried out by Soil Conservation Wings and would not require capital
outlays on the part of the farmers. In designing soil conservation and drainage
works the project would utilize existing farm boundaries as much as possible, to
minimize the loss of productive farmland to farmers. It is estimated that less
than 1% of privately owned land would be subject to loss through construction of
conservation works. Closing of pastureland would be temporary (three months),
would affect only about one-sixth of the grazing land available to villagers at
any given time, and would occur during the lush season when supply in the remain-
ing areas should meet the needs of existing herds. Closing of public forest
lands to grazing would be limited to those areas newly reforested (for a
five-year period following planting) after which the forest lands would be open
for controlled fuelwood gathering and grazing. However, during the establishment
period, villagers would be able to cut and carry fodder grown between the trees.
7.14    Labor Constraints.  The project's soil conservation works and reforesta-
tion and forage development on public lands are anticipated to create high
demands for unskilled labor. However, civil works and reforestation activities
would be scheduled to coincide with the lean periods of farm labor demand. Any
labor constraint the project may face should be of short duration because:
(i) the wages offered by Government agencies are subject to minimum wage regula-
tions and, as such, are sufficiently higher than seasonal wages to attract labor;
(ii) there is a large pool of unemployed and underemployed unskilled labor in the
vicinity; and (iii) the labor force has shown itself to be mobile, moving in
large numbers from neighboring States to where effective demand is perceived to
exist.
7.15    Organization and Mianagement Risks.  The project sets up an organizational
framework within which various agencies at District, State and Central levels
would work together to build a capability to plan, appraise and execute similar
projects throughout India on a much larger scale. The Project, therefore, calls
for strong bodies to achieve coordination horizontally among various implementa-
tion line agencies and vertically among District, State and Central Governments.
The project has taken the following measures for effective organization and and
management. (i) Wherever possible, existing policy corimittees and bodies have
been incorporated into the organizational structure of the Project, and (ii) to
strengthen the hand of the Watershed Development Team at the District level as
coordinating bodies, the Project has empowered them to authorize disbursement
of Project funds against works carried out by the line agencies to their satis-
faction. WDT would receive technical backstopping and supervision in watershed
development planning, project preparation, appraisal and implementation from SWDC
and WDC specialists. The WDC, as a part of the Secretariat to the National Land
Resources Conservation and Development Commission, and under the control of the



-44-
National Watershed Development Policy Committee, could be siibjected to redirec-
tion by changes in government program goals and on political experiences when
dealing with technicians and state authorities.
VIII.  RECOMIENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED
8.01    During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI and the par-
ticipating States on the following matters:
(a)  That all subwatersheds appraised by WDC prior to the mid-term review
would be sent to IDA for comment and approval before sanction of NWDPC
(para 3.06);
(b)  That the criteria agreed (paras 3.04 to 3.13) with IDA would form the
basis of the preparation, appraisal and sanction of watershed development
projects (para 3.13);
(c)  That research grants to SAU would be subject to the terms and conditions
as outlined in Annex 6 (para 3.37);
(d)  GOI would make the proceeds of the IDA credit available to participating
states and ICAR for agreed project activities (Master Watershed and
Subwatershed Development Plans) in accordance with established procedures
for GOI development assistance to the states. Further that the States
would ensure adequate budgetary resources and financing to implement the
watershed plans as agreed (para 4.02);
(e)  GOI and States would complete the development of all subwatershed project
aproved and started under the project (para 4.05);
(f)  GOI would appoint the following on a full time basis:  Research Coor-
dinator, Soil Conservationist (Landuse Planner), Economist, and necessary
support staff for WDC by Mfarch 31, 1984 (para 5.09);
(g)  A Mid-term Review of the project would be undertaken by a joint team from
GOI/States/IDA within the first quarter of the third project implementa-
tion year (para 5.30); and
(h)  GOI and the States would review cost recovery policies, taking into
account farmers' ability to pay and would furnish to IDA the findings at
the time of the Hid-term Review (para 6.05).
8.02    With these conditions and assurances, the project would be suitable for a
credit of US$31.,OM to GOI on standard IDA terms.



-45-
ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPlENT
IN RAINFED AREAS
Summary - Project Component by Time
83/84     84/85      85/86      86/87      87/88      88/89      89/90     Total
Watershed Development
Base                             11,692    18,459    35,009    45,650    51,794    53,414    49,148   265,103
Physical Contingencies            1,520      2,717      5,286      6,847      7,769      7,510     6,468    38,117
Price Contingencies                 423      2,287      7,455    13,754    20,132    25,466    28,364    97,911
Total                          13,602    23,463    47,750    66,251    79,695    86,390    83,980   401,131
State Watershed Development Cell
Base                               2,406     1,304      1,336      1,336      1,336      1,336      1,336    10,390
Physical Contingencies              241        130        134        134        133        134        133      1,039
Price Contingencies                   94       155        273        387        500        619        747     2,775
Total                           2,741      1,589      1,743      1,857      1,969     2,089      2,216    14,204
Watershed Development Council
Base                              2,735      2,482      2,232      2,182      1,632      1,632      1,882    14,777
Physical Contingencies              273        248        223        218        163        163        188      1,476
Price Contingencies                  105       294        454        628        606        750      1,041      3,878
Total                           3,113      3,024      2,909      3,028      2,401      2,545     3,111    20,131
Technical Assistance
Base                              3,467      2,666        780                                                  6,913
Physical Contingencies               63        102         78                                                    243
Price Contingencies                  135       332        175                                                    642
Total                           3,665      3,100      1,033                                                 7,798
Total Project Costs              23,121    31,176    53,435    71,136    84,065    91,024    89,307   443,264
US $ U1                           2.37       3.19       5.48       7.30       8.62       9.34       9.16     45.46



000       000                      44444I4444           00000              1.110
CII   000  000                                   000000000000Ox
1111 000 000 000000000000 o00 00
000                      000000000000           00000              00   0
oooOoc-oc-o000         00000
0 0 0                                                              00   0
-             0 0 -,     - 0 0                    ooo.-loO 000000        00.COO             0 0   0
II         000        000                      000000000000           00000              00   0
00010    00010  01011              o1000004o401000.10 10   000001010         00100  01011 OIl  I
- ::           - I      ...l.l.l.ll                                 .
I 04  00010104,0411           00000010.010001  I    0000010I0            00100101011011   I
II         00010       001.101011              00001010000000110   010104001010          010 10010.101110111  I
II              I 0-I      I    104101  II     00                10           I    10        I -    101  0411 OIl
I Ill I I          I         1 1 1 1 1                              I            I  I 0        I    I  I 0  I I .I I I
II           1111    IIIIIIIIIII               000000000000 I 0   0000010104             00I00!010111 0411
loll               I          11111               0000000004010010   000040110110           oW '00101011011
I 10.11            I          11111               010000     00    10            1010       00101  I OIl Nil NIl
I   0        I
I  II          11111       IlIllIllIl             -0000000000 I    00000101                0010010101110111  I
loll               I         hIll                 oq-o00000010100 10   0000104l010          00100101 OIl 111111  I
* 1011             I         11111                010000     00   101            1010       00101  I 01101110-Il
loll               I         11111                                  10           I 1..4        I   I 1011011
I 0 II             I         11111                                               I I           I   1111111
*  II          11111    11010 101011              00000000000010    0000010101              0010010101110111
I oIl              I        CAl 01 I 0110411      00000000010100 I 0   0010010110110        00 I 001 lOll .1.1.1.11  .  I - I . I I - I I
Al I  II             I         11111               01 00 0 0    0 0   I 01        I 0 I 0     00 I 01 I
I) IN, II            I         11111                                                                 1111111
III' II         11111    *1010101011               00000000000010    0000010101               00,0010101I10111   I
IC Il, II           I        .1.1.1.11                                                              I .l.Il II I
IC loll              I       01101 10410111        0000000001010010   00001011010             00l00101 C11 0-Il  I
010111               I         11111                010000     00    10            1010       oo01  1011  110111  I
0  I I            I         11111                                 I 0           I    I 0      I    I    I 0  I I .4 I I    I
0 I I             I         11111                                               I I           I   1111111
I  II          11111    11010 101011              000000000000 I 0   0000010101             0010010101110111  I
I  0   I I         I         I  .  I  .  I  I I                                      .                .  I  .  II  .11
loll               I        0110110410111         00000000-040A0o 10   000104011010         OOIOOlOlOll01lI  I
II             I         11111                010000     00    I 0           1010         I CA I 011 I'',
I    0       I  I   0      I    I  I   0  I I   0  I I  I
0        I II           11111    .0010101011               00000000000010    0000010101              0010010101110111  I
or       loll               I       - 1 .1 .1 .11                          1                                 I .1 .11 .11  I
lOll               I      00410110,10111          0000000001040010    0100040410110         001001 III 10110411  I
0114    I.,Il               I          11111               010000     00    10            1010       00101  10110111011  I
I 0  I I           I         11111                                  I -l        I    I 0      I    I    I o  I I 0  I I
00       : 0 II             I          11111                                              I I           I   1111111
00       I II          00010    00010101 OIl               00000000000010    0000010101              0010010104110111  I
.1     . - .1   .1   - I - II                                   .1   -    -   1 - .1  .1  .11.111
1.40    1011           0001104   0004101101 OIl            00000000040400 10   0100010110110         00100101011011
001-Il    I  II        00010   04  1041010111              010000     00   101            1010       00101  10110111.411
0o     I oIl               101       110410411                             I            I I 0          I   I loll OIl  I
I          I   1111111
0440     I OIl              I          11111
000-    04411          000        000                      000000000000           010010.0:                0
0114      ICI          00 .       11400                    . IO 00  . -
00440   CCII                                               00     000   0              0101
.01  0144    ICO  01.411                                      1'4 0
-, I3?    I oIl          000       000                      010101010101010100001  0101010101          01 I"
I too
0 IC                  I I I      I I I                   0 0 o 0 o 0 0 0 04 04 01 0  00000          0 0   0
0        I 011          I I I     I I I                    00000000 01 04 04 0    00000              0    0
I I I     I I 04                   0000000001 04 01 0     00000              0 0   0
I I I     I 104                   oo o0000001040-10       00000              00   0
I I     I 1104                   0000000001040.10        00000             00   0
0001                     oooOoOoO01OIoO         00000              00   0
00      000                      OOoOoOOOOOOO            00000              00
CII          4C0      olIJO                    0000r0000000                               00
01     00o                    0       0
01     0010                   00   114 44 I
1,40   10 001
01     10   .1                 1.4   0    0101
01    0 00                    440    0 001
441   1.44401                 oC      0 001           0
01    000 1                 I 00      0 001           114
00001               IC' 0       44  1141        0 0
44  I  44    01>          114 I  0    44    00   I    0
01           01     OOoO              0101  0000   001           14110
01    OOIC0114          11401  00  114   001        00
01    00  010          001  00  10 44  CI         44o
44        0            01    0100400  0         00110000  001               100
10        0            01   01010 00  0         001000000   I               0
0 0          0              I    0   o0  0         4444100000001               00
O  0         0 -          01   00000000            044100000  0 001            00
44 001       0            01010000  0100           001.0100     0 00101        00
10001000                  01010  000000               10  Ooo    44 .01
10 001000  0              0101000 *1140000 00   111141100  .114 IC 00.101  0  1010
00  11011.100  10          11410 10000-11000111000  440100  001 44  0101  0 44o
00  4401000  44            0.44 1000000000000  00100000  C 0010100  CO
000  CO 1000  C              0101000000 0004400  00100000  0  11010100  00
000  001000  0               0.0.0000000001000   101100000  I 4401011001  10
1114,0010  I           441                                  44 1401        44
44        44           01   -                   C  .         10   001       IC -



-47-                                                                                ANNTEX  1
Table 3
INDIA0
FILET PROEJET FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
STATE WATERSNED DEVELOPMENT CELL
Deta,I.ed Lost Tonle
(RS '088)
Quartli,                                                        Base Costs                             Phn.
-- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - --I - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - --- ntCont.   For.       Gross    Es  Nor
Gnat 83/84 OC4/85 81,6 86/87 87/86 88/89 19/81 Total Lost 83/84  14/81  851'6  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/98  Total   Rate  0 cn. 'o:RPate Accosnt
.  VETETCOSTS
A. V EHICLEO AoI EQluIPMENT
CAL                        ~~~~~~~~~NG-PG   p9,r08,                                                                                                            0.1  8.25       8.04      'lEH
c.~~~~~~~i',EVZLES ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~170.0-178.0
OFF7CE   EaJ1F,.AVE FGRN1           SE"T                                                       1      71-.875.2   0.1   1.4                                                                     E DP
2FFICE SUPP'LiES                    SET       I-115  11,01.0   0,1   0.4                                                                                                                   C      DIP
TRAINING                           SET       8-t    5   1oo1.0'2 .1   0,4                                                                                                                 0      EDP
1AFS AND PUDLIELATIONS              SET       11   15   85.01.8 0.1   0,4                                                                                                                 C       l
Ssp<notal ESGIRIMENT                                                                                      102.0-128.2
Gob-Total GJEHICLES AND EOUIRMENT                                                                             29,00290.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                           290.090
1H. RECURRENT CISTS
A. SALARIES AND TRAVEL ALLOWANCES
1.TECHNICAL GROUP SALARIES
WE' COORDINATOR                     NO       1      1      1     1      1      1      1      7   28   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.8   28.0   28.8   28.1   196,8   0.1               V         0      SAL
AGRICULTURALIST                     NI       1      1      1      1     1      1      1      721.1   211.5   21.5   21.5   21.1   21.5   21.1   211.5   158.1   8.1    .0                  8      SAL
LANDUSE GRECIALIST                  NO       I      1      1     I      I      I      1      7 25.1   21.1   21.1   21.1   21.1   21.1   21.5   25.51878.5   8.0                 I         0      SRL
SOIL CONSERVATOR                    NO       1      1      1     1      1      1      1      721.1   21.1   21.5   21,1   21.5   21.1   21.5   21.1   118.5   0.1                0         8      SAL
FORESTER                            NI       1      1      1     1      1      1      1      7 20.1   211.1   21.1   21,5   21.1   21.1   21.1   21.1   118.5   8.1              0         0      SAL
EC-ONIHIST                          NI       I      1      1      1     1      1      1      721,5   21.521.5  21' .5   21.1   21.1   21.5   21.1    158.1   8.1                 8         0      SAL
Sob-Total TECHNICAL G8OU? SALARIES                                                                       139.5  039.1  1.39,1  139.5  139.1  139.5  129.1   976,5
2. ADMIN. 8808? SALARIES
ADMIN OFFICER                       NO       1      1      1      1     1      1      1      7   iS   11.0   15.1   11.8   15.8   11.8   11.8   11.0   185.8   0.1               8         0      SAL
ACCOUNTS OFFICER                    NI       1      1      1      1     1      I      1      7   14   14.0   14,8   14.R   14,8   14.8   14.0   14.8    98.0   8.1               V         8      SAL
DRAFTSMAN                           NI       0      1      1      1     5      1      1      7   14   14.8   14,1   14.8   14.8   14.8   14.8   14.8            9.08   8.1       8         0      SAL
TRACER                              NI       I      I      1      1     1      1      1      7    7    7.0    7,1    7.8    7.8    7.0    7,8    7.0    49.8   0.1               0         0      SAL
CLERKS                              NO8      1      2      2     2      2      2      2    13    0    8.8   16.0   16.8   16.8   16.0   16.8   16.8   184.0   1.1                0         8      SAL
STENOGRAFHER                        No       1      1      1     1      1      1      1      7    9    9,8    9.8    9,8    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    63.8   8.1               0         8      SAL
DREIVERS                            NO       0      2      2      2     2      2      2    13    6    6.8   12.0   12.0   12.8   12.8   12.8   02.8    70.0   8.1                8         0      SAL
Suib-Total ADMIN. GROUF SALARIES                                                                          73,08707.    87.0807.8   87.8   87.0   87,8   591.0
3. NE 00808 SALARIES
STATISTICIAN                        NO       1      1      0     1      1      1      1      7   14  114,0   14.0   14,0   14.0   14.0   14.0   14.0    98.0   0.1               0         8      SAL
SUPPORT STAFF                       NO       1      1     2      2      2      2      2    12    8    8,8    8.0   16,0   16.0   16.0   16.8   16.0    96.0   0.1                0         8      SAL
Sob-Total ME GROUP SALARIES                                                                               22,8   22.8   30,8   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.8   194.0
4. TRAREL ALLOWANCES
AD COORDINATOR                      NO       I      1      1     1      1      1      1      7    7    7.0    7,0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.8    7.0    49,0   1.1               8         0      PTA
TECNN1LAL STAFF                     NI       I      I      I     1      1      1      1    31    1   21.0   21.8   21.8   21.0   21.0   25,0   21.0   171,9   0.0                0         0      PTA
Sub-Total TRAREL ALLOWANCES                                                                               32.8   32.0   32,8   32.0   32.0   32.8   33.0   224.0
Sob-Total SALARIES AND TRAREL ALLOWANCES                                                                     266.1  280.1  280.5  288.5  288.5  288.1  280.5 1,989.1
B. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
1. VEHIELES
CARS                                NI       1      1      1      1     1      1      1      7   11   15.8   11.0   15.8   11.0   15.8   11.0   11.0   101.0   8.1   0.4                   0      ONE
JEEPS                               NI       0      1      1      0     0      1      0      7   11   01.8 0.0 0so     1.10   05.0   01.0   01.0   11.0   101.0   0.1   0.4                0      ORE
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                                         38,0   30.8   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.8   38.8   210.8
2. EQUIPMENT                          SET       -      1      I      1      1      I      1     6  0.5        -    0.5    0.1    0.5    8.1    0.1    0.5            3.0   0.1   0.4           0    EIPM
Sub-Total VEVIE'LES AND EIII1PNENT                                                                            30,1   30.5   39.1   10.5   30.1   30.1   30.5   213.C
C. OFFICE SUPPLIES                                  1      1I            1     1      1      1      7   11   11.0   11.8   11.8   15.0   11.0   11.1   11.0   101.0   0.1   0.4                   0    EIPM
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                            311.1  326.1  334.0  334.8  334.0  334.8  334.0 2,307.1
Totol BASELINE COSTS                                                                                              601,1  326.0  334.0  334.0  334.0  334.0  334.0 2,197.5
Jalb 13, 1903 16111



INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
INCREMENTAL COST - WATERSHED DEVELOPtIENT COUNCIL
Detailed Cost Table
(RS '000)
Quantitv                                                           Base Costs                                 Phv.
------------------------------------- Unit ----------- -- --- -- --- --- --   Cont, For.   Gross   Summars
Unit 83/84 84/85 B5/86 86/87 87/8B 88/89 89/9G Total Cost  83/84   84/85   85186   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   Total   Rate  Erch. Tax Rate Account
1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL STAFF SALARIES
RANGE AND FORAGE SPEC.           NO       1     1      1      1     1      1      1     7   30    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    210.0   0.1               0         0      SAL
SCIENTIST II                     NC       -     2      2      2                   2    12   20         -    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    240.0   0.1             0         0      SAL
SJb-Tata1 iNCREMENTAL STAFF SALARIES                                                                   30.0    70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0    450.0
8. INCREMENTAL OPER.
'RAV:'EL INCREMENTAL STAFF               -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -           5.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0            77.0   0.1       0         0      PTA
MAPPING / LAND CAPABILITY                 -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -         200.0   200G0         -        -        -        -        -    400.0   0.1        0         0       OT
MIDTERM REVIEW                            -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -              -   100,0    50-0         -        -        -        -    150.0   0,1        0         0       OT
PREPARATION FOLLOW - UP                                                                                -        -       -        -   250.0   250.0   500.0  1,000.0   0.1           0         0       OT
RESEARCH / TRAINING ICAR                  -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -         500.0   500.0   500.0   500.0   200.0   200.0   200.0  2,600.0   0.1              0         0       OT
RESEARCH / TRAINING SAU                   -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -       2,0000.  1,600.0 1,600.0 1,60O.0 1,100.0 1,100.0 1,100.0 10,100.0   0.1             0         0       OT
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL OPER.                                                                        2,705.0 2,412.0 2,162.0 2,112.0 1,562.0 1,562.0 1,812.0 14,327.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                  2,735.0 2,482.0 2,232.0 2,182.0 1,632.0 1,632.0 1,882.0 14,777,0
Total BASELlNE COSTS                                                                                    2,735.0 2,482.0 2,232.0 2,182.0 1,632.0 1,632.0 1,882.0 14,777.0
Ju1Y 13  1983  16b15
>,
4-



-49-
ANNEX 1
Table 5
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR W4ATERSHED DEVELOPTIENT
IN RAINFED AREAS
Technical Assistance and International Training
('000 uJS$)
83/84        84/85        85/86        Total
mm  $ 000   mm  $ 000   rim  $ 000   mm  $ 000
Technical Assistance
Salaries:
Land Use Planner 1/             12   93.6   12   93.6    -        -    24  187.2
Satellite Interpreter            6   46.8    -       -     -      -     6   46.8
Hydrologist                      4   31.2    2   15.6    -        -     6   46.8
Pasture Agronomist               6   46.8    2   15.6    -        -     8   62.4
Economist                        4   31.2    2   15.6    -        -     6   46.8
Sub-total                     32  249.6   18  140.4                  50  390.0
Travel:
International                          20           16            -           36
Local                                   5            3            -            8
Local Travel Allowance                 16            9            -           25
Sub-total                           41            28            -           69
Equipment and Supplies                   25           25                        50
Total Consultants                 315.6          193.4                     509
International Training
Study Tours                     10    30    20    60    20    60             150
International Travel                   10           20           20           50
Sub-total                            40           80           80          200
Total All                               355.6        273.4         80          709
Rs '000
Total Base Cost                       3,467        2,666          780        6,913
Physical Contingency                     63          102           78          243
Price Contingency                       135          332          175          642
Total                            3,665        3,100         1,033        7,798
1/  Training expert (about 6 manmonths) may be substituted for a portion
allocated to Land Use Planner and/or other specialists.



ANNEX 1
-50-                                                                           Table  6
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
SAU ESTIMATES FOR OPERATIONAL RESEARCH AND ONFARM TRIALS
Detailed Cost Table
(RS '000)
Ruantits                                                    Ease Costs                           Phs.
---------------------------------------------- Unit -----------------------------------------                        Cont. For.   Gross   Summars
Unit R3184 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/BD 88/89 B9/90 Total Cost 83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  Total   Rate  Exch, Tax Rate Rccount
1. INVESThENT COSTS
A. VEHICLES RND EQUIPhENT
1. VEHICLES
JEEPS                                      NO       22   80  160.0                                                                                            16D0    0.1  0.25      0.04      VEH
IINIBUS                                    NO       I                                            11185  B5.0                                                   185.0   0.1 0.25       0.04      VEN
MOTORCYCLES                                NO   10 -10 10.5 105.0                                                                                              105.0  0.1 0.25   0.04   vEH
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                                          450.0    -    -            -      -      -      - 450,0
2. EQUIPMENT
SURVEYING RND DRAWINH                     SET                                                             30.0              _-    30.0   0.1   0.4                                      0      ELP
FLUID MEASUREMENT AND RECORDINS           SET                                                             80.0   40.0   20.0   20.0   10.0         -           170.0   0.1   0,4          0     ECP
ROTORS / PUMPS                            SET                                                             25.0   15.0               -      -       -            40,0   0.1   0,4          0     EDP
LABORATORY / SOIL TESTINH                 SET                                                             30.0   15.0                                           45.0   0.1   0.4         0      EDP
AUDIOVISUALS                              SET                                                             25.0       -                                          25.00.1   0.4             0     EDP
HISCELLhNEOUS                             SET                                                             35.0   10.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    70,0   0.1   0.4             0      EDP
Sub-Total EQUIPHENT                                                                                         225.0   80.0   25.0   25.0   15.0    5.0    5.0   380.0
Sub-Total VEHICLES RND EQUIPMENT                                                                                675.0   80.0   25.0   25.0   15.0    5.0    5.0   830.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                             675.0   80,0   25.0   25.0   15.0    5.0    5.0   830.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
H. SALARIES AND TRAy. ALLOW.
1. SALARIES
RESEARCHER t PROFESSOR                    N HO     I     I      I     I     I      I     1      7 23.9   23.9   23.9   23.9   23.9   23.9   23,9   23.9   167.3   0.1          0        0      SAL
RESEARCHER ( ASST. PROFESSOR              N Ho     2     2      2     2     2      2     2    14   14   28.0  21,1   28.0   28.0   28.0   28.0   28.0   196.0   0.1            0         0     SAL
RESEhRCHER ( JR. ASST. PROFESSOR          NO       I     I      I     I      I     I     1      7 12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7   12.7   12,7   12.7    88.9   0.1          0         0     SAL
FIELD TECHNICIAN                         NH        4     4      4     4      4     4     4    28  7.5   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   210.0   0.1           0         0     SAL
DRIVER                                    NO       2     2      2     2     2      2     2    14  7.5   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15,0   15.0   105.0   0.1           0         0     SAL
TYPIST                                    NO       2     2     2      2     2      2     2    14  6.5   13.0   13.0   13.0   13.0   13.0   13.0   13,0    91.0   0.1           0        0      SAL
FIELD NORKERS                             NO       2     2      2     2     2      2     2    14    5   10.0 1IO        10.0   10.0   10.0   10,0   10.0    70.0   0.1         0         0     SAL
Sub-Total SALARIES                                                                                          132.6  132.6  132.6  132.6  132.6  132.6  132,6   92B.2
2. TRAVEL ALLOWANCES
RESEARCHER ( PROFESSOR                   DNO             1      1     1      1     1      1     7 3.75    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.B    3.8    3,8    26.3   0.1          0         0     PTA
RESEARCHER tASST. PROFFESSCR )            NO       2     2      2     2      2     2     2    14 3.75    7,5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7,5    7.5    52.5   0.1           0         0     PTA
RESEARCHER ( JR. ASST. PROFESSOR          N Ho     I     I      I     I      I     1      1     73.75    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.0    3.8    3,8    3.8    26.3   0.1           0         0     PTA
FIELD TECHNICIAN                          NO       4     4      4     4      4     4      4    20 3.75   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   105.0   0.1          0         0     PTA
Sub-Total TRAVEL ALLDWANCES                                                                                  30.0   30,0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   210.0
3. 0 AND H TRANSPDRT                                                                                         15.0   30.0   40.0   40.0   50.0   60.0   68.0   295,0   0.1   0.4             0     VHC
4. RESEARCH                                                                                                  24.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   40,0   40.0   264.0   0.1         0         0     RES
Sub-Total SALARIES AND TRAV. ALLOW.                                                                            201.6  232.6  242.6  242.6  252.6  262.6  262,6 1697.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                              201.6  232.6  242.6  242.6  252.6  262.6  262.6 1,697.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                876.6  312.6  267.6  267.6  267.6  267,6  267.6 2,527.2
Jula 13, 1983 16:15



-51-
ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMIENT IN RAINFED AREAS
Implementation Schedule
Activity                83/84     84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90  I 90/91
State Watershed Dev. Cells         xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Watershed Development
1.  liaheswaram, Andhra Pradesh    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2.  Kabbal Nala, Karnataka         xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3.  Manoli, Maharashtra            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4.  Parua Nala Madhya Pradesh        xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
5.  Yet to be identified                                 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
6.   "   "  "     "                                      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
7.                                                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
8.                                                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Central Activities
Mid-Term Review                                    xxxxxx
Research SAU                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
ICAR                               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Preparation of follow-on project                                             xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Technical Assistance               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
International Training                xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Monitoring and Evaluation          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Physical Implementation Schedule (Start Activity)
Activity                83/84     84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    Total
Crop Land Development
Interceptor Drain (km)            10        20        35       50        55       60       70        300
Waterways ('000 ha)                5         12       20       25        30       30        18       140
Graded bunds/terraces ('000 ha)   5           8       18       25        28       28       28        140
Bund Rehabilitation ('000 ha)      1          1        4        6         6        6         6        30
Land Smoothing ('000 ha)           1          2        6        10       13       14        14        60
Non-Arable Land Development
Overseeding ('000 ha)              1          3        6       12        12       11        -         45
Farm Forestry ('000 ha)            -          1        1        2         2        1         1         8
Public Land ('000 ha)              -          1        2        2         3        3         3        14
Soil Conservation Public
Lands ('000 ha)                  2          3        8       10        15       15         2        55



-52-
Annex 2
Table 2
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
Schedule of Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ M)
IDA Fiscal                                    Cumulative
Year & Semester            Semester                 Total
FY84      1st
2nd                  .25                    .25
FY85      1st                  .75                   1.00
2nd                 1.20                   2.10
FY86      1st                 1.50                   3.60
2nd                 2.00                   5.60
FY87      1st                 2.50                   8.10
2nd                 2.60                  10.70
FY88      1st                 2.60                  13.30
2nd                 2.60                  15.90
FY89      1st                 2.70                  18.60
2nd                 2.70                  21.30
FY90      1st                 2.70                  24.00
2nd                 2.20                  26.20
FY91      1st                 1.70                  27.90
2nd                 1.50                  29.40
FY92      1st                 1.60                  31.00
Expected Completion: January 30, 1991
Expected Closing Date: December 31, 1991



-53-
ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
Watershed Plans
1.      Project Preparation.  The SWDC with the advice of the SWDPC
assists district officers in the preparation of the Watershed Baseline
Survey (Annex 3, Item 4) upon notification by NWDPC to the state of the
eligibility (Item 2) and the acceptance of the Watershed Baseline Survey
the WDT would be formed and would, with the guidance of SWDC, prepare the
Watershed Master Plan (Item 5).
2.      Watershed Master Plan.  The purpose of the Master Plan is to
provide the overall description of the area, problems and framework for
the implementation of project activities (Item 5). The report should give
details of overall watershed drainage and development activties in the
upper catchments.
3.      Sub-watershed Plans.  The actual works and activities to be under-
taken in each sub-watershed depend on the specific agroclimatic and other
characteristics of the area, previous land and water development efforts,
available and tested technical know-how and last but not least, farmers'
willingness to participate in the pilot project particularly where these
would involve works in cultivated fields. Thus, in each sub-watershed,
the actual project activities would depend upon the outcome of a process
of interaction between farmers, district technical officers including the
Watershed Team Leader and members of the Watershed Comnittees, and scien-
tists from an associated research center, concerning the viability and
applicability of different potential project components. This process
of formulating the precise project components should be initiated at least
a year in advance of works implementation, and be initiated by an informal
workshop at the district level in which the Watershed Team Leader and
senior officers of line departments participate. Strengthening of the
extension services, preparing farmers for their role in establishing their
watershed development project would generally take place concurrently with
this preparatory phase. The base line survey and hydrological, geologi-
cal, topographical, ownership and soil information needs for preparation
of the sub-watershed plans would be available in the Watershed Mlaster
Plan. These data would be used by WDT and line departnents to develop the
more detailed Sub-watershed Plans. Based upon exchanges of views with the
Sub-watershed Committee that represents the farmers, initially general,
but later more and more detailed plans would be prepared (Item 6). For
example, the Soil Conservation Wing of the Department of Agriculture would
be responsible for the detailed designs, including the checking of layouts
in the field with concerned farmers, of graded bunds, field channels and
drains, and the Forestry Department would develop detailed work plans for



-54-
ANNEX 3
Page 2
reforestation. The WDT, or individual members where appropriate, would
consult at least once - and repeatedly, if required - with the district
officers of line departments on specific plan components. The WDT in
continuous consultation with the respective line departments and with the
approval of the District Watershed Development Committee would produce
Sub-watershed Plans, ensuring that the final plan: (i) is approved by a
majority (usually 67%) of farmers; (ii) is deemed appropriate by the local
university research team; and (iii) is supported by the line department.
Each of the watershed reports would include designs, agricultural plans,
estimates of costs and benefits and a tentative implementation schedule
(Annex 3, Item 5). These reports would subsequently be cleared with the
state's concerned departments and SWDPC. After clearance, the
sub-watershed proposals would be submitted for appraisal.
4.    The procedure for generating sub-watershed development plans would
involve the following:
(a) At the Sub-watershed
(i) preparation, dissemination and discussion of watershed master
plan and project goals with farmers and their SWFC;
(ii)  preparation of detailed sub-watershed plans based upon soil
and topographic surveys and inventories of present land
management systems as well as proposals by farmers;
(iii)  detailed discussion of plans with affected individuals;
(iv)  finalization of sub-watershed plans; and
(v) preparation of phased village implementation plans.
(b) At the Watershed (and District)
(i) review and discussion of the master plan and of detailed
sub-watershed plans accepted by the farmers of the
Sub-watershed and their Committee;
(ii)  refinement of technical plans and preparation of budgetary
requirements (in consultation with SWDC);
(iii) presentation to District Watershed Development Committee for
technical and financial review; and
(iv)  transmission of cleared plans to SWDC for appraisal.



-55-
ANNEX 3
Page 3
(c) At State Level
(i)  SW4DC oversees the preparation of a master plan for watershed
development (including required budgets) and submits to WDC
for appraisal.
(ii)  SWDC reviews and appraises 1/ sub-watershed plans (or returns
to District Watershed Development Committee for improvement)
before forwarding to the State Watershed Development Policy
Committee for approval; and
(iii)  upon approval by the State Watershed Development Policy
Committee, plans are forwarded to WDC for review, comments
and budgetary allocations.
(d) At Central Level.
(i) WDC appraises master plans;
(ii) WDC reviews sub-watershed projects; and
(iii) WDC advises the Watershed Development Policy Committee and
with its concurrence, gives financial sanction.
1/ The first few sub-watershed plans would be submitted to the WDC for
appraisal; upon acquiring satisfactory competence in appraisal by the
SWDC, responsibility for the appraisal of sub-watersheds would be
placed with the state.



-56-
ANNEX 3
Item 1
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERShAED DEVELOPMIENT IN RAINFED AREAS
Appraisal Criteria
The criteria applied to approve the master plans for watershed develop-
ment (prepared by SWDC and WDT) would include:
i. Reviewing the adequacy of (a) input availability (seed, fertilizers,
pesticides, including contingency supplies) (b) storage and marketing
facilities, and (c) credit provision (short, as well as long-term).
ii. Ensuring that up-to-date design procedures for mechanical erosion
protection works and drainage structures have been applied (see e.g.
Manual Soil and Work Conservation Practices in India).
iii. Determining that clear evidence exists of farmers' willingness to
participate in planning, operation and maintenance of project works,
including on-farm activities (e.g. from farmer involvement in
detailed planning of a sub-watershed).
iv. Applying maximum cost criteria 1/ to:
(a)  total cost of project activities per unit area of the watershed;
(b)  cost of soil and water conservation works per unit area of
cultivated rainfed land;
(c)  cost of land development activities for supplemental irrigation
from communal sources; and
(d)  cost of forestry development per unit area of public land
covered.
v. Limiting investments in supplemental irrigation to a pre-determined
proportion of total costs.
vi. Evaluating the adequacy and quality of benchmark survey.
vii. Ensuring that arrangements for ORP activities and on-farm adaptive
research are being provided.
1/ In certain cases, the WDC may suggest modifications of the criteria outlined
in the SAR at the time selection of a specific watershed is approved. IDA
will be notified of such changes and until the Mid-term review, approval of
IDA would be required.



-57-
ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
AND HIMALAYAN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL
Staff Terms of Reference
Joint Secretary/Watershed Development Commissioner
The Joint Secretary/Commissioner would be a senior administrative
officer with wide ranging experience in project organization and manage-
ment. Previous involvement in the implementation of interdisciplinary
pilot projects, especially if these concerned agricultural extension,
experience in interacting with farmers and infrastructure development in
rainfed areas, would be desirable.
His main tasks would be:
a. providing leadership to the WDC;
b. serve as member-secretary to the NWDPC;
c. administer the Project's funds;
d. monitoring sub-project implementation; and
e. recommendation of policies.
Research and Training Coordinator
The Coordinator would have very extensive experience in rainfed
farming in a training and/or research role. He would preferably have been
responsible for research management and have been involved in operational
research or other types of on-farm studies. He would have a basic degree
in agronomy and/or soil management, preferably a Doctor's Degree with
experience in interdisciplinary team work.
It would be desirable that he was familiar and had been actively
involved in the research programs of one of the associated ICAR-supported
research institutions or SAUs and had previous exposure to the implementa-
tion of integrated area development programs and in dealing with farmers.
The Coordinator would be responsible to the Joint
Secretary/Watershed Development Commissioner for the development, coor-
dination and reporting of project related research activities and for
staff training. His duties would specifically include:



-58-
ANNEX 4
Page 2
a. Review of research proposals submitted by cooperating SAUs and
ICAR Regional Centers and the development of recommendations
for their acceptance or improvement.
b. Coordination and linkage of the activities of Project
associated institutions through the organization of technical
assistance for research project development and implementation
by arranging consultants from AICRPDA, CS&WCR&TI, NBSS&LUP,
CIAE and other sources.
c. Arranging training programs for all levels of staff involved in
the Project and of administrative staff associated with
implementation.
d. Ensuring the early testing and adaptation (through on-farm and
operational research) of newly developed technology and of
feedback to the research institutions involved.
e. Frequent participation in field visits to improve the quality
and relevance of Project-associated field research and to
provide guidance to state and district project staff.
Land Use Planner (Soil Conservation)
The Council's Land Use Planner would have extensive practical
experience in a position of senior responsibility in resource inventories,
land use classification and planning. He would have been involved in
implementation of soil and water conservation works in areas characterized
primarily by rainfed agriculture and have at least an TiSc degree in soil
and water engineering or watershed management and conservation.
Familiarity with the use of aerial photography and satellite imagery for
land use planning and implementation would be desirable. Previous invol-
vement in training programs in soil and water management and conservation
(including courses at CS&WCR&TI) would contribute to his qualifications.
The Land Use Planner would be responsible to the Joint Secretary
WDC for the technical content of the land development proposals contained
in watershed masterplans and sub-watershed projects. His responsibilities
would involve:
a. Review of the land development and vegetative cover regeneration
components of watershed and sub-watershed plans including pilot
rainwater utilization works.
b. Assisting state and district level technical staff in:



-59-
ANNEX 4
Page 3
i) setting the objectives of developing plans;
ii) selecting specific soil and water management practices
iii) generating appropriate, yet flexible implementation
schedules of watershed development activities.
c. Providing guidance to those involved in monitoring and evaluation
in special studies attempting to quantify the project's effect
on land use and watershed hydrology.
d. Assist in the organization of and participate in orientation and
training programs in watershed management and soil and water
conservation.
e. Ensuring linkage and feedback of the project to associated
institutions (CS&WCRC&TI, NBSS&LUP, CIAE).
f. Reviewing technical content of ongoing state projects. This would
involve frequent field visits to assess project progress,
determine farmers' preference in soil and water conservation
practices and the impact of project-supported activities.
Agriculturalist
The Agriculturalist would have extensive field experience in
agricultural development. Hle would be thoroughly familiar with tradi-
tional and potential cropping systems and crop management practices for
the pilot project areas. He would have at least a MSc degree in agricul-
ture. Earlier involvement in pilot projects, previous exposure in par-
ticular to agricultural extension based on the T&V system and/or opera-
tional research and knowledge of livestock nutrition, as well as contacts
with farmers would be desirable.
The Agriculturalist would be responsible to the Joint Secretary
WDC for the technical (and economic) viability of cropping systems and
crop management practices recommended in watershed development plans. His
responsibilities would include:
a. Review of technical recommendations regarding varieties, crops
and crop management as they evolve from agricultural research
in or near the project watersheds.
b. Review of recommendations for on-farm soil and water management
practices.
c. Supervision of surveys to determine present cropping systems,
crop and soil management and yields.
d. Provide guidance in the organization and conduct of special
training programs for agricultural extension staff, farm forestry,
soil and water management.



-60-
ANNEX 4
Page 4
e. Frequent field visits to ensure the quality of extension services
and the availability of inputs, credit and other services.
Forester
The Forester would be an Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer with
extensive practical experience in social forestry and soil conservation
forestry. He would have experience in preparing and appraising projects.
A basic degree in agriculture would be an advantage. The Forester would
be responsible to the Joint Secretary ICC and his duties would include:
a. Reviewing the technical contents of master plans and sub-project
proposals concerning farm forestry, wasteland afforestation for
fuelwood, timber and f'odder and for improved soil conservation.
b. Reviewing supply and dLemand projections for fuelwood, timber
and fodder in sub-project research proposals.
c. Assisting in planning of and contributing to, special training
of project staff in fc,restry.
d. Providing technical evaluation of proposed forestry activities
in watershed plans.
e. Participating in field supervision of sub-projects to ensure
technically sound implementation and providing proper feedback
of implementation experience.
Range Forage Specialist
Qualifications required: At least extensive experience in range
development and animal husbandry. Experience in the preparation and
appraisal of rangeland development activities would be essential. A basic
degree in agriculture/pasture development would be required and a degree
in veterinary science would be desirable.
The Range Forage Specialist would be responsible to the Joint
Secretary WDC and his duties would include:
a. Reviewing the technical contents of master plans and
sub-project proposals concerning forage development; improve-
ment of forage production on non-arable lands including bunds
and field boundaries; methods of improving the management of
rangelands after their improvement, including possibilities of
promoting stall feeding.
b. Reviewing livestock numbers in sub-project areas and propose
appropriate strategies, to increase animal production and limit
land degradation through grazing.



-61-
ANNEX 4
Page 5
c. Assisting in planning and contribute to, special training in
rangeland development and animal husbandry for State Project
staff.
Economist
This officer would have extensive experience in farm surveys, farm
management studies, monitoring and evaluation and analysis of agricultural
project benefits. He should have at least a Master's degree in economics,
preferably agricultural economics. Previous involvement in economic and
management aspects of rainfed area development projects would be
desirable. He would be responsible to the Joint Secretary WDC and be in
charge of the monitoring unit at GOI level.
The economist would have the following duties:
a. Coordination of project monitoring activities, including the
collection and reviewing of progress reports prepared by the
States.
b. Review of various economic data presented in watershed and
sub-watershed plans and appraisal of their economic viability.
c. Guidance in data collection and analysis during bench mark
surveys.
d. Assistance in investigations of Regional Centers and in opera-
tions research with the economic aspects of planning, analysis
and interpretation of trial results.
e. Contributing to training courses for Project staff.
f. Frequent field visits to judge the effectiveness of farmer
organizations and the quality of bench mark and other economic
surveys.
g. Exploration (with the sociologist and project staff) of alter-
native forms of farmer participation in implementation and
maintenance of project works.
Sociologist
The sociologist would have a doctorate in Sociology/Anthropology
with background courses in rural sociology/economic anthropology/applied
anthropology. He would have extensive experience in organizing farm
surveys and conducting farm studies; at least 5 years supervision of
studies in rural sociology. The applicant's dissertation, or Master's
level thesis, should preferably have been on farming systems in catch-
ment/hill areas. He would have a basic knowledge of statistics; knowledge



-62-
ANNEX 4
Page 6
of local languages; and a degree or diploma in agriculture would be con-
sidered an additional qualifications.
His responsibilities would include:
a. to review watershed and sub-watershed plans to assess the
proposed institutional arrangements for project implementation
especially mobilization of people to support project
activities, and assist in such mobilization;
b. formulate and evolve suitable methodology for ongoing evalua-
tion and special studies;
c. play an active role in selection of a suitable institution(s)
to carry out project: evaluation; and
d. review evaluation reports and provide appropriate feedback to
states.



-63-
ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
Technical Assistance - Terms of Reference
Land Use Planning and Management Specialist (24 manmonths)
Qualifications: Suitable candidates would have very extensive (5 to 20
years) experience in land use planning, project organization, management
and training.
Objectives: To (i) upgrade the skill and effectiveness of
project-associated Central, State and Watershed level staff; (ii) assist
WDC in watershed and subwatershed appraisals; and (iii) aid participating
institutions in developing effective Operational Research Programs.
Scope of Work:
Review of existing training courses in watershed development for
technical and management staff.
Development of short-term, in-service training courses specifi-
cally tailored to rainfed farming watershed development and of trainers'
training courses.
Assistance to SWDC and IDT in the preparation of masterplans for
watershed development through frequent field visits.
Participate in the appraisal of watershed masterplans and of the
first few detailed subwatershed development proposals.
Provide assistance to associated research institutions in the
generation of relevant on-farm operational research programs for technol-
ogy evaluation and adaptation.
Review of existing technical manuals for watershed development and
contribution to the Project Implementation Mlanual.
Preparation of a report.



-64-
ANNEX 5
Page 2
Satellite Imagery Specialist (6 manmonths)
Qualifications: Suitable candidate would have extensive experience with
the use oE satellite imagery for landuse planning and inventory. He
should also have experience with the use of aerial photo and soil surveys
in landuse planning and be a skilled trainer.
Objectives: To (i) upgrade the skills of project-associated staff involv-
ing the Indian Photo-interpretation Institute, Dehra Dun, and National
Remote Sensing Agency, Hyderabad; and (ii) assist states in the prepara-
tion of Watershed Master Plans.
Hydrologist (6 manmonths)
Qualifications: Suitable candidates would have extensive experience in
the design of runoff and sedimentation measurement programs and research.
Objectives: To assist SAU and ICAR research institutions in the (i)
design of monitoring and research programs; (ii) selection, installation
and operation of monitoring equipment; and (iii) summary and interpreta-
tion of data. He would also assist in formulating recommendations for
land management practices and soil and water conservation works.
Economist (6 manmonths)
Qualifications: Suitable candidates would have extensive experience in
project impact evaluation studies and farm management economics.
Objectives: To (i) assist in the organization of data and studies for the
Mid-Term Review; (ii) to lay the foundation for the project evaluation
report due at end of the seventh year; and (ii) to assist SAU in design of
farm management studies to monitor changes in farmer practices and
precepts. He would be located with WDC.
Senior Pasture Agronomist (8 manmonths)
Qualifications: Suitable candidates would be graduates in agricultural
science and have extensive research experience with pastures in the
semi-arid/arid tropics. This experience would include species selection
and establishment, plant nutrition, seed production and rangeland manage-
ment. Candidates must be willing and able to travel extensively since
they would be required to spend at least one-third of their time in the
field.
Objectives: The Senior Pasture Agronomist would most likely be assigned
to the All-India Coordinated Research Project for Dryland Agriculture
located at Hyderabad.  He would be assisted by pasture agronomists and
their assistants located at SATJ and ICAR facilities.



-65-
ANNEX 5
Page 3
He would be responsible for the design of the pasture research
program. The main objectives of this program would be:
(a) to carry out investigational work in the project watersheds
and to determine the most suitable grass and legume plants
for improving the rangelands of different ecological condi-
tions, including:
(i) methods of establishment and cultivation techniques;
(ii) seeding and planting rates;
(b)  to investigate methods of minimizing the cost of improving
grassland productivity under different types of soil and
climate, with particular attention to the timing of various
operations and the development of forage productivity after
establishment; and
(c) to participate in the in-service training of staff with
responsibility in rangeland development.
Training Specialist (6 manmonths)
Qualifications: Suiable canditates would have extensive experience in
preparing and running training courses in land use planning.
Objectives: To (i) upgrade the skills and effectiveness of project
associated staff at State and Watershed levels; and (ii) generate rapid
methods of watershed assessment of planning purposes.
Scope of Work:
1. Review of existing training courses in watershed development for tech-
nical and management staff.
2. Development appropriate methods of rapid land resources survey for land
use and conservation planning of watersheds, emphasizing the use of
conventional aerial photography and maps.
3. Development of short-term, in-service training courses specifically
tailored to rainfed farming watershed development and of trainers'
training courses.
4. Assist the Land Use Planning Specialist to review existing technical
manuals for watershed development.



-66-
ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
Terms and Conditions for Administration of Grants to SAU
1.      SAU would be eligible to receive support from the Pilot Project
provided that, to the satisfaction of the National Watershed Development
Policy Committee and upon the recommendation of the Research Coordinator
and the Joint Secretary/Watershed Development Commission, they had met the
Terms and Conditions for the Administration of the National Agricultural
Research Project (NARP) as modified below. Appraisal of the research
subprojects would be made by the NARP Project Funding Committee (PFC).
2.      Criteria for approval of research subprojects:
The PFC decision would be guided by:
(a)  the importance of the proposed research topic for Watershed
Development;
(b)  the research program of the station being geared to problems
of high priority (major crops, major constraints) near the
watershed;
(c)  the research program being of such a nature that it can be
suitably handled at the station in question;
(d)  the research being of applied nature and likely to yield
results within a five-year period;
(e)  the research being original and not involving unnecessary
duplication of other work (completed, existing or planned)
either within the zone or in similar agro-ecological situa-
tions in other states or countries;
(f)  the research program being within the capacity of the SAU to
implement (given the competence of existing staff and exist-
ing commitments) and requested resources being adequate for
effective execution;



-67-                              ANNEX 6
Page 2
(g)  the research program being responsive to the main objectives
of NARP and giving particular emphasis to research on
foodgrains, oilseeds and pulses grown under rainfed farming
conditions; and
(h) the arrangement of linkages to the extension service being
adequate.
3.      Eligible Expenditures
The project would, for a period of at most five years, finance on
a grant basis the following expenditures under approved subprojects:
(a)  Incremental Staff:  The full salary and applicable allowances
for the additional scientific and supporting staff specified
in the subproject, based on current pay scales and applicable
allowances.
(b)  Research Operating Funds:  A lump sum allowance, determined
on the basis of the number of scientific staff required under
the subproject, to be allocated by the officer-in-charge of
the subproject to cover:
(i) running costs of vehicles used by research staff;
(ii) other travel expenses;
(iii) laboratory and office supplies
(iv) temporary labor and inputs required for field
experiments in excess of "normal" or "commercial"
cultivation costs.
This lump sum will normally be applied only to the incremen-
tal scientific staff referred to in (a) above, but, in spe-
cial circumstances, existing staff may be granted the dif-
ference between their present allocation and the approved
lump sum per scientist.
(c)  Equipment:  The cost of basic scientific, office and farm
equipment (Rs 5,000 and above) on the basis of an approved
list. In addition, a lump sum (not to exceed 25% of basic
equipment) may be provided for minor items (below Rs 5,000)
and for supplementing the basic equipment. Where only a
relatively small sum is spent on major items, a comprehensive
list of all equipment may be provided. Purchase of items
costing over Rs 5,000 from the supplementary list will
require prior WDC approval as will any change in the basic
equipment list.



-68-
ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
IN RAINFED AREAS
Economic P'rices for Traded Crops
Sorghum       Groundnuts           Cotton
Lint       Seeds
Projected 1995 price (US$/torn) 1/   147               622         2,301         150
Quality Adjustment                   -               -            .90        1.00
Adjusted Price                          147            622         2,071         150
Freight & Insurance                  55              47            47          31
c.i.f. price (US$/ton) 2/              202             669         2,118         181
Transport/handling to
project area                          7               5             7          7
Ex-mill price per project area          209            674         2,125         188
Milling ratio                        -              .70         (.31)       (.69)
Price at Millgate                   209             472                 788    -
Processing, handling,
Transport to farmgate              13              13                  31
Farmgate price (US$/ton)                196            459                 757
Farmgate price (Rs/ton)               1,911          4,475               7,381
1/ In 1983 constant dollars
2/ Sorghum and Cotton at Bombay, Groundnuts at Madras



-69-
ANNEX 7
Table 2
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
IN RAINFED AREAS
Fertilizer Prices
N            TSP
Projected 1995 price (US$/ton) 1/        294            209
Quality adjustment and bags            -              32
Freight, insurance and
handling to port                     16             69
c.i.f. Bombay                             310           310
Handling and transport
to project area                        6             6
Processing, handling, transport
to farmgate                            5             5
Farmgate price (US$/ton)                  321           321
Farmgate price (Rs/ton)                 3,130         3,130
1/ In 1983 constant dollars



-70-
ANNEX 7
Table 3
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOP1IENT
IN RAINFED AREAS
Financial and Economic Prices of Outputs
1983           1995
Financial      Economic
Price          Price /a
Unit           (Rs)             (Rs)
Outputs:
Foodgrains
Sorghum            (AP)           kg             0.98             1.91
Sorghum           ( M)            kg             1.40            1.91
Pearl Millet       (AP)           kg             1.00             1.62
Finger Millet    (K)              kg             1.70            2.74
Oilseeds
Groundnut          (K)            kg             3.40            4.48
Sesasum            (K)            kg             5.50            6.93
Castor             (AP)           kg             2.45            3.09
Safflower          (HI)           kg             3.50            4.41
Pulses
Pigeon Pea         (AP)           g              2.50            2.89
Pigeon Pea         (K)            g              3.30            3.82
Pigeon Pea         (M)            g              4.00            4.62
Cowpea             (K)            g              3.30            3.82
Chickpea          (M)             g              3.00            3.46
Other
Cotton             (14)           g              4.80            7.38
Hirsutum           (M)            g              4.50            6.92
Fuelwood           (AP, M)        m3          120.00            96.00
Fuelwood           (K)            m3           138.00          110.00
Fodder             (AP, M)        g              0.15            0.12
Fodder             (K)            g              0.45            0.36
Agricultural By-product                          0.025           0.019
AP - Andhra Pradesh
K - Karnataka
M - Maharashtra
/a Prices in constant 1983 Rupees



-7 IL-
ANNEX 7
Table 4
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPTENT
IN RAINFED AREAS
Financial and Economic Prices of Inputs
1983 Financial  1995 Economic
Price          Price /a
Unit         (Rs)            (Rs)
Seeds
Sorghum, HYV                       (AP)      kg           7.9              7.6
Sorghum, HYV                       (M)       kg           9.0             8.6
Sorghum, local                     (AP)      kg           4.5             4.3
Sorghum, local                     (14)      kg           6.4             6.1
Pearl Millet                        (AP)     kg           6.4              6.1
Finger Millet                       (K)      kg           2.5              2.4
Groundnut                          (K)       kg           5.0             6.3
Sesasum                            (K)       kg           5,3             6.6
Castor                             (AP)      kg           7.5             9.5
Safflower                           (HI)     kg           5.0             6.3
Pigeon Pea                                   kg           5.0              5.8
Cowpea                             (K)       kg           5.5             6.4
Chickpea                            (14)     kg           5.0              5.8
Cotton                             (H)       kg           9.0             9.0
Hirsutum                            (M)      kg           8.4              8.4
Tree Seedling                              Seedling       0.3             0.24
Stylosanthes                                 kg          20.0            16.0
Agro Chemicals
Nitrogen                                     kg           5.11             3.13
Phosphorous                                  kg           5.88             3.13
Carbaryl                                     kg           9.5             11.2
Mlalathion                          (K)       1          40.0             47.0
Malathion                           (M)       1          34.0            40.0
Herbicide                                     1          50.0            58.8
Carbofuran                                    1          20.3             23.9
Endosulphan                                   1          17.0             20.0
Labor
Farm labor, unskilled               (AP)     day          6.0              4.8
Farm labor, unskilled               (K, M)   day          6.0              3.6
Unskilled labor, project works   (AP)        day          7.0              4.8
Unskilled labor, project works   (K, M)   day             7.0              3.6
Bullock                                      day         16.0             12.0
/a In constant 1983 Rupees



INDIA
A PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
IN RAINFED AREAS
ECONOMIC COST AND BENEFIT STREAM
Maheswaram
(Re '000)
Investment Costs                                                Incremental Benefits
Reforestation &
Watershed                  Non-arable   State and                                              Fodder on                       Net
Development    Cropland       Land         0OI                        On-farm        Farm        Public                     Incremental
FERIaIDS    Team        Development  Development  Administration    Total       Benefits     Forestry       Lands         Total        Benefits
-1            420.30       129B.90      524.20       1068.40       3311.80        171.00       -4'5.40       -82.40         43.20      -3268.60
2             210.20       2074.50       1029.80       696. 10      4010.60    4 89.70                       -927             63  A8i0    --394t. 80
3             205.40       2799,40       1276.00       664.20       4945.00       1096.70       -139.70       -27.10        929.90      -4015.10
4             205.40       3465.60      1403.40        655.30       5729.70       2441.20      -117.40        512.90       2836.70      -2893.00
205.40      3498.60       1478.10       667.00       5849.90       3023.30        -69.20      1241.50       4195.60      -1654.30
6             203.40       2918.90       1503.20       650.20       5275.70       3946.50       -16.30       1949.20       5879.40        603.70
7             2G3.40       2644.00       1438.40       660.10       4945.90       5034.80         36.60      2533.70       7605.10       2659.20
8               95..0iO    352.20        295,50       585.40       1328.60       5743.90        337.30      4226.70      10307.90       8979.30
9              95.50        352.20        157.70       585.40       1190.80       6040.70        526.30      5541.30      12108.30      10917.50
Io--14         95.50        140.30         81.80      585.40        903.00       6040.70       652.30       5758.40      12451.40      11548.40
1 15           95,50        140.30         81.80       585.40        903.00       6040.70       429.10       4930.40      11400.20      10497.20
l6             95 50        140.30         81.80       S85.40        903.00       6040.70       540.70       5758.40      12339.80      11436.80
17--21         95.50        140.30         81,80       585.40        903.00       6040.70       652.30       5758.40      12451.40      11548.40
2 2             9   95.'50;  140.30        81.80       585.40        903.00       6040.70        429.10      4930,40      11400.20      10497.20
23             95.'50       140.30         81.80       585.40        903.00       6040.70       540.70       5758.40      12339.80      11436.80
24--2          95.50        140.30         81.80       585.40        903,00       6040.70        652.30      5758,40      12451.40      11548.40
NPV: Rs 26 million
ERR: 26%



A PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
IN RAINFED AREAS
ECONOMIC COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
Kabbal Nala
(Rs '000)
Investment Costs                                                       Incremental Benefits
Watershed                Non-arable   State and 1/                                          Reforestation &
Development   Cropland       Land          GOI                       On-farm      Farm         Fodder on
Public                         Net
,LEkI21lS  Team    Development   Development  Administration    Total         Benefits   Forestry         Lands         Total       Incremental
-- ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Benefits
1             425.00       1596.30      1350.40       1068.40       4440,10        674.80       -77.70       -162. 80       434.30      -qvuv.uv
'2            214.90       1788.60      1672.70        696.10       4372.30       1972.20      -169.80       -173.20       1629.20      -2743.10
3             210.10       2628.10      2196.60        664.20       5699.00       3942.40      -157.00        186.40       3971.80      -1727420
4             210.10       3140.60      2390.60        655.30       6396.60       6860.50       -94,50        955.10       7721.10       1324.50
'             205.40       3112.80      2466.20        667.80       6452.20       7742.50        -23.90      1952.20       9670.80       3218.60
6             20 3,40      2697.40      2570.00        650.20       6121.00       8499.60       -31.10       2924.20      11392.70       5271.70
7             203,40       2570.70      2533.70        660.10       5967. 90     8923.00         25,10       3709.00      12657.10       6689.20Q
8              92,70        312.20        468.90       585.40       1459.20       9159.40       612.80       6577.40      16349.60      14890.40
9              92.70        312.20        321.10       585.40       1311.40       9267.70      1018.50       8090.70      18376.90      17065.50
10-12          92.70        129.30       207.10        585.40       1014.50      9267.70       1042.60       8782.00      19092.30      18077.80
13-14          92.70        129.30        207.10       585.40       1014.50       9267.70      1299.30       8782.00      19349.00      18334.50
I1I            92.20        129.30       207.10        585.40       1014.50      9267.70        785.90       7472.80      17526.40      16511.90
16             92.70        129. 30       207.10       585 .40      1014.50      9267.70       1042.60       8345.60      18655.90      17641.40
13,-18         92.7 0       129.30       207.10        585.40       1014.50      9267.70       1042.60       8782.00      19092.30      18077.80
19--2          92.70        129.30        207.10       585.40       1014.50      9267.70       1299.30       8782. 00     19349.00      18334.50
21             92.70        129.30        207.10       585.40       1014.50       9267.70       785.90       8782.00      18835.60      17821.10
22             92.70        129.30        207.10       585.40       1014.50       9267.70      1042.60       7472.80      17783.10      16768.60
23            92.-70       129.30       207.10        585.40       1014.50      9267.70       1042.60       8345.60      18655.90      17641.40
4 -25         92.70        129.30       207.10        585.40       1014.50      9267.70       1042.60       8782.00      19092.30      18077.80
NPV: Rs 59 million
ERR: 45%
m x



A PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
IN RAINFED AREAS
ECONOMIC COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
Manoli
(Rs '000)
Investment Costs                                                           Incremental Benefits
Reforestation &
Watershed                 Non-arable   State and                                              Fodder on                       Net
-~'  c MiDevelopment     Cropland     Land            GOI                    On-farm       Farm         Public                     Incremental
Team    Development  Development  Administration    Total      Benefits     Forestry       Lands          Total        Benefits
!2425t0G    1830 4.SG 3   325.60       1068.40       6623.80       978.10        -S6.00         5.90        928.00     -2695.80
214.90      3644.10       532,70        696.10      5087,.80      2943.40      --235.80        39.60       274,.20     --2340.60
3               O)10.1    4443.70        812.70        664.20      6130.70       6319.70      -472.90        217.50      6064.30        -66.40
4             210,10       4702.00       881.80        655.30      6449.20      12494.40      -429.90        540.40     12604.90       6155.70
'20540      4771.80        923.30       667.80      6568,30    15073.10        -247.00        986.10      15812.20       9243.90
6             203.40       4463.80       936.50        650.20      6253.90      17556.40       -43.60       1420.40      18933.20     12679.30
203 .40     31?0.60        872.70       660.10       4906,80    20089,80         160.20      1804.20      22054.20      17147.40
,.             95.50        517.80       132.90        585.40      1331.60    21531.30         976.60       2503.40     2501 1.30    23679.70
95. 50      517,80         91.50       585.40      1290.20    22007.80        1752.50       2958.00    26718.30       25428;10
10- J1         9. . o0      127.10        68.80        585.40       876.80    22007.80        2448.20       3160.50    27616.50    26739.70
9 95.0      127.10         68.80       585.40       876.80    22007.80        2443.70       3160.50    27612.00       26735.20
13 --14        9'-i.5'      127.10        68.80        585.40       876.80    22007.80        2448.20       3160.50     27616.50      26739.70
9J0.        127'.10        68.80       585.40       876.80    22007.80        1311.30       2894.20      26213.30     25336.50
9 95.50     127.10         68.80       585.40       876.80    22007.80        1799.20       3084.40    26891.40    26014.60
1 -18          95.50        127.10        68.80        585.40       876.80    22007.80        2448.20       3160.50     27616.50    26739.70
19             95.50       127..10        68.80       585.40        876.80    22007.80        2443.70       31'60.50    27612.00      26735.20
-0--21         959,. 50    127.10         68.80       585,40        876.80    22007.80        2448.20      3160,50      27616.50      26739.70
2             95.5G       127.10         68.80       585.40        876.80    22007.80        1311.30      2894.20      26213.30      25336.50
,23            95.50        127.10        68.80        585.40       876,80    22007.80        1799.20       3084.40     26891.40    26014.60
24--2 "5       9 95.50      127.10        68.80        585.40       876.80    22007.80        2448.20       3160.50    27616.50    26739.70
NPV: Rs 104 million
ERR: Greater than 50%



INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
Cost and Recovery Indices
Annual at Full Development 1/                    Present Worth over Project Life
Maheswaram    Kabbal Nala       Manoli      Maheswaram    Kabbal Nala        Manoli    Total Project
................. (Rs) ...............   ................. (Rs) ...............    (Rs '000)
Incremental Gross Value
of Production                             2909          2356         5629            21351          16623       42241
Less Incremental Production Costs 2/         898           685         1597             6710           4777        12715
Net Incremental Income                      2011          1671         4032             14641         11846        29526
Less Return to Family Labor 3/               199           200          300              1700          1460         1892
Return to Management 4/                 291           236          563             2135          1662         4224
Risk Allowance 5/                       582           471         1126             4270          3325         8448
Project Rent                            939           764         2043             6536          5399         14962
Direct Project Charges (Land Cess)            95            61          120              305            198          385             8822
Farmers' Contribution to 0 & M 6/             73            25           75               397           136          408             9732
Rent Recovery Index                      18%           10%           9%              11%             6%           6%
Public Sector Outlays                                                                                                              261914
Cost Recovery Index                                                                                                                      7%
1/ In increment, annual at full development (Year 13)
2/ Inputs, bullock and interest on seasonal loan
3/ Incremental family labor valued at market wage rate of Rs 6.0/day
4/ 10% of incremental gross value of production
Because of higher than normal risk conditions of rainfed farming,
20% of incremental gross value of production is assumed.
6/  Operation and maintenance of drainage and bunds to be carried out by farmers at average
2.5 days/ha for Maheswaram and Manoli and 2.1 days/ha for Kabbal Nala. Labor required
for the 0 & 14 is valued at market wage rate.
a >e
Io



-76-
ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
List of Material Available in Project File
ITEM 1
Table 1     -  Cropland DeveLopment, Maheswaram, Andhra Pradesh
Table 2     -  Cropland Development, Kabbal Nala, Karnataka
Table 3     -  Cropland Development, Manoli, Maharashtra
Table 4     -  Non-arable Land Development, Maheswaram, Andhra Pradesh
Table 5     -  Non-arable Land Development, Kabbal Nala, Karnataka
Table 6     -  Non-arable Land Development, Manoli, Maharashtra
Table 7     -  Karnataka Stylosanthes Seed Farm
Table 8     -  Watershed Development Council - Cost Estimates
Table 9     -  Cost of Supplying 1,000 Tree Seedlings for Farm Forestry
Table 10    -  Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra - Planting of Fuel
and Fodder Trees on Public Land
Table 11    -  Karnataka- Planting of Fue:L and Fodder Trees on
Public Land
ITEM 2        -  An Outline for the Processing of Watersheds
ITEM 3        -  Terms and Conditions for State Participation
ITEM 4        -  Guidelines for the Selection of Watersheds
ITEM 5        -  Outline of Baseline Survey
ITEM 6        -  Outline for Watershed Development Master Plans
ITEM 7        -  Detailed Plan for Subwatershed Development
ITEM 8        -  Proforma for Approval of Watershed Plans
ITEM 9        -  Certificate of Authorization for IDA Withdrawal
ITEM 10       -  Details of Soil and Water Conservation and Management
Works
ITEM ll
Table 1     -  Andhra Pradhes Crop Yields and Inputs - Maheswaram Watershed
Table 2     -  Karnataka Crop Yields and Inputs - Kabbal Nala Watershed
Table 3     -  Maharashtra Crop Yields and Inputs - Manoli Watershed
Table 4     -  Crop Budger:  Andhra Pradesh - Maheswaram Watershed
Table 5     -  Crop Budget:  Karnataka - Kabbal Nala Watershed
Table 6     -  Crop Budget:  M14aharashtra - Manoli Watershed
Table 7     -  Andhra Pradesh:  5 ha. Farm Model
Table 8     -  Karnataka:  2 ha. Farm Model
Table 9     -  Maharashtra:  5 ha. Farm Model



-77-
ANNEX 8
Page 2
Table 10    -  Andhra Pradesh - Maheswaram Watershed
Cropped Area and Production
Table 11    -  Karnataka- Kabbal Nala Watershed
Cropped Area and Production
Table 12    -  Maharashtra - Manoli Watershed
Cropped Area and Production



-78-
ANNEX 8
LIST OF MATERIALS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
ANDHRA PRADESHI
1. Project for Development of Rainfed Farming in Ranga Reddy District;
Department of Agriculture; Unda:ted
2. Project for Improvement of Rainfed Farming t'hrough Watershed Development;
Supplementary Report; Department of Agriculture; January 1983
KARNATAKA
1.  Dryland Faring Project Action P:an of Kabbal Nala Watershed; April 1982
2.  Dryland Agriculture Project (Watershed Basis); Action Plan for Kabbal
Nala Microwatershed No. I and II; Department of Agriculture; February 1983
IAHARASHTRA
1. Project for Improvement of Rainfed Farming through Integrated Watershed
Development; Manoli (Akola) Watershed; Preparation Report; Department of
Agriculture; April 23, 1983
2. Manoli Microwatershed No. 1; Department of Agriculture; April 23, 1983
MADHYA PRADESH
1.  Salient Features of Proposed Watershed of Parua Nala in Sehore and
Bhopal Districts; Madhya Pradesh; Department of Agriculture; M4arch 1983
GENERAL
1.  Operation Watershed Management; GOI Ministry of Agriculture; New Delhi;
1980
2. A Decade of Dryland Agricultural Research in India 1971-80; AICRPDA;
ICAR-Hyderabad, 1982
3. Improving the MIanagement of India's Deep Black Soils; ICAR-ICRISAT
Hyderabad, 1981
4.  National Agricultural Research Project; ICAR-IBRD; Manual, ICAR;
New Delhi October 1982
5. Manual of Soil and Water Conservation Practices in India; CS & WCR & TI;
Dehra Dun, 1981
6.  Improved Agronomic Proctices for Dryland Crops in India; ICAR-AICRPDA;
1982-Revised
7. Handbook of Hydrology; GOI, Central Unit for Soil Conservation
(Hydrology and Sedimentation), New Delhi, 1972
8. Institutions identified by the Borrower and States to undertake evaluation
and special studies. Agreed minuttes, Pilot Project for Watershed Development
in Rainfed Areas, Oct. 31, 1983.



-79-
INDIA
PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
GOI Project Organization
NATIONAL LAND BOARD
Chairman: Union Minister for Agriculture
l
NATIONAL LAND RESOURCES                1
ONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
NATIONAL WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT                Choirman: Member Agriculture, Plonning Commission
NATIONAL WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
POLICY COMMITTEE
Chairman: Secretary. Ministry of Agriculture
SECRETARIAT
NATIONAL LAND RESOURCES CONSERVATION & DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT COMMISSIONER
L L                                ffi | z= WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL
I          ADMINISTRATIVE            TECHNICAL & TRAINING       MONITORING & EVALUATION
UNIT                         UNIT                         UNIT
IW                                                                                             i
World Bank-24839






k  ~~~~~-'   -'" ~~~~~~~INDIA
<   0   o tRASaetrtnrof^                     PILOT PROJECT FOR WATERSHED
DEVELOPMENT IN RAINFED AREAS
AFGHANISTAN                5'                                   1
r-~)   2  12   4ffiA;g&'            -i    r   mIr"arrdt ao..            Preoec- Aeressnece                 -' cc Arniea Re nt I InM: [mete-s
<             '  Ctt             ea )s                     OL                                          Aenna Evraporation sECen-meters
is? i   X                         Veartsols.                          - 4C)   A-n R          Iears   -
~~~~~ e~~~~~-tlf                             Ofsni-n-  V.tL                    Nationa Coertel
t  __\   <  z     <       >     +~~~~~~~~Pd9Oooonr aTem          I4r~   tlll!fli i Asscicd  en of A feeols ace Vart sals    Sa a CaptaIn 
' \'- r    cit-cL                                              -,              _           ,                YCh   .....................................$Oh Salon-ad leans 
/f~    dU          ... d-i~
PAKIS AN>                                -                     -                                                              --menta5 undrs
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ea  Oa  A/   /t                                                                                        <        zxt /1~tin,.
A,/  o/    't  p.3.'w'A<j\Kr          jc                       H        I        N          A
N    N\E PA' M-t-ht~                                                                   ceC
N                   -             BH~~~~~~3LUTfAN-
'' ' 5'~'~t A                                                                                               N                 4
B OMBAY%k    A/              V  CL                                        -              >5                                       -               ;
,,a1    lil -  ><t l  j s f3  . ,i
P N'
0 11111    -nm
IAI . "A       BANGALORE'           -  ,MADRA 
~A   IV  O-otY'
-~~~ -         tflA                                                              f                                             - -;  AF
TRIVAND%L                                                                                           I        -
SRI LANKA
aaoeersa .LL  /efLrhs arh,e  luyse                                                                                          -    rhe-    cr   cc scc   ac _
a0ea N s ru a o hras treacThSe rdthasks,sa !.                                                                                                                                        C" t co  o  a- B L
hd 1!r tet own ans eart Gs .amec t      rarrbUnc    Lr  e
|               i r _ -                                                   L '                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o EC



