CREDIT NUMBER 1424 IN
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Rainfed Areas Watershed Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                           , 198 L+


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1424 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       3      , 1984, between
INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPKENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the States
of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra
(hereinafter collectively called the Project States) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Project States part of the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
Project States;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable   to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project States" mean the States of Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka, Madhaya Pradesh and Maharashtra of India, acting


﻿- 2 -
through their respective Governors, and includes any successor to
said States;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Project States of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules   to  the   Project   Agreement  and   all  agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c)  "Watershed" means a drainage area from which water
drains towards a single channel;
(d) "Sub-Watershed" means a specific area within a water-
shed in which activities will be carried out under the Project;
(e) "Master Watershed Plan" means an overall description of
the watershed area to be developed and indicating the type and
schedule of Project activities to be undertaken; and
(f)  "WDC"  means Watershed   Development  Council  of  the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-nine million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 29,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Aczount in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the A-sociation, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit,
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the proviiions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge a'- the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1994, and ending
August 15, 2033, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on August 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause the Project States to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
the Project States to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated in
Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement available to the Project States in accordance
with the Borrower's standard arrangements for developmental
assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records                   -
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(b) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-5-
th- Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishmment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall appraise the Sub-Watershed
projects to be carried out under Part A of the Project in
accordance with criteria agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower in the carry-
ing out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The   Borrower  shall   cause  all  goods  and  services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause its departments
and other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out
Part B of the Project to: (i) maintain separate records and


﻿-6-
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
principles and procedures consistently applied, their resources,
expenditures and operations related to Part B of the Project; and
(ii) furnish to the Association copies of their accounts and
financial statements related to Part B of the Project for each
fiscal year, certified as to their accuracy and authenticity by
an independent auditor acceptable to the Association, as soon as
available but in any case not later than nine months after the
end of such year.
(b) The Borrower shall cause its departments and other
agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out Part B of
the Project to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements
related to Part B of the Project for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association immediately following its final-
ization, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other in-
formation concerning such accounts and records, financial state-
ments and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall undertake a joint mid-term
review of the Project with the Association within the first
quarter of the third year of the Project, and until the said
mid-term review is completed, all Sub-Watershed projects, after
appraisal, shall be sent to the Association for review and
approval.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall make available the research
grants to the State Agriculture Universities in the Project
States in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, prior to approval of the
Master Watershed Plan, identify the sources of availability of
funds in order to avoid duplication of funding.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, prior to approval of
Watershed and Sub-Watershed projects in each Project State ensure
that each such Project State shall establish and maintain during
Project implementation (i) a State Watershed Develoment Policy
Committee, (ii) a State Watershed Development Cell, (iii) a
District Watershed Development Committee, and (iv) a Watershed
Development Team.


﻿-7-
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the Sub-
Watershed projects approved and started under the Project are
completed.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall ensure that the representa-
tives of WDC will make on-site supervision visits at least twice
in each of the Borrower's fiscal year to watershed projects under
implementation and communicate to the Association the results of
such visits.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall cause the Joint Secretary/
Watershed Development Commissioner to furnish the Association, by
March 31 of each year, the annual work program of WDC.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall appoint on a full-time
basis to the WDC a research zoordinator, soil conservationist
(land use planner) and an economist, by March 31, 1984.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)  Any Project State shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
any Project State will be able to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event
specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower and the Project States.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, vithin the meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General


﻿- 8 -
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Project States, and
is legally binding upon the Project States in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.02. The date             Ise 1'ibL      , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi - 110001, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in    Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) The Project States:
(a) Civil works             12,360,000     70%
(b) Vehicles,                  940,000     100% of foreign
equipment,                            expenditures,
furniture and                         100% of local
materials                             expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local expen-
ditures for
other items
procured locally
(c) Loans for                  200,000     75% of amounts
motor cycles                          disbursed
and bicycles
(d) Incremental              2,500,000     70%
staff and
operating
costs
(e) Forest Plant-            6,920,000     70%
ation
(2) The Borrower:
(a) Research                 1,640,000     100%


﻿- 11 -
Amount cf the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in    Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(b) Mid-term                   220,000     100%
review and
follow-up
project
(3) Unallocated                   4,620,000
TOTAL                  29,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 200,000
may be made on account of expenditures made before that date but
after March 1, 1983.


﻿- 12 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's  reasonable  opinion, represents   the  amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to increase crop and forage yields
and production of fuelwood in selected rainfed farming areas in
the Project States through development of about eight Watersheds
(about 250,000 ha). The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   The Project States
(1) The carrying out of a program of crop production activ-
ities including strengthening of extension services
through provision of staff, equipment and training, and
provision of credit and input supplies for crop produc-
tion and development of storage and marketing facili-
ties.
(2) The construction of soil conservation works on crop-
lands to include drains, drop structures, graded
bunds/terraces and waterways over about 140,000 ha of
privately owned farmland including land smoothing
(60,000 ha), and land shaping (10,500 ha) and rehabili-
tation of existing soil conservation structures on
about 30,000 ha.     Construction of soil conservation
structures to protect about 55,000 ha of public lands,
including brushwood/stone check dams, wire crate dams
and drop structures.
(3) Oversowing of 45,000 ha of grazing lands with fc-dder
legumes, replanting with fuel and fodder trees of about
14,000 ha (30%) of forest reserves and revenue land and
distribution of seedlings sufficient for tree planting
on about 8,000 ha of privately owned permanent fallow
and marginal waste land.
(4) Development of rainwater utilization through limited
Project investment in farm ponds and the construction
of wells through available institutional credit.
Part B:   The Borrower
(1) The strengthening of the Watershed Development Council
in the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower for
appraisal of sub-projects, monitoring and evaluation of


﻿- 14 -
progress of the Project and preparation of a possible
follow-on project.
(2) Provision of increased staff training, research and
operational research programs at four State Agriculture
Universities in the Project States and three institu-
tions of Indian Council for Agricultural Research, and
technical assistance and overseas training.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of ri 1
198 .
FOR SECRETARY


