Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8214-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
MAY 11, 1990
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Algerian Dinar
US$1.00                     DA8.10
DA1.00                      US$0.123
As of January 31, 1990
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACV              Field Extension Agent
Agent communal de vulgarisation
BFV              Training and Extension Bureau
Bureau de formation et de vulgarisation
CFVA             Training and Extension Center
Centre de formation et de vulgarisation agricole
CNPA             National Center for Agricultural Training
Centre national de p6dagogie agricole
CNVA             National Extension Committee
Conseil national de vulgarisation
CRRA             Regional Agricultural Research Center
Centre R6gional de recherche Ggronomique
CRP              Plant Disease Research Center
Centre de recherche phytotechnique
CSRDA            Scientific Commsittee for Farming Systems Research
Conseil scientifique de recherche-d6veloppement en agriculture
CVW              Wilaya Extension Committee
Comit6 de vulgarisation de Wilaya
DAD              Daira   Agricultural Office
D616gation agricole de la Daira
DAS              Socialist Farm
Domaine agricole socialiste
DVIR             Extension and Rural Institutions Department
Direction de la vulgarisation et des institutions rurales
EAC              Farm Cooperative
Entreprise agricole collective
FE               Experimental Farm
Ferme exp6rimentale
HCR              Commission for Research
Haut commissariat a la recherche
INPV             National Institute for Crop Protection
Institut national de protection des v6g6taux
INRA             National Institute for Agricultural Research
Institut national de la recherche agronomique d'Alg6rie
INSA             National Institute for Animal Health
Institut national de sant6 animale
INSID            National Institute for Soils. Irrigation and Draining
Institut national des sols, de l'irrigation et du drainage
ITAF             National Institute for Fruit and Vines
Institut technique de l'arboriculture fruitiare et de la vigne
ITCMI            National Institute for Commercial Vegetable Crops
Institut technique des cultures maraichAres industrielles
ITDAS            National Institute for Saharan Agriculture
Institut technique de d6veloppement de I agriculture saharienne
ITEBO            National Institute for Cattle and Sheep Raising
.:r.stitut technique de 1V6levage bovin et ovin
ITGC             National Institute for Field Crops
Institut technique des grandes cultures
ITPE             National Institute for Small Livestock
Institute technique des petits elevages
MA               Ministry of Agriculture
MinistAre de l agriculture
SAU              Useful Agricultural Area
Surface agricole utile



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTUtRAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summarv
Borrower:              Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Amount:                US$32 Million equivalent
Terms:                 15 years including five years grace, at the standard variable
interest.
Executing Agencies:   National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA)
National Center for Agricultural Training (CNPA)
Proiect Description:  The project would comprise a five-year program to help the
Government develop improved national research and extension
services. The research sub-project would develop and test proposals
to reform agricultural research, including: (a) strengthening of
INRA for coordinating programs and carrying out basic research; (b)
implementing through INRA, ITCC, INPV and ITEBO five priority
research themes including wheat and barley, legumes, forage crops,
red meat production and cereal/livestock farming system; (c)
application of programming by objectives to research implementation;
(d) upgrading five experimental stations to regional research
centers, decentralization of station management and establishment of
research/development units; (e) staff training and technical
assistance. The extension sub-project would comprise a pilot
program to test approaches for developing a national extension
service in a second phase and would include: (a) strengthening of
extension services in 20 districts containing about 160,000 farms;
(b) provision of improved research - extension - farmer linkage
through the research/development approach; (c) training, technical
assistance and fellowships; (d) strengthening of CNPA to manage the
sub-project and con-inue its training and audio-visual programs; (e)
establishment of Monitoring and Evaluation units at CNPA and in the
Wilayate.
Benefits and Risks:   The project would have substantial benefits through putting in place
the means to develop an effective national agricultural research
program, developing an extension service and promoting the more
efficient use of land and water resources and farm inputs for the
benefit of the environment. The main risks relate to (i) possible
delays in transferring the required numbers of trained staff working
in agricultural research and extension; (ii) budget shortfalls; and
(iii) shortage of farm inputs which could nullify the impact of the
extension program. The risks relating to research staff build up
have been reduced by bringing terms and conditions of employment
cl"ser to those of university staff and by requiring trainees to
work for the institutes for a fixed time following completion of
their training. Funding risks have been minimized by inclusion of
the project in the five year plan. Availability of adequate
quantities of inputs is linked to the availability of foreign
exchange. Covernment has declared that priority will be given to
the allocation of foreign exchange to agriculture.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Estimated Project Costs a/                    Local        Foreign      Total
----------US  Million--------
Research Component                            22.3           13.6         35.9
Extension Component                           15.0           4.2          19.2
Total Base Costs                         37.3          17.8         55.1
Physical Contingencies             1.2            1.5          2.7
Price Contingencies               14.3            2.8         171A
Total Project Costs                      52.8          22.1         74.9
Financing Plan                                Local         Foreign      Total
-----------USS Million---------
World Bank                                     9.9           22.1         32.0
Government                                    31.8             -          31.8
Net Project Cost                       41.7          22.1         63.8
Taxes and Duties                       11.1           -           11.1
Total Project Costs                    52.8          22.1         74.9
Estimated Disbursement
Bank FY             1991   1992  1993       1994  1995  1996   1997
--------------------US$ Million----------------
Annual                2.0    1.5   5.0       6.5   8.0   6.0    3.0
Cumulative           2.0    3.5   8.5    15.0  23.0  29.0   32.0
Economic Rate of Return:   n.a
Map. No.       IBRD 21081   Research Network
IBRD 21119   Extension Network
g/ Including of US$11.1 million taxes and duties



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I    INTRODUCTION    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
II   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
A. Physical and Macro-Economic Setting  . . . . . .        1
B. Experience with Past Lending in the Sector . . .        4
III  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION IN ALGERIA  . .        5
A. Agricultural Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        5
B. Agricultural Extension . . . . . . . . . . . . .        9
IV   THE PROJECT .... .  .  .  .   . ...... .  .  .  .   .     13
A. Project Rationale and Objectives . . . . . . . .       13
B. Summary Project Description  . . . . . . . . . .       14
C. Detailed Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       15
D. Cost Estimates .18
E. Financing .19
F. Procurement .20
G. Disbursements                                          22
V    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       24
A. Overall .24
B.  Research   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
C. Extension .28
D. Research and Extension Links . . . . . . . . . .       30
E.  Reporting  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
F. Accounts and audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       31
G. Supervision .31
VI   BENEFITS, ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND RISKS  . . . . .        31
VII  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . .        33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Algeria in June 1989, composed of Mr. J. Cole, (Mission Leader) Bank, and
Messrs. A. B&ndarin (Architect), F. Reeb (Agriculturist), P. Roche (Research
Specialist), and J. Sarraute (Management Specialist), Consultants.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
nFEMOCRATIC AND POPUL-AR REPUBLIC OF ALGFP!A
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
Table of contents (continued)
Charts:
1.    Research Organization
2.    Extension Organization
3.    Implementation Research sub-project
4.    Implementation Extension sub-project
Annexes:
1.    Total acreage and production
2.    Research implementation plan
3.    Extension implementation plan
4.    Summary Cost Estimates
5.    Disbursement Schedule
6.    Proposed Bank supervision input into key activities
7.    Selected documents available in project file
Ma-Ds:
1.    1BRD 21081  Research Network
2.    IBRD 21119  Extension Network



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        Following an agricultural sector review in 1985/86, the Algerian
Government and the Bank started a dialogue on the constraints to, and
potential for, building effective research and extension services in support
of agriculturai development. A joint Bank and FAO/CP mission identified the
project in April/May 1987 and three subsequent FAO/CP missions between
September and December 1987, worked with the Ministry of Agriculture, the
"Centre National de P6dagogie Agricole" (CNPA) and the "Institut National de
la Recherche Agronomique d'Algerie" (INRA) on project preparation. The
project was preappraised in June 1988 but appraisal was subsequently delayed
awaiting Government's decision on the organization of research and extension
services. The project was appraised in June 1989.
II.  THE AGRIC_UURAL SECTOR
A. Physical and Macro-Economic Setting
Physical Setting
2.01        About 20%, 47 M ha, of Algeria's total land area of 238 M ha is
suitable for agriculture and of this only some 7.5 M ha, or 3%, is suitable
for cultivation; the balance of the agricultural land is comprised of grazing,
forests, esparto scrub and shrubs. Of the 7.5 M ha, about 40% is left fallow,
slightly less than 40% is planted in cereals, 10% in forage crops, and the
remaining 10% are devoted mostly to fruit and vegetable cultivation (1986 land
use data). The livestock population includes 15.8 M sheep, 2.5 M goats and
1.3 K cattle. Some 52% of Algeria's 23 million people live in the rural areas
and agriculture provides employment for 25% of the labor force. During the
last ten years population growth has averaged overall about 3.2%; but in rural
areas it has averaged only 1.2% due to outmigration.
2.02        Agricultural development in Algeria faces a numb3r of physical
constraints: (a) the high proportion of land unusable for agriculture and of
rangelands as yet difficult to improve; (b) the high proportion of land with
shallow, erodible soils of low organic content; (c) climatic factors including
erratic and low rainfall, cold winters coinciding with the rainy season
inhibiting growth when water is available, and hot summers requiring
irrigatson for crop growth; and (d) limited water resources for irrigation.



2
The culti-vable land is distributed in six major agro-climatic zones as
follows:
Zone     Rainfall           Slope        Cultivable Area
mm                X             mln ha    X
A       >600               <12              0.3     4
B     450 - 600            <12              1.5    20
C     350 - 450            <12              3.5    47
D     200 - 350            <12              1.1    14
M       >350               >12              0.8    11
I     Irrigated                            0.3      4
TOTAL                       7.5   100
2.03        Zone A which is hot and well watered is intensively cultivated
with citrus, early vegetables etc. In Zones B and C which cover 66% of the
cultivable land and include the plateau areas where winters are cold and crops
subject to late frosts, rainfall fluctuates sharply. Cropping in Zone B is
dominantly a wheat/fallow rotation and in Zone C a barley/fallow rotation; the
proportion of fallow varies from 25% in Zone B to 50% in zone C, where
rainfall is more uncertain. In zone D, cereal cropping is irregular and
50/60% is in grazed fallow. Zone M is well watered but, with steep slopes, is
subject to severe erosion.
Economic Setting
2.04        In addition to these physical constraints, the development of
agriculture in Algeria has in the past been severoly limited by Algeria's
economic development strategy after independence which concentrated on
industrialization at th" expense of agriculture.   In agriculture, Government
undertook an agrarian revolution after independence which included the
creation of socialist farms, and a shift from the export orientation developed
during the colonial period to meeting domestic food requirements. The impact
on the agricultural sector was twofold: (i) deficiencies were encountered in
the production and distribution of key farm inputs which were totally
controlled by public entities and, more importantly: (ii) socialist farms
(DAS), which occupied the most fertile land and accounted for about 60% of the
agricultural potential of the country, turned out to be inefficient producers.
The outcome was sluggish agricultural growth and inefficient use of resources.
2.05        The contribution of agriculture to GDP decreased in the years
after independence partly due to the emphasis placed on investment in heavy
industries and the construction sector, and the growth in the oil and g s
indu.try, but also because of stagnation in agricultural productivity.   As a
result, the share of agriculture in aggregate value added declined from about
13% in 1970 to 6 - 8% in the 1980s. The growth of the agriculture sector over
the past 20 years, at about 3.2% p.a. in real terms (a reasonable growth rate
in world terms), has been insufficient to keep pace with growing demand. Much
of the growth can be attributed to a rapid increase in prices of fruit and
vegetables and the supply response to these increasing prices. At the same



3
time, the production of staple foods (grains & pulses) has stagnated and, with
growing per capita incomes (averaging about 3.5% p.a.) and increasing
population, the food gap has widened significantly. Some 70% of basic food
needs are now imported compared to only 25% in the 1966/70 period; in 1980/84
Algeria had to spend almost 15% of its merchandise export earnings to import
foodstuffs. The decline has been particularly severe for cereals, two thirds
of which are now imported.   The value of food exports (wine, fruits &
vegetables) has also fallen by almost 90% between 1972 and 1983, and
agriculture now accounts for less than 1% of total exports.
2.06        The poor performance has been attributed to many factors.
Although agriculture has been favored in terms of relative pricing and has
benefitted from an effort to provide at least the socialist sector farms with
sufficient equipment and inputs, production has shown little response to
invest?ments. Yields of most crops have stagnated, with the exception of fruit
and vegetables, and are only abouut 50% - 70% uf those in neighboring countries
with similar climatic and soil conditions. Rainfall is an important limiting
factor and cultural practices are often badly adapted and carried out too
late. However, the poor performance of the socialist sector was also a
problem. Until 1987, the socialist state-owned and run farming sector
occupied the most fertile land in the country and had first call on available
inputs, equipment and credit.   The DAS occupied about 33% of the cropped area
and produced 40 - 50% of the cereals (wheat & barley) and 20 - 30% of fruits
and vegetables. The yields of cereals have been slightly higher on the DAS
than in the private sector due to greater availability of inputs. For fruits
and vegetables with a high labor content, yields have been significantly
higher (20 - 100%) on the private farms. The DAS had almost continuous
operating deficits a.-.d were a drain on Government resources. The private,
small-scale farmers, by coatrast, have performed considerably better in spite
of the handicaps. Where J-.puts have been available yields have been higher
and they have responded to opportunities in the poultry sub-sector, fruit: and
vegetable production and land development in the southern part of the country.
Recent Reforms: the BreakuD of the State Farms
2.07        In an attempt to improve agricultural performance, Government has,
however, since 1980, increasingly liberalized the sector and this has given a
new impetus to growth. It reduced its involvement in marketing of fruits and
vegetables, and allowed, on a limited scale, private trading of most inputs
and equipment spare parts. Private farmers' access to inputs, equipment and
credit has been increased and a seriej of reforms were tried to iuprove DAS
performance. These reforms culminated in the decision in 1987 to replace the
DAS with private voluntary co,peratives (Exploitations Agricoles Collectives
[EAC] and Exploitations Agricoles Individuelles [EAIs]) which would operate
independently, fret. of Government interference. By the end of 1988, some
25,000 EACs and EAIs had been created, the EACs with a minimum of three
individuals but more generally 6 - 7 from the same affinity or family group.
Apart from a few large EAC (e.g. dairy farms) which will be retained as
cooperatives, the majority operate like private farms responsible for
arranging their own credit from the "Banque de l'Agriculture et de
Developpement Rural" (BADR), or other banks, and their own planning and
management. Government is expected to maintain a strategy of disengaging the



4
public sector from direct production, reinforcing its support services and
increasing the role of the private sector in input supply. More developed
crvl.ev  for research end extensior. arc n.2w urgently requircd to support these
reforms.
B. Experience with Past Lending in the Sector
2.08        Bank Group lending for agriculture started in 1974, and to date
eight projects for a total of US$399 million of loans have been approved.
These include the Technical Assistance/Rural Development Project (ln
1159-ALG), the Meat Industry Project (ln 1739-ALG), the Bas Cheliff Irrigation
Project (ln 1802-ALG), the Cheliff Irrigation Project (ln 2809-ALG), the
Irrigation Engineering loan (ln 2978-ALG), the Desert Locust Control Project
(ln 3017-ALG), the West Mitidja Irrigation Project (ln 3076-ALG) and the
Agricultural Credit Project (ln 3009-ALG). Perfcrmance of these projects has
been mixed, reflecting the institutional constraints in the sector.   A
Project Performance Audit Report has been prepared on the Technical
Assistance/Rural Development Project and Project Completion Reports are
available on the Meat Industry and Bas Cheliff projects.
2.09        The Technical Assistance/Rural Development Project, which was the
first cooperative effort between the Government and Bank in the Agricultural
Sector, set out to prepare. test and implement different approaches to
integrated rural development, as a forerunner to widespread application. The
performance of consultants was mixed and there was a lack of commitment and
coordination by the Ministry of Agriculture; eventually responsibility for
implementation was transferred to two semi-autonomous agencies. In spite of
considerable delays and shortcomings of some of the studies, the project
succeeded in testing different approaches to agricultural development in the
country. However, no significant experimental work or project implemeatation
was undertaken. The loan for the Meat Industry Proiect, which was for the
construction of sheep purchasing facilities and slaughterhouses, was cancelled
at the Government's request before the design stage had been completed,
following an apparent change of policy on red meat supply and marketing. ITh
Bas-Cheliff Irrigation Project, which included the rehabilitation of headworks
supplying 5000 hectares and studies for a follow-up project, was successfully
implemented. In spite of lengthy delays in implementation, the project
objectives were met. The physical works were completed, the studies have been
used in further devel3pment of the river basin and Ministry of Hydraulics
staff were trained. The main lessons learned from the implementation of these
projects are to: (i) proceed with caution in project design and ensure the
full commitment of Government at each stage of preparation; (ii) complete as
much as possible of the design process and bidding documents prior to
negotiations so as t) avoid implementation delays; and (iii) ensure the'
bidding procedures are cost-effective. These lessons have been taken into
account in designing the proposed project - for example gradual implementation
of the research component and the pilot nature of the extension component
(para 4.03).
2.10        From 1980 until mid-1986, the Bank had limited involvement in
Algerian agriculture, with the exception of the two ongoing projects. More
recently the Bank and Government have begun to develop a policy dialogue and a



5
lending program to address some of the major issues facing the sector. The
Bank's current involvement in the sector aims to support the recent
privatization of agriculture by: (a) improving the a-vailablity of basic
inputs to agriculture; (b) assisting the development of institutions and
services and their adaptation to the new environment, particularly for
irrigation, credit, research and extension; and (c) fostering the
establishment of a sound prices and incentives policy. Work in association
with UNDP is aimed at expanding fertilizer supplies as a part of a larger
program of studies on input distribution and including work by the EEC on seed
and pesticide supply. A credit project in support of BADR's increased needs
in face of the dismantling of the DAS has been appi4ved. In addition, through
the Cheliff Irrigation Project, effective January 28, 1988, and the West
Mitidja Irrigation Project, approved in May 1989, the Bank is involved in the
practical aspects of restructuring the DAS into technically and economically
viable units, as well as supporting the institutional framework for successful
operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes.
III AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION IN ALGERIA
A. Agricultural Research
3.01        LonLg Term Obiectives.  Government's long term objective is to
create a strong research base from which to increase agricultural production
so as to reduce dependence on imported foodstuffs and to raise farm income
levels. In pursuit of this objective, Government intends to strengthen the
research institutions to make better use of available staff resources, to
promote the regionalisation of research activities and to work on selected
priority programs in which research operations would be rigorously planned,
budgeted and results monitored. The objective would be to create well
equipped, multi-disciplinary research stations to carry out these programs in
each of the main agro-ecological zones. Ultimately each regional center would
be expected to become a point of reference and support for all institutions
working on regional and national programs.
3.02        Research institutions.  The "Institut National de la Recherche
Agronomique d'Algerie" (INRA) was created in 1966 and until 1970 was
responsible for carrying out research in the agriculture sector. Between 1970
and 1981 most of the resources and research activities were transferred to
some twelve technical institutes and INRA's role was severely reduced. Then,
in 1986, Government mounted a series of reforms to redress major problems
arising from a poor and frequently changing organization, weak staffing, lack
of coordination between research institutes and absence of managerial
autonomy. A high level commission, the "Haut Commissariat a la Recherche"
(HCR) was created to oversee research in all sectors. Within agriculture, a
coordinating body, the "Conseil scientifique de recherche-developpement en
agriculture" (CSRDA), was set up and the number of institutes reduced to ten -
INRA plus nine technical institutes, as follows:
-     INRA which is responsible for research of overall interest;



6
-     five technical institutes by product covering cereals, etc (ITGC),
fruit trees & vines (ITAF), vegetables (ITCMI), beef & sheep
(ITEBO), small livestock (ITPE);
-     three technical institutes by discipline covering crop protection
(INPV), animal health (INSA), soils, irrigation & drainage
(INSID); and
-     an institute for saharan agronomy (ITDAS).
3.03        INRA has the responsibility for: (i) basic agricultural research;
(ii) coordination of applied research at the national level; and (il4)
coordination of training of research staff and use of technical assistance.
Although INRA was given these responsibilities in 1986, its statutes harl
still to be amended to confirm its role as the coordinating institution, and
there is as yet little cross sub-sector coordination of research. A further
problem is the lack of long term career prospects for research staff and the
resulting high turnover. Some progress has been made recently with the
agreement on an improved structure for INRA and the agreement to align the
salaries of its research staff with those applied to university research
scientists.
3.04        The five technical institutes orientated by production were set up
by decree of 11/03/87. They are responsible for: (i) carrying out programs of
applied research and adaptation of new planting and livestock materials; (ii)
seed multiplication; (iii) certification and quality control of new planting
and livestock materials; and (iv) the diffusion of new technologies in
collaboration with the extension services. Each institution is managed by a
director general reporting to a Board and guided by a scientific and technical
committee. The research stations and experimental farms are operated as
separate entities but do not have management autonomy and all payments have to
be made by headquarters. Provisions for decentralizing budgets have been
approved but are not yet applied.
3.05        The institutes orientated by disciDline cover, inter alia,
diagnostic and control work in three areas: plant protection through INPV,
animal health control through INSA, and soil mapping/analysis as well as
monitoring of irrigation water through INSID which is hardly operational.
3.06        Staffing.  Scientific staff working in INRA and the five largest
technical institutes totals 245, of which 95 have doctorates or masters
degrees. In addition, there are some 300 technicians and about 400
administr,tive staff; a relatively high ratio of administrative to scientific
staff. Due to the lack of special terms and conditions of employment for
research staff, it is difficult to attract suitably qualified staff for senior
positions or to apply an effective system of job evaluation.
3.07        Financial Resources.  Total expenditure on agricultural research
is estimated at about 0.3% of the agriculture GNP, below the average for



7
developing countries of 0.5% and less than a third of the target of 1% set by
FAO as necessary for achieving reasonable progress in production technologies.
The major part of the resources of INRA and the technical institutes is
provided by government budget, only 7% coming from sale of produce from
research farms.   Only some 20% of the investment program included in the five
year plan (1985/89) has been realized due both to shortage of funds and the
lengthy procedures for procurement of goods and services. Of the operating
budget, too high a proportion goes on salaries - 84% against 16% on other
costs. Public accounting procedures are applied with a priori control of
expenditures which greatly hinder payments. Delays in availability of credits
between the end of one financial year and the start of another, curtail
research activities.
3.08        Infrastructure.  The institutes are generally well provided with
buildings although many of these date from well before independence, are
expensive to maintain, and not always well adapted for research purposes.
Much of the equipment is old and often not suitable for using modern research
methods.   There is, however, a good network of some 40 experimental farms
covering a total of about 3000 hectares. Facilities at these farms are
generally in need of upgrading. Documentation facilities are rudimentary.
3.09        International links.  ITGC has a rumber of conventions with
international bodies, including: with CIMMYT and ICARDA for research on
cereals and grain legumes and with FAO for plant resources.   In addition,
ITGC has project support frrm IFAD for development of cereal systems at
Tiaret; and with the French cooperation for two regional programs in farming
systems research at Sidi Bel Abbes and Setif. ITEBO has a program with Canada
for research on milk production and is participating in the IFAD project at
Tiaret. ITCMI has a program with Canada on potatoes.
3.10        Research Program and Results.  The ongoing research program has
developed certain technical messages which are sufficiently well advanced for
immediate transmission to the farmers through extension services. These
include the following: For cereals, the main emphasis is on developing
improved varieties of wheat and barley, and better cultural practices
(fertilization and weed control techniques). On-farm yields of improved
varieties range from 2 to 3 tons/ha in rainfall zones exceeding 400/500 mm
compared with an average of 1 to 1 1/2 tons/ha for traditional varieties.
Field legume programs are orientated to developing more productive varieties
and better mechanical handling. Winter chickpeas developed from ICARDA
material offer the possibility of doubling yields compared to traditional
spring varieties. Forage crop research is focussed on developing new mixtures
to replace oats/vetches. Work is at the trial stage and forage peas/oats and
forage peas/triticale mixtures show promising results.    Livestock research
includes work on milk production, on beef production from local races and
crosses with imported animals, on the Hamra sheep breed and on the feed value
of local and introduced forage crops. Research on fruit trees and covered
vegetables includes development of improved planting material and a range of
cultural practices, and is well advanzed with certain technical messages.
3.11        The weakness of the existing research programs lies in the poor
definition of objectives, the lack of well defined priorities and inadequate



8
coordination in both planning and execution. Although these programs have
yielded some positive results as indicated above, the technical
recommendations do not always respond to the demands of the predominately
mixed crop and livestock system, nor have the needs of field crops in the
irrigated areas been tackled. A major factor has been the lack of
coordination between the technical institutes. ITGC and ITEBO, for example,
work independently of each other on forage crop development and there is no
work on farming systems. ITGC has also concentrated on varietal improvement
and, in the absence of effective extension services, has emphasized
demonstration and extension of existing technical messages, at the expense of
the applied research needed for future advances. In addition, ITGC has also
devoted much management time and resources to seed production. The successful
realization of well directed agricultural research programs will be a key
factor in implementing the sector development strategy, which aims to reduce
the considerable gap in yields between Algeria and the neighboring countries,
intensify cropping by a reduction in the fallow, step up production from
irrigated areas and raise the efficiency of water use. The major constraints
to be tackled by the project in putting in place the programs required to meet
these goals are summarized below.
3.12        Constraints to Development of Agricultural Research.  During
project preparation, action in the following key areas was identified as
essential for revitalizing the research program:
(a)   INRA Organization and Approval of Statutes.  INRA has a key role
to play in coordinating programs across technical institutes and
providing "upstream" basic research. An improved structure for
INRA has recently been approved but the neeessary amendments to
its statutes which would provide it with the necessary authority
to play a coordinating role and which have been under
consideration by the Higher Research Council (HCR) since 1986,
have still to be approved. Prior to negotiations, Government
issued a directive confirming INRA as the coordinating agency for
the project's research component and during negotiations
assurances were obtained that not later than June 30, 1991, INRA
would be vested with all necessary powers and authority to confirm
its coordination role for the national research program (para
5.05).
(b)   Status and Numbers of Research Personnel.  The research and
extension services face difficulties due to the lack of recognized
career paths for staff and remuneration levels which are not
competitive with the private sector. For research, a recognized
career path is required to attract capable scientists. The
alignment of INRA research scientists' remuneration levels with
those of university staff was approved in May 1989 but a
comprehensive statute detailing the terms and conditions of
employment has still to be prepared. Furthermore, the HCR does not
accept that this be applied also to staff of the Technical
Institutes since the majority of their work is on seed production
rather than research. Under the project this will change; joint
research teams from INRA and the concerned Technical Institutes



9
will be set up to work on the priority programs (para 4.07). The
same terms and conditions of employwent must then be applied also
to those research scientists at the Technical Institutes doing
equivalent work in these teams. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the necessary changes in the structure of
salaries and employment benefits of research scientists would be
introduced by December 31, 1991 (para 5.10). A "statut de corps
technique" for research support staff is under preparation and
would be applied under the project.  The project includes an
increase in the number of research personnel and assurances were
obtained at negotiations that financing for the required posts
would be provided in the five year plan (para 4.08).
(c)   Research Programs.  In correcting the weaknesses of ill-defined
objectives and poor coordination outlined in paragraph 3.11,
planning and budgeting procedures will require a total
reorganization and the technical cot-tent of programs will require
redirection. Much greater emphasis should be given to production
agronomy (e.g. weed control, land management) to redress the over
concentration on varietal improvement of existing programs, and
research on the main farming systems should be started. Some
strengthening of the more basic research in soils, bioclimatology
and plant physiology would also be desirable to back-up the crop
programs. Development of good links between research staff and
farmers and extension workers in the Wilaya will be essential in
order to have their participation when identifying research
priorities as well as for the dissemination of results. The
project would provide for broadening the applied research program
including work on the cereal-livestock system, for strengthening
basic research, and for building adequate links to farmers through
the extension services (para 5.20).
(d)   Financial and administrative controls.  Government controls which
have placed severe limitations on the efficient operation of both
research and extension services in the past, are gradually being
relaxed as part of the Government's economic reform program.
However, delays in the release of funds at the start of each year
could still be a problem, and project operations could be
effectively blocked for three to four months for lack of operating
funds. Also, in spite of existing provisions permitting
decentralization of research station accounting and fund
management, responsibility for use of funds remains centralized at
the headquarters of each research institute in Algiers. The
project would provide for the application cf these provisions and
the putting in place of a system to assure funding continuity from
one year to the next (para 5.11).
B. Agricultural Extension
3.13          Long Term Objectives.  Government's long term objective is to
establish a coherent agricultural extension service throughout the main
farming areas which will inform farmers of improved farming techniques while,



10
at the same time, facilitating the feed-back from farmers to research
services. The service would be established progressively to cover the major
agro-ecological zones and should be responsive to the demands for advice from
a very diverse farming population. A major effort would be made to gradually
upgrade the level of extension personnel through training in technology,
communications and diagnostic techniques. The development of private services
where appropriate (e.g. for intensive fruits and vegetables and large private
farms) would also be encouraged.
3.14          Agricultural Extension Institutions.  In 1985, Government issued
a national extension policy and structure to put in place appropriate staffing
and management, to improve the technical content of the extension system and
to improve the farmer/extension/research linkage. The extension structure
includes the administration's coordination units and services at central,
Wilaya, Daira and Commune level'/, the "Centre National de la Pedagogie
Agricole" (CNPA) and the "Centres de Formation et de Vulgarisation Agricole"
(CFVA). To date, field extension activities have never addressed the needs of
the private sector. In the past the techitical research institutes carried
limited extension activities mostly oriented to the socialist farms (DAS).
The DAS also benefitted from technical support and information from units
attached to the Ministry of Agriculture which advised the DAS - the "Secteur
de Developpement Agricole", or SDAs. These activities, often considered to be
extension, consisted in reality of farm management advice and had nothing to
do with extension to individual farmers. Therefore, an extension service in
the real sense now has to be established from scratch. The present
composition and role of the existing structure is reviewed briefly below.
3.15          The Administration's Extension Services.  The services which
remain following the breakup of the socialist farms in 1987, comprise: (i) a
national committee ("Conseil national de la vulgarisation' - CNVA) chaired by
the minister of agriculture and on which are represented the ministry's
technical divisions, CNPA, the research institutes, HCR, the training centers,
the Wilayate, or Governorates, and the National Union of agricultural
producers; (ii) the "Direction de la Vulgarisation et des Institutions
Rurales" (DVIR) of the Ministry of Agriculture, which has a purely
administrative role; 'iii) an extension committee in each Wilaya grouping all
branches concerned with production; (iv) the "Bureau de Formation et de
Vulgarisation" (BFV) within each "Division de Developpement des Activities
Hydrauliques et Agricoles" at each Wilaya which provides administrative and
technical support to the extension staff in the Daira, or district; (v) the
"Delegations Agricoles des Dairas" (DAD) responsible for managing field
services; and (vi) the field extension agents at the level of each commune, or
village - "agents communaux de vulgarisation" (ACV).
3.16          Extension Activities. Due to lack of programs, organization,
vehicles, equipment and budget, the skeletal extension service whose agents
'/ Algeria's administrative structure divides regional Government
services by Wilaya (of which there are 48), Daira (there are 3-5 daira
per Wilaya), and commune (4-12 communes per Daira).



11
are based in communes, could only carry out administrative tasks for farmers
of the private sector in the past. Now, following the dissolution of the
structure that supported the DAS, the extension program is in a state of
change. For the first time in 1987/88, the outline of a national extension
program was drawn up, priority extension themes were identified and the
resources and action plans required to implement them in certain Wilayate
determined. However, much remains to be done to assure the commitment of the
necessary resources for establishing a reliable extension organization and for
the training of staff.
3.17          Staffing.  Following the breakup of the DAS and land
distribution which also benefitted Ministry of Agriculture officers, many
staff members left the government services while the others had to be
re-appointed thus leaving the already very light extension structure entirely
disorganized. To date private small-scale farmers have been served by
technician-level Daira staff (ratios of as many as 1/4000 farmers).
3.18          Logistical supRort.  Few of the field extension agents have
transport and those that do, do not receive allowances for its use. The BFV
is dependent on the Wilaya pool of vehicles for which extension activities are
not among the first priorities; and, without dependable transport, its staff
are forced back into a primarily administrative role. The institutes and
agricultural service cooperatives are better provided with vehicles but this
is still insufficient for operating an effective service.
3.19          Methodolo!ical supDport is provided by CNPA which trains
extension trainers and is developing a comprehensive audiovisual aids service.
With UNDP/FAO assistance, a pilot project with CNPA was started in 1986 to
upgrade extension training. After a difficult start, the project is now going
well, some 20 extension trainers have been trained and a wide range of
extension materials have been developed and are in strong demand by the EACs
and Wilayate services, among others. A second three year project is expected
to start in mid 1990.  The technical institutes also play a role in training
staff as do the thirty nine "Centres de Formation et de Vulgarisation
Agricole" (CFVA) which are supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture and
monitored on technical aspects by CNPA.
3.20          Supply of Inputs in support of extension services, is provided
by the input supply societies, such as ONAPSA and OAIC, and the agricultural
cooperatives - the "Cooperatives Agricoles Sp6cialisees de Service" (CASSAP
etc). Their role in extension is to promote the best use of inputs but in the
past they worked mainly with the ex-DAS.
3.21          Financial Resources.  Extension activities are financed from
three sources: (i) the Ministry of Agriculture's department of extension and
rural institutions (DVIR); (ii) the CNPA and training centers (CFVA); and
(iii) the Wilayate budgets. Of total funds allocated to the operation of
extension services in 1988, about 95Z was used on staff salaries. This
excludes the technical institutes which consecrate a part of their budget to
demonstration and extension.



12
3.22          Constraints to the DeveloRment of Extension Services.  During
project preparation, it became apparent that there was only a skeletal
extension organizatio. in place and that the project would have to tackle a
number of very basic issues relating to the linkages within this institutional
structure, the need to reconcile coordinated extension activities with the
principle of a decentralised budget at the Wilaya level, and the limited
number and sometimes poorly trained and motivated staff. This underlines the
pilot nature of the extension component of this project. The major
constraints that need to be addressed are:
(a)   Extension Organization.  There are three problems related to
running an extension service as proposed through the Wilayate
funded on a decentralized system and with no line of
responsibility to the center. First, the development of a
coordinated program at the national level; second, staff
training and motivation; and third, authority over allocation
and use of financial resources. On the first, the project would
use CNPA as the coordinating agency. Although this is really
the role of DVIR in the Ministry of Agriculture, the latter is
far from adequately staffed and use of the CNPA is clearly the
best solution at the present time. Government's decision to
accord this role to CNPA was published prior to negotiations of
the proposed project. On the second, there is much to be done
to upgrade the skills of the field agents and to assure the
motivation of the staff. An effective training program will be
a prerequisite for progress. This together with the provision
of the means to work, should provide the basis for launching the
extension service; in addition and during the life of the
project, improved terms and conditions of employment will be
developed. On the third, the Walis, or Governors, have been
consulted on the project proposals. The project also makes
proposals for the funding of the extension activities directly
through the BFV (para 5.19).
(b)   Staffing of Subject-Matter Specialist (SMS) Posts.  The staff
released from the breakup of the SDA and DAS (paras 2.07 and
3.14) are expected to provide the source of graduate staff
required to build up SMS teams at Wilaya level. They will need
training and support to enable them to play a key role in
strengthening the extension system, and, for the most part,
adequate staff are in place, but the support is not.
(c)   Input supply.  Government has controlled official marketing of
inputs and equipment and until 1987 allocations between
provinces as well as between private and socialist sectors, were
decided at the center. Government has made a concerted effort,
particularly for farm equipment, to channel increasing amounts
to individual, small - scale farmers. In addition, private
retail marketing for items such as insecticide is being
gradually introduced and private dealers have been allowed to
sell spare parts and do repair work on farm equipment. For the
first time private companies now manufacture, for example,



13
ploughs and disk harrows. Nevertheless, the system of input
marketing needs further improvement to increase the quantity and
quality on the market required to meet the expected increased
demand arising from the reform of the socialist sector.
Government has established a review committee on the role of the
service cooperatives and a series of studies, assisted by UNDP,
the EEC and the Bank, is now underway on the supply of
fertilizer, pesticides and seeds, while BADR's resources are to
be augmented to provide the necessary credit. These developments
provide a sufficient basis for proceeding with the extension
project in the expectation that the necessary inputs will be
available to match the extension messages.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Rationale and Obiectives
Proiect Rationale and Justification for Bank Involvement
4.01          Proiect Rationale.  The project would help contribute to the
objectives of the Government's five year plan (1990/94) for agriculture which
aims at an increase in domestic food production and reduction in percentage
imported, while disengaging the public sector from direct production
activities. Under this policy, Government will concentrate its efforts on
guiding the development of the sector and providing the essential research and
extension support services. The project would provide funding and technical
support for the priority research programs and testing, on a pilot basis, the
revamping of extension services. The project is designed as the first five
year tranche of a ten to fifteen year program to establish a long term
research base, develop an efficient national extension service, and raise the
productivity of Algerian agriculture.
4.02          Justification for Bank involvement.  The reform program underway
in Algeria needs both financial assistance and support for institutional
changes to succeed. After a period of limited contact with the Bank in the
early 1980's, the Government has requested assistance in a number of areas,
but particularly in agriculture to improve services and supplies to the
sector. Priorities for Bank support aimed at helping the Government's reform
work have been defined in a Sector Report (Agriculture: A New Opportunity for
Growth; report no 7419-AL, April 5, 1990) as: the provision of better input
distribution, extension and research services, improved irrigation planning,
infrastructure and maintenance, and agricultural credit. Bank involvement in
the proposed project is justified by the impact it would be expected to have
on the development of research and extension institutions, the execution of
priority research programs, on developing extension services for the EACs and
other individual farmers, as well as on production in the 20 districts covered
directly by the project. The project would complement other Bank projen.ts by
providing essential research and extension advice in the Cheliff and Mitidja
irrigated areas (supported by loans 2809 and 3076-AL) as well as to individual
farmers and EACs taking credit from BADR (supported by loan 3009-AL). Through



14
its technical assistance component the project would also be used by Algeria
as a vehicle for starting the coordination of external support to agricultural
research and, ultimately, for establishing a coherent extension system in the
country.
Project Objectives
4.03          The overall objective of the project is to start to establish
strong and responsive research and extension services in support of Government
objectives to increase agricultural production and reduce dependence on
imported foodstuffs. It is conceived as a first, pilot phase which is
expected to be followed by additional Bank support in the coming years. In
research, the objectives are to: (a) strengthen the institutional structure to
develop a competent, well motivated staff and improved coordination between
institutes; (b) reorientate resources towards clearly identified priorities by
the introduction and testing of research programming by objectives; and (c)
introduce a system of resource allocation and monitoring by research program.
In extension, the objectives are to test approaches for the provision of
agricultural extension services to the EACs and individual farmers which will
meet the needs of each and will assure a strong two-way flow of information
between farmers and extension, training and research services.
B. Summary Proiect Descri2tion
4.04          The project would comprise two sub-projects, (i) agricultural
research and (ii) extension, to be implemented over a five year period and
including the following actions:
(a)   Agricultural Research:
-     strengthening of INRA for coordination of research programs
and carrying out basic research;
-     implementation through INRA, ITGC, INrV and ITEBO of five
priority research programs (cereals, legumes, forage crops,
red meat production and cereal/livestock system) in the
rainfed and irrigated sub-sectors; and
-     staff training and technical assistance.
(b)   Agricultural Extension:
-     introduction of improved extension organization and methods
in 20 Dairatc located in six Wilayate (Ain Defla, Tipaza,
Blida, Bouira, Medea and Tizi-Ouzou);
-     strengthening of five Extension Training Centers (CFVA), one
for extension methodology (Ain Taya) and four for technical
aspects (Ain Bessem, Bougara, Medea & Mechtras);
-     strengthening CNPA for production of written and audiovisual
and scriptovisual material;



15
setting up a monitoring/evaluation system; and
staff training and technical assistance.
C.   Detailed Description.
1. Agricultural Research (Implementation Volume, Annex 1 & 3-)
4.05        Overview.  The project would provide post-graduate training of
existing and newly recruited research staff in order to raise research
capabilities, would introduce a system for scientific and financial
programming by objectives, would finance investments in the upgrading of
research facilities in the main agro-ecological areas for work on five
priority programs, and would improve the management of research activities.
4.06        Research Programs.  Following Government's priorities for
agricultural development, the Ministry of Agr1culture prepared a series of
major research themes covering: cereals (wheat and barley), grain legumes
(beans, lentils and chickpeas), forage and pasture crops, milk and meat
(cattle and sheep) production, fruits (fruit trees and grapes), vegetables,
cereal/livestock systems and Saharan agriculture. Of these, milk production
is supported by Canada, the pasture program is covered by the High Commission
for the Steppes, and Saharan agriculture will be covered in the context of a
development program for the south. For the remainder, Government selected
research on five programs covering crops in rotation with cereals and the
cereal/livestock system, as priorities for the proposed first research and
extension project.  The fruit and vegetable programs would be covered in a
second phase.
4.07        Reinforcement of the five priority grograms.  The five priority
programs would be carried out at five Regional Centers (CRPA): Lamtar, Tiaret,
Setif, Oued Smar and El Khroub, as well as at their sub-stations and at the
headquarters of the institutes, as follows:
(a)   cereals.  The wheat and barley program would be based in the five
CRRA covering the main cereal zones of the country and the Guelma
sub-station. The program would focus on adaptation and
introduction of new varieties, pest control, cultural practices,
cereal quality and the place of cereals in the main production
systems. Irrigated trials would be handled at the El Khemis sub-
station and processing technology at ITGC headquarters.
(b)   grain legumes.  This program would be based in the five CRRA plus
Guelma and would cover the adaptation of new varieties and their
introduction, pest control, cultural practices and the place of
grain legumes in the rotation.
(c)   forage crops.  This program would be based in all five CRRA, plus
Guelma and El Khemis, and would cover introduction of improved



16
varieties, agronomy and cultural practices and the feed value of
cultivated forage crops.
(d)   red meat grogram.  This program which would be realized at the
Baba Ali headquarters of ITEBO, at the Lamtar and Tiaret CRRA and
at the sub-stations of Saida, Ain M'Lila and Fetzara, would cover
meat production from local races of sheep and beef cattle. It
would include work on nutrition, stocking rate assessments on
temporary pastures, and flock management to maximize utilization
of rangeland and crop by-products, as well as stock selection.
(e)   cereal/livestock systems.  Tnis program would be executed in the
five CRRA plus their sub-stations in close liaison with research
staff working on individual commodities, the agro-economic teams
of ITGC and ITEBO, as well as the regional extension services.
The program would include studies of the agro-ecological potential
and socio-cconomic conditions in different zones, the confirmation
of techniques to be developed and their demonstration. The
program would bring together a series of measures to promote the
more efficient use of land resources and farm inputs (para 6.04
and implementation volu.me, annex 1).
4.08        Strengthening of Research Stations.  The implementation of the
five priority programs will require : (i) the strengthening of INRA to (a)
handle basic "upstream"research (phytogenetics, soil studies and analysis and
bioclimatology) including the development of the Mahdi Boualem research
center, and (b) establish a central documentation service as well as a back-
up service for maintenance of laboratory equipment; (ii) the strengthening of
the three technical institutes (ITGC, ITEBO & INPV)'/ including upgrading five
experimental farms to CRRA covering the main agro-ecological zones; (iii) an
increase in numbers and training of research scientists and technicians; (iv)
technical assistance; and (v) provision of additional vehicles, equipment and
operating costs. The project would provide for some additional laboratories
(total 2600 m2) and glasshouses (1300 m2) as well as the rehabilitation of
existing laboratories and workshops (2000 m2) at the research stations,
housing (46) for research staff at the CRRA and field stations, vehicles (55
small cars, 17 4-wheel drive vehicles, 12 minibuses and 7 lorries), farm,
laboratory and computer equipment, operating costs and 98 new research posts
(staff expected to be drawn from the Faculty of Agriculture [INA] which
provides 50-90 postgraduates per year). Assurances on the provision of the
necessary research posts were obtained at negotiations. Housing for research
staff at the CRRA and field stations will be built to standard designs and
construction will be controlled according to existing regulations for such
housing ("logements d'astreinte").
4.09        Training and Technical Assistance.  The project would include an
important training program to up-g;rade the level of agricultural research
'/    ITGC  Institut technique des grandes cultures
ITEBO Institut technique de l'4levage bovin et ovin
INrV Institut technique de protection des vegetaux



17
scientists in Algeria including: (a) 30 research staff who would take
post-graduate degrees overseas; (b) 54 research staff who would prepare for
post-graduate degrees while working on the priority programs over a period of
two years - they would be supervised by a research scientist in an overseas
research institute ..here they would spend up to 12 months; (c) 50 staff who
would receive short-duration training courses averaging four months (total 200
man months) under which existing staff would receive special training in a
relevant specialty; (d) 6 man-months of overseas training for management
staff; and (e) 180 man months of management seminars and courses in Algeria.
Technical assistance would comprise a plant breeder and soil fertility expert
each for three years and an agro-climatologist for two years. Thirty two
man-months of consultants for training and special scientific skills together
with 33 man months for management, documentation and computerization skills,
would also be financed during the project. Consultant terms of reference are
in the implementation volume annexes 1 and 3.
4.10        Management Coordination Unit.  The project would fund a management
coordinating unit within INRA's existing programming section for overseeing
project implementation. Funds would cover rehabilitation of existing offices,
two micro-computers for management, and one micro-computer including software
for the documentation service and connection to the international network
(AGRIS), office equipment, three light vehicles, additional personnel (five
engineers/administrators, an accountant and five support personnel) as well as
operating costs.
Azrlicultural Extension (Implementation Volume. Annex 2)
4.11        Objectives.  Government's objective is to es*ablish a coherent
system for the transfer of improved technology to individuals and the EACs.
In view of the limited experience with agricultural extension in Algeria, the
proposed project would be confined to a pilot program to test approaches which
could be extended nationally in a second phase. The choice of project area
has taken into account the need to: (a) work with a minimum number (10%) of
farmers distributed between EACs and private individuals; (b) be
representative of the main production systems for which there are technical
messages; (c) provide services in irrigated areas of the Cheliff and Mitidja
projects; and (d) allow the Ministry of Agriculture to monitor results and
adjust the program as necessary.
4.12        Extension Services.  The main thrust of the extension component
would be the introduction of an improved organization and methods in 170
communes controlled by 20 Dairate located in six Wilayete and covering about
452,000 hectares of the useful agricultural area (SAU), 6% of the total SAU.
Staffing would include 191 extension agents, 25 subject-matter specialists, 20
supervisors, 6 Wilayate extension officers and supporting audiovisual and
monitoring and evaluation staff. Thirty of these posts (10 SMS and 20
extension agents) remain to be filled and would, to the extent possible, be
drawn from the advisory units that used to support the DAS. Assurances on the
staffing of the extension posts were obtained at negotiations. The project
would provide for improvement of existing buildings (1000 m2), vehicles (105
small cars and 48 4-wheel drive vehicles) and equipment and operating costs.
Some 50,000 farmers would be reached during the first five year program.



18
4.13        Training Centers and CNPA.  In support of this extension program,
the project would include; (i) strengthening of five extension training
centers (CFVA) for training and retraining of staff - staff from outside the
20 pilot Dairate would also be trained; (ii) strengthening CNPA for the
preparation of technical messages and translation to written and audiovisual
material; (iii) setting up monitoring/evaluation units in CNPA and the six
Wilayate; (iv) technical assistance and overseas training courses; and (v) a
management coordinating unit in CNPA. In each case the project would provide
vehicles (total of 31 light vehicles and 5 minibuses), equipment and operating
costs. Some new buildings (400 m2) and improvement of existing buildings (800
m2) would be included in the training centers component. The ongoing FAO/UNDP
project (para 3.19) would provide technical assistance for audiovisual
production and staff training.
4.14        Consultancies and Training Courses.  In addition, the project
would include 38 man months of short term consultancies for extension
methodology, planning and monitoring, and j man months to assist project
maniagement. Overseas training would cover 46 short courses (3 to 4 months,
total 139 man months) and two, 2-year courses for postgraduate training in
extension methods. Management training would be provided in Algeria - 105 man
months in all. Provision is also made for 15 man months of consultancy work
on the mid-term review and preparation of a second project. Consultant terms
of reference are in the implementation volume, annex 2.
D. Cost Estimates
4.15        Total project costs, including taxes, duties and contingencies,
are estimated at DA 607 million (US$74.9 million), of which 29%, or US$22.1
million, would be foreign exchange. Duties and taxes are assessed at DA 90.3
million (US$11.1 million) which is equivalent to 15% of total project costs.
Physical contingencies have been included at 10% on civil works, vehicles and
equipment. Price contingencies were calculated assuming a domestic inflation
rate for local prices of 12.5% in 1990, 13.6% in 1991, 7.6% in 1992, and 7.5%
thereafter, and for international prices 4.9% throughout. Price contingencies
equal 31X of base costs. Cost estimates are summarized in Table 4.1 and shown
in more detail in annex 4 and in annex 6 of the implementation volume.



19
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
-DA '000------  -----US$ '000------ X X
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total For- Total
eign  Base
Exch. Costs
A.RESEARCH
INRA                     73.0   33.0  106.0      9.0   4.1  13.1      31    24
ITGC                     68.8   31.1   99.9      8.5   3.8  12.3      31    22
ITEBO                    28.6    7.6   36.2      3.5   0.9   4.4      21      8
INPV                      4.0    1.4    5.4      0.5   0.2   0.7      25      1
Training/Consultants      5.9   37.'  43.0       0.7   4.6   5.3      86    10
Sub-total Research      180.3  110.   290.5    22.3  13.6  35.9       38    65
B. EXTENSION
Extension programs       87.2   13.3  100.5    10.8   1.6  12.4       13    23
CFVA training centers   11.1    3.1   14.2       1.4   0.4   1.8      22      3
Audiovisual support       9.3    7.8   17.1      1.1   1.0   2.1      46      4
Technology development   2.2    0.5    2.7       0.2   0.1   0.3      18      -
Monitoring/Evaluation    4.0    1.5    5.5       0.5   0.2   0.7      27      1
Training/Consultants      1.5    6.6    8.1      0.2   0.8   1.0      81      2
Management unit                   I LQ    7.5    0.8   0.1   0.9      13      2
Sub-total Extension    121.8   33.8  155.6    15.0   4.2  19.2.       2      35
Total Base Costs          302.1  144.0  446.1    37.3  17.8  55.1        32   100
Physical contingencies  10.0   12.1   22.1       1.2   1.5   2.7      55      5
Price contingencies    116.2   22.7  138.9    14.3   2.8  17.1        16    31
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS       428.3  178.7  607.0    52.8  22.1  74.9       29   136
E. Financine
4.16        A Bank loan of US$32 million to the Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria is proposed, to finance about 50% of total costs net of
taxes. This would cover 100% of foreign exchange costs and 24% of local
costs. The proposed loan amount includes the equivalent of US$5.7 million in
foreign exchange for technical assistance and training fellowships for the
research sub-project, and for which Government is actively seeking bilateral
grants. Should an agreement satisfactory to the Bank be obtained to finance
these activities, the Bank loan may, at the demand of the Government, be
reduced accordingly. The Government would finance the balance of local costs



20
and there is no financing gap. The following table summarizes the proposed
financing plan:
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ M)
Local    Foreign      Total     Percentage of Proiect
Net      Foreign
Costs     Exchange
World Bank               9.9       22.1       32.0         50      100
Government              31.8         -        31.8         50        -
Net Project Cost        41.7       22.1       63.8        100      100
Taxes & Duties          11.1         -        11.1
Total Project Cost      52.8      22.1        74.9
F. Procurement
4.17    Procurement would be carried out separately by the project agencies
INRA and CNPA for the goods, works and services included in their respective
components as described in paras. 4.05 to 4.14 above and Table 4.1.
Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3:



21
Table 4,3: PROCUREMENT METHODS /a
(US$ M)
Project rElements                     Procurement Methods
ICB       LCB        Other       NA        Total
Costs
Civil Works                0.5         9.8        0.5        -         10.8
(0.5)      (7.8)       (0.2)     (-)         (8.5)
Equipment                  7.8         1.5        1.0        -         10.3
(6.2)      (1.0)       (0.5)     (-)         (7.7)
Vehicles                   7.0         -          -          -           7.0
(3.3)      ()()-)(3.3)
Technical assistance,      -           -          2.6        5.5         8.1
Fellowships and           (-)         (-)        (2.6)      (5.4)       (8.0)
Consultancy
Incremental Operating      -           -         22.9       15.8       38.7
Costs including           (-)         (-)        (4.5)      (-)         (4.5)
Personnel
Total                     15.3        11.3       27.0       21.3       74.9
(10.0)      (8.8)       (7.8)     (5.4)      (32.0)
/a Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank.
4.18        Civil Works.  Contracts (2) for glasshouses (about US$500,000)
would be awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB). The
remainder of the civil works program comprising rehabilitation and new
construction at widely scattered sites would be awarded according to local
procedures. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$1 M equivalent up to an
aggregate of US$10 M would be awarded according to local competitive bidding
procedures (LCB). Small contracts estimated to cost no more than US$100,000
equivalent up to an aggregate of US$500,000 would be awarded on the basis of
direct contracting in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.19        Vehicles and Equipment.  Contracts for all vehicles and for
equipment estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or more would be awarded
through ICB. Qualified domestic manufacturers of equipment will receive
preference in bid evaluation of 15X or the prevailinb import duty, whichever
is less. Contracts for laboratory equipment, estimated to cost US$150,000
equivalent but not more than US$500,000 equivalent and aggregating not more
than US$3.0 M, would be awarded through limited international bidding (LIB)



22
with bids to be obtained from a minimum of three suppliers from different
countries. LIB is appropriate in this case since there are only a limited
number of suppliers of the goods in question. Contracts for equipment up to
the equivalent of US$300,000 and aggregating not more than US$1.5 M would be
Laarded through LCB procedures. Contracts for office and field equipment
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of US$1.0
M would be purchased through international and local shopping. Altnough
Algerian ICB and LCB procedures are generally acceptable to the Bank, there
are some aspects which are inconsistent with Bank policy and/or could be
improved to ensure better competition. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that procurement under the proposed project would be carried out
under procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.20        Consultants.  Consultant services totalling about US$2.6 M would
be recruited according to qualifications, terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Bank, in line with 1981 Bank guidelines for use of
consultants.
4.21        Contract Review.  All bidding documents and awards of contract for
civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$500,000 or more and for
vehicles and equipment estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or more, would
require the Bank's prior approval. It is estimated that 70% of the value of
goods would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documenLation. Contracts not covered by prior review procedures would be
subject to random post review by the Bank after contract award.
G. Disbursements
4.22        Disbursement Schedule.  It is anticipated that the proposed Bank
loan of US$32 million which would finance a five year time slice would be
disbursed over seven fiscal years. The detailed schedule of disbursements is
given in Annex 5 and summarized below.
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Years
Disbursements      1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
--------------------------US$M------------------------
Annual              2.0      1.5    5.0       6.5      8.0     6.0      3.0
Cumulative          2.0      3.5    8.5      15.0    23.0    29.0    32.0
The disbursement period is consistent with profiles for the EMENA Region which
generally indicate that seven to eight years are required for full
disbursement. The proposed closing date of the loan would be December 31,
1996.
4.23        Disbursement Procedures.  Disbursements would be made against the
following categories of expenditures:



23
Category                      Loan Amount    % of Expenditures to be Financed
(USSM)
(1) Civil Works          (a) INRA   7.5     80% of total expenditures
(b) CNPA   0.5
(2) Equipment, vehicles (a) INRA   7.5      100% of foreign expenditures,
(b) CNPA   3.5     100% of local expenditures
exfactory and 60% of other
items produced locally
(3) Incremental          (a) INRA   1.7     70% of total expenditures in
Operating Costs'1   (b) CIPA   1.8      calendar year 1991;
50% in 1992; and
40% in 1993.
(4) Technical assistance (a) INRA  5.0      100% of total expenditures
Fellowships, and      (b) CNPA  1.0
Research contracts
(5)  Unallocated                    3.5
Total                      32.0
(a)   INRA includes ITGC, INPV and ITEBO
4.24        Dis'btursements would be maade upon receipt by the Bank of fully
documented applications, except for contracts for civil works valued below
US$:00,000, contracts for vehicles and equipment valued below US$50,000 and
for operating costs for which disbursements would be against Statements of
Expenditure (SOE) certified by INRA or CNPA. Supporting documentation for
SOEs would be retained until one year after Bank receipt of the last audit
report for the project, and made available for review by the Bank during
supervision. The annual audits of the project accounts would include a
separate opinien on disbursements made under SOE procedures and the Special
kccount (para.4.25). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that government
would provide each year funds required to ensure full implementation of all
project activities in that year and that annual investment programs for the
research and extension sub-projects would be sent to the Bank for comment
before October 31 of the year prior to that of the proposed investment.
4.25        To improve the efficient and timely implementation of the Project,
the Borrower would establish a special account at the Central Bank to be used
1/    Expenditures for the operation and maintenance of agricultural
research and extension equipment and operation of agricultural
research and extension services and including materials, fuel,
spare parts, farm inputs,services for trials and demonstrations
and travel allowances.



24
as a revolving fund to finance eligible expenditures corresponding to the
Bank's share of the four-month average project expenditure needs. Its
authorized allocation would be 2.0 M. The special account would be
replenished by applications submitted whenever at least one third of the
authorized amount has been utilized. Applications for direct payments and for
special commitments may be submitted provided they are amounts equivalent to
at least US$100,000.
4.26        Retroactive Financing of up to US$1,000,000 against payments made
for eligible expenditures under categories (l)(a), (b) and (4)(a), (b) (para.
4.23) before the date of the Loan Agreement but after April 1, 1990, is
proposed to cover project actions already started.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Overall
5.01        Proiect Coordination.  Implementation of the research and
extension sub-projects would be overseen by a project coordinator reporting to
the Director of sxtension and rural institutions, Ministry of Agriculture.
Components of each sub-project would be implemented by a number of agencies
and for each of the two sub-projects a management coordination unit would be
established. For the research sub-project it would be located in INRA, while
for extension it would be in CNPA. Location in these agencies would provide
some flexibility of administration (as compared within a division of the
Ministry of Agriculture) while maintaining the necessary close ties to the
administration for all administrative, logistical and institutional support.
Each sub-project management unit would have programming, management
accounting, procurement and monitoring functions to oversee project
implementation by the various implementing agencies. Coordination of project
actions with national programs would be realized through two existing bodies:
(i) the scientific council for research-development; and (ii) the national
committee for agricultural extension. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the annual, national investment programs for research and
extension services would be sent to the Bank before December 15 of the year
prior to the proposed investment so as to permit an exchange of views between
the Bank and Government on the national programs.
5.02        ImRlementing Agencies.  The implementing agencies for the research
component would inn<lude INRA, ITGC, ITEBO and INPV. For the extension
component, the training and extension section of the six Wilayate would
implement the extension services through the Dairate and communal agents; the
five training centers (CFVA) would implement the staff training component.
CNPA would provide technical support to both groups (Wilaya & CFVA) and would
implement the audiovisual component.
B. Research
5.03        Overview.  At the Government's request it was agreed to retain
broadly the existing research structure for the first phase pilot project;
that is to retain INRA for basic research and coordination and the Technical
Institutes for applied and adaptive research. Accordingly, the guiding



25
principles behind the implementat'ion proposals are to assure full coordination
between the concerned agencies, to promote efficient management of available
resources and to provide effective support to the research teams, working
broadly within the present research structure (see Chart 1). Coordination in
setting priorities and preparing research programs will be assured by national
and regional planning commissions (para 5.04). INRA will coordinate project
implementation while the creation of the Regional Research Centers (CRRA) will
provide the basis for developing multi-disciplinary research teams from the
different institutes and for strengthening support services. The structure
would be reviewed in the third year prior to preparing a second phase project
and a national research program. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations. In the longer term, it is expected that the current research
structure would evolve towards INRA being the apex coordinator of research
while delegating research tasks to various implementing agencies. Project
proposals would contribute to this longer term aim by strengthening INRA's
coordinating role.
5.04        Programming by Objectives.  The implementation of the priority
research programs (para. 4.07) will be planned and monitored by regional
pregramming commissions "Commissions rdgionales de programmation
recherche/vulgarisation" to be set up and attached to the Regional Research
Centers (CRRA). At the center, a national commission "Commission nationale de
programmation systeme de production cereales, ldgumes sec, fourrages, elevage"
to be set up and attached to the Extension and Rural Institutions Department
(DVIR), MA, will consolidate the programs prepared by the regional commissions
and move them through the budget process working with the project unit and
DVIR. The national commission will be made up of representatives from the
research/development scientific committee, the Ministry of Agriculture, INRA,
the technical institutes, the extension services, farmers and other interested
beneficiaries. The management coordinating unit will act as a secretariat to
the commission. The regional commissions will bring together representatives
from the CRRA, the extension service (Wilaya level), irrigation offices and
the farming profession. The regional commissions should provide for close
liaison between research staff and those confronted with the reality of
farming. In implementing this system, the priority research programs will be
broken down by discipline and research operation and the source of personnel,
logistical support and funding, detailed by CRRA and experimental farm as well
as research institute. This will provide the basis for coordinating all work
related to the priority programs and promoting the build up of multi-
disciplinary teams of researchers. Creation of these commissions would be a
condition for loan effectiveness. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the terms of reference and operating procedures for the national and
regional commissions would be sent to the Bank by 31 December 1990.
5.05        Role of INRA.  INRA would be responsible for the coordination of
all activities in the research sub-project and the realization of certain
"up-stream" research activities, including phytogenetics, soil studies and
analysis and bioclimatology. INRA would also operate a unit to maintain
laboratory equipment. The head of the management coordinating unit would
report to the Director of INRA. The role of the unit would be to reinforce
the management of existing resources and to aid the proper functioning of
existing operations. The unit would comprise four sections ('bureaux')



26
covering programming, management, supervision of investments, and a data
section. The programming section would be headed by a research scientist and
should provide support for the introduct on and operation of programming by
objectives. The management section would oversee the setting up of a
management accounting system, the carrying out of internal audits, and the
control of funding. The investment section would be responsible for
preparation and letting contracts for construction and purchase of vehicles
ard equipment. The data section would be responsible for putting in place the
necessary programming hardware and software, and setting up a documentation
unit. The establishment of the management coordinating unit would be a
condition for loan effectiveness. The ministerial decision confirming INRA as
the coordinating agency for the project's research component was issued prior
to negotiations and assurances were obtained at negotiations that not later
than June 30, 1991. INRA would be vested with all necessary powers and
authority to confirm its coordination role for the national research program.
5.06        Regional Centers for Agricultural Research (CRRAs).  As discussed
in Chapter 3 (para. 3.01), the long term objective is to create a well
equipped multi-disciplinary central research station in each of the main agro-
ecological zones to: (a) manage the regional research programs at the center
and outlying stations, (b) provide research teams with centrally managed
support services and laboratories common to all programs (soils, plant
physiology and plant protection), and (c) establish research - development
units for linking farmers, extension and research staff. The five centers to
be funded under the project would cover the main agro-ecological zones as
follows: Lamtar (western coastal plains), El Khroub (eastern coastal plains),
Oued Smar - with the El Khemis station for irrigated crops - (central coastal
plains), Setif (tellien plateau) and Tiaret (high plateau). Each center will
be responsible for the experimental farms in the region and for tackling the
research problems in the Wilayate within its area. The proposed
reorganization will be tested first at Lamtar and the other centers will be
phased in over a five year period. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the five stations would be designated as CRRA no later than December 31,
1991.
5.07        The CRRA at Lamtar, where INRA and ITEBO are elready based, will
be managed by INRA and part of ITGC's operations at Sidi Bel Abbes will be
transferred to Lamtar. The other four CRRAs which are all ITGC stations, will
for the time being be managed by ITGC. A program coordinator at each CRRA
will be responsible to the director for setting up, and following progress
with the program operations. The regional programming commission (para 5.04)
will advise the CRRA director on regional requirements and the actions
required to assure the link between research and extension. Each priority
program sub-divided into research operations will be under the responsibility
of a program head. Multi-disciplinary research teams bringing together
research scientists from the different technical institutes would be built up
gradually. The immediate objective will be to bring together crops and
livestock scientists to work on the cereal/livestock system. A
research-development section at each CRRA will handle the links with the
extension service through the subject-matter specialists attached to the
Wilayate training and extension sections.



27
5.08        Training and Technical Assistance. (Implementation Volume, Annex
4a). Training under the project would cover scientific and management staff.
An immediate start on training is required in order to provide a nucleus of
research scientists for the priority research programs. A two-year overseas
fellowship program for 30 research scientists to obtain master's degrees in
key disciplines would be launched before project start up. The project would
also provide 54 one-year fellowships for advanced science degrees (Diplome
d'Etudes Approfondies), in which recipients would do the associated research
under supervision from the university while continuing to work on the priority
programs. The 200 man months of fellowships to upgrade technical skills would
include laboratory staff to be trained for operation of the new laboratories
expected to be equipped by year three. Thirty two man months of scientific
consultants are included for the supervision of staff taking higher degrees
and for assistance with setting up the system of programming by objectives.
Agreement on the training program for research staff would be a condition for
effectiveness of the loan. Full tivie technical assistance would comprise a
plant breeder and soil fertility specialist to work with INRA for three years
and an agroclimatologist for two years. Assurances were obtained et
negotiations that these posts would be filled by June 30, 1992. Thirty three
consultant man months are provided for assisting with the management system.
Following an initial identification of training needs, a consultant team
covering management, data handling and accounting skills would provide back up
to INRA's management staff. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
management consultants would be recruited by June 30, 1991.
5.09        In addition to the implementing agencies cited above, the Faculty
of Agriculture (INA) would assist with the supervision of post-graduate
studies and the universities of Oran and Constantine would also be called on
to provide and hold sources of genetic material as well as to assist in animal
and crop physiology.
5.10        Hanagement of Research Personnel.  The project will make a start
on rebuilding the numbers of research staff working in agriculture through:
(a) introducing improved incentives and career structure, and (b) developing a
long term training program. Following agreement on aligning the remuneration
for INRA's research scientists with that of university staff (para 3.12 (b)),
adoption of similar conditions for research staff at the technical institutes
(that is staff in the plant improvement and production support division) will
be essential to stem the present loss of staff to the universities once they
obtain a higher degree. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
research scientists of INRA, IT3C, INPV and ITEBO would have the structure of
their salaries and employment benefits realigned with those applied in higher
education and the universities no later than December 31, 1991. A tentative
staff training program to fill immediate gaps in key disciplines and provide
for a longer term build up in capacity is detailed in the implementation
volume, annex 4a.   Staff benefitting from fellowships would be obliged to
sign an undertaking to work a minimum of eight years with their institute on
return to Algeria.
5.11        Financial Management.  (Implementation Volume, Annex 3).  The
project would introduce improved procedures to facilitate the management of



28
research activities; these improvements would concern the decentralis-'ion of
operating budgets and the introduction of a management accoux.ting system in
all research centers and experimental farms where expenses are committed for
the project. First, in order to facilitate the payment of operating costs,
recurrent budgets would be delegated to CRRA directors and "agents comptables"
would be appointed to five CRRA's (para. 5.06). Also, the amount of cash
advance (regie d'advance) allowed to experimental farm directcrs would be
increased to the equivalent of three months operating costs. Second, in order
to improve the planning of resource allocation to, and the evaluation of
research programs, costs would be analysed by research program and sub-
program as well as by institute, CRRA and experimental farm. The system
would be introduced gradually with the help of consultant assistance and a
staff training program (para. 5.08). Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that: (i) appropriate budgetary, financial and accounting procedures
satisfactory to the Bank would be applied not later than June 30, 1992; and
(ii) "agents compatables" would be appointed to the five CRRA not later than
December 31, 1992.
C. Extension
5.12        Overview.  The extension sub-project being essentially a pilot
action to test the suitability of an extension system for possible wider
application at a later date, demands some flexibility in management
organization. In view of this and the fact that the DVIR is virtually still
without full time staff below the Director, Government took the decision to
attach the sub-project management unit to CNPA. The structure and methods to
be tested are based on applying a single line structure with disciplined
execution, direct support from research and training and with a two-way flow
of ideas bctween farmers, research and extension. The investments to be made
are designed to accommodate whatever long term arrangements are eventually put
in place.
5.13        Central Organization (Chart 2)  The component will be managed by
CNPA's director for technical information with the assistance of a management
coordination unit. The management unit will comprise four sections: (a)
management control; (b) technical and training; (c) monitoring and evaluation;
and (d) data handling. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
management unit would be adequately staffed. In order to increase CNPA's
capacity to provide extension literature adapted to the new extension system
and train extension staff, the project woule strengthen two of its services:
(i) audio-visual production; and (ii) production of pedagogic supports.
Establishment of the management coordination unit would be a condition for
effectiveness of the loan.
5.14        Regional and Field Organization.  At Wilaya level, the extension
structure of the project will be in line with the Ministry of Agriculture
guidelines of December 1985 which define the role of, and links between, each
agency. The extension activities will be assured by the "Bureaux de
Formation et de Vulgarisation"(BFV), supported by three assistants for
training and communication, extension, and monitoring and evaluation. They
also will have authority on the SMS teams (3 to 4 specialists) staffed in each
Wilaya according to the complexity of agricultural production. The SMS teams



29
will assure technical support to the extension staff and links with the
research-development units at the CRRA. At the Daira level, extension
supervisors will be respon:5hle to the Wilaya extension assistant.  The ratio
will be of one supervisor for eight to ten extension agents and initially one
extension agent will be appointed in each commune (village) of the Daira
covered by the project.
5.15        Extension Activities.  The extension agents will receive technical
support from the Wilaya SMS team. All extension staff from the extension
assistant of the Wilaya dowr to the extension agents will be exempted from
most administrative tasks. Extension agents will work with groups of about 15
farmers visiting two groups a day and with visits every two or four weeks
depending upon the cropping program. With on average 240 to 480 farmers
covered per extension agent, about 50,000 farms and EACs, or about 30% of the
area's farmerg, will benefit directly from the extension service. In
addition, the very small farmers who devote only part time to agricultulre will
benefit from media extension (TV and radio) messages specially applicable to
them. The larger farmers will continue to have direct access to agriculture
management specialists and researchers, and the progres? of their farms will
be followed by the SMS. The second phase of the FAO/UNDP project (para. 3.19)
will study the role of women in Algerian agriculture to determine how best to
reach women farmers, and the study's conclusions would be taken up by the
proposed project.
5.16        Training. (Implementation Volume, Annex 4b).  The training
component will cover the extension staff at all levels and sometimes staff of
other organizations related to agriculture and farmers. Training programs
will be prepared by CNPA which will be strengthened under the project for that
purpose. Programs will include: (a) initial training in methodology focussing
on methods and techniques to penetrate rural population; (b) preparation of
themes, messages and demonstration; and (c) improvement of current techniques
and farm management. Training will be carried out within the 5 CFVAs (para.
4.04) funded by the project. For practical reasons and efficiency, initial
training in extension methodology will be carried out at the Ain Taya CFVA.
Training for skills improvement will be carried out in each of the five
regional CFVAs in addition to their ongoing activities which are training
young farmers and organizing information sessions for institutions related to
agricultural development (extension staff, CRRAs, offices, cooperatives,
etc.). Each CFVA will be specialized in crops grown locally. They will
receive and broadcast technical information provided by CNPA and CRRA through
their audio-visual equipment which will be completed under the project. In
addition, each CFVA will: (a) grow a plot representing a typical farm of the
region; (b) be in regular contact with the extension staff at the Wilaya and
Daira, as well as with SMS teams, to discuss experiences and exchange
information; (c) participate in adapting extension messages to the region: (d)
convey farmers' requests; (e) organize farmers' visits, etc. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that a training program would be submitted to the
Bank for its comments not later than June 30, 1991, that it would be updated
periodically and applied to all extension staff not later than December 31,
1993.



30
5.17        Monitoring and Evaluation.  Internal evaluation will be carried
out in accordance with Monitoring and Evaluation policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. M&E activities will be monitored and coordinated at
the M&E section of the extension PMU and carried out in the field by M&E units
of each BFV. The objectives will be: (a) to collect information about target
farmers and agriculture, the efficiency of the extension system and extension
operations; (b) to analyze the above information, evaluate consequent changes
and their impact on development; (c) to prepare necessary changes; and (d) to
execute small punctual surveys to help management to better understand the
project's impact and therefore make wiser decisions. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that a monitoring and evaluation program would be developed
with the assistance of consultants and submitted to the Bank by March 31,
1992. In addition, two external evaluations will be scheduled at the end of
the-third and the fifth year, and a national extension program will be
prepared from year 3. Carried out by external auditors, they will prepare
eventual changes required to improve the effectiveness of extension services.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
5.18        Technical assistance will be needed to support the establishment
of the extension service and the start-up of the training and upgrading
component will require participation of consultants during the first four
years of the project. Their support will be allocated as follows: 38 man
months for extension methodology, planning, monitoring and evaluation, and 5
man months to assist management.
5.19        Financial Management.  (Implementation Volume, Annex 2).  In view
of the pilot nature of the extension component, financial management would be
centralised within the CNPA. CNPA would be responsible for procurement of all
vehicles and equipment and allocation to the BFV and CFVA concerned. The
recurrent budget would also be handled by CNPA, but the project would test the
feasibility of operating a revolving fund (regie d'advance) in Wilayate
finance departments from which extension services (BFV) would be able to meet
urgent expenditures. CNPA would provide the initial advance for these funds
equivalent to three months' operating costs. Consultant assistance would be
obtained to develop appropriate procedures. (para. 5.18).   Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that appropriate budgetary, financial and accounting
procedures satisfactory to the Bank would be applied by CNPA not later than
December 31, 1991.
D. Research/Extension Links
5.20        Relations between research and extension need many improvements to
initiate close and continuous cooperation between research services,
institutes, stations and the extension services at all levels. Therefore,
formal contact will be established between research/development units of the
CRRAs and SMS teams at Wilayate located in the CRRAs zone of activity. During
regular meetings whose calendar will be established aTnually in September for
each CRRA, discussions will focus on: (a) programming of joint field
activities; (b) evolution of agricultural techniques; (c) results of ongoing
work; and (d) all subjects related to agricultural development. A synthesis
of each meeting will be distributed to research and extension management at
province and central levels. It is expected that with the project CRRAs



31
resea;-ch development units will now have with SMS teams reliable counterparts
to relay progress to the farmers. In order to impi ve the relationship
between research and SMS the latter will regularly receive upgrading and
training at CRRAs, they will carry out joint field trials and will be seconded
to CRRA during the dead season of the agricultural year to keep their
expertise updated.
E. Reporting
5.21        INRA and CNPA would prepare half yearly and annual reports on
physical and financial progress in a format acceptable to the Bank. The
reports would include a standard table on annual progress with physical
implementation and a section dealing with progress of each agency involved in
project execution. The reports should reach the Bank within two months of the
end of the reporting period.
F. Accounts and Audit
5.22        INRA and CNPA would be responsible for keeping project accounts
for their respective sub-projects. Both institutions would have their full
accounts as well as separate project accounts, along with the statements of
expenditure sent to the Bank for disbursement and the revolving fund account,
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit
report together with a certified copy of the account would be submitted to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. Assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
G. Sunervision
5.23        An indicative supervision plan listing key activities and staff
inputs in addition to regular supervision needs for the review of progress
reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc., is set out in annex 6.
The project is expected to require heavy supervision effort from both the
Government and the Bank, given the institutional changes that are to be
implemented. Bank staff would work closely with the Mintstry of Agriculture
to achieve this. The Bank's supervision plan for FY91 includes 18 staff-
weeks (s-w) of professional Bank staff input including a start-up mission in
September/October 1990 (see annex for skills expected to be required).
Subsequent supervision inputs are expected to be about 20 s-w in FY92, 15 s-w
in FY93 and FY94 and 12 s-w per year thereafter. The Director, DVIR, will be
responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions with
INRA and CNPA.
VI BENEFITS. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND RISKS
Proiect Benefits
6.01        Agriculture is an important part of the Algerian economy.
Although it accounts for only 7% of GDP, it employs 25% of the labor force and
is the major source of income for 53% of the population. The recent land
reform has transformed the possibilities for agricultural development and the



32
new EACs are proving voracious consumers of technical advice. Furthermore,
rising population is placing greatly increased burdens on land and water
resources and the need to find solutions to their more efficient utilization.
Following years of underfunding and poor organization, the research and
extension services are not well placed to provide the necessary advice. The
project will provide the first, pilot phase of a long term program to develop
the research base for agricultural development and create an effective
extension service. The research program focuses on priority crops and the
dominant cereal/livestock system in the main productive zones with the
objective of raising rural incomes, promoting employment, increasing self-
sufficiency and developing exports. The extension sub-project will test
improved methods in an area of high potential containing 160,000 farms of
which some 50,000 would be expected to participate in contact groups.
6.02        The project would have substantial benefits through building
research and extension institutions. First, in the case of research, the
project would put in place the means to coordinate the planning and
implementation of the work of the different technical institutes, as well as
the allocation of resources by agreed priorities. The introduction and
testing of programming by objectives and the creation of regional research
centers would ultimately provide a point of reference for research scientists
from all institutions working on associated programs. Second, the experience
obtained in contact group extension and other extension methods will be used
to determine the extension system to be applied nationally in a second phase
of the project.
6.03        Since it is difficult to forecast the degree of success and
failure of research programs, it is impossible to quantifv benefits in precise
terms. It is equally difficult to separate the impact of extension inputs and
rainfall variations on increased production. However, where ex Rost studies
have been attempted in Latin America, India and some other countries, the
economic rate of return of agricultural research has usually been above 40%.
The technology packages to be recommended by the extension services for use by
farmers as well as the yields and production increases to be expected from
their application will vary according to crop, agro-ecological zones, regions
and farmer's level. They would be further refined during project
implementation as applied research programs increasingly take into account on-
farm conditions and constraints. Because of this and because adoption rates
for various recommended practices would be difficult to assess, no attempt has
been made to quantify benefits expected from the project.
Environmental Impact
6.04        The proposed project would promote the more efficient use of land
and water rescarces and farm inputs, and would be expected to have a positive
effect on the environment. First, the project would test and ultimately
extend a series of improved cultural practices which would include: (a)
contour ploughing, planting of grass strips, bench terracing and tree planting
to protect land against erosion, (b) the introduction of less soil depleting
crop rotations, and (c) use of appropriately sized farm machinery and a
reduction in the worst effects of erosive mechanization. Second, the research
component would initiate work on more efficient use of water resources on



33
field crops which is crucial for ultimately maximizing the efficiency of water
use in agricultire.  Third, the crop rs~search programs would include
development of more efficient use of fertilizer and crop protection chemicals.
The work on crop protection chemicals would take note of tne results of (i)
the Integrated Pest Management (IPM) program to be launched shortly in the
Mitidja irrigation project and (ii) the ongoing UNDP funded regional IPM study
for the Maghreb for which the B.nk is executing agency. The proposed
strengthening of the extension services are an essential prerequisite for
applying the results of the IPM study.
Risks
6.05        The main risks in the research sub-project relate to possible
delays in increasing the numbers of trained research scientists available to
work on the priority programs. The launching of a training program prior to
project start up is essential to assure availability by the time equipment is
in place. In the past, both INRA and the Technical Institutes have lost staff
to the universities once they obtained higher degrees due to the better terms
and conditions of employment. Also a number of qualified staff left t'4 take
on EACs during the 1987 land reform. The provisions to apply similar
conditions to those in the universities and establish a clear career path
(para 5.10) should help reduce the risk of further losses. Also staff going
for trairing overseas will be contracted to return to work in Algeria.
6.06        The main risks in the extension sub-proiect stem from the very low
level of training and staff motivation and small numbers of qualified,
supervisory staff available. Central and regional services also lost many
senior staff during the land reform. The strengthening of the service might
prove even more difficult than assumed. The project has been designed as a
pilot project to test a system for possible future replication more widely,
and should be sufficiently flexible to respond to these difficulties. Also in
the course of the project the whole question of attracting good extension
personnel to stay with the service will be examined.
6.07        There is an overall risk that (i) the project will not be
adequately funded due to budget shortfalls arising from the difficult economic
situation, and (ii) shortage of farm inputs will limit project impact. The
risk of budget shortfall has been reduced by inclusion of the project in the
core program of the five year plan. Government is conscious of the potential
economic cost of a shortage cf farm inputs.
VII SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01        Agreement was reached at negotiations that:
(a)   numbers of research and extension posts to be established
year by year and appointment of Key staff would meet project
requirements (para 4.08 & 4.12);
(b)   modified local procurement procedures would be followed
(para 4.19);



34
(c)   annual investment programs for the research and extension
sub-projects would be sent to the Bank for review by October
31 each year (para 4.24);
(d)   annual, national investment programs for research and
extension services would be sent tc the Bank by December 15
each year, beginning in 1990, to permit an exchange of views
on the national programs (para. 5.01);
(e)   research structures would be reviewed by the Government and
Bank in year 3 and a national program prepared (para 5.03);
(f)   terms of reference and operating procedures of the national
and regional programming commissions to be submitted to the
Bank by December 31, 1990 (para 5.04);
(g)   INRA would be vested with all necessary powers and authority
to confirm its coordination role for the national research
program by June 30, 1991 (para 5.05);
(h)   technical assistance for the research program would bs
recruited no later than June 30, 1992, and management
consultants to work on the research management system would
be recruited by June 30, 1991 (para 5.08);
(i)   the structure of salaries and employment benefits of INRA,
ITGC, ITEBO and INPV research scientists would be realigned
with those applied in higher education and the universities
by December 31, 1991 (para. 5.10);
(j)   use of appropriate budgetary and accounting f-:ocedures for
the research program, decentralized procedures would be
applied to the CRRAs and experimental farms by June 30,
1992, and "agents comptables" to be appointed to the five
CRRA by December 31, 1992 (para 5.11);
(k)   extension training programs would be submitted to the Bank
for its review by June 30, 1991 (para 5.16);
(1)   monitoring and evaluation proposals to be submitted to the
Bank by March 31, 1992 and progress with the extension sub-
project would be reviewed by the Government and Bank at the
end of years 3 and 5, while a national extension program
would be prepared from year 3 (para 5.17);
(m)   use by CNPA of appropriate budgetary and accounting
procedures for the agricultural extension services by
December 31, 1991 (para. 5.19).
7.02        As conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan, the
Government will:



35
(a)   establish the National and Regional Research Planning
Commissions (para. 5.04);
(b)   establish the management coordination units within INRA and
CNPA (paras 5.05 and 5.13); and
(c)   reach agreement on the training program for research staff
(para 5.08).
7.03        On the basis of the above assurances and agreements, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$32.0 million to the Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria for a term of 15 years including a five year grace period.
The project is expected to be completed by June 1996.



REPUBLIQUE DEMOCRATIQUE ET POPULAIRE DALGERIE
PROJET DE RECHERCHE AGRICOLE ET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE PILOTE
Institutions de Recherche Participant au Projet
MINISTERE
DE
L'AGRICULTURE
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Commission National
de Programmation                                   Direction de la
Systeme de production .''''''''''''''''--            vulgarisation et
Cereales-6levage                               des Institutions rurales
.    .  ,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~TB
Commission r6glonale                               Centre R6gionaI e
de Programmation   ....................              RecheRche
Recherche-Vulgarisation                               grcteur                        Moyens d'exploitation
-----------                                                                             et d'exp6rimentation
* Services g6n6raux
* Biometric
Coordinateur de la  |* Dcume tatton
ProgrammaUon E
d'appul             sp6cialis6es                         Re~~~~~~~~~~Spcherchee
|    LaboratoZre  l      Laboratolres      l            l        Equip~res  es BF
Ex~~~~~6rimentaI ~~~               ~       13veopejn
Sols   |Physiologip  Dcuefenes                      Phytotech 11 Zootechnic
*_Programmes  Cereales  1-egumes secs                 Fourrages  Elevage     Systbmes C6rdallculture/dievage 
p Spciallstes     |
|matieres des BFV         
Stations                                ~~~~~~~~~DAD Daira
Exp6rlmentales                                       _                 _
ACV Communes
tbea'bu47 13



REPUBLIQUE DEMOCRATIQUE ET POPULAIRE D'ALGERIE
PROJET DE RECHERCHE AGRICOLE ET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE PILOTE
Institutions de Vulgarisation Participant au Projet
MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTJRE
Niveau
Central
DIRECTION DE L VULGARISATION               j  CENTRE NATIONAL DE
F.T DES INSTITU rlONS RURALES             |PEDAGOGIE AGRICOLE|
[     DEPARTMENT
DES INFORMATIONS
S/DIRECTION                S/DIRECTION                TECHNIQUES
RECHERCHE                VULGARISATION                T
CELLULE GESTION
DU PROJET
RNeivenal             DIVISION DU DEVELOPPEMENT DES
ACTIVITES HYDRAULIQUES
ET AGRICOLES
SERVICE           SERVICE    i       SERVICE 
DE L'HYDRAULIOUE |    DES FORETS   l DE L'AGRICULTURE!
| Bureau de formation
et de vulgarisation
Niveau                                      D       [
District
Nlveau                                       Agents Communaux de o
Commune                                           Vulgadsation
......... Support Technique
bea w47t 73A



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA/REPUBLIQUE POPULAIRE ET DEMOCRATIQUE D'ALGERIE
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT/PROJET DE REC;HERCHE AGRICOLE ET DE VULGARISATiON AGRICOLE PILOTE
Implementaion CharVEcheancier - Research Sub-project/Sous-projet recherche
Pm ProjtAvanr Po j    pyl              PY2             PY3              PY4              PY5             PY6
19 90           1991             1992             1993            1994             1995            1996
1   2   3 14   1   2   3   4   '1  2    314   1   2   3  4   1  2   3 14   112   3 14   1  2   31 4
A. PLANNINGIPLANNIFICATION
Construction program/Programme de constructions
Annual program-budgeVProgramme annuel-budget                                   _
B. INSTITUTIONAL CHANGES/MISE EN PLACE DES STRUCTURES
INRA statutes/Statut d'INRA                                                                                                  .
Research stafl conditions/Statut de chercheur
Set up programming commissions/Mise en place commissions
Set up ooordinating unil/Mise en place ceilule de coordination
Accounting & finacial systerrVSysteme comptable-financier                                  -   _   _  _   _   _
C. RECRUITMENT & TRAINING PERSONNEL/RECRUTMENT ET FORMATION PERSONNEL
Training Program/Programme de forrmation                                      _   _        - _      _    _  _   _   _   _                        m _   _  _   _   _   _
2 year fellowships/Bourses 2 ans                                            12               12              6                                                                                   OD
1 year fellowships/Bourses 1 an + formation a distance                      10              13               10               10               8               3
Training courses(mm)/Stages de perfeclionnement(hm)                                            40              80               60               20
Nominate Project Coordinator/Nomination coordinateur
Recruit unit staff/Recrutment personnel cellule de coordination
Recruit research staff/Recrutment personnel de recherche                _ _                                      _ _
Research scientists/Chercheurs et igenieurs                                                  5               40              26               18               9
Technicians/Techniciens                                                                      7               35              28               15               4
Consultants(mm)/Consultations(hm)
Programming/Programmation                                                                    4               4
Follow up/Suivi des programmes                                                                                                3                3               2
Supervision training/Formation a distance                                                    2               4                4                4               2
Management/Gestion                                                                        7  8               10               6                2
Technical Assistance(no.)/Assistance technique(no.)                                                             2                3               3
D. INVESTMENT/INVESTISSEMENT
Construction/Constructions                                                                         _   .       _   _ .          _   _            _ _         _
VehiclesNVehicules                                                                             3               3935                              14
Laboratory and expertl equipment/Materiel labo et d'exper'tn                                   35   in14_       _ i
Data handling equipmenVMateriel informatique                                                   _   .      I    = .   .          _
E. MIDTERM REVIEW+SECTOR PLAN/EVALUATION MOYEN TERME+PLAN SECTEUR
F. PREPARATION SECOND PHASE/PREPARATION DEUXIEME PHASE



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIAIREPUBLIQUE POPULAIRE ET DEMOCRATIQUE D'ALGERIE
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT/PROJET DE RECHERCHE AGRICOLE ET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE PILOTE
Implementaion Chart/Echeancier - Extension Sub-projecttSous-projet vulgarisation
rb   eVAvaY8t POI    PYl             PY2             PY3             PY4              PY5             PY6
1990            1991            1992            1993            1994            1995            1996
_      _-_                                                         1  2  3         4    1  21314    1  2  3   4   1   2   314   1  2  3   4   1  23    4   1  2   3   4
A. PLANNING/PLANNIFICATION
Obtain agreement Wai/Accord des Wali
Annual program-budgeVProgramme annuel-budget                                            .               .               .               .
Construction prograrn/Progradme de constructions
B. INSTITUTIONAL CHANGES/MISE EN PLACE DES STRUCTURES
Confirm role CNPA/Confirmation role CNPA
Project unit set up/Mise en place cellule du projet
C. RECRUITMENT & TRAINING PERSONNEL/RECRUTMENT ET FORMATION PERSONNEL
Training Program/Programme de tormation                         _                              m _ . _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
2 year fellowships/Bourses 2 ans                                                                          2               2
Extension courses(mm)/stages court durpe(hm)                                                             46              72              21
Management courses(mm)/ stages gestion(hm)                                               35              45              21               4
Recruit unit staff/Recrutment personnel cellule de coordination
Recruit extension staff/Recrutment personnel de vulgarisation
SMS/Equipe pluridisciplinaire                                                            10
Extension agents/Agents                                                                  20
Consultants/Consultations(mm)
ExtensionNulgarisation                                                                    5               6               3               2
Monitoring etc/Suivi etc.                                                                 4               7               8               3
Management/GestiOn                                                                        4               1               1
D. INVESTMENT/INVESTISSEMENT
Construction/Constructions                                  _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _
VehiclesNehicules                                                                      I~  I                           
EquipmenVMateriel                                                                      189                               -
Data handling equipmenVMateriel informatique                                           _   _  _   _       _    _   _   _
E. REVIEW RESULTS+SECTOR PLAN/EVALUATION RESULTATS+PLAN SECTEUR
F. PREPARTION SECOND PHASE/PREPARATION DEUXIEME PHASE



40
ANRI 1
DENOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Land Use in Algeria and Project Areas (Extension Component)
Occupation de la SAU en Alg6rie et dans la zone du Prolet
(Sous-Projet Vulgarisation)
Algeria!        Proiect Area/
Alg6rie/      Zone du Projet2'
(ha)         (ha)            X
Rotational CroRs/Culture assolde
Cereals/Cereale                         3,198,220      183,529          5.7
Pulses/LAgume sec                         157,340       12,544          8.0
Forage Crops/Fourrage artificiel          810,560       55,277          8.2
Industrial Crops/Culture industrielle      21,060          532          2.5
Vegetables/Culture maraichere              24&,720      31,498         12.7
Other/Autres                                 3.510
Total 1                                 4,439,410      294,380          6.6
Tree Crops/Plantation
Olives/Olivier                            162,740       53,221         32.7
Citrus/Agrume                              44,460       19,406         43.6
Date Palms/Palmier-dattier                  70,610           -            -
Other/Autres                               315.820           -         .
Total 2                                    593,630      72,627         12.2
Fallow/Jachere 3                        2.450.400       84.620          3 5
Total 1 + 2 + 3                         7,483,440      451,627          6.0
'/ Agricultural Statistics/Statistique agricole: Serie B-85
2/ Wilayate Estimates/Estime sur place avec les responsables des
Wilayate.



41
ANNEX 2
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAJ. REPORT
Research Implementation Plan
Organization and Management
1.     The Director of Extension and Rural Institutions in the Ministry of
Agriculture will have overall responsibility for the project while the
Director of INRA will be responsible for the implementation of the research
sub-project including: (i) the preparation of operational research programs;
(ii) the recruitment of staff and consultanLs; (iii) the coordination of the
preparation of documents -or the procurement of goods and works; (iv) the
organization of training programs; (v) the linkage of research activities to
the extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture; and (vi) contacts with
the Bank.
2.     A sub-project management coordination unit will be established within
INRA with four sections as follows: (i) a programming section to provide the
secretariat for the national programming commission responsible for the
putting in place of the priority research programs (para 3); (ii) a management
section to provide for the setting up and operation of a management accounting
system; (iii) a procurement section to provide for the preparation and review
of documents for the procurement of goods and works; and (iv) a data section
to develop improved data handling in the project executing agencies.
Research Programs
3.     The National Commission for Progrrmming Crops and Farming Sytems
Research attached to the Extension and Rural Institutions Department of the
Ministry of Agriculture, will be responsible for developing annual
multidisciplinary research programs focussing on priority crops and animal
research. The research programs will focus on the following: cereals (wheat
and barley), pulses, forage crops, meat production and cereal/livestock
sytems. The Regional Commissions attached to the Regional Research Centers
will develop initial proposals following broad national objectives laid down
by the National Commission which will consolidate the proposals into the
annual program. These programs will be designed to address problems faced by
farmers in producing such crops and livestock and to recommend appropriate
policies and procedures to improve their production and quality.
4.     To enable INRA and the three technical institutes (ITGC, ITEBO and
INPV) responsible for the execution of research programs properly to develop
and carry out these programs the following research staff shall be employed:



42
ANNEX 2
Page 2
1991        1992        1993      1994      1995      Total
Engineers:
INRA                 5           7          6          5         4        27
ITGC                 ^          19         14         12         3        48
ITEBO                           12           5         1         1        19
INVP                             2          1          :         1 
Total                5          40          26        18          9       98
Technicians:
INRA                 7           5           3         3          -       18
ITGC                            18         17         10         4        49
ITEBO                           10           8         2          -       20
INPV                             2           -         -                   2
Total                7          35          28        15         4        89
5.    The research programs will be carried out at five regional centers for
agricultural research (CRRA) and associeted research stations as shown at
appendix 1. INRA will be assigned resp,nsibility for the manag ment of the
Regional Center for Agricultural Resea ch (CRRA) at Lamtar, while ITGC will
retain responsibility for management 2 the CRRA at El Kb'oub, Setif, Tiaret
and Oued Smar.
6.    Suitably located research farms will be made available to the CRRAs as
and when necessary to ^arry out field work required for their research
programs. Specifically, the El Khemis station, *rnder the aegis of the Oued
Smar CRRA, will cover research in irrigated fiela crops.
7.    In order to facilitate the improved coordination of research and
extension activities, a research and development unit will be established in
each CRRA with suitably qualified staff in adequate numbers, including, inter
alia, at least one engineer and one technical agent, to be responsible for
developing permanent exchanges of views and information among research staff,
extension staff and farmers.  In order to facilitate this cooperation the CRRA
research and development units will work on a regular basis with Wilayate
teams of Subject Matter Specialists.
8.    To assist with the carrying out of the research program, INRA will
employ not later than June 30, 1992, the following consultants with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank:
(i) plant breeder; (ii) soil fertility specialist; and (iii) agro-
climatologist.



43
ANNEX 2
Page 3
Training
9.    INRA will be responsible for: (a) developing and carrying out an
overseas training program which wili include training at academic institutions
to enable INRA's staff as well as those of ITGC, ITEBO and INPV, to obtain
post-graduate degrees in pertinent subjects, and to upgrade the skills of the
engineering and technical staff of the four institutes; and (b) enter into
arrangements with appropriate overseas research institutions designed to
facilitate staff training and to enable an exchange of views on policies and
procedures to encourage agricultural development.
10.   INRA will employ advisers with qualifications, experience and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, to supervise research staff in the
preparation of post-graduate degrees.
Personnel Management
11.   Employment policies and procedures will be maintained designed to
encourage and reward quality performance by research staff in their work at
INRA, ITGC, ITEBO and INPV. Remuneration levels for research scientists at
INRA and at the technical institutions will be realigned with those in higher
education and the universities by December 31, 1991.
Financial Management
12.   Appropriate budgeting, financial and accounting procedures will be
applied by June 30, 1992. A training program designed to improve the
financial management capabilities of INRA's staff as well as that of the
technical institutes would be developed and implemented by consultants to be
employed not later than June 30, 1991, with qualifications, experience and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.



44
ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Research Centers end Experimental Farms where
the Research Prggrams Will Be Undertaken I/
Basic  Cereals Pulses  Forage   Red Meat   Cereal/Livestock
Research                Crops   Sheep  Cattle   Production
System
INRA
El Harrach         x       x      x      x
CRP Mahdi/Boualem   x      x      x      x       -        -           x
CRRA Lamtar        x       x      x      -       -        -
ITGC
El Harrach          -      x      x      -       -        -
CRRA Oued Smar      -      x      x      x       -        -           x
CRRA Lamtar         -      x      x      x       x        -           x
CRRA Tiaret         -      x      x      x       x        -           x
CRRA Setif          -      x      x      x       x        -           x
CRRA El Khroub      -      x      x      x       -        -
FE Guelma           -      x      x      x       -        -
ITEBO
Baba Ali            -       -     -      x       x        x           x
CRRA Tiaret         -      x      x      x       x        -           x
CRRA Lamtar         -       -     -      -       -        x
FE Saida            -      -      -      -       x        -           x
FE Fetzara          -      -      -      x       -        x           x
FE Ain Mlila        -
INPV
El Harrach          -      x      x
'/    CRP  : Regional Center for Research on plant diseases
CRRA : Regional Agricultural Research Centers
FE   : Experimental Farms



45
ANNEX 3
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Extension Implementat9ion Program
Oreanization and Management of Sub-Project
1.     The Director of Extension and Rural Institutions in the Ministry of
Agriculture will have overall responsibility for the project, while the
Director of CNPA will be responsible for the implementation of the extension
sub-project including: (i) the preparation of operational plans; (ii)
coordination of the recruitment of staff and the recruitment of consultants;
(iii) preparation of documents for the procurement of goods and works; (iv)
coordination of training; and (v) contacts with the Bank.
2.     CNPA's Director for Technical Information will assist CNPA's Director
with management of the project and run the project management unit which would
be established in his department and will comprise the following sections: (a)
management control; (b) technical and training; (c) monitoring and evaluation;
and (d) data handling.
(a)    Management control. This section will strengthen CNPA management to
supervise and monitor the extension sub-project; its responsibilities
will include:
-     supervision and monitoring of the sub-project investments,
ensuring availability of credit, execution of procurement
procedures and monitoring of investments use;
-     evaluation of operating costs and budgets preparation through
implementation of a cost accounting system and organization and
supervision of budget preparation at Wilaya level; and
-     execution and monitoring of financial and accounting operations.
(b)    Technical and training.  This section will have two sub-sections for
extension activities and training:
-     the extension sub-section will coordinate and supervise all
extension activities carried out by the Wilayate extension and
training units (BFV). It will keep BFV chiefs informed of
extension national policies, provide organizational and
technical support to BFV, collect monthly reports and prepare



46
ANNEX 3
Page 2
monthly reports and prepare monthly synthesis for the sub-
project management.
-    the training section will coordinate and supervise all training
activities of the sub-project. It will seek external and local
training facilities, keep BFV staff informed of these
facilities, organize training programs at national level and
provide adequate lecturers to BFV. The unit will have
responsibility to train extension management staff such as BFV
chiefs, SMS and PMU staff.
(c)    Monitoring and Evaluation.  This section will organize, coordinate and
supervise monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by BFV, M&E
units. It will: (a) participate with BFV units in the establishment
of regional working programs in line with the sub-project management
needs for information; and (b) help Wilaya units to prepare and
execute punctual surveys required by the sub-project management to
make appropriate dectsions and obtain better understanding of farmers'
needs and wishes. The section will collect and process information
provided by BFVs units and will prepare a synthesis for sub-project
management.  A monitoring and evaluation program will be developed
with the assistance of consultants and submitted to the Bank by the
end of PY1.
(d)     Data Handling.  This section will provide technical support for the
strengthening of CNPA data handling staff and participate in
establishing required software and training uses. The section will
focus on the following tasks:
-     participating in preparation of bidding documents for data
equipment purchase, control and setting up this equipment;
-     participating in preparation and execution of management
programs such as cost accounting, key indicator tables, status
of personnel, etc.
-     organizing and carrying out training courses for staff using
software;
-    monitoring and maintaining computer equipment;
-     operating the central computer equipment.



47
ANNEX 3
Page 3
Organization of Extension Services
3.     National Extension Committee.  The National Committee for Agricultural
Extension would be maintained to provide policy coordination at the national
level. The Department of Extension and Rural Institutions in the Ministry of
Agriculture which provides the secretariat to this committee, would continue
to work with CNPA in the application of this policy throughout the country.
4.     Regional Extension Committee.  Each Wilaya would maintain an extension
committee to adapt national policies to the conditions of the Wilaya and to
assure coordination with other regional services.
5.     Regional and Local. Field Organization.  The regional and field
services would be organized as follows:
(a)     Wilaya level: the Extension and Training unit (BFV) of the Agriculture
Department will be maintained and strengthened. A suitably
experienced chief would be assigned to each of the three sections of
BFV and a team of about four subject-matter specialists (SMS) covering
the main crop and livestock activities in the area, will be assigned
to each BFV. These specialists will report to the chief of BFV and
would be responsible inter alia for assuring a permanent link between
research/development units and extension and providing a permanent
technical support to extension agents. The BFV will include the
following sections:
-     extension activities: which will cover organization and
supervision of all extension activities carried out at Daira and
Commune level. The section will pay particular attention to
preparation and execution of visits and extension programs,
monitoring field activities, and monitoring staff achievement.
It will prepare a monthly synthesis of reports from the Dairat
for the sub-project management;
-     training and communication: covering the training of extension
agents, this section will organize training sessions at Wilaya
or Daira level in cooperation with SMS, agriculture staff and
external lecturers. The unit will discuss and prepare with
extension agents a yearly training program to be carried out
either at monthly Daira meetings or at specific training
centers. The unit will have responsibility to prepare and issue
all local technical and training papers for extension agents;
and
-     monitoring and evaluation; thIs section will have responsibility
for providing BFV management with all information required to
monitor and run extension activities efficiently. It will have



48
ANNEX 3
Page 4
to carry out specific surveys at management (Daira or sub-
project) request. All activities will be carried out under
supervision of the M&E section of the project management unit at
CNPA.
(b)     Daira level:  At Daira level one extension supervisor will be
appointed for about eight extension agents and will report to the BFV
chief of extension section. Supervisors will have responsibility for
organizing extension agents' working programs and monitor execution of
programs in the field while providing technical support.
(c)     Commune level.  As a first step one extension agent will be appointed
in each commune and will work with groups of about 15 farmers. Each
agent would therefore cover about 240 farmers to be visited twice a
month or 480 farmers in regions where the cropping pattern needs less
support and farmers could be visited monthly.
Extension Programs
6.      Extension activities would involve the dissemination of technical
information through the carrying out of visits to farmers, the use of audio-
visual aids, mass media and field demonstrations. Extension programs would be
prepared annually in cooperation with CRRAs and SMS teams and would be
designed to address specific farming problems identified on the basis of
extension reports, findings of SMS and research/development units and
eventually surveys carried out by .&E units. The extension programs (analyzed
by themes) for the following year would be formulated by each BFV and
submitted to the Bank by October 31 each year.
Training
7.     PMU will plan and organize all training activities in cooperation with
CNPA, the extension training centers (CFVA), training sections of BFVs and SMS
teams. A training methodology will be established with support of consultants
in PYI to be progressively improved and extended over three years to all
extension staff. Training will start with training trainers at the Ain Taya
CFVA which will carry out all national training programs, while specific
training will be provided by CFVAs with specialization in various cultural
techniques. CFVAs will also carry out: first grade training for young
farmers; information days for engineers and technicians from several
agricultural organizations; training sessions for extension agents; and
special sessions for improvement of farmers' cultural practices.



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
Total Project Costs
base Costs                                 foreign fechango
1991      1992         1993        1994        1999     Total          I       .Awiun
I. INVEIS,Kh8  COSIS
a1  CO8sIRIICIION                                      7.8848a  33.190 7  23. 1161 3                              4.1918    1 4 I   21.88? 0
6  KAIEIIIi  AGRICOIC                                              7.281 6       947 2                            7.828 8   38 2       2.994 0
C  8A1ER1(1  D ACCO8PAGNINIIII                                     4.628 6   3.740 8    1. 388 6                  9.797 9   89 9       b.841 9
0"NI'll,L Olp            E IMAf lOl                                3.869 0       999 4                            4.864 4   69 7    3.390 9
&  NAIiRIII1 WIAI. OR211,AIOIRIA                                  10.980 I 6.90O96    2.74689                    20.632 6    72 8    15.0296
f8A11R111  lNF0R."8ll0UE                                         9.292 3        181 9                      - 9.475 1   58 3    5.522 8
G  ACIIAl 811188U5                                                   191 6       306 6                              498 2      0 0          0 0
Of  DOI.'118NI1dA18U                                                 213 9                                          213 9   49 7          106 3
I  COISUIIAIION . A551S1A8C1  1tCHNlIQUt              2.4668a   4.2448 9  .003. 6    4. 2 lb4           399. 3   16.329 9    89 3    MM57  7
.JFORHAIIOII                                         10.969 2   8. 218 7   5.480 0   3.286 8   1.8694 1  29.649 2   84 7   25. 109 I
K  BOUlESIS                                              9409 13 .993 6    2.135 6           929 6                b. 1553    78 5      4.045 3
1RI 881811   DI P8301311108 V1010                                  1. 713 4                                       1.713 4   41 8          716 9
N  8AI11R1t11 Di IIWoUtUII08 0IAI'OS                                 90 7                                           910 7   96            289 8
N  8A11R1k1  Di PRIIdIICIIOII SCIlIPIC    VISUli                   1. 001 7      330 7                             .3324    72            964 5
o   AF0R111  D 08SiRYAII0IS El Of NISUIRI                            923 6                        -                  23 6   38 9          201I7
P  HAI(RIIl Dl DIIFUSIOII AUDIO    VISUiJ                           '498 9                                         996 9   42 8          424 4
Q  HO,ItRlI  . HAORM11  O181B1RkAU                      268 1   4.307 7    1. 689i6         H89  I               b.926 4    28 3      I 9608
R  80Y1NS Di IRAN8 PORI                                  921 8  .1%. 219 6   6. 198 2   2. 167 9                44.507~ 2   43 2    19. 2$17 7-
SAPIPR0VISl0N8INPNlAGRIC0lk1                                          87 6                                           876b    0 0            0 0 
I  NAILRIII of 13115181                                              134 4                                          134 4    9 9           13 3
1o181  IIlVL.9IlICI COSIS                               23. 091  2 128. 961 7  96. 62S   14. 999 9  2. 094 7 229. 329 9   54 3  122.311 0
II  RECURRENI C0515
A. P1R9ONNII                                         1.990 2   lb. 780 8  20. 754 S  23.064 9 24.041 7  88.b.12 0            0 0           0 0
8  FIIIRIIILII C0N IRUIC1108                                        134 0       603 1       964 6    929 7   2.631 4   30 9             812 8
C  1011C110118&81N  VtiiICUIls                          V) 36    3.698 4    4.49b 6   4.688 0  4.688 0   17.7235    1 48              2 .6239
0  fRAIS Di DiPi..CIIENI                                138 4    9.889 4   10. 43295  10.917 0 It, 102 3  42.4799h           0 0           0 0
L. L5SAIS                                               !,8 I      833 4    1.998S7    2.067.9  2.204 9    6. 723 9    199S           1. 4103
acfiClIo  o ACI:rMPAG8181                                        296 6       807 6        408 2     408 2    1.880 7   34 7           693J
13  101.811131181818   AtW80                            67       1.998 7   8.710 7   9. 188 5  9.293 9  29. 234 6   28 6    s 197 7
II1086111311811N: I8IOR1HAIl0Ul                                    904 0    1. 0811  6    1. 085 6  1.089b 6   4.1160 '4  48 7    2. 029 6
I  D18011S1RAIION1                                                 646 4       646 4    1.268 8   1.268 8    3.830 3    0 0               0 0
J1  RKI(IERCI   8IB  I0GII8I'iIQUi                                             323 8       323 8      323 8       971 3   89 9          672 8
K  11108 0 ANIN l(35                                              648 8       8787        878 7      763 8    3.170 0       0 0          0 0
I  (81811118 N81,8111  DE I'ROIIICIIOI                             ohs87       198.7        19  7     19  7       63950    62 0         393 7
8  FNFRf11E8 NAI,81(1   O Dl DIIisIo8                               44 9        51 0        SI1 0      SI 0        197 4   44 0          86 9
8t  pIIOOIIcIioN It SuPPORIS PEOALOCIQULJL                         990 7   2.093 0   2.993 0  2.093 0    7.269 1   62 0               4.903 8
0                    BUREAUX88j818(13                   90 3       992 0       604 I       610 6      610 6   2.507 7    0 0              0 0
P  A118181 Of 8118l1                                             1.469 5    1.513 3    1.557 I  L.997 I   b.097 0    0 0                  0 0
Q  1AC81IONS       .                                    21 9        28 9        28.9        28 9        It, 3     122 6    0 0            0 0
8  ACCULIIS l  IlJ81lGt8EN15                          196 0       540 9       795 8       918 9      398 9   2,470 6    0 0              0 0
loIal RlICURIJIII C1351                                  4. 872 1  19. 419 3  59. 941 6  b99953 9 60. 999 3 220. 738 3    9 8   21.1,40 8
lolal SWIM18   COISIS                                    27  121 i 167.977 0 112. 169  I  74.949 8 61.049 0 446.0658 2   32 3  143.951 8
Physical COnlingen. les                                2.1043'   12.9571 4    w.1,63 3    1.499 6    209 4  22.087 6   94 9    t2.04b 7
Price ConiI i genc ies                                 i271 Ii  .4. 067 3  34 911 9  31. 686 3 34. 954 7 138. 891 9    lb 3   22. 688 8
lolal P11OJ111 CO519                                     1J. 118 i 214. hIS l7 192. 744 4 I0n. 139 t 98. 21 1 0 6,07. 047 7   29 4   178.1,87 3
laxes                                    7iNJ~~~~~ 19I  46. 177 9  20.bl1  0  11.837 8  9. 441 4  S0. 441 8      0 0          0 0                                                          1-
loresgn ItchAnge  *17.0374  I1  81. 868 0  46. 415 0  22. 489 2 10. 840 I 178.687 4    0 0                                                  0 0
Apr~il 18.  1990   10 SI



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
Project Components by Year
(DA'000)
134193       1992           3941          14.44          1 493'          D          ov.S Ii   U0-io
A   Mt 13.I1E11IC
I   333:109L133h11  1113A                                                         43141  1   it  W   ) 1) Ii  1.  4   3'. 'it.. 0  k, :'37  t I,           S Is' '334  3    I3 3On,13 
7   a WUkH    I     3.:3 /014  4   03  '.41 0   34 0q.J 4    13. 1is  '3  I   ISP:,                                                                        443'  431! 43    1.0 41 . I
.   iflUokUNI        I   No31                                                      37 1 0    3  /14? 0   30 420 '3          7  s.  I  S       %   '     It: I.',  3      4 41  3
4   vini  IUILNINI  iWpv                                                             1.24b        I87/          II7'I8 '                      23'.           '1'b .1..4
`3  fIUMIIIIUN        A.  I.IANCI  1131H11103   I I  LUN'M13A110H3              I ? 43,40    ii1 '77          '/34       3    7114.4         0'31 7      431'0043          '3  304  7
'..j,lo aI,,.   WI1:mkIH Kil74  i 1.     - ~                                                               '3/  -i' '3  11  343  4   4n  .,   I  i  4 i0I   .'*Io 4st .1    t'. 111.7 '
VI) I33 UAJI I -.A I ON39  RAPR1,13311I                                                      4'. hJ I  I     / I I34/  4    3 '3.. I Its 40'34   h.-0  4I3  33    I I 40,0 3
RI2       OI NO 11h11311191  1.'3LIv                                               18L.       11 3.t, I       I it.' 0      I PS  ,       IS'.) II    34   M/., 31        I  .%    I
I3  PW330043I I (IN A11..3I     '3L.133   VI .....                                               1 480  S       i 401 '/    I  IllI /          II)I    I/ III  I            'It., 3.
4   DiR 1391013/   PRk1133. l '  I1ictIQII                                                       I .'I. .'        431.h  i       4 bl.        46,t  I          I.111  '        fit 0
!,  suiViI  3VAIII?. O113                                                                        , t. 1133  8,3%4 3,             33.. b.'     1313, 2      '.4'.es*            Id1   3 
3.  CO33III IAlI GM'  II 13101101M S                                              I.'I 1.1       2 318'i 2    ;1   14 4          el'  3                    Is I."4 3,       I 003  I
I   CIIIIIII  Of 6.I.13 10 VUI.ANI'3AIUN                                          1 '104 4       I A37A  a1    3 :'%'  3.    I7        t.   I    4 ,,      / 'a,4  0           3311A
%.A, 3.4.13.  V333.ARI".  Blilk                                                        I. .0a  I   /0  ?'JI  I  .'18  /to  2   it, 3114 .        1'3,18  I   1Y.%a '.1   3      4  .031 3,
lot41  IIA'3I310 333   34%1',                                                           2/1.423 I    10 1,  I3   0  11.'  I3. 3-  I /4 '34-44 3.3 04'3 0   441, O.It,11          Y 3'  0/0   I
l4hy!. C.3 Iw, Cu   ,.itVi.' lu                                                      2  141  1   12   713  4    '3.0. bb       I     43'3  t     204  4    .''1.311  3.lI     .' 173. 4
Pr t..  CtMll tflg2.. so.                                                            3. 271  b   14. Ob/  3   14 -)I I  I3 I3 3,33.   314 4%44  /    31  W33 3-   '           II  314/ 
lt,1d3  3'11tJ33I L3)SIS                                                                31  JJ388  .734   l%1.'I  P,?  /44  4  tO,1  II' V / 4,1  Ils  (,   .   041 I            14  044 
I8l't3b                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 3M3  7   41.. 37/  4j   20. %1I  0   3311 all  ' 44314    40  i43  n  I1V.I I.
foreign. k.ch.ngu                                                                   37 074 9   81 81b8 0   44. 4I'3~ 0   22 411'S2  10 8401   373  bi8/  I    ?2  0'.  2
April II8. 3430 30 '31



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
Research Component
lolals Incluading Lonti ngencies                                lotals IncI..dinia ConI Ifl3flCeis
iDA 1000I                                                       1US$ '000)
1991      1992        1993        1994      1995.    lotla        1991       I'392     1993      1994~  1995       lotal
INY(STtNhlI cosis
A  CONISIRUCIIUN                                       9.585 7  39.383 0  32.b5096                            81.478 3   I183j *  4.81,2 1  4.013 5                        10.059 0
B  "Al ERIEL  AGRICOII                                            7.667 1        78?2                          8.449 3                946 5       96 b                      1.043 1
C  NIAIIII D1   ACCO  PAG.NIM(NI                                 -5,592 9   5  08?  9  2.041 7                12. 717 5               b9o        527WI5   252 I             1.570 1
M AI SRIIIt  0 6 XPFRINENIAI ION                                 4.802 A    1.310 3                          6.111? 25929                      161 8                        754 
I NAIIRILI Of IABORAIOIRE                                       13.5463    8.948 4  J. 737 2                21, 231 9              .672 4   1. 104 7   461 4              3. 2385b
I   AIIIlIII IIIIORNAIIQU(                                       8.93b A       241 8                         9. 178 6             1. 103 3      29 9                      1. 133 2
Ii  ACIIAI ANINAIIA                                                  143 0        b7 9                           b6109                  176b      57 8                         75 4
HI  CONSUiLAIION . ASSISIANICt ILCIHNIQUL              1.7b4 5    4.121 7   5.574 5  5.373 8          579  2   17.413 7    217 8    5088         5 882    6634       715   2. 149 8
1  fORlNAIION                                         I.;. 009 I  10, 355 3   7.222 5  4.`19 S  2.478 8  '17. 64) I  1 bOb I  1.278 4           891 7   5654    306  0  4.647 5
J  MAIIRIIL 01 PRODUCT11:ION SCRIIIIO   VI silla                                428 8                            42ft8                            52 9                         52 9
A  110811111. M11RIt11(  Di BIJRIIAU                    119!j9    3'.I19 0   2.4771b    91,2 0                .878 8       14114    286 3      305,9    118a                725 8
I   OYfNS III IIANSIP13RF                              4i-b 9   7. 892 6   8.099 9  2.995 2                 19. 454 Ii     by 1,    ?14 4  1. 000 0   .319 8              2. 401 8
llliNVISlNINI CUS,IS                                 24. 11 i, I 104. 7b0 4  73.1465' 19J.6895   3080 022S. b,005   J. 0748 12. 413  4  S. 030 4 2.430 8    3775 27. b5l 9
11  R(.CUIIRINI I;OSIS
A  PfRSONNi                                           .3. 6~,o I  10. 652 I  I1. 969 0 2 1. 687 6 24.880 2  77. 839 0    4506 1, . 3 15 1  2.094 9 2.677 5 3.071l 6  9.509 8
B  kNiNIlII   CONISIIUCIION                                       163 7      bill  6  1,226,7  1. 308 4    3. 38b 4                 20 2      84 9    151 14   1615t    418 I
1:  fINCIIONNIMINI YIH11C311I                            .,5 2      748 8t   1. bi8 4  2.031 9  2. 176 0   6.61202?          3 I      92 4    202 3   250 8   268B 6    817 3
0  IIAIS Pt UIPIAIA6:111N1                              2-,6 6    I. 758i 6   2.915 5  3.856 8  4.443 I  13. 230 b          31 7    21 11    '359 9   47lt I   548 5  1. 633 4
F  LSSAIS                                                1.7 6    1. 018 8    2.065,9  2.944 4  3.363 4   9.460 2            8 3     1258a    255 I   3635    415)2   1. 167 9
I  A8(11N011     ALCUNPAGNINLN                                      322 7   i.077 3    569 7    607 7   2.5)77 3                      39 8      133 0    70J3   75 0         JI182
G  FONC[IONNIINIII  18A1(                                )I 3   2       463 8   11.421 9 12.835 0  13.887 9  40.6799         8 8     304 2   1.410 1 1.584 6 1.714 6  5.022 2
It  IIoICIIONKININI II4IORMA1IQUI                                 1.022 I   1.06i54   1. 130 0   1. 198 7   4. 41652                 126 2      131 5)   1395b   148 0      545 2
1  IlICHILRCIE 8111810EORAIJIIQUf                                              385 7    405 8    426 9    1.218 4                               47 6    501 I       2 7      150 4
i1  PRODULIIION Di SUPPORTIS PEDAGUL.IQUiS                          121 I      127 2      133 6     140 3       52   I                14 9       IS 7     lb 5i    17 3       64 5
K  IIINCIIONMiMINNi BUREAUX                               .7 0       49 4       53 2       57 2       b,1 4     253 2        3 41      6 1        b I,     7 I       7 8      31 3
1  A8I11NI 11D  BEIAIL                                           1.895 7   2.099 5  2. 322 3  2.49b 5   8.813 9                      244 0    259 2   28b 7   408 2  1.088 I
lotal RLCURRLNI COSIS,                                    4.1lo? 8  20.21b6b  40.506 549.200 854.9905   69 M017 3    5065  2.495 9  5.0008 6.074 2 6.789 020.8bb63
lotal PR10J31(  COSIS                                     29.048 9  124.977 0 113.653 1 68.890 358.048 5 394.617 8  3.5863 15.429 .4 14.031 2 8.5050 7.161,5 48.718 3
April 18. 1990  II 0?                                                                                                                                                                                       tw1



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
Extension Component
Totals Inclhiding Cont ingenciss                          Totla s Including Conte'gene 'Os
(DA '0001                                               (US$ '0001
1991      1992      1993      19914     1995    1ol.1       1991     19(12    1993      MA94    199%    lotla
luviSINtug costs
a  CONSIPIJCIION                                      4838  5.2?? 2    419. 2                          S  .745 2    60     651 5    61 7                        7093
S  NAIIRIEI asmicoil                         ~~~~~~~     ~ ~            ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~1.926 6  -- 1.926 6  737 8                         23? A
C1  AIRIMEI A"INIRIAIU                                      2.674 8          -- 2.57489                                   330 2                                330 2
0  ACHIa  ANINAIIX                                              129 0         -129 0                                        15 9                                 159
E. DOCURIUMAION                                           -    277.9          --                         277 9        -     34 3                                 341
I  CONSUl 18110W . ASSISIAIICE ttEoIIQUE           1.158 8  1. 165 3    98t 9    437 4                 3.743 4  143 1    143 9   121 2    54 0                  462 2
6  8913151                                            660 3  2.481 2  2.827 0    733.0                 6.701 4   81.5    306 3   349 0    905                   827 3
II NAIERIEI I   POf  olCIIONl WISE                        -  2. 120. 4        .- 2.120 4                              -    261 8                                261 S
I  N         OfRE   DIPROTIUCIION OIAPOS                  -    631 1                                     6 31 1             77 977
J. NAIIRIFI DL ,RROOUCIIONU SCRIPTO - VISUEL                  1.235 6                   -1.235 6                           152 5                                152 5
Ratail[l  0 IRISIRwaIION El Dl NISURE                   -     693 8                              -     693 8        -      5 6                                 as856
1. NatIRIEI D ofIIIIISION AUODI  - WisuEL                     1.234 3                                  1.234               IS12 4        -152 4
N  NIPiEII  . "ATERIEt. of BUREAU                    216 S  3.440 5 S                                 3.657 1   26a8   424 7                                   45 
*  N111 S 01" Of Aim*sPotI                            621 7 35.89 8"                     -            36.512 lo     , It.    4 411 0                          4O77
0  APPMOISIONNENENI LORICOIE                                    124 3         --                         124 31 3                              IS 3                  3
P. NATERIEL OE CUISINE                                          187. 5                            -      187.5              23.2         -23 2
Total INVESININT COSTS                                 2,308 4 59. 490 I  4.228 0  I. 170. 4          -  67.594 9  334. 1  7. 344 5   522.0   144.5           -   .345 I
II  RE6URRNI COSTs
A. P'hiSOEI                                        1.012 0 *0.995 4 11.82S 3 12.712 2 13.665 6  50.210 6  1249  1.357 5 1.459 9 t.569 4 1.6871   6. 198 8
B. (86011118 coNsIRUCTION                                        0 5      99 2    115 7       71 2      286 6               0 I    12. 3     14. 3     8a8    35 4
C  IONCIIONUNFENI WENIICUIES                         15l 2  3.902 0  4.41? 1  4.729. 9  S.065 3  18. 265 6   18 7    481 7   545.3   583 9   825 3  2.25%  0
o  IRAIS Of DEPIACENENI                              118.8 10.740 8 11.558 3 12.425 2 I3.3S7 1  48.220 3   I? 1  1.3260 1.427 0 1.534 0 1.649 0  S.9S3 I
SIMS585                                                       28 3       30.4      32 7      35 1      126 4               3 5      3 8      4 0      43       is6
I  IoNcIIOINFNENT INIORNAIIREE                           -     142 8    300 I    318 3    337.7   1.008 8                  I? 6    37 I    39. 3    41 7    135 If
6. OFNONSIR8IION                                              833 8    896 8  1,892 3  2.034 2   5.657 I                  102 9   110 7   233 '.  25I1I    698 4
N  ACTION 0 881888108                                    -      36 9  1.219 1  I.310.6  1.224 5   4.591 2                 103 3   ISO05   161 8   151 2    5568
I  FNIRMillI PAIERIE. Of PRODCTION                            IT17  2    187.2    196 6    206 5        768 6       -      22 0    23 I    24 3    25 5         94 9
J  ENIREOIII  NAIIRIEI Dl SIIFUSION                            49.9       60 I      63 I      66.3      239 4               5 2      1 4      7 8      8?       29 6
S  PROEIUCIION DE SUPPORTS PIDAGOIRUES                   .    991.1  2.341 I  2.459.2  2.583 3   8.374 8             -    122 4   289 0   303 6   318 9  1.033 9
I. IONCI IONNEINNV8UR(huX                             73 6    714. 3    784 9    853 6    917 6   3. 3413 9    9 I         88 2    96 9   lOS 4   113 3    412 S
P  VACAIIOIIS                                         25 6      36 7      395s      425S      24 6      168 9    3?         45       4 9      52       30       208
N  ACCJElIS El IIESER6ANENTS                         t82. 3    697.8  1, 104 I    923 1    575 4   3.482 7   22 5          86 I   136 3   1140    71 0    4300
-lotal RECUJRREMI COSIS                                I, .83.5S 30. 148 5 34 863 3 38. 075 0 40. 164 5 144. 834 9  195 5  3.72? 0 4.304 I 4.700 6 4.958 6 1?. 880 8
total PRJECT COStS                                      4289.9 89,638.7 39.091 3 39.245 4 40,164 5 212.429 8  529 6 111.066 5 4.826. I 4.845 I 4.958 6 26.722  9
Nap 4. 1990  12 14 



53
AMNE 5
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC 01 AIGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PILOT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan i
Cumulative
IBRD         Semester        By end of       Cumulative         X of
Fiscal Year   Ending          Semester                        Disbursement
1991        Dec  90             -                  -
June 91          2.0 Lb              2.0              6
1992        Dec  91          0.5                 2.5               8
June 92          1.0                 3.5             11
1993        Dec  92          2.5                 6.0              19
June 93          2.5                 8.5              27
1994        Dec  93          2.5                11.0              34
June 94          4.0                15.0             47
1995        Dec  94          4.0                19.0              59
June 95          4.0                23.0             72
1996        Dec  95           3.5               26.5              83
June 96          2.5                29.0              91
1997        Dec  96           1.5               30.5              95
June 97          1.5                32.0            100
Expected Effectiveness Date : January 1991
Expected Completion Date    : June 1996
Expected Closing Date        : December 1996
Special Account Deposit



54
ANNEX 6
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OE ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Proposed Bank SuRervision InDut into Key Activities
Dates         Activity                      Expected Skill            Staff
(approx.)                                   Requirements               Input
(weeks)3/
9-10/90       Supervision Mission           Research            )          8.0
(Project start-up)           Extension           )
Procurement         )
Financial Analyst )
12/90         Review training program       Research (training)           0.5
research scientists
1/91          Review national research    Research (policy)                1.0
program
2-3/91        Supervision Mission           Research (pbo)      )          6.0
(including review            Extension           )
proposals programming
by objectives)
6-7/91        Supervision Mission           Research            )          7.0
(including review of         (experimental       )
construction program)        design) Extension  )
Architect           )
10-11/91      Supervision Mission           Research            )          7.0
Extension           )
Financial Analyst )
1/92          Review national research    Research (policy)                1.0
program
1992          Two Supervision Missions    Research              )         15.0
Extension           )
Financial Analyst )



55
1993          Two Supervision Mission       Research            )         15.0
(including review of         Extension           )
proposals national           Financial Analyst  )
research plan, evaluation
extension results and
review proposals national
plan)
1994          Two Supervision Missions    Research              )         12.0
Extension           )
Financial Analyst )
1995          Two Supervision Missions    Research              )         10.0
(including evaluation        Extension           )
extension results and        Financial Analyst  )
second phase proposals)
1996          Two Supervision Missions    Research              )         10.0
(including work on PCR)      Extension           )
Financial Analyst )
aj   Excluding review of progrees renorts, procurement actions, correspondence
etc.



56
ANNEX 7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in Project File
1.          "Projet Recherche et Vulgarisation," FAO/CP, Investment Center,
Report No. 27/88 CP-ALG 24. March 15, 1988.
2.          "Programme de D6veloppement du Secteur C6realier,n FAO Investment
Center, Report No. 53/88GV - ALG 25. May 18, 1988.
3.          Implementation Volume:
Annex 1       Recherche Agronomique
Annex 2       Sous-projet Vulgarisation
Annex 3       Gestion du Sous-projet Recherche
Annex 4 (a)   Sous-projet Recherche: Formation, Consultations et
Assistance Technique
Annex 4 (b)   Sous-projet Vulgarisation: Formation
Annex 5       Composante Construction
Annpx 6       CoCIt Du Projet



MAP SECTION



IBRD 21081
ALGERIAMe                                                                       it
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT                                                          M  e d i  e r r a n e a n                                  S e a
PROJET DE RECHERCHE ET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE                                                                                                                                                     *oR.-72
CLIMATE DATA AND LOCATION OF REGIONAL AGRICULTURE                                           -EP                                                                                  S0kikee ANJNAA                 -4
RESEARCH CENTERS AND RESEARCH STATIONS
DONNEES CUMATIQUES Er LOCALISATION DES CENTRES REGIONAUX                                                                                                               \      SKIKDA                   EL TARF
DE RECHERCHE AGRONOMiOQUE ET STATIONS EXPERIMENTALES                                                                                 BEJA                                               E I   m
Bouim                                      A      M     /,CrNSTjM NE     GUELMA          SW
*/\  ognoo\                                                         A hESou, lE
.   \   |  /   /    /    /  El Boyedh   ;/     /    Loghouct0        .          1  /          *         '    j                                                 \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 l h-
UA                       NM A I                         A L'A/                        s...    f
H          l                      M                8  V               -                                                                SQUKAHRAS   I
\.                                                  D                                   BCi .  )B\.diBou   S   E T S  F     MS SEiGE  E   W
\;,               )                  /                           |~~~~~~SI    PLJV IEREm    \          ;.N.r           NAns ONd A A1 TLO 
*_ TISSO  SILT                                                            (                 .                  I        S     ~    OU ELABOUNOAGHI `
i ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~               S S E "   [L mQ  o     rprd [  b lL      h  x s rLrlh     0         R NnRQNNrERNA4ONIS\
ASCARA                                  I                                               i I L A/
It..  mm, --                                                                                                                           -,          9~~~~~~~~~~~~              ~        ~~~~~~~~ KHENCHELAI 
L        *Smido 
ABES \   SAIDA                                                                                                        8  I SI..K R  A
NAAMLA   /     /                  E~~~~~IB ydh
-Nea..          EL        A A D H                  "CEEIIRES REGIONIAUXDE RECHERCHE AGRONOMIGUE                TEMPERATURIE. mRiNJMA EXTREMES (de,g C)  - 
)  (                              "'          U   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATIONS EXPERIMENTALES    SIEGES DES WILAYA
--                                            PAINFA11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m.)       ~~~~~~~APfLEAONALE
0         50        100        ISO                     600                                        FRON~TERES DES VV0I4A          LN
. . . .   . . . - .                                          KILOMETERS                    ,INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                           -
-....2  ..--'"  /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~ ~~~          )            00FRONTIER ES INTERNATIONAIESN. 
JANUARZY 1989



ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT 
9JET DE RECHERCHE ET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE                                                                                                                                                                           Ab
LOCATION OF EXTENSION ACTIVITIES                                                                                                                                                            55          A.NA,A            El
SITES DES ACTIVITIES DE VULGARISATION                                                           ALGIERS   AjT BOUMERDESo_ogqe_,u  A-zf-i .                                              S      SK)  kV    GFoNNAS I
ALGIERS    rT ~die.at.           I z I                              J,KpIlK D A                                     EL TARF
\%ued S~~~~~ar..,,,.             R~~~EJAIA Reon      JIJj E L
Cherhel   r905I                            I0KIz0
/  T IPA                               A ,I&oBioc\/                                  --,~                        .        
6a-~~~---t Snuiro - HoWe,      ' ~~~~~~~~~~~CONSTANTINE                     GEM            (S&k
H.i- sn,C-nslnln\ hANu
/          -.          --"'-~~~A~ .LMijiA,             A.e~u         mO, cdcIAo,       -.1                                       IKo.
AIN    o         ~~~~~Medec ____s         U, II RA                                                                               SOUK AHRA MIA    ,
CH L EKF                  ElEei                                                  OD    OL //.
TStllY'   >  '~ChiIf \EIA"e(        Djle -d/aWe A  Baeoogho                  .'                                                       N
MOStOgO/SBflT  W ~~~~~~~~~~~~'  ' ~~M   ED  E A   K                                               Bord4Bo-   S ET I F        \M Ldo ..
3             y.                  -- AEREETDJ               ~'                   OumABRERgDJ
*Oron             )~~~~~~REL IZANE   ,,     ISESI                                                            'sl*                                                        GJAH 
ORA N                                                                                                                                                        S e,on5A2    TseMsl.  -  on 
A,. Temo,,chent  AIN   MmASCARA                        .8vA>T--N-A-  V/                                                                                                 -ATN
S'd, Rd   Tio,.t                                                                                                                   K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .    HENCHELA 3
/   TEBESSA
A*  TLEMCEN          1                               /                TI A   R E  T                             ~~\                                                           ~       -.- 
TI--  SIDI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- 
ABBES<N  S A IDA   V-.'Djelfo                                                                      -                                 I7  8  K R A
L--                                                                                                                                                                       LI~~~~~~~~~~.--~ 
--z ~ ~         ~         ~        ~        ---> 
El Boydh                                                 N'-./
* N A A M A                                                                           LAGHOUJAT 
DIAATEDE ORMTIO  ETDEVULGARISA I/ON AGRICOTE  * SIEGES DES WI/NAYA..
F-j  A/n DeAl W.ioo                                      NATORNAL CAPITAL
Ne.   ,                                                           W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  BMoc W,I.,0I                                                                       ALGERIA
DA/RATE BOUNDARIES                I
0   SR          ISO~~~~10   ISO                                                                        FR os W00SONTIERES DES GA/RATE/         N
J     ,~~~~~~~~<                                         I                                                                                                            C' N~~~~IEJS-.Wdy
.. . . . .                                       ~~~~~~~~KILOmErERS                      W7   mede Wiloyo                                         N/LAVA BOJNDARIES                             N
/   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     SET~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FONTIERES DES Wr//NAA
a..ao,i. ..s.njoo.onnapechbon.Sn,a,             -o-   il.y.INTERNAT/ONA BOUNDARIES                                             .N.
AUG



