Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17929
vIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
(LOAN 3216-AL)
June 1, 1998
Rural Development, Water, and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Algerian Dinar (DA)
Appraisal average (1990)                 US$ 1= DA 8.10
Intervening years average (1990-1996)    US$ 1= DA 31.30
Completion year average (1997)           US$ 1= DA 58.41
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 01 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CNPA         Centre National de PEdagogie Agricole
National Center for Agriculture Pedagogy
CRRA         Centre Regional de Recherche Agronomique
Regional Agricultural Research Center
EAC          Entreprise Agricole Collective
Farm Cooperative
NA           InstitutNational Agronomique
National Institute for Agriculture
INPV         Institut National de Protection des Vegetaux
National Institute for Crop Protection
1NRAA        Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique d Algerie
National histitute for Agricultural Research
INVA         Institut National de Vulgarisation Agricole
National Institute for Agricultural Extension
ITEBO        Institut Technique de l 'Elevage Bovin et Ovin
Technical Institute for Cattle and Sheep
ITGC         Institut Technique des Grandes Cultures
Technical Institut for Field Crops
MAP          Ministere de I Agriculture et de la Peche
Ministry for Agriculture and Fisheries
OADA         Organisation Arabe pour le Developpement Agricole
Arab organization for Agricultural Development
PBO          Programmation et Budgetisation par Objectifs
Programiing and Budgeting by Objectives
SMS          Specialiste Matitre
Subject Matter Specialist
T&V          Formation et Visites
Training and Visit System
Vice President:   Kemal Dervii
Country Director:   Christian Delvoie
Acting Sector Director:   Salah Darghouth
Sector Leader:   Mark D. Wilson
Task Team Leader:   Charles Ameur



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 3216-AL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ............................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................                     ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .....................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ............................................. 1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..............................2..............2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ............................................. 9
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .............................................9
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ............................................                   10
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ............................................               10
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ............................................ 11
H. FUTURE OPERATION ............................................                   12
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNT                  ......................                      12
PART H: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5a:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation: Research Component
Table 5b:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation: Extension Component
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8a:     Project Costs
Table 8b:     Project Financing
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



APPENDICES
A.   Re-Allocation of Loan Funds
Table: Re-Programming of Loan Tranches and Allotment of Unallocated Tranches
B.    INVA's Contribution
C.    Map



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 3216-AL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Research
and Pilot Extension Project, for which loan (3216-AL) in the amount of US$32.0 million
was approved on June 5, 1990, signed on September 26, 1990, and made effective on June
14, 1991.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1997, one year behind schedule. A total of
US$ 12.56 million was canceled on May 16, 1996. Final disbursements took place on
April 30, 1998.  The loan account will be closed once the Bank has received
documentation to justify expenditures made under the special account, at which time an
estimated balance of US$10.0 million will be canceled.
The present ICR was prepared by Mr. Charles Ameur, task team leader for this
project. Owing to the turmoil in Algeria, no field visit was possible in the context of the
ICR. The last supervision mission in the country was in September 1993. Three
subsequent meetings took place respectively in Paris in June 1994, in Washington in
November 1994, and in Tunis in June 1995. There were no further meetings outside the
country. The ICR is therefore based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the
legal documents, the supervision reports, and on the project files of ECA/MNA
Information Service Center. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
drafting its own Completion Report. Mr. Mark D. Wilson, sector leader, MNSRE,
reviewed the Bank final report.
i



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 3216-AL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Agricultural Research and Pilot Extension project was appraised on June 9, 1989,
approved by the Board on June 5, 1990, becoming effective on June 14, 1991. At appraisal, project
costs were estimated at US$74.9 million, toward which the Bank provided a loan of
US$32.0 million. The Borrower was the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria. The
implementing agencies were the National Institute for Agricultural Research of Algeria (INRAA);
and the National Center for Agricultural Pedagogy (CNPA) which, during the course of the
project, became the National Institute for Agricultural Extension (INVA). They were later joined
by the National Institute for Agronomy (Institut National Agronomique d'Alger, INA). The
original closing date of December 31, 1996 was extended to December 31, 1997.
Because of significant delays, persistent problems experienced by the research component,
and growing civil disturbances, the project was restructured during the mid-term review in 1995.
At that time, funds for the research component were markedly reduced, from US$24.3 million to
US$8.8 million. The extension component, however, had its share increased to US$8.64 million
through the reallocation of US$1.0 million from the research component; these funds were used to
purchase additional audio-visual equipment to reach more farmers, given the risks associated with
field visits. Finally, at the Government's request, US$2.0 million was allocated to INA, which
became the third beneficiary and implementation entity, on June 3, 1996. As a result of project
downsizing, a total of US$12.56 million was canceled from the loan on May 14, 1996. The new
and final loan amount was US$19.44 million.
Final disbursements were to take place on April 30, 1998. At that time, there was a
balance of US$10.8 million. Taking into consideration the US$12.56 million previously canceled
from the loan, the estimated overall disbursement amounted to about US$10.0 million (31.2% of
appraisal estimates and 51.5% of the formally revised forecast).'
Project Objectives
The objectives of the project were to establish strong and responsive research and
extension services to increase agricultural production and productivity, reduce dependence on
imported foodstuffs, and to raise farm income levels. To this end, the national agricultural research
The above figures are not final since at the time this ICR was finalized, the Government had not yet
fully justified some US$1.0 million from the Special Account. Also, FAO is to return to the Bank the
unspent funds of some US$0.4 million for which it had entered into a contract with the Govermment
to manage the extension overseas training program.
ii



system was to be reformed and streamlined, and new approaches to agricultural extension were to
be tested on a pilot basis.
The project was conceived as a first five-year tranche, to be followed by additional Ban]k
support in subsequent years. In research, the objectives were to: (a) strengthen the institutional
structure in order to develop competent, well-motivated staff and improved coordination among
institutes; (b) reorient resources toward clearly identified priorities through the introduction and
testing of research programming by objectives; (c) introduce a system of resource allocation and
monitoring, by research program. The extension component was designed to: (a) test on a pilct
basis approaches, organization, and methods for the provision of agricultural extension services to
the new private voluntary farm cooperatives (EACs) and to individual farmers (EAIs). The goal
was to ensure that the services met the needs of each beneficiary and that strong flows of
information existed among farmers, research, extension, and training.
Implementation Experience and Results
The project made a slow start, due mainly to the tedious process of putting in place the-
needed institutional reforms. These included vesting INRAA with the necessary powers and
authority to coordinate the national applied research program as well as the training of research
staff and the use of technical assistance. Also, defining and adopting a statute for INRAA and for
the researchers took some three years. Extension, for its part, was operating in an unsettled rural
sector, testing new approaches to informing farmers of improved techniques during a time when
socialist farms were gradually being replaced by collective farms that evolved into private,
individual farms with precarious property rights. Additionally, the country's increasing turmoil
became a major disrupting factor for the project from 1994 onwards. As a result, few of the project
objectives have been achieved and the overall outcome is highly unsatisfactory.
Research Component. From the beginning, INRAA experienced serious challenges to its
role of coordinating the activities of the various technical research institutes (ITGC, INPV,
ITEBO). These institutes had little or no tradition of working together, let alone of sharing
programs, researchers, and equipment. This behavior had clearly been anticipated in the SAR. It
had been thought, however, that the risk would be mitigated by the publication of INRAA's new
statutes and by the achievement of formal collaboration agreements between INRAA and the
research institutes.
The adoption and publication of a statute covering researchers took more than two years.
This, among other factors, led to delays in recruiting much-needed personnel. In addition, none of
the five regional agricultural research centers (CRRA) were created. By April 1994, INRAA had
seen its fourth Director General in as many years. These problems were compounded by the fact
that the security situation in the country was steadily deteriorating during the period of the project.
In mid-1995, the research component was restructured to more closely complement the
activities that INRAA would be able to implement over the remaining two years of the project,
taking into account a possible request by the Government for a one-year extension of the closing
date. Meanwhile, sufficient funds were earmarked to allow for the collaboration of those technical
research institutes willing to collaborate with INRAA. At the same time, a review of the initial
selection of regional research centers resulted in two new sites being added in the southern part ouF
the country and four of the five previous such centers being dropped to include the steppe, the
south and the coastal areas. Security reasons were also of high concern in the final selection of
sites.
iii



In regard to the major objectives, the strengthening of the institutional structure to develop
a competent, well-motivated staff and improve coordination among the research institutes was only
partially achieved, and at a late stage. Because 1NRAA was forced to spend far too much time on
institutional matters out of its control, the recruitment of staff was delayed and the procurement of
much-needed equipment was appallingly slow. It should be noted, however, that although INRAA
could have procured goods at an earlier stage, it opted instead, to its credit, to assess needs
carefully prior to disbursement. The reports reviewed for this ICR also indicate that INRAA
introduced and tested the programning and budgeting by objective approach (PBO) on a limited
scale. This approach applied mainly to its own activities, since the research institutes did not
cooperate in the project until very late in the implementation cycle. INRAA also claims to have
implemented an evaluation system for its research activities. Finally, by October 1997, the
allocation of staff and of equipment to the various regional centers was still at the programming
stage since the centers remained to be officially established.
Extension Component CNPA, which became INVA in 1995, played a leading role in
improving extension organization and methods on a pilot basis in six of the country's 44 wilayate.
Despite experiencing disruptive changes in management, with three managing directors in as many
years, INVA was able to develop monitoring methodologies, implement staff training, forge
somewhat stronger links mainly with the technical research institutes, and expand the audience for
extension messages through mass media communication. The disbursement of the Bank loan to
finance the supply of equipment to both the center and local extension teams, the construction and
rehabilitation of facilities, and the hiring of technical assistance went according to plan - albeit
with significant delays, initially due to institutional issues and later for security reasons.
INVA had a good picture of the farming community and types of farmers by 1993,
following a survey conceived and carried out jointly with INRAA. As a result, it was able to begin
to reach farmers through groups. However, that approach was abandoned in 1995, because visits
to the countryside became increasingly hazardous and group meetings in the field were banned.
INVA thus began to reach farmers through mass media, for which it was extremely well equipped
as a result of the project.
INVA also fonmulated a statute for extension personnel that was adopted by the authorities
in 1996. INVA introduced such inmovations as transferring extension staff and funds to Chambers
of Agriculture to manage on a pilot basis. In addition, INVA had an active training program - both
local and overseas -- especially in the final years. Finally, it devised, albeit two years behind
schedule, an improved monitoring and evaluation system with clear indicators.
Research-Extension Linkages. Overall research-extension links remained weak
throughout the project. INRAA was unable to address this problem because it was entangled with
institutional issues for the first five years of the project. Even after the institutional issues were
resolved, IRAA did little to address these linkages, partly because the research institutes were
late in coming up with an inventory of their respective staff, means, programs, and results. lNRAA
did not receive the above information until March 1996. In addition, open house days at the
research stations came too late in the project implementation cycle, and there do not appear to have
been definite instances when research met extension to try to solve the problems of local farmers.
Researchers also did not systematically contribute to the development of extension material.
Another problem was that INRAA had no direct involvement in the research development teams.
Thus it was left to the technical research institutes, over which INRAA had no authority, to
iv



establish an inventory of results from experimental trials, and transfer these results to extension
and to farmers. According to extension, little of this actually happened.
Major Factors Affecting the Project and Sustainability
Economic problems in Algeria had some repercussions on implementation in the early
years of the project. The staff recruitment programs at both INRAA and INVA were curtailed
because of budgetary constraints, uncompetitive salaries to attract experienced personnel, and the
lack of sufficient openings on the part of the Ministry for Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP). Most
delays that hampered progress of the research component derived from external factors out of
INRAA's control. These included: (a) an initial high turnover of general managers; (b) the
Govermment's at times acute budgetary constraints; (c) lengthy delays in addressing key
institutional issues such as the statutes of INRAA and of researchers, the redeployment of
equipment and the reallocation of staff among research institutes, the creation of various research
committees, and establishment of the envisaged five CRRAs; (d) a lack of collaboration between
INRAA and the technical research institutes, which led to delays in implementing the programming
and budgeting by objective approach; (e) the ever deteriorating security situation, which was a
source of delays in the procurement and allocation of vehicles and equipment as well as in the
hiring of technical assistance; and (f) restricted mobility, which made it difficult for extension to
fully test differing approaches, a key task prior to considering a national coverage.
The sustainability of the project as a whole is unlikely. 1NRAA faces an uncertain future
as long as the enabling legislation (Loi Programme) is not passed and Government's commitment
to research remains in doubt. The links between research and extension remain weak, which calls
into question the validity of the research institutes' programs to address farmers' actual problems
and constraints.
Bank and Borrower Performance
The Bank performed satisfactorily in its responsibilities of project preparation and
launching. Appraisal failed to anticipate: (i) the difficulty for INRAA to rapidly adopt and
implement the programming and budgeting by objective approach; and (ii) the lack of cooperationi
by the technical research institutes. Because of the Bank Mission's inability to go to the field, for
security reasons, and to properly assess project implementation, supervision has been rated
deficient. Identification and preparation were carried out with assistance of the FAO/World Banlc
Cooperative program. Staff continuity throughout the project lifespan and an in-depth mid-term
review provided appropriate guidance during implementation. A well-attended workshop including
research, extension and higher education staff was launched at project inception. The Banlc
strongly supported, from the onset, the need to move quickly to improve working relationships
among the various research institutes while institutional issues were being addressed. The Banlc
also recommended as early as April 1992 that a strategy for extension be defined to allow for a
gradual divesting of the public sector and a corresponding transfer, over time, of responsibilities to
the private sector.
Because of the country's increasing unrest, supervision missions in the field became
impossible by end-September 1993. Meetings between the Bank and project management took
place on three occasions respectively in Paris, Washington, and Tunis. There were no further
meetings from June 1995 till the project closed in December 1997, the Government insisting that
Bank missions travel to Algeria. No supervision was carried out in the field. This situation
definitively had a negative effect on project implementation. Programs slipped; disbursements
v



experienced long delays; progress reports, especially from research, were late; and above all it was
very difficult to maintain a regular dialogue between project management and the Bank.
Project Outcome
The improved managerial and technical capacities gained by 1NRAA during project
implementation constitute a definite asset. This, however, took an inordinate amount of time and
energy, to the detriment of concrete activities that would have ensured a solid medium and long-
term research program likely to benefit rural communities. It was only toward 1996 that INRAA
began to receive some support from the technical research institutes and that the programming and
budgeting by objective approach was initiated. Although somewhat strengthened, 1NRAA still
lacks full collaboration from the technical research institutes, and the future of research remains
unclear unless the enabling legislation is passed. Also, the acquisition of equipment was delayed,
which was another limiting factor on the implementation of the anticipated research programs. As
to the extension component, it was reorganized, strengthened and properly equipped within two to
three years of project inception. However, the lack of sufficient results from research considerably
slowed its ability to transfer technology and knowledge to farmers. In addition, the country's
increasing turmoil became an ever more limiting factor to progress at the field level. Because of the
above constraints and severe limitations, the overall project outcome is highly unsatisfactory. The
project has so far not generated the anticipated agricultural production increases.
Future Operations
Some key institutional issues remain to be solved as previously indicated. Also, and unless
the Loi programme passes the Parliament, the future of research will remain uncertain. INVA
would need to firm up a strategy before any expansion nationwide of the extension component
could be considered. Although further phases were anticipated in the SAR, a follow-up project is
very much in doubt given the country's current budgetary constraints.
Key Lessons Learned
The key lessons learnt from project implementation include the following:
(a) major institutional issues should be solved as a condition for negotiations -- this would have
prevented INRAA from spending precious time away from project implementation;
(b) programming and budgeting by objective is a complex approach that took INRAA nearly four
years to put in place. Thus, the local context, capacity, and limitations of implementing agencies
should be carefully assessed and analyzed during preparation; (c) when research embarks on
complex restructuring and adoption of a fundamentally different approach, fast disbursement
should not be expected from project onset; (d) modifying the approach to extension, especially at
the national level, requires having a vision and defining a strategy at an early stage, together with
extensive and effective participation by farmers. For lack of both at project onset, it took INVA
more time than anticipated to play the vital role of testing various approaches to extension on a
pilot basis; (e) given the country and the diversity of farmers, it is most likely that the Training and
Visit (T&V) approach to extension will prove inadequate on a national scale; and (f) when
elaborating a strategy, decisionmakers must decide whether extension should remain the sole
responsibility of the public sector or should be a mix of public and private interventions. They
should also decide the level of farmers' contributions to the cost of extension, and the amount of
funds the Government is ready to commit to extension on a regular and long-term basis.
vi



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
(Loan 3216-AL)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The overall objective of the project was to establish strong and responsive research and
extension services in support of Government efforts to increase agricultural production and reduce
the country's dependence on imported foodstuffs. It was conceived as a first tranche, possibly to be
followed by additional Bank support, based on results. The project aimed at reorganizing and
strengthening the National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRAA) and the National hIstitute
for Agricultural Extension (INVA). It also aimed to improve linkages among research, extension,
training, and farmers to ensure that research work was relevant to farmers' needs, and that priority
technical recommendations would be quickly and effectively transmitted to beneficiaries.
2.    To achieve these objectives, the project consisted of a program of investments associated
with a series of institutional reforns, staff appointments, targeted training, and technical
assistance, and the provision of funds to cover related operational costs. The research component
included: (a) strengthening INRAA's capacity to coordinate research programs and carry out basic
research; (b) reorienting resources toward clearly identified priorities through the introduction and
testing of research programming by objectives; (c) implementing through INRAA and other
technical research institutes (ITGC, INPV, and ITEBO) five priority research programs on cereals,
legumes, fodder crops, red meat production, and cereal/livestock systems in the rainfed and
irrigated subsectors; (d) introducing a system of resource allocation and monitoring by research
program; (e) upgrading research quality by appointing staff and providing training, evaluation, and
better facilities; and (f) recruiting technical assistance. The extension component included: (a)
testing approaches, organization, and methods for the provision of agricultural extension services
to the farm cooperatives (EACs) and individual farmers in 20 dairate located in 6 wilayate; (b)
strengthening of five extension training centers (including one in methodology and four in technical
aspects); (c) strengthening the National Center for Agricultural Training (CNPA) through the
provision of vehicles and the production of written and audio-visual material, thus expanding the
audience via media communication and increased staff mobility; (d) providing for local and
overseas training; (e) recruiting technical assistance; and (f) setting up a monitoring and evaluation
system. Institutional arrangements for coordinating research and extension programs were also to
be improved.
3.    At appraisal, the project cost was estimated at US$74.5 million. Financing included a
Bank loan of US$32.0 million and Government financing of US$42.5 million, US$11.1  million of
which came from taxes and duties. The costs of the research and extension components were
estimated at US$35.9 million and US$19.2 million, respectively.



B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
General
4.     The overall project objectives were not achieved, especially for the research component.
1NRAA spent too much time on institutional issues, most of which were out of its control. Some of
these issues were still being debated by end 1997. While waiting for the institutional matters to be
resolved, INRAA postponed the procurement of much- needed equipment and vehicles. Thle
recruitment of researchers was also delayed because of the lack of openings and of funds.
Procurement was delayed as well in mid-1995 while INRAA waited for the necessary decrees to be
adopted regarding its status and that of its researchers. INA, which came on board in mid-1996,
also experienced significant delays on procurement matters. As the project came to a close,
therefore, the research component had acquired only a small portion of the equipment initially
anticipated, and vital collaboration between INRAA and the technical research institutes -
although said to be improving in 1996 - remained informal and unsatisfactory. The regional
research centers (CRRAs) were never officially created. The programming by objectives stalled in
1994 for lack of collaboration on the part of the technical research institutes. The training program
for researchers started slowly and never recovered, although short-term overseas training
intensified toward project end, relying on both Bank funds and bilateral aid. The technical
assistance, which had been barely drawn upon in the project's early years, came to a grinding halt
as the country experienced ever-increasing turmoil from 1994 onwards.
5.    The extension component, which faced far fewer institutional problems than the research
component, was operational in 1993. Extension was reorganized under the project and acquired
most of the equipment, vehicles, and buildings envisaged at appraisal. However, links between
research and extension remained weak, with research results not being transferred to farmers,
especially after field visits to rural communities became risky and group gatherings were bannecl.
INVA focused much effort on training its staff, and also significantly improved its mass media
capacity as an alternative to field visits. Although a monitoring and evaluation system had been
designed at the center, it was not properly utilized at the wilayate level. Thus, it remains difficult to
state to what extent farners' productivity and income increased as a result of the project. Specific
achievements and shortcomings of some of the project components are detailed below.
Research
6.    Institutions. It took longer than anticipated to reform agricultural research. Although
INRAA was given responsibility in 1986 for basic agricultural research, for coordinating applied
research at the national level, and for coordinating training of research staff and the use of
technical assistance, its status still needed to be amended to confirm this coordinating role. This
role was at the heart of a controversy between 1NRAA and the technical research institute's
(lTEBO, ITGC and INPV). The institutes had gained much autonomy in the 1970s at a time when
INRAA's role was severely reduced, and they were reluctant to relinquish their autonomy under the
project. As a result, there is still little cross-subsector coordination of research.
7.    Under the project, INRAA was to bring together researchers from the various research and
higher education institutions by obtaining similar status for both and by involving them in
preparation of the national priority programming process. However, the necessary interministerial
decrees relating to the status of INRAA and the researchers were not signed until 1995 and 1996,
respectively. Most of the delay stemmed from differing interpretations of the proposed status by
2



INRAA and the technical research institutes. Until the new status became effective it was difficult
to recruit additional researchers, let alone retain those with much experience. By the end of the
project some progress had been made in aligning the salaries of the research staff with those of the
research scientists, but since this is not an automatic process, it requires regular and time-
consuming updating.
8.    By end-1996, INRAA was still dealing with important institutional issues. In addition to
the question of its status, these issues included the promulgation of texts to create the CRRAs and
render them operational, the preparation of texts for the creation of associated research
laboratories, and the establishment of committees for the Scientific Council. In addition, INRAA
and the technical research institutes could not agree to collaborate and share responsibilities.
TNRAA was supposed to carry out basic research and coordinate research programs nationwide,
while the institutes were to engage in adaptive research, and support seed and planting material
production. Instead, the institutes continued to conduct their own experiments and to deal directly
with international donors.
9.     The initial high turnover of senior management was an additional source of delays, with
INRAA having four directors general in as many years. Varying policies, visions, and priorities
definitely took their toll on project implementation. Also, it was difficult to recruit researchers until
1995, as envisaged at appraisal, first because of INRAA's lack of status and later because of the
country's financial constraints. Of the anticipated 98 researchers to be recruited during the project,
only 56 were actually hired, and no more openings were created. As a result, newcomers were hired
only to fill existing vacancies.
10.   Programming and Budgeting. In addition to institutional strengthening, programming and
budgeting by objective (PBO) was another key feature of the research component. One purpose of
the research was to help prepare and implement medium and long-term programs through PBO by
making optimum use of existing researchers and of means. Furthermore, it was intended to
associate scientific personnel from the various technical research institutes and from higher
education, and to join their technical and financial capacities for the purpose of coordinating
research activities. The multidisciplinary teams were to work using joint laboratories and
experimental research stations, each entity contributing its own human and financial resources. At
the basic level, the identification, monitoring and evaluation of the programs, subprograms and
research activities were to be overseen by Regional Program Committees, to be located at the
CRRAs. At the central level, a National Program Committee was to be based within MAP.
Although the committees were created, their members were never officially designated.
11.   TNRAA's request, in 1994, to establish an inventory of researchers and laboratory
equipment received no support from the technical research institutes; nor did the institutes respond
to INRAA's proposed canvas for the programming by objectives. INRAA had called in 1994 for
an inventory of the research stations, of their scientific and technical potential, and of their research
and extension themes. In view of these problems, and since the CRRAs never became operational,
it is difficult to believe that programming and budgeting has had any significant impact on the way
research was conducted.
12.   At the time of the mid-term review in 1995, cooperation between INRAA and the technical
research institutes was minimal and unsatisfactory. The project was therefore restructured and
markedly downsized. All research subcomponents, including activities, programs, and
procurement, were reduced in scope. Under the restructured project, INRAA was to pursue its own
3



programs, with funds set aside for possible cooperation with those institutes that might elect to
collaborate at a later stage. In addition, procurement of equipment and vehicles was reduced,
preference was given to prefabricated buildings rather than to new constructions, and priority was
given to in-country rather than overseas training. As a result, the research component was reduced
from US$24.3 million to US$8.8 million, including contingencies.
13.   The physical downsizing of the research component was specifically tailored to INRAA's
implementation capacity given past problems, constraints and limited collaboration with the
technical research institutes. Another outcome of the mid-term review was to reduce the number of
CRRAs from five to three, with two of the CRRAs (Adrar and Touggourt) located in the southern
part of the country, where a more secure environment existed. Yet until 1995, it was still unclear
whether the CRRAs would be under INRAA or ITGC. More troublesome was the fact that the
CRRAs still had no legal status as the project was coming to an end in December 1997. Although
it had been envisaged at appraisal that each CRRA would be responsible for the experimental
farms in its region, this never materialized for the above stated reasons.
14.    While INRAA claims to have implemented some monitoring and evaluation of its ovwn
research programs, the progress reports show that the system remains weak. Some monitoring of
inputs, such as research staff, program budgets, and equipment, is evident. But when it comes to
evaluation, there are still insufficient links among initial problems and constraints, the selection of
specific research themes, and the final objective of any given research program. Toward the end of
the project, INRAA resumed publication of its Revue de la Recherche Agronomique de I INRAA.
This was a commendable decision that no doubt is contributing to opening up INRAA's programs
to the international research community.
15.   Research Programs.  According to INRAA, a new approach to programming was
devised following the mid-term review in 1995. This approach focused on regional priorities such
as, inter alia, the rehabilitation of olive plantations, soil salinity, the rehabilitation of date
plantations under oasis conditions and/or under pressure irrigation, and milk production. The
programs were said to be screened by scientific committees at various levels to ensure that they
were feasible and that both budget and staff requirements were appropriate. Meanwhile, INRAA's
reports stressed that the production systems based on cereals and livestock were given higlh
priority. It is not clear from INRAA's reports the extent to which the technical research institutes
contributed to these programs, which were somewhat different from those identified at appraisal.
16.   The actual level of farmers' participation in selecting priority research programs at the-
regional level is difficult to ascertain, mainly because INRAA - although it engaged in some
monitoring of its research programs and activities - did not have a proper evaluation system.
Research themes were not justified in a systematic fashion that highlighted the magnitude of local
farmers' problems and constraints, or the resulting yields, productivity, and incomes. There were-
no clear indications as to what the research was attempting to improve; nor were there any
reference points or projections.
17.   The project failed to strengthen the necessary links between research and extension, due to
the fact that the technical research institutes, which were to ensure such links, failed to fully
collaborate with either INRAA or to a lesser extent with INVA. This lack of linkage was
corroborated by the Arab Organization for Agriculture Development (OADA) consultants, who
stated in August 1996 that the research component had not started (aside from dealing with
institutional issues). Neither farmers nor extension benefited much from research. At the field level,
4



technical committees had been established in each of the six wilaya where technicians, specialists,
and farmers were supposed to meet on a regular basis. Nor is there much evidence of any formal
connection between research and extension at the regional level. Moreover, there is no mention of
any collaboration between INRAA and INVA in either of the two entities' progress reports over the
life of the project. In spite of the above and according to INVA management links between
extension and research existed at: (i) the local (wilaya) level where personnel from the technical
research institutes would attend twice quarterly meetings of the wilaya technical committees; and
(ii) the national level where staff from the institutes would attend bi-monthly coordination meetings
organized by INVA and including the central directorate for training, for research and extension
within MAP as well as wilaya project managers and heads of training centers from the project
area.
18.   Strengthening of Research Stations. To implement the five research priority programs
envisaged at appraisal, the project was to finance: (a) the strengthening of 1NRAA to handle basic
upstream research including in phytogenetics, soil studies and analysis, and bioclimatology; (b)
development of the Mahdi Boualem research center; (c) establishment of a central documentation
service and a backup service for maintenance of laboratory equipment; (d) strengthening of three
technical institutes (ITGC, ITEBO, and INPV); and (e) upgrading of five experimental farms to
CRRA level covering the main agroecological zones. These plans implied an increase in the
numbers and training of researchers and technicians, and the provision of vehicles, equipment,
housing, laboratories, workshops, greenhouses, and operating costs.
19.   From the progress reports, it appears that INRAA did somewhat strengthen its ability to
carry out basic fundamental research on the topics envisaged at appraisal. This was made possible
through the recruitment/redeployment of 56 researchers out of 98 planned; acquisition of about 50
percent of the laboratory equipment anticipated; procurement of 46 small cars, one minibus, 14
four-wheel drive vehicles, and 8 pickups; procurement of laboratory equipment, computers, and
printing material; construction of offices (ready made units); and provision of operating funds. As
the project was coming to an end and important institutional issues were still unsolved, the Bank
upheld its non-objection to the sizable construction program at the Mahdi-Boualem research center.
The construction would have taken more than eighteen months to complete and the bidding
documents did not reach the Bank until in June 1997.
20.   As indicated above, the technical research institutes were allocated very little means as a
result of their failure to collaborate with or submit clear programs to INRAA. While there were
only three unofficial CRRAs at mid-term review instead of the five anticipated at appraisal, two of
which were to be located in the South of the country, the CRRA program was never implemented.
21.   Following the mid-term review and the ensuing restructuring and downsizing of the
project, the Government requested that the Bank reallocate some US$2.0 million to a new
beneficiary, the Institut National Agronomique (INA). The agreement to reallocate these funds
was signed on June 3, 1996. INA had been closely associated with INRAA in past years and was a
source of researchers as well. The funds were to enable INA to acquire much-needed laboratory
and pedagogical equipment. Because of lengthy and cumbersome procurement procedures, INA got
only a third of the equipment initially planned. Monitoring and evaluation of that subcomponent
was particularly weak. There was neither a report on the equipment procured by INA nor on the
type of research to be carried out.
5



22.   Staff Development and Technical Assistance. One of the project's initial achievements
was to obtain similar status for researchers and higher education personnel. However, TNRAA,
failed to recruit 42 of the 98 researchers anticipated at appraisal, and there was no indication in the
reports of where or on what grounds the personnel recruited were deployed. Nor was there any
mention of the critical masses of researchers constituted for the various research programs.
23.   Training received much attention from 1NRAA management from the beginning of the
project. Some 26 researchers received scholarships, mainly from France, and took post-graduate
degrees overseas. This was close to the 30 that had been envisaged at appraisal. An increasing
percentage of trainees, however, chose not to return to their country as the civil strife worsened.
This led INRAA to opt for in-country training, complemented by short visits of the intemational
trainers to Algeria. This option did not work either, however, as the trainers were reluctant to come
to the country. INRAA then reverted to short-term training courses in various countries, with the
training program managed by FAO. This limited program appears to have been successful.
24.   The technical assistance subcomponent, which was to include a plant breeder and a soil
fertility expert for three years, and an agroclimatologist for two years, was never started for
security reasons. Also, the project barely took advantage of the consultants envisaged for training,
management, documentation, and computerization, since, again, foreigners were reluctant to workc
in the country.
25.   INRAA was slow in preparing and providing regular progress reports, which were to have
been submitted biannually. The backlog was such that activities for 1995, 1996, and the first
semester of 1997 were finally reported on in one batch. The result was an overwhelming amount of
raw data with little analysis and synthesis. It is not before September 1997 that a concise summary
was made available.
Extension
26.   Institutions. Responsibility for implementing the extension component was initially vested
in CNPA, a national body specialized in agricultural training. In this respect, the Government's
objective was to establish a coherent system for the transfer of improved technology to individualL
farmers as well as the cooperatives (EACs). Because of Algeria's limited experience witht
agricultural extension, this component was to be implemented as a pilot to test approaches thalt
could eventually be repLicated nationwide, leading to a simplified, more direct, and strengthened
system of extension. This has been achieved to a certain degree. Definite improvements in.
extension are noticeable, especially in staff organization, programming of extension activities, more
focused training, increased technical support of field agents, more communication with farmers
through the mass media, and a more proactive monitoring and evaluation system. INVA (the
successor to CNPA), at the center, is fully staffed, including 10 senior and 4 support personnel. At
the regional level, all the staff envisaged at appraisal have been recruited/redeployed. While
extension appears to be well structured at the national level, it is part of various entities at lower
levels (DSA at the wilaya level, subdivision at the daira level, and the communal delegation at the
commune level). This makes it more difficult to properly coordinate, monitor, and evaluate
extension from the center. More importantly, it tends to dilute extension among several other
activities, with no real sense of priority. Thus, a clearly defined extension service or division needs
to be considered at the wilaya and daira levels, a proposal that had not been envisaged at appraisal.
Another concem is that extension personnel continue to spend no more than 30 percent of their
time on extension, having to deal with many other aspects none directly linked with their mandate.
6



27.   On April 1, 1995, CNPA became the National Institute for Agricultural Extension
(ENVA), by Decree No. 99.95 signed by the Prime Minister. This indicates the priority given to
some degree to extension by the authorities. At the mid-term review it was felt that the extension
component was performing well. INVA had acquired most of the hardware anticipated at
appraisal. The training program was being implemented in earnest. Much attention was being given
to developing the institute's outreach capacity through the strengthening of mass media. Also, a
real effort was being put into monitoring and evaluation at the Central level. Disbursement was
proceeding at a satisfactory pace. INVA requested some additional funds for audio-visual
equipment, to which the Bank agreed. Total project funds for the extension component were thus
increased by US$1.0 million to US$8.64 million.
28.   As foreseen at appraisal, the extension component consisted of the introduction of an
improved organization in 170 communes controlled by 20 dairate located in the six wilayate of
Ain-Defla, Blida, Tipaza, Medea, Bouira, and Tizi-Ouzou, surrounding the capital Algiers. The
project area covers some 452,000 ha of arable land and comprises about 160,000 farmers, of
which some 50,000 were to be reached. Staffing at the regional level included 191 field extension
agents, 20 supervisors, 18 bureau chiefs, 25 specialists, 12 surveyors, 6 local coordinators, 12
trainers, and 15 support staff. The promulgation in April 1996 of a specific statute covering the
extension agents definitely boosted the staffs morale. By project end INVA had acquired 189
vehicles, as well as audio-visual, office, and printing equipment. It had also completed the
construction program, financed local and overseas training for farmers and staff, contracted with
FAO to manage the training program, and recruited the anticipated consultants (OADA) for
technical assistance envisaged at appraisal.
29.   In a departure from the project's institutional objective to test approaches to extension that
could eventually be used nationwide in a second phase, INVA stuck instead to a somewhat
modified Training and Visit (T&V) extension system. There was much more emphasis on mass-
media than in the typical T&V system. In addition, strict ratios required each extension agent to
meet 5 to 10 contact farmers per month, who in turn would reach 10 to 15 neighbors. This contact
farmer concept has been abandoned in many countries, and nothing in INVA's progress reports
indicates whether the practice was working well. In addition to contact farmers, extension reached
farrmers through visits to individual farmers and groups indoors, demonstration plots and field days
when authorize, mass media, and fairs. The major results so far include: (a) a better structured
extension system; (b) a more bottom-up approach; (c) strong emphasis on regular training; and (d)
increased awareness and more systematic use of monitoring and evaluation as a management tool.
In spite of its varied approach, however, INVA seems to have adhered until early 1997 to only one
extension system, and there is no physical or economic evidence that the approach will work
nationwide. In fact, based on worldwide experience, a single approach is very difficult to replicate
throughout a diversified country such as Algeria. As to the late transfer of extension agents to some
chambers of agriculture there is no indication either in INVA or the consultants reports as to
whether the operation has or not been successful.
30.   The adoption of a single system until late in the project points to the lack of a clear
strategy for extension, as suggested by Bank missions in 1994. There were no proposals as to how
7



extension could evolve over time within the Algerian context.1 Indeed, it is crucial to consider: (a)
whether extension should remain the sole responsibility of the public sector, or should instead rely
on a mix of public and of private interventions; (b) the type of farmers to be reached, their
proportion nationwide, and the criteria for their selection; (c) whether farmers should contribute to
the cost of extension, and how their contributions would be collected; (d) whether farmers targeted
for extension should be periodically replaced with newcomers; and (e) the amount of funds the
Government is ready to commit to extension on a regular basis.
31.    Staff Development. Training received a great deal of emphasis from the beginning of the
project. Basic extension training for all 191 field agents was completed by November 1994. In
support of the training program, five training centers were strengthened and included at Am Taya,
Ain Bessem, Bougara, Medea, and Mechtras. The initial training was subsequently replaced by
more technically specific types of courses. However, the further training of Subject Matter
Specialists (SMSs), trainers, and senior staff from the center was delayed due to the difficulty of
recruiting technical assistance, and INVA finally asked FAO to manage the overseas training
program. The courses were held in France and the Netherlands, and focused on extension
methodologies and programming. There is no indication in INVA's progress reports of the impacit
of the training on staff performance. Nor is there any infonnation about the selection of training
sites, the courses offered, or the people sent.
32.    Audio-visual and Mass Media Support. INVA put a great deal of emphasis on audio-
visual support for the farmers. The audio-visual department was well equipped under the project:
and had competent staff. In addition, the mass media were regularly used to reach more farmers al:
a time when traveling the countryside involved major risks. Production of mass extension materials;
was significantly increased, and by 1997 included 317 TV spots, 3,917 radio broadcasts,
numerous slides, photos and posters, and no less than 45,000 brochures and pamphlets. The radio
broadcasts were aired on two national stations, as well as on two regional and 17 local stations. Aji
time was split among vegetable production (55.4 percent), animal production (24.8 percent), andL
environment, irrigation and pesticide use (21.8 percent). It appears from a survey conducted by
INVA in 1995, that mass media support was much appreciated by farmers, although here again,
INVA failed to analyze the impact of this important subcomponent in its progress reports. There
was also no indication as to who selected the themes, on what basis, and whether research was
involved at any stage.
33.    Technical Assistance. The project had envisaged the hiring of short-term consultants to
design extension methodology, as well as for planning, monitoring and evaluation, and project
Although neither recorded in INVA's latest progress report for the period January-June 1997 nor in its
contribution to this ICR, it would appear that a national extension system was recently submitted by
INVA to MAP. The proposed lean and flexible extension system would also have been widely
distributed to all the partners involved in extension including the central directorates at MAP, the
institutes, the regional agricultural services, the national and the regional Chambers of agriculture,
and the private sector including input suppliers. Furthermore, a survey would be in progress
involving some 2,000 farmers to get their views on the pilot extension system as well as on the
various approaches to extension tested so far. (Some of the suggestions presented by INVA in its
contribution to the ICR, on institutional aspects and on methodologies, would have gained being
further developed). Based on the outcome of the above consultations, INVA would be in a better
position to define within the coming year a strategy for extension that would contribute to the
selecting of a new extension system adapted to the new organization of the agricultural sector.
8



management. Because of the security situation, however, it is not until 1995 that a team from the
Arab Organization for Agricultural Development (OADA) was finally put together. It started work
in Algeria in 1996. The overall performance of the consultants has been mixed. With few
exceptions, practical advice was mired in theory. There were great expectations that the experts
would come up with clear and pertinent recommendations on extension, monitoring and evaluation,
and training. This did not happen.
34.   Monitoring and Evaluation. INVA has, over time, gradually improved its ability to
monitor and, to a lesser extent, evaluate project activities. Progress reports were regularly
provided, albeit with the deficiencies noted above. INVA also conducted, in 1994, an interesting
socioeconomic survey in all six wilaya involved in the extension component. INVA's analytical
capacity, though, remained insufficient. Also, according to the OADA consultants, there was a
reluctance by the various levels of the hierarchy to cross check data at the field level. This left the
door open to both involuntary and deliberate errors. Most of all, there was a lack of reference
points, which made proper evaluation of the project impact nearly impossible. Although INVA did
conduct a few surveys on production and yields, they were not systematic and lacked an economic
perspective. Also, there was seldom any reference to the rate of farmers' adoption and/or rejection
of extension messages. Finally, there was too little follow-up to strengthen the weak links between
extension and research.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
35.   Some institutional issues were solved during the project lifetime, including the updating of
INRAA staff's status to that of higher education personnel, preparation of texts to create the
CRRAs and render them operational, preparation of texts for the creation of associated research
laboratories, and establishment of committees for the Scientific Council. But a few important
issues remain, including the lack of collaboration between the technical research institutes and
INRAA, and the uncertainty as to whether the enabling legislation for research, which could make
or break the future of agricultural research in the country, will be passed by Parliament. Also, the
text creating the CRRAs were never signed. Finally, it would appear that the implementation of
programming and budgeting by objective, a new and complex approach that required more time
than anticipated, did not reach the critical budgeting stage. Close follow-up and careful
management will be needed if the approach is to survive.
36.   Budgetary constraints affected both the research and extension components to varying
degrees, especially with regard to recurrent expenditures. Together with the lack of flexibility in
administrative procedures, this was a major factor in the slow recruitment of new staff, particularly
researchers. As to INVA, it adopted a modified version of the T&V approach. There was word at
one stage that some responsibility for extension had been transferred on a trial basis to five wilaya,
but there was no mention of such move in any of INVA's progress reports.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
37.   Sustainability of the project as a whole under the country's current civil strife is unlikely.
In addition, the very future of research at the national level depends on whether or not the enabling
legislation is passed by the Parliament. As to the project research component, investment has been
extremely low. Despite the many delays and difficulties, however, INRAA was able to introduce
9



the programming and budgeting by objective approach. If successful, this will be one of INRAA's
main legacies. This improvement, however, was not extended to the technical research institutes.
Considering INRAA's present research programs, that organization has returned to its true
mandate, which centers on basic research, but it still remains for INRAA to coordinate adaptive
research - which is key to extension - with the technical research institutes. But given the lack of
cooperation between these entities, and the few pieces of equipment procured and allocated to the
technical institutes, the impact of the research component will be minimal.
38.   Some aspects of the extension component are sustainable, whereas others are not. It is
likely that the T&V extension system will be increasingly difficult to sustain over time and on an,y
large scale. Thus it is important for INVA to actively seek alternative approaches, which will
require adapting extension to various categories of farmers and involving the private sector, as well
as relying on the chambers of agriculture. The training provided under the project will continue to
have a positive effect for as long as current staff remains in their positions. Finally, the significant
investments in audio-visual equipment and production are likely to last for years to come. In fact,
given the current hazardous situation prevailing in the countryside, radio and TV messages are
becoming the essential means for reaching farmers and technicians alike.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
39.   In agreement with the Government of Algeria, project identification and preparation were
undertaken with assistance of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programn. Bank performance at
identification and preparation was satisfactory. However, at appraisal, Bank staff underestimated
the difficulties involved in implementing the research component. Some complex institutional
issues required much more time than anticipated to be solved, and others were never resolved due
to unfavorable circumstances. Six supervision missions were carried out in Algeria and three
outside the country. In addition, a mid-term review took place in Tunis in June 1995. Continuity
was optimum, with the same task manager leading all supervision missions from 1991 until closing
in December 1997. At the mid-term review, the Bank and the Government tried to salvage the
project, especially the research component, which was downsized to fit INRAA's implementation
capacity. The Bank responded promptly to the Government's request to extend loan disbursemenit
by one year to December 31, 1997. But the Government's insistence at the end of 1995 that projecit
management could no longer meet Bank missions outside the country severely hurt the good ancl
efficient working relationship that had existed. The situation became highly detrimental to the
project. With hindsight, the Bank should have taken a firmer stance earlier on and suspendecl
disbursements. In November 1997, the Bank declined an official request to extend the project
closing date by another year.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
40.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory during project identification throughl
appraisal. During implementation, the commitment of both INRAA and INVA to carry out the:
activities defined in the SAR remained strong. The odds, however, rapidly tumed against the:
research component. There were four directors in as many years. INRAA spent precious time
pushing for a solution to institutional issues over which it had no control. Budgetary constraints
remained constant. The decision to defer procurement of much-needed equipment, in order to check:
facilities and equipment specifications against the precise identification of research priority
10



programs and to make an accurate inventory of existing equipment, was commendable. But this
approach backfired, since INRAA ended up not having enough time to acquire further equipment
before the closing date. The significant downsizing of the project following the mid-term review did
not generate the anticipated improvements. Cooperation between INRMAA and the technical
research institutes remained minimal. Necessary decisions to make the CRRAs operational were
never taken by the Ministry of Agriculture, thus preventing the regionalization of research. INRAA
finally resorted to medium-term research programs that it felt were achievable. The training of
researchers started late and an insufficient number of trainees was sent overseas; in addition, many
decided not to return once trained. The technical assistance program barely got off the ground,
essentially for security reasons. Progress reports were irregular for nearly three years, followed by
an avalanche of repetitive information that was not sufficiently analyzed or synthesized. Most audit
reports were provided on time and were of reasonable quality. INRAA used an insignificant
amount of the funds allocated to research.
41.   The extension component experienced less serious institutional issues, which had to do
mainly with delays in opening INVA's bank account. But extension was affected to varying
degrees by a number of external factors, especially during the project's first two years. INVA had
acquired most of the equipment envisaged by end of 1993. It produced a first strategy for extension
and played a leading role in having the Ministry of Agriculture adopt a status for extension
workers. INVA had three directors in as many years. Although disruptive, however, the effect of
this was far less damaging than for research. The training program accelerated during the last two
years and a significant number of staff was sent overseas for short-term courses. The technical
assistance subcomponent did not start until 1995 with the hiring of OADA experts, at a time when
the security situation was further deteriorating. INVA produced regular progress reports that, while
they improved over time, lacked proper analytical perspective. INVA used some three-quarters of
the funds it had been allocated under the project.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
42.   The project has, although to a limited extent, contributed to strengthening 1NRAA and
improving its structure and working capacity. The allocation of additional resources in
infrastructure, equipment and scientific personnel was minimal due to both delays and institutional
issues. The lack of collaboration with the technical research institutes prevented much-needed
coordination of research at the national level by INRAA. The latter focused much attention on the
programming and budgeting by objective approach, from which the technical research institutes
had more or less excluded themselves. The overall links between extension and research remained
weak with INVA having some limited working relationship mainly with the technical research
institutes. The training program, although reduced from initial projections, had a beneficial effect
on research team members working on priority programs.
43.   Extension is better organized. Beneficiaries are said to participate more actively in defining
priorities and extension messages. Staff are much better trained and more mobile, and their
activities are programmed and monitored. Mass media communications are used more widely and
effectively. Because of the weakness of the evaluation system, measuring the project benefits is not
possible. New technologies are said to have been successfully transferred to farmers, mainly by
extension, which would have resulted in increased production and higher yields in cereals, potatoes,
vegetables, fodder crops, and fruit trees. However, such assessments are not properly documented
for lack of referentials.
11



44.   Overall, very limited progress has been made toward achieving the project's original
objectives in research. The SAR's objectives now appear to have been overly ambitious for a five-
year implementation period. Clearly, appraisers had not fully appreciated the complexity of
programming and budgeting by objective, given the lack of experience with introducing these
procedures in other countries. Also, much of INRAA's attention was, for several years, diverted to
addressing main institutional issues. In regard to INVA, the implementation objectives were less
ambitious and have to a large extent been achieved. The real impact will need to be assessed
through better monitoring and evaluation over time. Meanwhile, much remains to be done to devise
a clear strategy for extension - not envisaged at appraisal - that would lead to feasible and cost-
effective approaches that could be implemented in a subsequent phase.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
45.   Although further phases had been anticipated in the SAR, a follow-up project is very much
in doubt given the country's current budgetary constraints. In addition, research and extension do
not appear to be the Government's immediate priorities, particularly since tangible results are
difficult to assess, especially for research. Also, the ongoing civil strife mitigates against traveling
in the countryside, meeting farmers' groups, conducting demonstration plots and field days
involving large gatherings, and working at regional research stations.
46.   No future phase should be considered unless the institutional issues that have plagued
research in past years are solved. Similarly, further involvement in extension should be conditional
on the preparation of a strategy with clear goals, involving farmers' communities and all potential
stakeholders at the onset. Finally, should the Government still consider agriculture a development
priority, the many challenges of the sector would be best addressed through an Agricultural
Support Services Project that reflects Algeria's rapidly evolving agricultural sector.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNT
47.   The key lessons learnt from project implementation include the following:
(a) Major institutional issues should be solved as a condition for negotiations - this
would have prevented INRAA from spending precious time away from project
implementation.
(b) Programming and budgeting by objective is a complex approach that took INRAA
nearly four year to adopt properly. Thus, the local context, capacity, and
limitations should be carefully assessed and analyzed before planning such an
approach.
(c) When research embarks on complex restructuring and on the adoption of a
fundamentally different approach, fast disbursement should not be expected from
the project onset.
(d) Modifying the approach to extension, especially at the national level, requires
having a vision and defining a strategy at an early stage, together with extensive
12



and effective participation by farmers. For lack of both at project onset, it took
INVA more time thn expected to play the vital role envisioned, of testing various
approaches to extension on a pilot basis.
(e) Given the diversity of the country and the farmers, it is likely that the T&V
approach to extension, by itself, would prove inadequate on a national scale.
(f) When elaborating a strategy, decisionmakers must decide whether extension
should remain the sole responsibility of the public sector or whether it should be a
mix of public and private interventions. They must also detennine the level of
farmers' contributions to the cost of extension, and the amount of funds the
Government will commit to extension on a regular and long-term basis.
13



PART I: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives     Substantial       Partial      Negliible          Not
Anplicable
Macro policies
Sector policies                                                           [l iii]
Financial objectives                                               I         [I]
institutional development          I                  ]      L |l]
Physical objectives                                              I           LIII]
Poverty reduction                   ]    L                          i    [Iii]
Gender issues                               [I        I   I II   [I I
Other social objectives 
Environmental objectives     |I                                      ]        I
Public sector management    r                         ]      [             [1111]
Private sector development    r                                I
Other (specify)                             [
B. Project ssainilitv              Likelv         Unlikely       Uncertain
(/)            (/)             (v)
W    W      LIII



Highly
C. Bank Derformance          satisfactor   Satisfactor    Deficient
V)~~~V
Identification           [i ]                    [l]
Preparation assistance    l_l_____
Appraisal                [
Supervision              |                7                 1
I-iRblv
D. Borrower performance      satisfactorv    Satisfactory  Deficient
(v)           (1)          (8/)
Preparation               [
Implementation                    ]                  l
Covenant compliance        Li
Operation (if applicable)  l
Highl i&l
E. Assessment of outcome    satisfactorv   Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactony   unsatisfactorv
IZI Lii [11  11  LIII]
Note: Overall rating is highly unsatisfactory based on the many constraints and difficulties
experienced by INRAA. The latter's main achievement was institutional, however
its actual impact was barely expressed during the project lifespan. Extension faced
less difficulties. It managed to reorganize extension and to propose a national
extension system. Its impact which can only be properly assessed in the medium to
long term was starting to show as the project came to a close.



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title       Purpose                      Year of   Status
approval
1.    Sahara Regional          Rehabilitation of southern oasis   1991   Ongoing
Development             and on-farm development,
(Loan 3405-AL)          supported by institution
strengthening, technical
assistance and training.
2.    Forestry & Watershed Loan Develop a long-term action   1992   Ongoing
(Loan 3487-AL)          program to better
protect/manage Algeria's
natural resources. Institution
l_____________________   strengthening.
3.    Cadastre                 Strengthening the institution  1991   Ongoing
(Loan 3488-AL)          implementing the cadastre and
support for increasing
registration for both rural and
urban land.
4.    El Kala National Park and   Mitigate the degradation of the    1993   Ongoing
Wetland Complex         biodiversity within the El Kala
Management (GEF)        National Park and Wetland
(Grant TF-28641)        Complex.
5.    Rural Employment Loan    Generate and stimulate        1997   Ongoing
(Loan 4143-AL)          sustainable rural employment in
rural areas of Northwest Al
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle         Date planned        Date actual/Latest estimate
Identification                   05/15/87                 05/15/87
Preparation                      05/26/89                 05/26/89
Appraisal                        06/09/89                 06/09/89
Negotiations                     03/26/90                 03/26/90
Board presentation               06/05/90                 06/05/90
Signing                          09/26/90                 09/26/90
Effectiveness                    06/14/91                  06/14/91
Mid-term review                  06/26/95                  06/26/95
Project completion               06/30/96                  06/30/96
Loan closing                     12/31/96                  12/31/97



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY 90      FY 91     FY 92      FY 93      FY 94      FY 95      FY 96      FY97
Appraisal Estimate           2.0        3.5        8.5        15.0      23.0       29.0       32.0      19.44a)
Actual                       2.0        2.0        2.3        4.9        4.9        7.1        8.5        10.0
Actual as % of estimate     100%        57%        23%       32%        21%        24.5%      43.7%      51%
Date of final disbursementb)   30 April 1998
Last cancellation         May 14, 1996                                                        12.56
') Although the final disbursement date had been set at April 30, 1998, the total amount disbursed so far is estimated at about
US$10.0 million ( US$0.5 to 1 million) since the expenditures from the Special Account have not yet been fully justified. Also, FAO
is to reimburse the unspent funds of a training program it managed until the closing date of December 31, 1997.
b) Total US$12.56 million was canceled from the loan at the Borrower's request on May 14, 1996 leaving a loan amount of
US$19.44 million.



Table 5a: Key Indicators for Project Implementation: Research Component
Indicators               Unit      Estimated    Actual           Comments
A. Research Component
Civil Works
- Laboratories and workshops        m2            2,000       n.a.
- Housing/Offices                   m2            2,600       n.a.
- Glasshouses                       m2            1,300       n.a.
- Rehabilitation                    m2               17       n.a.
Vehicles
- Light cars                        unit            55         46
- Minibus                           unit            12          1
- Trucks                            unit              7         8
- Four Wheel-Drives                 unit             17        14
- Laboratory equipment              unit              -      50%
Computers
- PCs and Printers                  unit            21        n.a.
Technical Assistance
- Plant breeder                    year              3          0 Due to security reasons
- Soil fertility expert            year               3         0 "          "         "
- Agricultural climatologist       year               2         0 "
- Management, Documentation,
Computerization                man-months          33        n.a.
Training
- short duration                man-months         200        n.a.
- overseas for management       man-months            6       n.a.
- management seminars and
courses in-country             man-months         180        n.a.
Research staff recruitment          Nb.              98        56
Research Programming
- Programmes and Budgets            Nb.               -          - Programming and budgeting
prepared                                                           approach being implemented.
Establishment of Regional
Research Centres                    Nb.               3         0



Table 5b: Key Indicators for Project Implementation: Extension Component
Indicators    7      Unit       Estimated      Actual           Comments
B. Extension Component
Civil Works
- Constructions              m2              1,000         n.a. Audio-visual studios
- Rehabilitations            m2                30          n.a. Parking sheds
Vehicles
- Light vehicles             unit             105          136 Including the training
centers
- Four Wheel-Drives          unit              48           48
Audio-Visual Equipment       Nb.
- Printing Machine                               -          set
Demonstration Equipment      unit              set          set
Computer Equipment
- PCs                        unit                -           3
Photocopying Machines        unit              set         set
Technical Assistance
- Short-term consultants  man-months           38           18
- Project management     man-months             5            5
Training Centers and CNPA
- Constructions              m2               400          300
- Rehabilitations            m2               800          800
- Mini-bus                   unit               5            5
Overseas Training
- (short courses)         man-month           139           49
- Post graduate courses     2 year              2            2



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No key indicators for project operation were defined in the SAR. The future development of
evaluation systems for both the research and the extension components should allow to derive a
set of significant indicators. INVA's set of indicators is in Appendix B.



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
No studies were carried out during this Project.



Table 8a: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US S'000)(a)  Actual/Latest Estimate  S$'000s) (b)
Item                               Local Costs   Foreign      Total      Local  | Foreign        Total
Costs                  Costs      Costs
A. Research
Civil Works                               6.7         3.4         10.1
Equipment & Vehicles                      7.9         5.1         13.0
Training & T.A.                           0.7         4.0         4.7
Operating Costs                          18.3         2.1        20.9
Subtotal Research                        34.1        14.6        48.7
B. Extension
Civil Works                               0.5         0.2         0.7
Equipment & Vehicles                      2.0         4.8          6.8
Training & T.A.                           0.1         0.7         0.8
Operating Costs                          16.1         1.8         17.9
Subtotal Extension                       18.7         7.5        26.2
Total                                    52.8        22.1         74.9
(a) Appraisal estimates include contingencies, as indicated in the linplementation Report dated May 1990.
(b) The distinction between local and foreign costs was not monitored.



Table Sb: Project Financing
(USS'000)
Appraisal Estimate (US $'000) (a)  Actual/Latest Estimate (US$'000s) (b)
Item                                 Local       Foreign      Total      Local      Cot          To
CCosts       oss |Costs                       Cost
A. Research
World Bank                                7.7        16.6         24.3    n.a.       n.a.            3.2
Government                               17.3           -         17.3    n.a.        -             n.a.
Taxes & Duties                            7.2           -         7.2    n.a.         -             n.a.
Subtotal Research
B. Extension
World Bank                                2.2         5.5         7.7    n.a.        n.a.            6.8
Government                               14.5           -         14.5    n.a.        -             n.a.
Taxes and Duties                          3.9           -          3.9    n.a.        -             n.a.
Subtotal Extension
D. Project as a Whole
World Bank                                9.9        22.1         32.0    n.a.       n.a.           10.0
Government                               31.8           -        31.8    n.a.         -             n.a.
TaxesandDuties                           11.1           -         11.1    n.a.        -             n.a.
Total                                    52.8        22.1        74.9    na.         n.a.           n.a.
(a) The breakdown between the two components (research and extension) was based on (i) the loan agreement for the
World Bank financing, and (ii) the cost tables of the implementation volume for taxes and duties and local costs
financed by the Government.
(b) The distinction between local and foreign costs was not monitored.



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The Economic Rate of Retum (ERR) was not estimated at appraisal, nor were the benfits of
the object quantified in monety terms. To date, the evaluation systems of both the research
and the extension components are not yet operational, making any tentative to quantify project
benefits quite difficult.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement |    Loan/       Text Reference   Covenant    Status (b)                  R-evised             Description of Covenant                 Comments
Credit                      Classes                  Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Number                         (a)                       Date         Date
Loan           3216-AL     3.01
Sch2, Part A        5          CP          12/31/93                 Borrower to prepare a national research   Lack of cooperation from
program.                                 technical research institutes
Sch 2, Part B       5          CP          12/31/93                 Borrower to prepare a national extension  On-going
program.
Sch 4, Part A      12           C          12/31/91                 Apply to agricultural research staff salary and
employment benefits equivalent to higher
education institutions and universities.
Sch 5, Part A(i)    3           C          6/30/92                  All research agencies to apply budgeting,
financial and accounting procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Sch 5, Part A(ii)              NC          12/31/92                 Assigrt to each CRRA qualified accounting  CRRA's were never
agents.                                  officially created.
Sch 6, Part B(i)                C          12/31/91                 CNPA to apply budgeting, financial and
accounting policies satisfactory to the Bank.
Sch 7, Part A(a)               CP          10/30/90                 Borrower to furnish for review and comments   Very late providing reports.
proposed annual investment programs.
Sch 7, Part B(b)               CP          10/30/90                 Borrower to furnish for review and commnents   Programs usually weak.
proposed annual investment programs.
Sch 8, Part A                  NC          12/31/91                 Borrower to ensure that its experimental  Although texts establish
stations at Lamtar, Setif, Oued Smar, El  with much delay, the
Khroub and Tiaret are designated as CRRA's.  CRRA's were never
officially created.
4.01 Sch I                      C                                    Borrower to have accounts including Special
Account for each FY audited according to
acceptable auditing principles.
5.02 Sch 2,                    CD          6/30/91                  Borrower to vest INRA with powers and     The authority was provided
Part A                                                              authority needed to pla, coordinate and   late whereas the technical
allocate resources for agricultural research  research institute cooperated
services nationwide.                     very little with INRA.
(a) Covenant classes are: I - Accounts/audit, 2 - Financial performance/generate revenues from beneficiaries, 3 - Flow and utilization of project funds, 4 - Counterpart funding, 5 - Management
aspects of the project or of its executing agency, 6 - Environmental covenants, 7 - Involuntary resettlements, 8 - Indigenous people, 9 - Monitoring, review and reporting, 10 - Implementation, 11 -
S      W Uu ci4s ssCtO alr,  egulator.y/insibutio11 ae.Uor1, 13 - OuterU .
(b) Status: C- Complied with, CD - Compliance after delay, NC - Not complied with, CP - Complied with Partially



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Tite      Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliances
BP 6.50: Disbursement profiles     Slow disbursement because of cumbersome
payment procedure. Counterpart funds below
expectations.
Use of Consultants by WB Borrowers   Complied with
(1981)
General Conditions Applicable to Loans Final Evaluation report partially prepared by the
and Guarantee Agreements (1985):   Borrower
Section 9.07
OD 8.40: Technical Assistance      No proper system to mobilize the technical
assistance
OD 10.60: Accounting, Financial    Generally complied with
Reporting, and Auditing
OD 10.70: Project Monitoring and   Limited monitoring and weak evaluation
Evaluation
OD 11.00: PROCUREMENT              Specifications not always complied with. Serious
(11.02: Procurement arrangements for  difficulties with some suppliers.
Investment Operations)
OD 13.05: Project Supervision      Not complied with. Borrower refused consultations
outside the country whereas security was steadily
deteriorating
OD 13.10: Borrower Compliance with   Generally complied with
Audit Covenants



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project         Planned             Revised             Actual
Cycle
Weeks      US$      Weeks      US$      Weeks    US$
Through appraisal    n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.     135.8    142.3
Appraisal-Board      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.       9.0     24.9
Board-Effectiveness    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      n.a.     n.a.
Supervision          92.5      n.a.      92.5       n.a.     72.9    229.5
Completion                                                    5.4      n.a.
Total                n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.      n.a.      ...



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance ating
Specialized
Stage of         Month/       Number of       Days in      saff skills   Implementation   Devlopmetal          Types of
project cycle     yer          pewns           field       rcent             sbttus          objectives       problems
IdentiScation
Preparation
Apprsal             Jun. 89
Supervision
I                   Jun. 91       3             11       A,A,R                 I                1
2                  Dec. 91        2             10        A, R                 2                 1
3                  Apr. 92        2             12       A, R                  2                2                 F
4                  Dec. 92        3             12        A. R, F              3                2                LM
5                  May 93         1             2         A                    2                2                 I
6                   Jun. 94       3              3        A, R, F             HU                U                L P
7 (MR)             Nov. 94        1              3        A                    U                U              LP, F, D
8                   Jun. 95       3              3        A, R, F              S                S                P, D
9                                 -              -        n.a                  U                U             P,D,ME
10                                                       n.a.                  U               HU            D,M,L,ME
ICR                                                       A                    U               HU            D,M, L, ME
A = Agriculturist R = Research; F = Financial Analyst
F = Funding, I = Institutional; M = Management; P  Procurement; D = Disbursement, ME = Monitoring & Evaluation; L  Legal
Covenant



ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
APPENDIX A
RE-ALLOCATION OF LOAN FUNDS



Re-Programming of Loan Tranches and Allotment of Unallocated Tranche
Planned after Reprogrammning
Main Categories                    Planned in Loan Agreement           and Allotment of Unallocated Tranche
% of Total exclusion                     % of Total exclusion
_________________________________    (in US$ 000's)             Unallocated         (in US$ 000's)        Unallocated
A. Research         Civil Works                 7.5                                     0.6
Equipment &
Vehicles                   7.5                                     4.6'
T.A. & Tramining           5.0                                      1.5
Increinental
Operating Costs            1.7                                      3.3
Total Research                                        21.7                76%                  10.0                 56%
B. Extension        Civil Works                 0.5                                     0.5
Equipment &
Vehicles                   3.5                                     4.8
T.A. & Training            1.0                                      1.0
Incremental
Operating Costs            1.8                                      1.5
Total Extension                                        6.8                46%                   7.80                44%
C. Unallocated                                         3.5                                     1.64
Total                                                    32.0                                     19.44
Including US$ 2.0 million allocated to INA (para. 21).



ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
AND PILOT EXTENSION PROJECT
APPENDLX B
INVA'S CONTRIBUTION
(FULL TEXT)



ERE DE L'AGRICULTURE                REPUBLIQUE ALGERIENNE DEMOCRATIOUE ET POPULAiRE
ET DE LA PECHE
)       S1 4 .11Li4  i
TITUT NATIONAL
.,GARISATION AGRICOLE
-aid HAMOINE 1602 ter               AIget(e.1998 -A l e 
(02) 54.34.13114/ 16
54.03.66
(02) 65.07.65
LE DIRECTEUR GENERAL DE L'INSTITUT
JA-.f [ S >   INATIONAL DE LA VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
A
MR CHARLES AMELTR
CHARGE DE PROJET
DEPARTElMENT DEVELOPPEMqNT RURAL ET
ENVIRONEMNT BUREAU REGIONAL MOYEN -
ORINT ET ARIQUE DI NORD
OBJET: Pre et (3216-AL)
'ai lhomnneur de vous faire parenir ci-joint l'analyse synthetique du
projet vu.garisation agricole pour contribution de 1rINVA au rapport
d'ach6vrement du projet (3216-AL).
Ev vous souhaitant bonne r6ception,
Vg uillez agrder mes meilleures salutations.
(Ce dourn=t castiet 10 pages).
N~~~A.~ ~
.firQ .s                                _ _ _ _' _ _. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
~~~~~                                       NAR~~~~~~~~~~- -
>        ,2XzxRc~1oNL



hfmINSTR DE L'ARC_ULTU_E ET DE LA PECHE
INSTITUT NATIONAL. DE LA VULGARISATION AG~IICOLE
RAPPORT DE SYNTIESE
CONTIUIN DE L'NA AU RPORT
D'ACBAVEMENT DU PROJET
NW 1998
1
* d                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S :ZI 86S5-S0-TZ



21-05-1998  12:52                                                                     P.03
RAPPORT CONTRILBUION DE LEMER1T4
L      -toie e obi gd- n; oiet
Le proje dt rechrch  aucole et de vulUisadion pilote d'une dur  de cinq an6e, est une
contibution a un effort a long terme, ds lons qu'i s'agit de renforcer et d'amaliorer la recherche
et la vuignsation en Algerie.
L'accrd de pret a 6te signe le 26 Septembre 1990 et devesat offoctif en Juin 1991.
Le sous projet vWgauisauorn   a connu quelques difficultns i son d6man-age, dus aux lentei
- La dibudg6tiauion tea te effective qu'on F&rier 1992 par d6csion du Minist6re des finances
(Direction Gin6rale du Budge4 r6f : 064E`DGBIDPB du 18.01.192).
- La r66vahotion, de rautorisation de programme (Ap) inital q  ot pAwe de 232,43 milios
de DA a S16,5 miions de DA, compte tenu de r&ohMion de la pariMi du Dinar, et de
raugrnentation cds cofits des eqiuipcm t pr4vus. Ceifo ridvaluaton nest mnftrvontc qu en
Octobre 1993.
Les preers dcawements nont ete effectifs quWa parti de I'exeorice 1991.
I_SE EN (EUVRE -                    _XPEIU 1ET RESULTATS:
La misc cn  uwLe du pret, a  t6 conacrtis  par la nise en place do 1'enscmrwle des
comosantces, toies quo priconis6es, dans le document du projet (3216-AL) qui se r6sument en
un sch6ma orgaionnet des appro-hes m6todologiques (oncadrornent, acrmus) et iun
renforement en moyens dinteorveions des structus conccmnms
Le etard accw6 danm la fozmation et &assistxane techriquw do loncaxment int nant a
amener los cadres de la celUlte nationaste d la gestion du projet a c ncentrer leurn eorts sur
llomogdni6 des concepts et des approchos rcwn  par Ic projet
A ct effet, rexpdrience acquisc se rEsume I:
l Ia coordination et spevsn do la preparation des proVammes d actr'it6s annuefles de
vulgaslation.
- la coordination, pr6paration et r&alsation des proWgammes de formation A tous lea niveaux;
- r'acquion et la geston des moyens du projet
-  tabfissment de liaisons des senices de vulgadton anrc les autus senices de la wllaya et
les oraniims d'appuis
- la mise en place des ouilb de suivi dvahuao nEcs&are A r6vauaifon Oj nnivau de rEalisation
dc8 progrmmes.
2



21-05-1998  12:53                                                                    P.04
- r1eploita?on de la docwamentaon at des Tapports.
- la p 6paraUon des rappot d'actMt6s projet selon des modd1es priabls tow las 6h&elos.
- la r6aHsatiou de quciques 6tuds diuostc.
11 SULTATS DU PR03EI:
1o/ Omansaffow
- L'Voriisation a et6 miw en pc graduclkment depuis 1992 A 1994, scio lom mc
pr6w par Ie projet
- La rattachement des cenule de gestion du projet, i la lirarchic du duecur dus servit
a0icoles A influer sur lactivit6 de vulganuaon en rason du double  plois asre par quolques
ages mtavenanu dans le cadre du projet.
L'organisation misw on place courend:
- Chef de BGFV: 7 (chef projet)
- Responsable fomatko - cucaion 7
- Revolse v ain  : 7
- Responsable sul - 6vauaion : 7
- Rspoable conle do g on: 1
- Responsable formation      1
*RO&w                      :6
- Supuviseur Daha           :20
. Sp6cist madires           :25
-ACV                        :191
- EnquBteus                  :12
- Iafoamaticien              : 1
2J Vulearsation:
Lo projet de vu%adaio agncole a mis an place ine st 8gie de ciuant appel
de fa9on combin6e ct coplae aux actions:
* de vula       de masse en temec dirformation et de    bsaton
- de vulgadsatki rapprochiec : jounEes de dmonon, joumres tccbniquaes...
- dImalsion de produur A uaave lrogisation dfes, salons, oncoum..
2.1. Vusrisation de masse
Dans ce cadre, lo projet a fait appel I des campaguw   dinfrion moblsa  de jago
siimiulto les supports 6ccri, le rau de 17 radios at 1 TV.
3



Cette dmarche qui obtcnu un echo trds fawrable auprFs des aicuis a did paculifr.nent
&ve1oppde duran? les canpagnes 1994 - 1995 - 1996/
2.2. La vulgafisation rapprochic:
LVapproche ddvelopp6 par le proj?t dam  cc cadrc a fait appel a unc combinaiawn do mnthodes
et do supports et cc an fonction du public cible ct des zones do poduction.
Cc programe de vulgarisation slest aduit par Yorganisation do joumncs de ddmonsation,
d'atcliem, de ronconUs dbat...,sur des th&ms en rapport avec les preoccupations des
agricuIeurs et de racdiW. agricole en g6n6rlc.
2.3. Emulation
Les acfions antam6s par le projet en mati6re de nifestations agrioles, de foires, concours
ont obtnu ume adhwdon totale des agriculurs.
Dans cc oadre et on colboration  avc les o uanisations professionneRles plurnumr
manifostalio  A caract&es locales et meme rggonales out e6t orgnis6es au niveau de la totalit6
des wilyas do la zone du projet
3/ - Suivi - valuation:
Le projet a mis au point unc serie de fiches de suivi et d'eva1udon.
Ces fiches pradqs, couvrcnt une grando partie des Ulemenr necessaes i une bonn.
intap*ation des donn.es r6patori6es.
Ces instumemns serv=t dXiidicateurs et dIl6ments de base de r6ffivnces lors dc  raboration
de la stratigia de la vularisauion a mettre en place au mveau natonal.
4/- Lies rcherche - vuluamusatlon:
L5 rard dans la mise en muvre du sous projet recherche  entraver la msc en place dbun
laon rocheche - vulgarisation. Nanmoins deux types do relations ont 6  concrftisees: la
pra6re i  travers le comi*btenbuique qui so runisait au moir dcux fois par an pour avaliser
les progammes de vulgariaton et las bums des rdaisations.
La deumueme consste en la participation des sp6cialistes materms des instisu techniques lorsque
cc denas exdste dam la wilarya par un appui tchique aux ACV pendart lranmation des
journees dnformnanon ou de denonsation.
5/ - Assistance technique rkalis6e dam le cadre du nroiet:
Le projet avait prvu de recourir  rassistznce technique pour r6aliser six expatises afn d'6tablir
un dar des lieux sur l systzne de vuigrisation en place et proposer des methodes
dorganisation, d'annaution et de geation du senvce do vulgaisation pilote.
Cet op4ration a &6 realis6ce avec rassistance technique de rOADA, selon la progaion ci-
apres:
4
50'd                                                                     S:Z; 8661-Se-1Z



- vulgnsation - plowr mnation    :4 mois d'oxpertisc
- Ressources humains et formation  :3 mois dexpertis
- Communicaion                 :3 mos d'expertise
- Suivi - evaluation            4 mois d'expertise
- Consel de diecdon            :2 mois dexpertisc
- Contr8le de gesmon           :2 mois dexperise.
6/ - Formation:
La fonnation et le peifectionnement sonT une composante imporntA  du projet. A ce tre, le
projet avait prevu le refforcement de cinq centres de fonnation et de vulgarisation agricole
(CFVA) dont celui d!Aln-Taya consacre a la m6thodolosie de la vulgarisation ot ceux de AMn-
Bessexr Bougara, MPdda et de Mechras davantage axes sur ls aspects toelmiques.
DMs le ddmarrage du projet, lINVA a accorde ui intzrt particuler i Ia formatdon er le
perfectionmement du persormel. En novembre 1994, 1'ensemble des 191 vulgiaturs retenus
dams le cadre du projet avernt recu une fonnation methodologique de la vuigrisadon dispcnsie
en 7 modules. Le programme de perfectiomecment a prs Ic relais se basant sur des modules
techniques spcifiques.
Pour co qui eat de la formation i r6t'ager, IMNVA a retenu les services do la FAO pour la
riasation du programme pr&vt Ce programma a et6 concrtWs en tomalitc durant rannce 1997.
PRINCMPAUX FACTEURS A"ANT AFFECTE LE PREJ
L'analse entreprise dans lc cadre de rvaluation du projet plote de vulgarisation agicole
(PPVA) indique quo sa realisation a souffert d'm certain nombre de contraintes ayant ntund
quolques des insuffiscs.
L,as containtes correspondanx a ceatt analyse differem su qu.Ilues pomts spcifiques mas
resten: hies, entre fles, sur certins aspects genSraux.
La connaisance du milieu agicole:
L'identfication des diff6rents groupes dfagricuteurs qui constituent la zone dai projet et ranalyse
au niveau de I'exploitation wgricole en tant que forme d'cxpression d'une orgaisation socio-
conomique orgarisee autour d'ume activiut de production agicole nWa souvent pas itd rendue
possible en raison:
- de linstabllite do rassiem foncicre dos exploitations agricoles collectives (EAC) et de lour
iclatement sous forme d'exploiration acole indivdudle.
- de V'inadaptation du secteur agricole aux changzments economiques intervenus au nmveau du
Pays. Fn effet, la mondialisation du systine marchand (GATT, OMC) ot rapplication des
termes dui programme d'ajustement structurel a expose les agricultcurs a une sitution
6conomique difficile, marqude par un renchzissemcnt brusque des facturs de production, la
suppreson des aides publics.
s
90 * d                                                                   b'S :I  8s5T-Se-IZ



Ces ronditions ont quelque fois contarie la d*narcho d'fbGrml6n  d%a ptouammit d.
vulgrisation .t de formation ciblis sur des groupes homogbnes
L'asslstance techniue:
Les iocrvices conalifs de rassitance teclnique n'ont pas 6t6 offer au moment oppomru au
mvcau dc tous les aspects de la mise au point a( du fonctionnemcnt du projet pilote.
Co retard, consequence dune situaton socio-6conomique particuli&re qu!a kfIws6 le pays en
1993 s'est tradui une ddsaffection du marche Alg6rien par les partenaires dtrngen notamLent
pour lea aspects assistance ecnique cat d realsaton d'expertse sur lc terain.
L'en vironnement de la vulearisatlon waicole:,
L'nsuffisance pemlanente des facteurs de producion devant satifare lea dcmandes des
agricAteurs restc la source principalc des difficult6s qui ont nuia i rcftacb  des acdvitis de
vulagisaticn, idcntffi6&  dans le cadr du projet
Lesmultim6dias:
Les actiuites d'aninatton et de vulisation doveloppe dams Ic cadre do rorganision pilote du
projet ont &e soutenues par des campagnes dinfofmation mulfi-trdia.
ies amnpagnes d'information et de seniblisation ont nis a contribution de faion combinec et
covpl6mentia uos les canaux ct supports d'infomnaon et d'animation a savoir:
- L   spots T.V.
- As spota et enissions radio par le biais de chatnes de radios locales
- Les supports &fms (affiche, ddpliant, brochurms...)
- la vulgarisation rapprochee par le biais des 191 vulgarste   du projet.
Ces moyens do communiation ont t utilis6s pour:
 faire connaitre les objectfs et le contenu du projet pilotc
* susciter rlintrr& et radhdsion des agricukeurs au prosramme
apporter un appui techique par le biais des dimonstraions praques et des visies conscils.
Cette approche multi-mddia a pem2is une trms bonne infonmatio at ume ddcision posite des
agdicuItcurs.
Toutefois, et dam beaucoup de siuations le choix technique do ragriculteur est reste largemont
tibutaire de facteum soec-dconomuques mndpendant d'une formation tchmique (disponibiti:,
des iants et du financement).
En effet; pour etre rc9ue er cr&dible, rinformation technique doit 8tre tradnt par ragricleur en
terme de signifiants at d&actes 6conomniqucs.
6
L0-d                                                                     SS:ZI 866T-SO-sE



P. O
21-05-1998  12:56
Les contraintes financi.res:
Le projet n'etant inscit au nivoau du CNP qu'en Mars 1990, la ratification officielle ntest
intervenue que le 9 FRier 1991.
D'aute part; etant donnd l'Mlution de la Pariti du dollar (d 8,10 DA en 1991 a 23 DA en
1993), la rv&aluation de la fiche technique proposee eest intorvenue queen 1993 et les
d6caissernenis n'ont ;t6 rendus effeciis quen Octobre 1993, cnlrainant un retard certain dans la
mise en place effecfive du projet.
SJTES A DONN
Les activit& qui ont Wt6 conduites dans le cadre du projet pilote te vuldisadon agncole( le
PPVA), pendant une p6riode de plus de cinq armees, permettent de Omer des eseixements
utiles devant petmettre aux ddcideurs dtasscoir un syst&me nalional de vulgarson agricole
adapte au contexte national.
Compte tenu donc des acquis du projet mais aussi des contraintes qu ont et recensees, it est
possible davancer des propositions liees, d'une part i la structuration de raspect insttutiommel
de la vlgadisation et d'autrc part aux posibiltis de la phase d7extension do certaines actitis
du projet.
A) L'asDc instttutionnel:
1) LINVA cr6e par docrot n 95199 du I awil 1995 es la structure ou devraient atre ddfnies
les gandes lignes poltiques concemant la vulgaxisation a partir dune concertation avec
l'ensemble des organisincs conceies: le MNiist6re de l'Agriculturc, les Instlitu   de
developpcment et de recherche, les offics, les Clambres d'Agriculture etc....
2) Danm le cadre du PPVA, la fonction de vulgarsatin ayant ete assurde au niveau des wilayate
par les cellWes du projet, il s'avire indispesable, dans le cadre do la mise en plaae eflicace d'un
systema national de vulgarisadon, de pcrinere a INVA do s'appuyer aum des irt)ances deja en
place ou A crier.
Deux hypothiess peuvcnt etre envisag6e:
- La criation d'annexes regionales qui rogouperaient un certain nombre de waayate et qui
exerceraient a ce titre, des tiches de coordination, d'orientation et de SUM des programmes do
vularisation des diff6rcntes r6gions.
- La rise en place d4une direction (ou sous-direction) de la vulgarisation au niveau des
directions des services agncoles ou des chambres d7agriculture des wilayate qui prendrait cn
charge, rlnsemble des actitds de la vWgration et qui en assurerait leur contr6le et Icur
ex&ution au niveau des dairate et des communes.
Lappareil de vulaarisation couvnrait ainsi rcnsemble du teritoire  avec sos instances et ses
agents, cc qui pemettrait d'aasier directorent rapplication de la fonction do la vulgarisation et
d'innovcr dana Ies praiques et m6thodes et dc dynaniser des secteurs jusque Ia peu touches (
agnculture sahaienne, aguiculture steppique).
7



D'autrv part, il s're ndcessaire de mettro en place, aupr4s de 1'hVA, un con8dl soientifique
qui d6finirait les grands axes de travail aupres de cette structure et des divorses organisations
chaxgdes du suivi des programnes (ameexes r0gionales, DSA, chambres d'agriculzu)
B) Extnsion des actNCt6s du PPVA
e travail d'obsertton et dexp6uimentation riafis6 par It PPVA montre quWil est poible de
developper dans les wilayate certaines iterventions tendant a metire en place les premers
6lements du sysuhme national de vuiaisation agricole.
Ces intervenfions devraienx s'accompagner dbne sine d'actions (moyens humnams et mat*iiels,
financs) tendant i les rendre op6rationnelles afin &assurcr leur roproductibilit6 et lour
doveloppement.
AsDOt mfthodolodeiues:
1 - Un premier chazmp d'application et d'extension a rensemble des wilayate poun-ait atree
constith; par la mist en place d'outils methodologiques relaffs a la connaisance du milieu il.
s'agt principalement
- De la rn6thodologie de d6termination des contraintes eo de rationalites agro-icologiques au
niveau d,un espace rral donn.
- De la rThdododogie danalyse des resultats.
- De la niafhodologie de la nmis on place dun progranme d'acthi's.
2 - Un deuwdme champ d'application peut faire l'objec de la mise en place de la mdthodologie
d'76aboration des progranmes de formation et de vugarisaton, deja test6e dans le cadre du
PPVA
Ceatte n,tiodd a r'avantage de faire remofter de la base productve (groupes dagziculwurs) les
probl6rr z3s qui lmten la r6alisation des objectifs de production.
D'autrc part cette m6thodologie permet:
- de d-terminer los prioritds en matire d'intenrvnon compte renu de lniportance des
probl6mes at de la capaciti op6rationnelle do lencadrement
- De reaiaer les programmes d!mtervention en orgaisant le appuis necessires aux equpes
conmunales.
3 - Un troisine chmp reste la possibiltd doex on  des ouis du suM  et 6vauzatxon des
activids de vulrisadon, doja initis dans le cadre du projet
Cele fonction indissociablo de zoute action de vulgmisaton, permet:
- de tezter en pemanece la vaIdite ct rapplicabilitM des m6thodes d'intervention vulgarises.
- de d6celer lea besois nouveaux en matiere d'appuis compl&mentaires.
- d'adapter on pennanence It dispositif de vulgarisation aux conditions rieees de d6veloppement
La fonnation de l'encadrement:
Quelque soit lhyponhtse do structuration retenue dans le cadre de rassise du systeme national
do vulgarisation, lune des tiches pujoriaires sera d'amorcer et de geniraliser la formation i
l'nscmble de rencadrement ct des groupes d'agriculteurs bien identifi6s..
60 'd                                                                    85 :ZT  866T-S0-TZ



Dans la situation acruelle, il semble particuliErement important d'agir de fa9on concertee avec
les diverses instances sur rorganisation de la formation m6thodologique des vulgaisaicurs afn
dinduire au  iveau des comummes une dynatique de Ia fonction de la vulgaisation.
Dans cette hypothase, la formaton de rencadrement de base (les vulgarisateurs) apparalt
comme une condilion  prdalable a la prise en charge des difficu1trs rdenes do exploitants
agricoles.
Renforcement du Service de la Documentation:
Le cenr^e de documnation de ITVA doit ete consid6ri comme un service naional de
documentation capable de foumnir les appus ndcessaies au   quipes opdrationnclles de la
vulmisaiorL
A cet effet, ses serAces doivent 8tre renforcds et utre adapta a;
- Capitaliser les inforinations natonales disponibles sur rAgicultr Alg6ienne.
- Disposer de ranmble des etudes et de rechcrche rCahsoes par re sble des isur sur la
vulgarisition.
Rentormement des Services de Communication - Diffusion:
La commission - diffusion a montre, en particulier dans le oadre du PPVA que cet outit reste un
e1ement indispensable a promnouvoir et a diffuser tant aupres de l'encadrement do ragsicultre
qu'appres dim public nis lag (les ruraux).
C-epndant les supports a la communication - diffusion 6crits (publication, fiches...) ou audio-
visuels (6mission de radio, de tv6vision...) doivent faire objet dtunc approche particulier afin
d'6Larir le champ d'actions aux vaiables propres au monde rral et a&n que les meses
pwssent atteir au mveau des pis petts expltations agricoles.
Ebauche du Contexte G6n6ral dTnterventlon de 1'INVA
Fort de rexp6rience acquse dans le cadre de la gestion du PPVA, lINVA peut dores et ddji
ineiveir en un appui a I'action de dynanisation de la vulgisation agricolc a l'cchelle
nationale.
Cot app4i sera axe parkculierement sur la formation aux m6thodes d'organisation propos6es et
dont le contonu so rdsumenait:
- A    fiation a ranalyse des r6sultats de production des diffrents groupes dagiculteurs et A
rideuifcation de containes reladives a la production agricole.
- A la formulation dun diagnostic au nivean dhun espace rural donne et aux propositions de
solions visat i lever ces conairtas.
9
O1'd                                                                      8S:Z1  8G661-50-T



T  * d1Id
- A la geniralisation de I'inibiation dc la mftode d'l&a boradon des progmm  4. vuraa,lmAiOwn
ct dc formation.
- A la formnulation a la progrmmaton des appuis techniques.
- A la formation et a la formadtion de ractith du suni ot vahuaron, iee au d6roulament des
actions des progrAmmes de fornmtion et de vwlarisation.
CONCLUSION:
En conclusion, on peut dire que rimpact de la vuigarisation ne peut tre appr*cier qu'cn.
rif6rence aux caractdrist  socio-economiquo do chaque groupe d'agricueurs.
L'organsation divelopp6o par le projet a abouti a rlaboration d'une approche m6thodologique
ou ragviculteur n'est periu qu'en tant que membre dun groupe socio-6conomique donnc.
Ses choix en mattere d'adoption de nouvelles tochniques sont d6teruinis par las evolutions et
les caracteres du groupe auqucl il appartient
Ceci etant Pacti4  do vulganisaon elle que approchee dans le cadre du projer piloro apparait
utile pour au moins quatre (04) raisons:
1 - Ell a perrnis de rosta ume organisation, des methodes er des mnoyens adapt6s au context
socio4conomique actuel du Pays.
2 - Elk ac d6lwopp6 une vulgisation interactive   travers rizistaation de relations direes et
les d4bais er discussions ente agricultcurs et vulgarisateurs.
3 - Ele a mis en exergue la n&cesitd didendfier lea groupes homogenes cibles d'agriculteurs et
leurs besoims pour l6laboraion de tout prgamme d'activitt.
4 - Elle a permis de  rifi  le condions d!acces aux technologies propos6es pour chaque
groupe d'agicukeurs (au plan socia, economique et culttrl).
10



MIaISTERE DE L'AGRICULTURE ET DE LA PECHE
INSTITUT NATIONAL DE LA VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
SUIl DES IDICATEURS DE MISE EN
PLACE DU PROJET VULGARISATION
AGRICOLE PILOTE
FEVIER 1998



INDICATEURS                          UNITE                           OBJECTIFS                              REALISATIONS
1/ Ormanisatiort
. Chef BFV (chief projet)         7                             - Tester l'organisation plilote prvue        L'organiisation pilote a ete mise en
- Responsable formation -                                       par le projet                                place graduelleienit A partir de 1992
comtuwiication                   7                                                                         jus(lu'A 1994.
- Responsable vulgarisation    ,  7            Cadre            - Assurer la prise eCl cliarge des missions
- Responsable Suivi - Evaluation : 7                            et taclies assigni&es A clhacuin des         La promulgation dti statut du
- Responsable controle de gestion: I                            partenaires oti iiewiubres de l'orgainisatioin  Vulgarisateur, effective depuis
- Responsable de formation      : I                            i pilote                                      Avril 1996, a deottii inleluctablement
- Supervisetur Darl-a           : 20                                                                         une motivation accrme au corps des
- Specialistes matieres         : 25                                                                         vulgarisateurs.
- A.C.V.                       :191
- Enqueteurs                     12
2/ Vulgai isation
Nombre d'agriculteurs touches
- Nbre. de %isites conseils                 Visite conseil      - Ia zoiie dot prOjet compte 160.000         par toutes les activites miiises en
ag,ricultleuis                             place (parcelles de dimonistration.
- Nbre. de parcelles (le                       Parcelle                                                      joumees diiloriiationis, visites
demnonstration                                                L'objectil dui projel est celui dc touchier  conseils). Durant 5 ans de 1993 a
50.000 agrictilctiurs eni 5 ains avec tno    1997 : 43120 soit 86 % du total.
- Nbre. de journies d'informatioln             Jotrimee         progranimme amel de 10.000 agriculteturs/ani.  1) Nombre de parcelles realisees :582
et de sepsibilisatioii                                                                                                  - 1994: 86
- 1995  164
- Nbre, d'agriculletirs de conlact           Agriculteur                                                                 -1996: 220
- 1997 :112*
* Probleme de secheresse



INDICATEURS                             UNITE                               0IMJ lC"F IFS                               REALISAT [ONS   --
Vulilarisation (suite)                                                                                              2) Nombre de journ6cs Techniques: 2368
Jouiii16e           IRejpartition par an 
- 1994  299
- 1995  539
Agriculteuri                                                                         - 1996: 1036
- 1997 : 494
3). Nombre (le visites consells: 37905
Reparlition par an
- 1994   3000
- 1995 :9769
- 1996: 11022
- 19)97 14114
31 - Suivi - Evaluatioi                                                                                              - Misc au point de liclics de sui-vi et
d'6valuationi. Ces tiidies pr-atiques.
couvrentl tous le.s dI6m,ilts ni&cess.iires a
unie bo)nne inteil)rela(tlm dlCs dlonllcs
r6pert(ni~cs 
-Recucilli- les iilIrimalions su- [es -      -Fichie visite conscd
ggriculleurs ciblts eitles systl6mcs (le     -Fichec d1nitonstraitioni pratique - iil'ormia-
puoductimls prafiqu6s                          (ion - sensibilisation
- Fichiier agricultturs de conitact
- Regisire desv~isites
- Ficlie de haisoti VulgarisaliotiiRecherche



INICATERJRS                    UJNITE   O_JE( II FS                                                         REALISAT ION
- Cette action a eld rfaIis&e a tra.vers 5 enquctes:
Suivi - Evaluation (suitel                                                                    ia savoir:
1). Ellude socio-ecouorniilue de la z7ote du projet (1993)
2). Evaluation posM-forlmaIion des vulgatisaleurs de la
ZOnC dii pro3et. (1994)
3). N4esure de l'inipact des spots t6&%isumes (1995).
4). Attitude et Ctviporleriecnt des agriculteums face a
rinnovat ion des tecliriques (le production( 1997)
5). (onnaissance du role de la fenmme rurale dans le
| d(veloppetet1( agticole (I 996).
- Recueillir les retnscigneflclcIt ssur   I..eC sUivi (des aclivil(s de vulgarisatiom est assurte par
l'eflicacitid du sysltume (le  ulLgarisatio  [i le tentic v6guliere de reunions de conceriatin,
et les activit*s de vutgacisatiMI. n.valuation et tic wordination
- Analyser les ilormialionis wctIcillies.    1) Aiu niveau des svilaya. rtiuiions hebdomadaires avt;c
et 6valuer les chiatigenilnils ri&cssailes   le che Ide projel (le la celluile de wilaya et les rcspon-
sables des bureaux (suiki-t6valuafioni. coiniiutijcation.
loTlhalion).
2) Au niveanx National, r6unions binenisuclhes a
.  INVA avec l1enscmble des chIci (le 1,roil (INVA.
DSA. etablissernens de   rinmailon).



INDICAFEURIS              ___       INITE,                    OBJE,.__ RE'ALIS NT                                   N
3) Au niveau wvilava, reunion dlu cotniih6
tecluliquc en de6ut et liii de campagne
agricole.
4) klissions d'apptii permanentes
organisecs pair I'quipe centrale
du projet sur. le terTain
4/ - Formation locale
Fornnation en methodologie de la       Vulgarisateurs        Formation cquatilianle dIC 191         Formnation dc 191 -vulgarisalcurs
vulgarisalion agricole                                       vulgarisalcuis.                       en mrnthodologie de la vulgarisation.
Stage dle 6 mois ;; 1'-111 de AIN-
1','AYA.
Formation Post-graduee et cle courte
durke
La fornialion (courto et Ionogtic durcc)
-lontintefniois   Forinatiown dipioInaIltc               realisee avee le concotirs dles
.sevvices de 1.1 FAO.
Nombre de cadlres fonnes: 45 honiines
.pour une durec globale de 1 1
semaines.



INDICATEURS -- 7NTE                                              OBJEC"IFS:                                 REALISA'lONS
Formation de courte durke
- kl[thodologie et programmation en                         Destinee au personnel teclutique              16 hommesimois : Wageningen - -lollande
vulgarisation agricole.                                    (Ing6nieurs el aurlfes) (IC l'lnstitui
- Organisation et gestion dlun service                      National (le la vulairisation agvicole       07 hommesimois Trie Clh5teau - FRANCE
de vulgarisation.                                         (INVA), des D)ireCions (les Services
- Techniques et miethodes de comnitnui-                     Agicokles (D)SA) ce des formialeurs          07 Ilommies/tnois.: CIRNEAFRANCE
cation                                                    des 6tablissemeits (le i ortlia ion
- Suivi - civaluation                      I lonune/mois    Agricole de la zonie *lu projet.             07 1 lommes'mois FORU M()Nf - FRANCE
- Techniques d(enquetes                                                                                  02 flommcwit ois: F(:I IOM - FRANCIi
- Gestion d'un service de documentation                                                                  02 1 Iommles.imois CIRNEA France
.Formation  post-_raduCe:
.'obieclif vise i rellfircer les capacitds   Formation post-graduec  3 cadres
- V ulgarisalion et communicalion         I-lommeimtois.    techniques en management cl en gestion        lonues en 30) mois0
des cadres Jlitimiaux (lalls )es dotnaines tie  (Dipl3mie DSPU i l'It A   de
la vulgarisamion ce (le (a commnunication.   Monupellier).
5/ Assistance techiiique                                                                                  Operation realisee avec 1 assistance
tecluuque (Ic I'OA)A, sclon ila
- Vulgarisation et progranitation                                                                         programsnation ci-apres
- Ressources humaines et formation
- Cotmmunication                                             ftabhir un elal des lieix sur Ie syslemnes (le  - Vulgatisation el programilmatiotn :4 mois
- SuiMi - E;aluation                      CoIisuhtanlt/utlois   vulgarisafiott el pIlace et proposer (des
- Conseil de direction                                       mnethodes (1'omganisation, d'anbnation cl (le  - Iessources hwumaines et loimatlion  3 inois
- Controle de gestion.                                      gestion dtJ sirvice de vulgatisalion pilole.



INDICATEURS                         UNITE                      O  E3JCIFS                                     REALISAT IONS
- Conmunivication:        3 nois
Suivi - Evaluationt:     4 mois
Conseil de Direction:   2 mois
- Contrile de gestion:    2 imois
6/ Productionsscriuto audio- visuels                          - SoUtellir Ics pIrogrammcs dc           U'utilisation de ces auxiliaires dc comimnitiiication
vuligarisatioln                        a permiis d'assurer
Production et diffusion de supports              Spot                                                  - Le passage de 962 spots t06%isuels:
ecrits et audio-visuels                                       - Ces supports soint diil'sds lots des   P'roductionis concerin6es:
Emissionl     jourin6es techlini(ques pour anmliorer       - Les gran(les ctiltur-es
Radio         le savoir et savoir falire des              - Arboricultul-e 4- viticulture
agriculuters.                              - Maraichage
- Lai( - vian(le.
- Informer. sensibiliser les agriculteurs   - La difltusioni de 6823 6iiissions radios par les
sur les techniq(ues moderies dc          2 chlaines nationiales et les 5 radios locales de la.
production.                              zonie du projet
- Tliinies diffuses
. Tecluiiques et nidtlodes de mise cn place,
d'entretieni et de recolte des cultures anniuelles
.  Travaux d'entretienl de la conduite de vergers.
Arboricoles.
P Protection des culttiues (toutes esp&es
con fondues).
Thernes A caractere economiliqtues (soutienl des prix
A la production, acces aux credits...



INDICATEURS                      UNtTE                           OBJECTIFS                                       REALISATIONS
Diffusion des supports ecrits a travers:
Productionsscripto audio-                                                                                 Les brochures: 14000 exemplaires stir les
visuels (suite)                                                                                           tiemes relatifs aux
- Recoltes des cereales
DepIiant                                                       - Rdsultats de l'impact des spols ITV sur le
comportement des agriculteurs.
- Conununication : concept, objectif, mi6thode.
Mettre a la disposititin des agriculteurs       - Donnees macro-6conomiques sur l'agriculture
des refientiels techini(ques et m6thodologiques    Alg6rienne
fiables stir les princil)aux themies relatifs:  - Resultats d'enquetes socio-econoniiiqties
Afficlie
- aux technliuites de lprodiuction
- A la gestion (le I'exploitation               Les afficlies: 33.000 exempljaires
- A la vulgarisation et la coniitiinication.
thbmes developpes
- la seiieice selectioiiiide
- I, semis en ligne des cereales
Brochiure                                                       - La fertilisationi azotee du ble
- La lutte contre le ver blanc
- I'Aleurode des cultures l6gumi6res
- La joumne nationale de la vulgarisatioii
agricole.



INDICATEURS                      UNITE                          OBIJECTIFS                                    REALISATIONS
Productions scripto audio-                                                                                Les d6pliants: 13500 exemplaires
visuel (suite)                           Depliant                                                         principalement sur la c6realiculture
- Preparation des sols des cereales
- Fertilisation du ble
- Protectioii des seienices et grains de
cereales en stockage.
7/ Amnnagements et eQuipernents
- Am6nagements et Construction             In2l         Am6liorer et accroilre Ics capacilts d'accueil    Constructioni de 2 salles de reunionis au
dans les CFVA de la zone dti                          des stagiaires au niveau des 6tablisseniients de   niveau des CFVA de Meclitras et (le Afn-
projet                                                Foniationi agi-icole (CI VA - IlMA) de la zone     Bessem
du projet.
- Amienagemient de locaux pour ull atelier
- Arnenagement des locaux de                m2         Reain6nagerneit et adaptation des locaux et          d'impriinerie
I'INVA.                                              Batinenits existants au niveau de l'INVA            - Anitiageuienit d'un local pour un studio
audio-Nisuel
- Amenagement d'une salle de reunion.
- Construction d'un abri pour vehicules.
- Acquisition de moyen de                Veliicule     Mise A la dispositioni des stricttires de la
deplacement.                                         Zone lu projet, de nlioveis de d&placements         Acquisition de 189 v6hicules 1lgers et tout
sUir terrain.                                      terraiar
- 104 Veliicules legers
- 49 Vehicuiles tout terrain
- 06 miiii-bus.
___________________________________________                       .. ________________________________________   .   .  .   .._____________



1NDICATEURS                     VNITE                      OLJECITIIS                   ]                 lAL1SATIONS
Reiiforceiicit des iioyetis de                       , Accroitie ics capacilts de pu(luctionl de  Receplion (les 6q(uipeiiciets relatifs a
I'INVA en vue de lui permiettre la     Equipement   I'INVA eu  suppotIs scripto audio -visuels
productionl de materiels p6dagogi-                     principaleient                             - Une impriierie pour la production de sepports
qties 6enris et scri plo visuels                                                                  decrits.
- Spot
- Docutimeitaires                    - Un studio audio-visuel pour la production de
- Emissioni ra(lio                     spots, documentaires, films pedagogiques,
- DdpliaiII                            emissions radiophoniques
- Brochuriie



IBRD 21081
ALGERIA                                                               M  e c i T e r r a n e a n
AGRICULTURALRESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT                                                                  Meierna                                                        e
PROJET DE RECHERCHE ET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE
CLIMATE DATA AND LOCATION OF REGIONAL AGRICULTURE                                                                                                                                       Sk-kd.    ANNABArzor: N
RESEARCH CENTERS AND RESEARCH STATIONS                                                  ALGIERS 5=-/  bd                                                                      KIKA          N        A, EL....... 
DONNEE5 CLIMATIQUES ET LOCALISATION DES CENTRES REGIONAUX              5      \3       -~    ~    S    KJiie    jC   ?   ;   .........                             JEL R
J -                            _       d0            TINE     GUELMA G        SUE
__ ->/E M g7)//                                        ARRET/DJ )n T/-I2/ O>   oghA RRERdS
0  > <    i A|s eS  l  S A I D A            /             /          v           /            <            )  /*   2    \  K I 0 K R A S E  I L 
)    HNHLA J 
tEMC                                                            T ' !E /  T        /T
1   1  /   /  / /    El Bayodh          <        /ouof                     >.         s   / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*         {       \   E ~~~L    O  U E D            
(    N A A M                            ///                                       LAG H O U A T    \ /-L_        X    
R REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CENTERS    -14 - EXTREMEMINIMIUMTEMPERAlURES dog Cl
\ \ N.       tma j E L8 A Y A D H/ /                                 CENTRES REGIONAUX DE RECHERCHE AGRONOMIQUE    TEMPERATURE MINIMA EXTREMES d`g C)
SRESEARCH STATIONS                       * WILAYA HEADQUARTERS                                       A-~ o[MH,p 
_    STATIONS EXPERIMENTALE5                   -   SIEGES DES WILAYA
RAINFAI(LOL                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
I                                                                                            PUVIOMETRIE                                   C  APITALE NATIONALE                           A  L G   E R  I A
a                                                                           |             900                                    _ -   WILAYA BOUNDARIES
U                                    0          50         100        150                      600                                          FRONTIERES DES WILAYA      \ .
KILOMETERS                                  400
TERS_300                                                                     -   - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
I      Sh .F Cz.  L w  . pr.p'd' P.v Wp,OI6  .wL                                                                FR3ONTIERES INTERNATIONALl S                    .                        - 
lb. -dd&  I
JANUARY 1989



