Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
 LOAN NUMBER 3216 AL
(Agricultural Research and Pilot Extension Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 26, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3216 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 26, 1990, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
Page  2
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Central Bank" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banque Centrale 
d'Algerie), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 62-144, dated 
December 13, 1962;
(c)
"MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture (Ministcre de 
l'Agriculture), or any successor thereto;
(d)
"CFVA" means each of the Borrower's Training and Extension Centers 
(Centres de Formation et de Vulgarisation Agricole) located at Ain Taya, Ain Bessem, 
Bougara, Medea and Mechtras, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's 
Decree No. 85-247, dated October 15, 1985; and "CFVAs" means, collectively, all of the 
said training and extension centers;
(e)
"CNPA" means the Borrower's National Center for Agricultural Training 
(Centre National de Pedagogie Agricole), established and operating pursuant to the 
Borrower's Ordonnance No. 67-171, dated August 31, 1967, as supplemented by the 
Borrower's Ordonnance No. 71-40, dated June 17, 1971;
(f)
"INPV" means the Borrower's National Institute for Crop Protection 
(Institut National de Protection de Vegetaux), established and operating under the 
supervisory authority of the MOA pursuant to the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 75-11, 
dated February 27, 1975;
(g)
"INRA" means the Borrower's National Institute for Agricultural Research 
(Institut National de Recherche Agronomique), established and operating pursuant to 
the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 66-78, dated April 11, 1966 as revised and supplemented 
by the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 70-66, dated October 14, 1970;
(h)
"ITEBO" means the Borrower's National Institute for Cattle and Sheep 
Raising (Institut Technique d'Elevage Bovin et Ovin), established and operating 
pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 87-238, dated November 3, 1987;
(i)
"ITGC" means the Borrower's National Institute for Field Crops (Institut 
Technique des Grandes Cultures), established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's 
Decree No. 87-236, dated November 3, 1987;
(j)
"CRRA" means any of the Borrower's following regional agricultural 
research centers (Centres Regionaux de Recherche Agricole): Lamtar, Tiaret, Setif, 
Oued Smar and El Khroub, established and operating pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 3.08 of this Agreement; and "CRRAs" means, collectively, all of the said 
regional agricultural research centers;
(k)
"Agricultural Research Implementation Program" means the program referred 
to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(l)
"Agricultural Extension Implementation Program" means the program 
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(m)
"Wilaya" means each of the following administrative divisions of the 
Borrower, as organized by the Borrower's Code de la Wilaya, dated May 23, 1969 
(Ordonnance No. 69-38) . Ain Defla; Tipaza; Blida; Bouira; Medea; and Tizi-Ouzou;
(n)
"Daira" means each of the following administrative subdivisions of the 
Borrower: Djendel; El Attaf; Djelida; Miliana; Larba; Boufarik; El Affroun; Ain 
Bessem; Haizer; Lakhdaria; M'Chedallah; Beni-Slimane; Berrouaghia; Tablat; Cherchell; 
Hadjout; Kolea; Azazga; Azzefoun; and Ouaguenoun; and "Dairat" means, collectively, 
all of each said Daira;
(o)
"BFV" means each Wilaya's agricultural service office in charge of said 
Wilaya's agricultural training and extension programs; and "BFVs" means, collectively, 
all of the said service offices; and
Page  3
(p)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower's, or any of its agencies' or entities' or divisions' (referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement), fiscal year, which period coincides with the 
calendar year commencing January 1 and ending December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of thirty-two million dollars 
($32,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a 
rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Page  4
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount 
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the 
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on 
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the agencies or entities or divisions listed in subparagraph 
(b) (ii) of this Section, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, economic and
agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
(i)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph 
(a) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all 
measures necessary to ensure that Part A of the Project shall be 
carried out in accordance with the Agricultural Research 
Implementation Program, and that Part B of the Project shall be 
carried out in accordance with the Agricultural Extension 
Implementation Program, as each said program is set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(ii)
Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
following agencies or entities or divisions shall participate in 
the carrying of the stated corresponding Part of the Project: Part 
A of the Project: INRA; ITGC; INPV; and ITEBO; and Part B of the 
Project: CNPA; CFVA; and the Wilayat by the intermediary of their 
respective BFV.
(iii)
The Borrower shall enter into agreements or make arrangements, as 
the case may be, satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the 
agencies or entities or divisions, referred to in subparagraph (b) 
(ii) of this Section, providing for their respective obligations 
in the carrying out of such parts of the Project, and shall make 
available to said agencies or entities or agencies part of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated for the carrying out of such parts 
of the Project.
Section 3.02. Not later than December 31, 1993, and annually thereafter, the 
Borrower shall review with the Bank, the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part 
A of the Project, and the Borrower shall, on the basis of said review, promptly 
thereafter prepare a national research program.
Section 3.03. Not later than December 31, 1993, and December 31, 1996, the 
Borrower shall review with the Bank the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part 
B of the Project, and shall, on the basis of each said review, promptly thereafter 
prepare a national extension program.
Section 3.04. Without any limitation or restriction to the provisions of Section 
I.D. of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, not later than December 31, 1991, the Borrower 
Page  5
shall ensure, or cause to be ensured, that each of INRA, ITGC, INPV and ITEBO shall 
apply to its respective agricultural research staff a salary and employ-ment benefits 
structure equivalent to that applied in the Borrower's higher education institutions 
and universities.
Section 3.05. Without any limitation or restriction to the provisions of Section 
I.E of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) not later than June 30, 
1992, develop, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter 
cause each of INRA, ITGC, INPV and ITEBO to apply, for purposes of carrying out Part A 
of the Project, budgeting, financial and accounting policies and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) not later than December 31, 1992, assign to each of 
the CRRAs in Lamtar, El Khroub, Setif, Tiaret and Oued Smar qualified accounting 
agents, which agents shall be responsible for, inter alia, issuing payment orders by 
said CRRAs.
Section 3.06. Not later than December 31, 1991, the Borrower shall develop, on 
the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter: (i) cause CNPA to 
apply, for purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, budgeting, financial and 
accounting policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) cause the BFVs 
to apply said policies and procedures in respect of the activities to be carried out 
under Part B of the Project within their respective Walayat.
Section 3.07. (a) Not later than October 31 of each calendar year, beginning 
calendar year 1990, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and 
comments, the Borrower's proposed annual investment program for the immediately 
following calendar year in respect of Parts A and B of the Project.
(b)
Not later than December 15 of each calendar year, beginning calendar year 
1990, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, the 
Borrower's proposed annual national investment programs, for the immediately following 
calendar year, in respect of its agricultural research and extension subsector. 
Representatives of the Borrower and the Bank shall meet promptly thereafter to 
exchange views on said programs.
Section 3.08. Not later than December 31, 1991, the Borrower shall take all 
action necessary to ensure that its experimental stations at Lamtar, Setif, Oued Smar, 
El Khroub and Tiaret are designated as CRRAs and are provided with the resources 
needed for the successful carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project, and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the agencies 
or entities or divisions of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project, or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Page  6
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause each of INRA, CNPA, ITGC, INPV and ITEBO:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, economic and agricultural practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, 
economic and agricultural practices.
Section 5.02. Not later than June 30, 1991, the Borrower shall take or cause to 
be taken all action, satisfactory to the Bank, to vest INRA with all powers and 
authority needed to enable it to plan, coordinate and allocate the necessary resources 
for the provision of agricultural research services within the Borrower's territory.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of INRA, CNPA, CFVA, ITGC, INPV, 
ITEBO or a BFV; and
(b)
Any one or more of the decrees, laws or orders referred to in paragraphs 
(d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i) or (j) of Section 1.02 shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by 
the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Page  7
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower shall have established, or caused to be established, the 
sub-project management units referred to in Sections I.A.2. and II.A.2. of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement;
(b)
The Borrower shall have established, or caused to be established, the 
National and Regional Commissions for Programming of Agricultural Research referred to 
in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(c)
The Borrower shall have prepared and submitted to the Bank, for its 
review and approval, the training program referred to in Part A.4. of the Project.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Ministry of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy
Immeuble Mauritania
Place du Perou
Algiers
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINPLAN
67073
Algiers
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Ghazi Hidouci
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ K. Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated             of %
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
      Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   For Part A of
      the Project:
      (a)   Civil works       7,500,000         80%
      (b)   Equipment and     7,500,000         100% of foreign
            vehicles                            expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost), and 60%
                                                of local expen-
                                                ditures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
      (c)   Consultants'      5,000,000         100%
            services,
            training and
            fellowships
      (d)   Incremental       1,700,000         70% in Fiscal
            Operating                           Year 1991; 50%
            Costs                               in Fiscal Year
                                                1992; and 40%
                                                in Fiscal Year
                                                1993
 (2)   For Part B of
      the Project:
      (a)   Civil works         500,000         80%
      (b)   Equipment and     3,500,000         100% of foreign
            vehicles                            expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost), and 60%
                                                of local expen-
                                                ditures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
      (c)   Consultants'      1,000,000         100%
            services,
            training and
            fellowships
      (d)   Incremental       1,800,000         70% in Fiscal
Page  9
            Operating                           Year 1991; 50%
            Costs                               in Fiscal Year
                                                1992; and 40%
                                                in Fiscal Year
                                                1993
(3)  Unallocated              3,500,000
          TOTAL              32,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means payments made for 
expenditures on account of the operation and maintenance of the Borrower's 
agricultural research and extension equipment, and operation of its agricultural 
research and extension services including expenditures in respect of the purchase of 
materials, fuel, spare parts, farm inputs, services for trial and demonstration, and 
travel allowances, but excluding any salaries.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$1,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) (a), (1) (c), (2) (a) and (2) (c) 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1990.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in strengthening the 
organization and management of the provision of the agricultural research and 
extension services within its territory, so as to upgrade and expand such services in 
order to increase the Borrower's agricultural production and reduce its imports of 
foodstuffs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Agricultural Research
 
1.
Strengthening INRA's research and research management capabilities and its 
system for scientific and financial programming, in order to improve the development 
and delivery of the Borrower's agricultural research services and the coordination of 
such services with the Borrower's agricultural extension activities;
2.
Strengthening the research capabilities of ITGC, ITEBO and INPV, including 
upgrading certain experimental stations covering the Borrower's main agro-ecological 
zones, to CRRA status, for the central coordination of research programs and the 
management of related resources;
3.
Development and carrying out at the CRRAs of certain priority agricultural 
research programs based on crop and livestock specific research;
4.
Development and carrying out of a training program for certain INRA, ITGC, ITEBO 
and INPV management and research staff involved in the carrying out of agricultural 
research activities, including seminars and post-graduate studies abroad;
5.
Acquisition of vehicles and of farm, equipment for experimental stations, and of 
laboratory and computer equipment, and the construction and/or rehabilitation of 
laboratories, glasshouses and workshops; and
6.
Construction and/or rehabilitation of housing and related facilities for certain 
research staff at CRRAs and experimental stations.
Page  10
Part B:
Agricultural Extension
 
1.
Strengthening CNPA's organization, management, staff and technical monitoring 
and evaluation capabilities, including the carrying out of training courses abroad;
2.
Strengthening the training capabilities of the staff of the CFVAs, in order to 
train field extension staff in each Wilaya; 
3.
Acquisition of vehicles, and extension and audio-visual equipment, and 
construction and/or rehabilitation of certain CNPA, CFVA and Wilayat training 
buildings, all as required for the provision of extension services under Part B of the 
Project; and
4.
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen the Borrower's capabilities in 
respect of extension methodology, planning and monitoring, and project management, 
including the carrying out of training courses abroad.
*     *     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1996
through August 15, 2005
1,600,000
_______________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the  Applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the 
Loan on the day of 
prepayment multiplied 
by:
 
Not more than three years
0.20
Page  11
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria may be 
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 
thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Limited International Bidding:
 
Laboratory equipment estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $150,000 per 
contract but less than the equivalent of $500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation 
and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 
thereof).
2.
Local Competitive Bidding:
 
Goods (other than vehicles) estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$1,500,000, and civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
International and Local Shopping:
 
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three (3) suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Direct Contracting: 
 
Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured 
Page  12
under negotiated contracts, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more, and with respect to each contract for vehicles and 
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to consultants: 
(A) whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles 
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Agricultural Research Implementation Program
and
Agricultural Extension Implementation Program
I.
Agricultural Research Implementation Program
 
A.
Organization and Management of Part A of the Project
 
1.
The overall responsibility for the implementation of the Project shall be vested 
in the MOA's Director of Agricultural Extension and Rural Institutions (Directeur de 
la Vulgarisation et des Institutions Rurales), and the day-to-day responsibility for 
the implementation of Part A of the Project shall be vested in the Director of INRA, 
whose responsibilities shall include, inter alia: (i) the preparation of operational 
research programs; (ii) the recruitment of staff and consultants; (iii) the 
coordination of the preparation of documents for the procurement of goods and civil 
works; (iv) the organization of training programs; (v) the linkage of research 
activities to the extension services of the MOA; and (vi) contacts with the Bank.
2.
In order to assist the Director of INRA in the performance of his 
responsibilities for the implementation of Part A of the Project, INRA shall establish 
and maintain throughout the execution of Part A of the Project a sub-project 
management unit within INRA consisting of the following four sections: (i) a 
programming section to provide the secretariat for the national programming  
commission; (ii) a management section to provide for the establishment and operation 
of a management accounting system; (iii) a procurement section to take the necessary 
action for the preparation and review of documents for the procurement of goods, works 
and consultants' services; and (iv) a data section to insure the processing of data 
within the Borrower's agencies and entities responsible for the carrying out of Part A 
of the Project.
B.
Research Programs
 
1.
The Borrower's National Commission for Programming Agricultural Research 
(Commission Nationale chargee de la Programmation de la Recherche sur les Cultures et 
Page  13
des Systcmes d'Exploitation), attached to the Agricultural Extension and Rural 
Institutions Department of the MOA, shall be responsible for developing and carrying 
out annual multi-disciplinary priority research programs. The research programs to be 
developed and carried out under Part A (3) of the Project shall focus on the 
following: cereals (wheat and barley), pulses, forage crops, meat production and 
cereal/livestock systems. These programs will be designed to address problems faced by 
farmers in producing such crops and livestock, and to recommend appropriate policies 
and procedures to improve the Borrower's national agricultural production. The 
Borrower's Regional Commissions for Programming Agricultural Research, attached to the 
CRRAs, shall develop initial proposals following broad national objectives laid down 
by the said National Commission. The terms of reference and operating procedures for 
each of the said Regional Commissions and National Commission shall be submitted to 
the Bank, for its review and approval, not later than December 31, 1990.
2.
In order to strengthen the capabilities of INRA, ITGC, ITEBO and INPV to carry 
out such programs, the following research staff shall be employed in accordance with 
the following schedule:
                  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  Total
Engineers:
INRA                5     7     6     5     4     27
ITGC                -    19    14    12     3     48
ITEBO               -    12     5     1     1     19
INVP                -    2      1     -     1      4
TOTAL               5    40    26     18    9     98
Technicians:
INRA                7     5     3      3    -     18
ITGC                -    18    17     10    4     49
ITEBO               -    10     8      2    -     20
INPV                -     2     -      -    -      2
TOTAL               7    35    28     15    4     89
3.
INRA, ITGC, ITEBO and INPV shall each take all action necessary to insure the 
availability of the appropriate number of established posts needed to recruit their 
corresponding research staff, all in accordance with the schedule set forth above.
4.
The research programs shall be carried out at the experimental stations as 
coordinated by the corresponding CRRAs. INRA shall be assigned responsibility for the 
management of the CRRA at Lamtar, while ITGC shall retain responsibility for 
management of the CRRA at El Khroub, Setif, Tiaret and Oued Smar. The Borrower's El 
Khemis experimental station will cover research in irrigated field crops. 
5.
To assist with the carrying out of the research program, INRA shall employ, not 
later than June 30, 1992, the following consultants who will possess qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank: (i) plant breeder; (ii) 
pedoligist; and (iii) agro-climatogist.
6.
In order to facilitate the improved coordination of research and extension 
activities, the Borrower shall establish and maintainin each CRRA a research and 
development unit staffed with suitably qualified personnel in adequate numbers, 
including, inter alia, at least one engineer and one technical agent, charged with the 
responsibility for ensuring the liaison between research staff, extension staff and 
farmers.
C.
Training
 
1.
Under Part A (4) of the Project, INRA shall take all action necessary to: (a) 
develop and carry out an overseas training program which shall include training at 
post-graduate academic institutions, for the staff of INRA, ITGC, ITEBO and INPV; and 
(b) enter into arrangements with appropriate overseas research institutions designed 
to carry out internships and specialized seminars to facilitate staff training.
2.
INRA shall employ advisers with qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, to prepare and supervise the post-graduate 
training for the research staff involved in carrying out the research program.
D.
Personnel Management
Page  14
1.
INRA, ITGC, ITEBO and INPV, shall establish methods, satisfactory to the Bank, 
for the renumeration of research staff employment duties and responsibilities.
E.
Financial Management
 
INRA, ITGC, ITEBO and INPV shall apply, not later than June 30, 1992, 
appropriate separate budgeting, financial and accounting procedures, satisfactory to 
the Bank, for the operation and management of the CRRAs and other experimental 
stations. A training program designed to improve the financial management capabilities 
of INRA's, staff shall be developed and implemented by consultants, to be employed by 
INRA, not later than June 30, 1991, with qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference all satisfactory to the Bank.
II.
Agricultural Extension Implementation Program
 
A.
Organization and Management of Part B of the Project
 
1.
The overall responsibility for the implementation of the Project shall be vested 
in the MOA's Director of Agricultural Extension and Rural Institutions (Directeur de 
la Vulgarisation et des Institutions Rurales), and the day-to-day responsibility for 
the implementation of Part B of the Project shall be vested in the Director of CNPA 
whose responsibilities shall include, inter alia: (i) the preparation of operational 
plans; (ii) the coordination of the recruitment of staff and the recruitment of 
consultants; (iii) the preparation of training programs; and (iv) contacts with the 
Bank.
2.
In order to assist the Director of CNPA in the performance of his 
responsibilities for the implementation of Part B of the Project, CNPA's Director of 
Technical Information (Directeur des Informations Techniques) shall be charged with 
the responsibility to assist the Director of CNPA with the management of Part B of the 
Project. CNPA shall establish and maintain throughout the execution of Part B of the 
Project a sub-project management unit within CNPA's Department of Technical 
Information consisting of the following sections: (a) management control; (b) 
technical and training; (c) monitoring and evaluation; and (d) data handling. CNPA 
shall take all action necessary to properly staff said sections with personnel in 
adequate numbers and appropriate qualifications.
B.
Organization of Extension Services under Part B of the Project 
 
1.
National Extension Committee. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its 
National Committee for Agricultural Extension to coordinate the Borrower's 
agricultural extension policies at the national level. The Agricultural Extension and 
Rural Institutions Department of the MOA shall continue to work with CPNA in the 
application of said policies throughout the Borrower's territory. 
2.
Regional Extension Committee. The Borrower shall insure or cause to be insured 
that each Wilaya shall establish and thereafter maintain an extension committee to 
adapt national policies to the conditions within its jurisdiction, and to assure 
coordination with other regional extension services.
3.
Regional and Local Field Organization. The regional and field extension services 
shall be organized as follows:
(a)
At the Wilaya, the Extension and Training Section of the Division for the 
Development of Hydraulic and Agricultural Activities (Division du Developpement des 
Activites Hydrauliques et Agricoles) shall be maintained. Said section shall comprise 
the following three units: (i)  extension services; (ii) training and communication 
services; and (iii) monitoring and evaluation. A suitably experienced chief shall be 
assigned to each unit. A team of three to four subject matter specialists covering the 
main crop and livestock activities in the area, shall be assigned to each Wilaya. 
These specialists shall report to the chief of the Extension and Training Section and 
would be responsible, inter alia, for: (i) assuring a permanent link between farmers, 
extension services and the research/development units at the CRRA; (ii) identifying 
the training needs of the extension agents and participating in their training 
program; and (iii) providing direct technical support to extension agents in the 
field.
(b)
At the Dairat, an extension chief reporting to the training and extension 
services chief at the Wilaya shall coordinate and supervise the field work. A 
supervisor shall be assigned for each group of 8-10 field agents. At the commune, one 
field agent shall be appointed per commune to work with groups of about 15-20 farmers. 
Page  15
Each agent shall carry out visits once or twice a month, depending on the cropping 
program and region, thereby reaching about 240-480 farmers.
C.
Extension Programs
 
1.
Extension activities shall involve the dissemination of technical information 
through the carrying out of field demonstrations for, and visits to, farms and the use 
of audio-visual aids and mass media. Extension activities shall be prepared in 
collaboration with the CRRAs and shall be designed to address specific farming 
problems identified on the basis of surveys carried out together with the subject 
matter specialists team and with the research/development unit (CRRA).
2.
The Borrower shall formulate, through CNPA, and furnish to the Bank not later 
than October 31 of each Fiscal Year, for the Bank's comment and review, a proposed 
agricultural extension program to be carried out by the Wilayat under Part B of the 
Project during the following Fiscal Year.
3.
A monitoring and evaluation program shall be developed with the assistance of 
consultants and submitted to the Bank not later than March 31, 1992.
D.
Training
 
1.
CNPA shall plan and organize all training activities to be carried out under 
Part B of the Project, in liaison with the CFVA and the Training and Extension Section 
of the Wilayat and the subject matter specialists teams at each Wilaya. A training 
program shall be developed and submitted to the Bank for its review by not later than 
June 30, 1991. Said program shall be updated from time to time and shall be extended 
to all extension staff by not later than December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
Page  16
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective Eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
