CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 211 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fisheries Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 13, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 211 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fisheries Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 13, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 13, 1970, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Unit" means the State Fisheries Enterprise North-Central Sulawesi
at Aer Tembaga, a public corporation (Perumz) established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(b)   "Project Committee"   means   the  committee   coordinating  and
supervising the carrying out of the Project;
(c)   "Participating Enterprise" means a fisherman or private fishing
enterprise in Aer Tembaga which shall have undertaken to purchase
or shall have purchased one or more of the fishing vessels included
in the Project;
(d)   "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be concluded between
the Borrower and the Unit pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement,
as such agreement shall be amended from time to time;
(e)   "ton" means metric ton.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand
dollars ($3,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement, as such
allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project and to be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i)         such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, shall be required to meet payments to be made)
for goods or services included in Categories I and IV of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement; and
(ii)       the equivalent of twenty per cent (20%) of such amounts as
shall have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, shall
be required to meet payments to be made) for goods or services
included in Categories I and III of the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement,
which percentage represents the estimated foreign exchange
component of the cost of such goods or services;
provided, however, that (1) if there shall be an increase in the estimate of such
payments for goods or services included in any of the Categories I and III, the
Association may by notice to the Borrower adjust the stated percentage applicable
to such Category as required in order that withdrawals of the amount of the Credit


﻿5
then allocated to such Category and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with
the payments remaining to be made for goods or services included in such Category;
and (2) no withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made on account of
payments for more than fifteen fishing vessels to be owned by the Unit unless
the Borrower proves before 1973 (or such other time as shall be agreed by the
Association) to the satisfaction of the Association that, notwithstanding the best
efforts of the Borrower and the Unit, such additional vessels cannot be sold to
fishermen or private fishing enterprises in Aer Tembaga.
Section 2.04. It is hereby agreed, pursuant to Section 5.01 of the General
Conditions, that no withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made under
Categories II and IV of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement on account of payments in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 1 and
November I in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
May I    and   November 1   commencing    November 1, 1980    and  ending
May 1, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 1, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3,01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
applied in accordance with the provisions of this Development Credit Agreement
to expenditures on the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿6
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the goods
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, and in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, and (ii) contracts for the procurement
of such goods and services shall be subject to the prior approval of the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out
by the Unit, under the supervision of a Project Committee of a composition
satisfactory to the Association, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound administrative, engineering, commercial and fisheries practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Except as otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
the construction of the vessels included in Parts B and C of the Project shall be
completed within the periods specified in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause its Director General of Fisheries to complete
the study included in Part C of the Project by September 1972.
(d)   The Borrower shall promptly furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association the plans, specifications and work schedules for the Project and any
material modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(e)   The Borrower shall cause the Unit to employ qualified and experienced
contractors, acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, to carry out the works included in Part A of the Project.


﻿7
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into a Financing Agreement with
the Unit, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to provide the
Unit with the funds (including proceeds of the Credit) required to carry out the
Project other than funds extended to Partick)ating Enterprises to purchase vessels
included in the Project.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not take or concur in any action the effect of which would be to modify the
financial obligations of the parties under the Financing Agreement.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Unit at all times to manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on
its operations, all in accordance with sound business, financial and fisheries practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent management.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Unit to employ a qualified chief of
project operations, master fisherman, chief of shore facilities and accountant, with
such duties and responsibilities as shall be agreed by the Association. Until 1976,
appointments of said officers shall be made only after agreement thereon shall
have been reached between the Borrower and the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause the Unit, promptly as required, to take all
action within its powers to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses, powers,
franchises and other rights, as may be necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business, and at all times to operate and maintain its plants, equipment and
property, and promptly to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with sound engineering and fisheries practices.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable
action which shall be necessary to enable Participating Enterprises to purchase an
aggregate number of fifteen fishing vessels included in Part B of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall make or cause to be made lending arrangements,
satisfactory to the Association, to provide or cause to be provided to Participating
Enterprises, acceptable to the Association, such amounts (including proceeds of
the Credit) as shall be required to purchase fishing vessels included in Part B of
the Project, including inter alia the following terms and conditions:
(i)         except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,
the loan shall bear interest at a rate not exceeding twelve per
00
cent (12%) per ann-umn and shall be repaid in tenl equal annual


﻿8
installments after a grace period of one year starting on the date
said vessels are placed into service;
(ii)        the fishing vessels financed out of the proceeds of the loan shall
serve as collateral for debt service;
(iii)       the Participating Enterprise shall not incur future debt beyond
an acceptable level;
(iv)        the Participating Enterprise shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice;
(v)         the Participating Enterprise shall manage its affairs and carry
on its operations in accordance with sound business and fisheries
practices; and
(vi)        the Participating Enterprise shall maintain    profit and loss
statements and other records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition, shall have such statements
for each fiscal year audited by a qualified independent auditor,
and shall furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, a copy of such audited statements, a copy of the
auditor's report and any other information concerning its assets,
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Unit to: (i) maintain records
adequate to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, to disclose the use thereof in th-. Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
the Unit; and (ii) enable the Association's representatives to inspect the Project,
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, all other plants, sites, works,
properties and equipment of the Unit and any relevant records and documents.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Unit to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheet, statement of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case


﻿9
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning its accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, and
to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Unit, the
Participating Enterprises and any agency of the Borrower responsible for the
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Credit and the maintenance of the service thereof, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit, the goods financed out of such proceeds, the Project, and the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Unit, the Participating
Enterprises and any agency of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of
the Project or any part thereof. Such information shall include information with
respect to financial and economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower
and the international balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(c)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under this Development Credit Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Unit to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
sound practice.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower
undertakes to cause the Unit to insure the imported goods financed out of the


﻿10
proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Unit to replace or repair such goods.
Section 4.08. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.09. This Agreement shall be free from any taxes that shall be
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration thereof.
Section 4.10. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Unit to conclude time charter
arrangements to transport fish from Aer Tembaga to overseas markets. If carriers
are purchased by the Unit, the carriers shall b  operated by an experienced and
qualified charter company until such time as the Unit's staff shall have acquired
sufficient experience in operating the carriers. The Borrower shall cause the Unit
to consult with the Association before any such charter or operating arrangement
is concluded.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Unit: (i) to appoint a sales agent abroad
to be responsible for marketing the fish processed by the Unit, and (ii) to sell
such fish at c.i.f. prices published for the market in question.
(c)   The Borrower shall use its best efforts to have at all times adequate
supplies of marine diesel fuel made available in Aer Tembaga to operate the facilities
and vessels included in the Project.
Section 4.11. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause the Unit within the constraints of its freezing
capacity to purchase all skipjack suitable for export offered to the Unit by
Participating Enterprises against such purchase prices as shall on the average be
equal to a target price to be established by the Unit for each fiscal year in
accordance with the provisions of this Section. In purchasing skipjack, the Unit
shall give priority to Participating Enterprises.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Unit to review at the end of each three
months' period said target price and to adjust such price to reflect any differences
between the estimated and the actual net revenues and processing costs of the
Unit for that period.


﻿(c)   The target price per ton of skipjack shall be equal to the difference
between the average net revenues per ton from the sales by the Unit of skipjack
and the processing costs per ton of skipjack, estimated for the fiscal year in which
the target price shall apply. For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         "net revenues per ton" shall mean the estimated average selling
price of one ton of skipjack after deduction of all marketing
costs, including cost of freight, marine insurance, shrinkage,
dealers' commissions and taxes:
(ii)        "processing costs per toin" shall mean the sum of the estimated
operating costs per ton of skipjack of the Unit's freezing and
cold-storage  facilities (including  maintenance, but before
provision for depreciation and interest and other charges on
debt); an amount (representing capital recovery costs) equivalent
to seventeen and one-tenth per cent (17.1() of the original cost
of said facilities as revalued from time to time in accordance
with methods satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association
to be calculated per ton on the basis of a production of 9,600
tons per annum; and an amount (representing administrative
costs) equivalent to ten per cent (10') of said operating and
capital recovery costs per ton.
Section 4.12. The Borrower shall cause the Unit not to undertake capital
investments which would cause the aggregate amount of all expenditures on account
of such investments in any fiscal year to exceed the equivalent of fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000), unless the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.


﻿12
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Unit shall have been unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by the Unit or by
others whereby any of the property of the Unit shall or may be
distributed among its creditors.
(b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Unit
or for the suspension of the Unit's operations.
(c)   The Borrower's Government's Regulation No. 51 of 1961, establishing
the Unit, or any provision thereof, shall have been amended, suspended
or abrogated.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Financing Agreement on behalf of
the Borrower and the Unit respectively have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate action.
(b)   The Unit shall have appointed a chief of project operations and C-n
accountant in accordance with Section 4.03 (b) of this Agreement and
said officers shall have assumed their duties.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
that the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the Unit
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower
and the Unit in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date of October 14, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿13
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.03, 4.05,
4.07 (a), 4.10, 4.11 and 4.12 of this Agreement shall terminate on the date on
which this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen
years after the date of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditons.
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Alternative address for cables:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿14
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s / Mardjuni
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿15
SCHEDULE I
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                                         Dollar Equivalent
I.    Civil works                                            110,000
II.   Imported equipment, materials
and supplies                                         2,700,000
III.  Equipment, materials and supplies
procured in Indonesia                                  140,000
IV.   Technical assistance                                   300,000
V.    Unallocated                                            250,000
TOTAL                    3,500,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1.   If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to IV shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to, and no
longer required for, such Category will be reallocated by the Association
to Category V.
2.   If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to IV shall increase, an amount equal to the portion, if any, of such increase
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (or, in the case of Categories
I and III, an amount equal to 20% of such increase) will be allocated by
the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from
Category V, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association, in respect of the cost of the items in the
other Categories.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of the Borrower's skipjack export program
and consists of the following:
Part A.    The construction in Aer Tembaga (North Sulawesi) by 1971 of an
ice-making plant with an annual capacity of about 12,600 tons, a
freezing plant with an annual capacity of about 10,000 tons of fish,
cold storage facilities with a capacity of about 600 tons, improvement
of the existing boat yard and mechanical workshop, an extension of
the existing jetty, and the usual off-sites and auxiliaries.
Part B.    The construction of thirty wooden pole and line fishing vessels of about
30 gross tons of which fifteen will be owned and operated by the
Unit and fifteen will be owned and operated by Participating
Enterprises or, to the extent that Participating Enterprises would
together own and operate less than fifteen such vessels, by the Unit.
Part C     The carrying out of a study comparing the economic benefits of fish
transportation from Aer Tembaga to overseas markets by carriers
owned by the Unit with the economic benefits of such transportation
under time charter, and the importation of two steel fish carriers of
500 to 600 gross tons if the Borrower and the Association agree that
the purchase of carriers by the Unit is appropriate.
Part D.    Technical assistance to the management of the Aer Tembaga Unit of
the State Fisheries Corporation.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 1975.


﻿17
ANNEX
Phasing of Construction of Vessels included in the Project
The construction of the vessels included in the Project shall be completed
by the beginning of the following years:
Fishing Vessels for
Participating Fishermen          For Unit          Carriers
1972                                               4
1973                     -                         6
1974                    5                          5                1
1975                   10                          -               1
__


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
The following supplementary procedures shall apply to the procurement of
goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit:
1.    The Borrower's Directorate General of Fisheries will be the agency
directly responsible for all procurement under the Project.
2.    All contracts for goods of $20,000 equivalent or more will be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding. Contracts of less than $20,000
equivalent will be awarded on the basis of local competition.
3.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall submit to the Association for
approval the design and specifications for the shore facilities, the fishing vessels
and the carriers, copies of the bid invitation documents and a description of the
tendering procedures.
4.    With  respect to each contract involving an amount of $50,000
equivalent or more and all contracts for short-wave communication equipment,
the Borrower shall submit to the Association for approval, prior to awarding the
contract, a summary of the bids received, an analysis report and recommendations,
and a justification of the proposed contract award.
5.    With  respect to contracts, other than contracts for short-wave
communication equipment, involving an amount below $50,000 equivalent, the
Borrower shall submit to the Association, at the time the award is made, a summary
of bids or quotations, an analysis report and recommendations, and a brief
justification of the contract award.
6.    Bid documents for ice-making, freezing and cold storage equipment
shall specify that the manufacturer shall supervise the installation of such equipment
in the buildings, and that for at least three months the manufacturer shall train
the staff of the Unit in the operation of the equipment.
7.    Invitations to bid for the hulls of the fishing vessels will be for 30
hulls. The Directorate General of Fisheries shall arrange for the timely delivery
of the engines and communication equipment of the fishing vessels to the shipyard
constructing the hulls. The bid documents shall stipulate that an adequate inventory
of spare parts for the engines will be carried by the manufacturer or his
representative at Aer Tembaga. The Borrower shall reserve the right to cancel the


﻿19
contract for part or all of the hulls, engines and communication equipment to
be delivered in 1973 and 1974. Four fishing vessels shall be delivered in 1971,
6 in 1972, 10 in 1973 and 10 in 1974.
8.    Before inviting bids for the 2 carriers, the Borrower shall submit to
the Association for its approval a copy of the study included in Part C of the
Project and the recommendations emanating from such study.
9.    Copies of contracts shall be sent to the Association promptly after
their execution and delivery and before the first request for withdrawal from the
Credit Account is made in respect of such contract.


