Document of                 'l
The World Bank  FI  I 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2393a-TUN
TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
(Fifth Water Supply Project)
STAFF APPF'AISAL REPORT
April 23, 1979
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of October 31, 1978)
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (D) = 1,000 Millimes
D 1            = US$2.53
US$1             D 0.395
D 1 million   = US$2,530,000
ABBREVIATIONS
ft          foot                                   m3/sec          cubic meters per second
lcpd        liters per capita per day              Mm3        =    million of cubic meters
m     =     meter                                  psig       =    pound per square inch, gage
mm    =     millimeter                             sec        =    second
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
Metric System                                      US System
Kilometer (Km)                                 =   0.62 mile (mi)
Hectare (ha)                                   =   2.47 acres (a)
Meter (m)                                      =   39.37 inches (in)
Cubie meter (m3)                               =   264 US gallons (g)
Million cubic meters/year (Mm3/year)           =   0.72 million US gallons per day (mgd)
Liter (1)                                      =   0.264 US gallon (g)
Liters per second (1/sec)                      =   22,800 US gallons per day (gd)
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ADB         =        African Development Bank
IDA                  International Development Association
IDB                  Islamic Development Bank
RDE         =        Régie de Distribution des Eaux
SIDA        =        Swedish International Development Authority
SONEDE      -        Société Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des
Eaux
USAID       -        United States Agency for International Development
ONAS        =        Office National de l'Assainissement
SONEDE's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



TUNISIA                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     THE  WATER  SUPPLY  SECTOR  .................................                                          1
General  Features  .......................................                                            1
Water  Resources   ........................................                                           1
Population  Distribution  and  Service  Levels  ....                            .........             2
Constraints  and  Priorities   in  the  Sector  ....                          ...........            3
Previous  Bank  Loans  and  Credits  in  the  Sector  ..........                                     3
Investment  Program  in  the  Sector  .......................                                        4
The  Sewerage  Subsector  ..................................                                         5
II.      DEMAND  AND  MARKET  ASPECTS  ..............................                                          6
Water  Consumption  and  Production  .......................                                          6
Growth  of  House  Connections  ............................                                          7
Composition  of  the  Demand  ..............................                                          7
Future  Water  Sales  .....................................                                          8
III.      THE  PROPOSED  PROJECT  ...................................                                           9
Project  Genesis  and  Concept  ............................                                         9
Project  Objectives   .....................................                                          9
Project  Components   .....................................                                         10
Proposed  Investments  ...................................                                          10
Project  Financing  ......................................                                           l
Selection  and  Review  of  Subprojects  ....................                                       12
Project  Implementation  .................................                                          13
Procurement  ............................................                                           13
Disbursements  ..........................................                                           13
IV.      THE  BORROWER  ...........................................                                          14
Background  .               .............................................                           14
Past  Performance  .......................................                                          14
Organization  and  Management   ............................                                        15
Staffing  ...........                 ....................................                          15
Current  Practices  and  Procedures  .......................                                        16
Outlook  of  SONEDE's  Future  Operations   ..................                                      17
This report was prepared and written by Mr. Fritz Rodriguez and Mr. Aziz
Kassab.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherviise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                              Page No.
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .....................................            17
Past and Present Financial Position ....................           17
Revenues   ...............................................         18
Financing of SONEDE's Investment Program ....        ...........   20
Future Financial Performance .........         .................   21
Monitoring System ......................................           21
VI.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ......................................            22
Beneficiaries of the Project ...........................           22
Least-Cost Solution ....          ................................  22
Economic Justification .................................           23
Environmental Impact ...................................           23
Institution Building ...................................           24
Risks   ..................................................         24
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....        .............    24
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex No.
1.  Frequency Distribution of Tunisia's Population
2.  SONEDE's Investment Program (1979-1984)
3.  Terms of Reference for Review of the National Water Supply Plan
4.  Population, Water Sales and Service Lines, Past and Forecast
5.  Forecast of Water Sales
6.  Annual Project Investments
7.  Incremental Investment and Operating Costs of Proposed Works in Cities
8.  Selection and Review of Subprojects
9.  Checklist for Subproject Appraisal
10.  Allocation and Disbursement of the Loan Proceeds
11.  SONEDE's Organization Chart - 1978
12.  SONEDE's Income Statements (1975-1984)
13.  SONEDE's Cash Flow Statements (1975-1984)
14.  SONEDE's Balance Sheets (1975-1984)
15.  Assumptions for Financial Projections
16.  Monitoring Indicators
17.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Map No. 14146 of Tunisia



TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
STAFF API'RAISAL REPORT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
GeneraL Features
1.01       Centrally located on the southern bank of the Mediterranean Sea,
Tunisia occupies an area of 160,000 km2 which is rather poorly endowed with
natural resources. The Saharan Atlas that runs from west to east at about
280 kms south from the northern coastline, separates the country into two
distinct regions: to the north of the Atlas it is a semi-arid area where a
majority of the population lives ancL where potentially irrigable land is
found; industries and other economic activities are concentrated in the
northern coastal areas. The mean arinual rainfall in this region does not
exceed 600 mm. To the south of the Atlas it is an arid land with an average
annual rainfall of less than 100 mm (see Map IBRD No. 14146).
1.02      Tunisia is administrative]y divided into 18 governorates, 136 coun-
ties and 155 communes. Nearly half of the estimated total population of 5.9
million, which is growing at an average annual rate of 2.3%, is considered
urban. More than one-third of the urban population resides in the two largest
metropolitan areas of Tunis and Sfax. Meanwhile, the rural population is
widely dispersed into more than 4,000 locations which are often isolated from
each other and whose low density population to a great extent impedes rapid
implementation of water supply and sanitation systems in these locations.
Water Resources
1.03      The volume of water available in Tunisia for urban, industrial
and agricultural use is limited. Most of the fresh surface water sources
are found very far inland in the northern part of the country and little
surface water is available in the coastal areas where, however, the bulk of
the population is concentrated.  Tunis and Sfax, the two largest cities, are
supplied with water from surface sources located more than 120 kms away.
Although some groundwater is found along the coastline, only a small volume
can be extracted so as to limit the intrusion of sea water into the aquifers.
The salinity of most groundwater found in the southern part of the country is
so high that it cannot be used as such for urban supply and is even unfit for
irrigation.
1.04      The flow regime of the northern rivers (Medjerdah, Djoumine,
Sedjenane, etc.) is very irregular and construction of expensive large impound-
ing reservoirs is needed to increase their average yields. However, as water
from some of the Medjerdah's tributaries dissolves chloride compounds con-
tained iii the surrounding soil formations, the salinity of the waters stored



in the corresponding reservoirs increases substantially, thus requiring their
mixing with fresh waters before they can be used for domestic consumption.
Water demands for urban and agricultural use could soon exceed the total
available fresh water supplies in the southern part of the country and in
Tunisia as a whole by the year 2000. To meet the increasing demands, it will
gradually become necessary to resort to desalination of brackish water and
recycling of wastewaters.
1.05       The Ministry of Agriculture manages all water resources in the coun-
try.  The "Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux"
(SONEDE), an autonomous public entity, which reports to the Ministry of Agri-
culture, is responsible for the production and distribution of potable water.
Conscious of the need to conserve and use effectively scarce water resources,
the Government enacted in 1975 a water code to regulate the collection and
allocation of the water sources, and to establish usage priorities. As pro-
vided in the code a National Water Committee was set up to assist the Ministry
of Agriculture in the management of the water resources; this committee has
begun to function only recently. Meanwhile, the Government has prepared
three master plans for long-range development and use of the water resources
in the northern, central and southern regions of the country. The first phase
of the Northern Plan, which involves the impounding and transfer of the
Medjerdah River waters, is under execution. The Bank is providing financial
assistance to the Government (Loan 1431-TUN, Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project)
for the execution of this phase.
Population Distribution and Service Levels
1.06       The frequency distribution of Tunisia's population in mid-1975 by
size of the agglomerations is shown in Annex 1. The latest census on May 8,
1975 recorded the total population at 5.6 million, of which 47.5% or 2.7 mil-
lion lived in urban areas. Of the rural population, which in that year reached
2.9 million or 52.5% of the total population, only about one million resided
in rural agglomerated villages. The remaining rural population was dispersed
in isolated scattered locations. In the last twelve years the percentage of
rural population compared to the total population has steadily decreased from
60% in 1966 to the present 50%. It is anticipated that the rural population
will stay in the next ten years at its present level of 2.95 million to repre-
sent no more than 43% of the total population by 1986.
1.07      The total population is projected to grow at an average annual rate
of 2.3% through the end of this decade. But the urban population would grow
at a much faster rate (about 3.3% per annum), with a substantial part of this
growth stemming from rural migration to urban areas. The population distribu-
tion between urban, rural agglomerated and rural isolated, is likely to
continue to move in favor of the urban population, with the rural isolated
population accounting for less than 20% of the total population by the end of
this century.
1.08      More than 82% of the urban population is concentrated in cities with
more than 10,000 inhabitants, which account for less than 40% of the total



- 3 -
number of cities. About 20% of this population or 600,000 people have an
income below the Bank-adopted 1978 Urban Poverty Threshold (UPT) of D 45
(US$114) per household per month. Almost half of the rural agglomerated
population lives in villages of more than 600 inhabitants, which represent
only 7% of the total number of agglomerations.  Some 70% of the rural agglo-
merations or about 3,025 villages have less than 200 inhabitants. As the
average per capita investments in water supply increase as the number of
people served decreases, it would appear logical for SONEDE to concentrate on
the medium-size cities of more than 10,000 people and on rural agglomerated
villages with populations above 600 inhabitants.
1.09      Presently about 64% of the total population is served with public
piped water supply systems.  However, only 35% of this population is supplied
through direct service lines. About 96% of the urban population is served by
public systems, while only 29% of the rural population is provided with such
service. Some 70% of the urban population or 2.1 million people have their
dwellings connected to the water supply systems. The remaining urban popula-
tion and most of the rural population living in agglomerated villages are
supplied by standpipes. Only 12% of the latter are directly connected to the
systems.
Constraints and Priorities in the Sector
1.10      The major constraint to rapid expansion of public piped water supply
in Tunisia is certainly the remote location of scarce fresh water sources
from the urban centers, which situation requires the construction of unusually
long transmission pipelines. The result is that both capital and operating
expenses of these pipeplines are extremely high compared to similar costs in
other countries. These expenses become more substantial when some saline
sources, as often is the case, can be used only in conjunction with other
fresh sources. The per capita investments in transmission facilities tend to
become prohibitive as the population served decreases.
1.11      Because of these high investments, the multitude of small rural
agglomerations and budget constraints, the Government has given its first
priority to the urban sector where it: could serve more people with its limited
financial resources. The Government's objective for this sector is to have
77% of the urban population connectec[ to the systems by the end of 1981. The
Government's second priority is to provide the rural agglomerated villages with
piped potable water at public taps. The scattered rural locations have not
yet received much attention, because they are generally not large enough to
warrant the installation of public water supply systems which would entail
high per capita investments. These locations are supplied with water from
shallow wells, irrigation canals, cisterns or public taps at the nearest
center. The Government to some externt controls the quality of these supply
sources which might be considered relatively safe.
Previous Bank Loans and Credits in the Sector
1.12      Since 1968, the Bank Group has become extensively involved in the
sector and has already financed four projects of SONEDE (three loans and a



- 4 -
credit). SONEDE itself was set up in 1968 under the first Bank operation.
The first loan (581-TUN) of US$15 million, made in January 1969, was to
finance water supply works in the regions of Tunis and Sousse. In June 1970
the International Development Association made a credit (209-TUN) of US$10.5
million to assist in the financing of improvement and expansion works in eight
areas of the country. These first two projects were jointly financed with the
Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA).
1.13       A second loan (989-TUN) of US$23 million was made in May 1974 to
help SONEDE finance the construction of water supply systems for the second
largest city, Sfax, and 62 rural centers. More recently in June 1977 the Bank
approved a loan of US$21 million to finance the construction of production and
distribution facilities in five northern provinces. The Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development is co-financing this project. In addition, the Bank
Group assisted in the financing of a tourism infrastructure project (Loan
858-TUN and Credit 329-TUN of September 28, 1972), which included water
supply works of US$18.5 million.
1.14       SONEDE's performance under these Bank operations has been good, with
the result of great improvements in the sector. The percentage of urban popu-
lation connected to the systems, which was only 43% in 1968, has now reached
70%. Today SONEDE is a financially viable public entity managed by expe-
rienced and dedicated staff.
Investment Program in the Sector
1.15      The Government is about midway in the implementation of its Fifth
Development Plan (1977-1981), which includes investments of US$464 million in
water supply works. The objective of these investments is to provide the
country with the water supply network needed to reach the service levels
mentioned in para. 1.11.  SONEDE has met the plan targets for 1977 and 1978
and presumably will do so in the remaining three years. SONEDE is planning
to invest about US$345 million in the years 1979 through 1981. A breakdown of
these investments is given in Annex 2. To execute its investment plan, SONEDE
is receiving, in addition to the Third and Fourth Bank loans, financial assis-
tance from the African Development Bank (ADB), the Islamic Development Bank
(IDB), the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA), Kreditanstalt
fuer Wiederaufbau (KFW) of the Federal Republic of Germany, the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), the Saudi Fund, The Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development. The Government is also financing part of the water supply
program through capital contributions to SONEDE.
1.16      The SONEDE investment program as well as its financing plan are
well conceived and take account of the present constraints and priorities in
the sector development. The Bank has already shown its support to the program
by accepting in 1977 to finance the construction of the Water Supply Master
Plan for Northern Tunisia, one of the major components of this program. SONEDE
is following realistic technical standards in the design of its projects and
is striving for the finanical independence of the sector. Since its creation
in 1968 SONEDE has gradually funded an increasing share of its capital require-
ments, which has now reached about 80% for the Fifth Development Plan.  However,



- 5 -
at the same time the cost of new projects has continued to increase at a much
faster rate, as SONEDE has turned towards sources of lesser quality and more
remote fromn the urban centers. Consequently, the price of water has been
raised steadily and the proportion of the population served by direct house
connections has grown slower than expected under the current national water
supply plan.
1.17      Thus it is now clear that a review of the present financial policies
is necessary if SONEDE has to expand its services more rapidly and simul-
taneously to charge affordable rates.  Such a review should examine:  (i) the
financial options available to SONEDE to reach different service level goals;
(ii) the extent and conditions of the Government's contributions to SONEDE;
and (iii) SONEDE's policies regarding cost recovery, operation and maintenance
of the systems and asset renewal. Tbhe study would set out the appropriate
service levels in the different urbarn and rural conmmunities and would deter-
mine the investment requirements to reach these levels. Within this context
it would analyze SONEDE's expected financial performance, the tariffs that
it needs to charge and the affordability of these tariffs by low-income cus-
tomers. The terms of reference for this study are outlined in Annex 3; they
were agreed upon during negotiations.
1.18      Over governmental agencies such as the Ministry of Agriculture and
the Ministry of Equipment will be involved in the proposed review, particularly
in the determination of the use and allocation of the water resources. To
provide SONEDE with sufficient time to coordinate its schedule with those
of these agencies, it was agreed during negotiations that SONEDE will discuss
and agree with the Bank, not later than December 31, 1979, on the timetable
for the start and completion of the review. The study will be financed
by SONEDE and carried out by its staff who are qualified for this task.
Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that SONEDE will discuss
with the Government and the Bank the conclusions and recommendations of the
review study and that the Government will authorize SONEDE to implement
the final recommendations of the review.
The Sewerage Subsector
1.19      A national authority, the Office National de l'Assainissement
(ONAS), is responsible for the planning, construction and operation of sewer
systems in the country.  Presently, about 47% of the urban population have
their dwellings connected to public sewerage which exists in some 30 cities.
The Bank has been active in the sewerage subsector and has already made a
loan of US$28 million to the Government (Loan 1088-TUN, First Urban Sewerage
Project, February 1975) for the expansion of sewer systems and wastewater
treatment in Greater Tunis.  The Bank financed Tourism Infrastructure Project
(Loan 858-TUN and Credit 329-TUN of September 1972) also included US$16.6
million for sewerage works.  The Bank has recently approved a second loan
of US$26.5 million to the Governnent for sewerage works in Greater Tunis
and Sfax. As in the case of the first loan, the Government will onlend the
loan proceeds to ONAS.



- 6 -
II. DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
Water Consumption and Production
2.01      Volumes of potable water consumed in Tunisia have been recorded
since 1958.  However, these records are considered reliable only from 1966,
after meters were installed on most of the service lines and a rigid main-
tenance progran started to be implemented.  In 1966 water sales amounted
to 52.7 million m3 (Mm3), while water produced reached 88.5 Mm3, with the
result of more than 40% of the production unaccounted for. In that year only
39.5% of the urban population was connected to the systems. In the ensuing
years, sales kept growing at an average annual rate of 6.7%, reaching 109.8
Mm3 in 1977 when some 68% of the urban population had direct service lines.
Meanwhile, water production in that year increased to 162.1 Mm3, with only
32.2% of this volume unaccounted for. 1/ Still the unaccounted for water is
considered too high and SONEDE's objective is to reduce it to not more than
25%. To this end SONEDE has been installing new master meters at the produc-
tion sources and on some hydrants, and the proposed project includes the
supply and installation of more than 110,000 domestic meters to replace those
which are presently defective. These steps will enable SONEDE to arrive at a
better estimation of volumes of water production and sales. SONEDE also
carries out a permanent leak detection program to keep losses to the lowest
possible.
2.02      Present per capita water consumption differs widely in the country.
it varies from a high of 323 liters/day in some areas of Greater Tunis to a
low of 80 liters/day in the governorate of Mahdia. This difference essen-
tially stems from domestic consumption which averages 139 lpcd in Tunis,
but only 42 lpcd in Mahdia. Domestic consumption by people supplied at
public taps does not exceed 7.5 lpcd. The evolution of water sales during
the last twelve years is shown in Annex 4. As can be seen in column 6 of
this table the per capita consumption steadily decreased as water supply
services were provided to increasing percentages of the population. This
decrease in the average consumption is attributed to reduced usage by low-
income families which are served last by the systems. As the network extends
progressively into lower income areas, the average per capita consumption
should continue to decrease.
1/   The percentage of unaccounted for water such as computed by SONEDE is
made up of: (i) water used for fire fighting and street cleaning, which
is estimated to account for about 5% of the total production; (ii)
defective domestic meter recording which is suspected to be somewhat 3%
below real sales volumes. It is estimated that some 16% of the customers'
meters need to be replaced; (iii) production overestimation, known to be
important for old springs and wells and believed to average 10% to 15%;
and (iv) leaks in the networks, which are estimated to account for 7% to
10% of the total production. Such levels of losses are inevitable for
SONEDE which operates more than 370 water production units and 7,500 kms
of pipelines.



2.03      About 44% of the present total production comes from surface sources
and the remainder from groundwater aquifers. The entire production in the
south is from groundwater; more than 65% of the production in the north is
from surface sources. The quality of water distributed in the north is good;
it is poor in the south. SONEDE presently exploits about 370 water production
units, 2,850 kms of transmission pipelines and 4,670 kms of distribution pipes.
Growth of House Connections
2.04      The number of service lines which were only 86,000 in 1966 steadily
increased to 370,000 at the end of :L978, a growth of more than 400% over the
1966 level. However, during the saine period water sales rose by only 108%,
reflecting the situation of higher population density and lower consumption
in the newly served areas. The evoLution of the service lines is shown in
Annex 4. The average annual consumption at a connection continued to decline
in the last 12 years. In 1966 it was about 606 m3; it decreased to 348 m3 in
1977. The average number of persons served by a connection, which was about
8.4 in 1966 also declined to about 6.2 in 1977, reflecting the predominance
of single-family dwellings in small lots in low-income areas of the country.
It is forecast that both averages will continue to decrease during the next
decade.
2.05      Presently some 1.6 million people are served by about 1,500 public
standpipes which in general are located every other block in low-income urban
areas and in rural locations. Each public tap serves about a thousand people,
a service density which is considered adequate. Public bath and washing
facilities are also provided in these areas.
Composition of the Demand
2.06      A breakdown of water consumed in 1977 apportions the various uses as
follows:
Domestic                                      53.6
Public                                        23.3
Commercial and Industrial                     14.3
Tourism                                        6.7
Others                                         2.1
All Uses                                     100.0
Essentially water consumed in Tunisia is for domestic and public uses 1/ which
account for about 77% of the total consumption. The commercial and industrial
1/   They account for less than 60% in industrialized countries where commer-
cial and industrial uses account for more than 35% of the demand.



- 8 -
uses represent about 14% of all uses, reflecting the moderate level of indus-
trialization in Tunisia. Probably the present public water usage is on the
high side and can be reduced through better control of leaks in public dwel-
lings.
2.07       SONEDE's largest consumers with service pipes of 80 mm in diameter
or more, accounting for only 0.1% of the total customers, use about 23% of the
total volumes. The largest users with pipes of 40 mm or more totalling less
than 1% of all customers consume about 39% of the total volumes. The smallest
users with pipes of less than 15 mm, the majority of which are domestic and
which account for more than 92% of all customers, consume only about 44% of
the volumes. The above distribution indicates that a meter maintenance
program and the system operation in general should give priority to the
largest customers.
Future Water Sales
2.08       Forecasts of water consumption up to 1985 are summarized in Annex 4
and illustrated in Annex 5. The projection of future water sales is based
on a mathematical model relating the demand to the number of service lines.
It is assumed that the percentage of urban population directly connnected
to the network would increase to 86% by 1985, and to reach that level SONEDE
would execute annually in average 39,000 house connections. With such an
annual increase in the number of service lines, it is forecast that sales
would grow at an average annual rate of 4.3% to reach 155 Mm3 by 1985. It
is estimated that 632,000 service lines will be in operation by 1985. Based
on SONEDE's past performance, the projected water sales and number of connec-
tions appear realistic.
2.09       Assuming that the percentage of unaccounted for water would pro-
gressively decline to about 27% by 1985, the production in that year would
then reach 212 Mm3 that SONEDE should be able to generate, as the required
production infrastructure already exists or is under construction. The
maximum day demand is calculated to be 30% higher than the yearly average
demand; the maximum hour consumption exceeds by 70% the average demand.
2.10       The percentage of the total population presently served by direct
house connections is relatively low and there is still a potential market
available to SONEDE. Various tariff increases have regularly been implemented
in the past, but probably have had little effects on the demand. In effect,
a survey of family budget allotment carried out in 1975 by the "Institut
National de la Statistique" showed that potable water demand in Tunisia's
urban areas where SONEDE sells the bulk of its production was inelastic to
price changes. On the other hand water demand in rural areas was found to be
moderately responsive to price changes with a price elasticity of - 1.5. Thus
though the price of water is projected to increase in the future, it is not
expected that such increases would substantially adversely affect the demand.



- 9 -
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Project Genesis and Concept
3.01      The proposed project is the result of a continuing dialogue between
the Bank and SONEDE on the sector development and ways to finance SONEDE's
investment program (1977-1981) (see para 1.15). Most recently this dialogue
was successfully concluded when the Bank made in 1977 a loan of US$21 million
to help finance the construction of water supply production facilities in the
northern part of Tunisia. During the last three years SONEDE has studied the
feasibility of improving and expanding public water distribution systems in
the nation's medium-size cities and rural agglomerated villages, and has
determined the average per capita cost of such improvement and expansion.
Based on these studies SONEDE has been able to set out the criteria that it
should use to establish the order of priority of contemplated investments and
to select a package of cities and rural agglomerations (or subprojects) with
the highest return on the proposed investments.
3.02      From mid-1979 through 1981 SONEDE is planning to invest about
US$25.1 million (D 9.9 million) in the most attractive package of cities
and rural villages. Assuming that these investments would be made in average
agglomerations at the estimated average cost, it would result that about 10
cities and 40 rural villages would be financed under the project. As pre-
viously mentioned in para. 1.14, SONEDE's performance under the previous
Bank financed projects has been good and this entity is now considered mature
enough to make an objective appraisal of the subprojects. Further, the number
of cities and rural villages involved in the project is high and it would
be unrealistic to try to list in advance the best subprojects and appraise
each of them separately. For these reasons it is proposed to make a sector
loan and to delegate appraisal responsibilities for subprojects to SONEDE
which has the capability to perform them properly.
3.03      The project concept was first discussed with SONEDE during a recon-
naissance mission to Tunis in October 1977. Two subsequent missions in
January and June 1978 reviewed samples of feasibility studies prepared by
consultants and SONEDE's staff and refined (i) the selection criteria of
cities and rural villages; and (ii) the procedure that SONEDE will follow
in appraising subprojects. Finally a mission composed of Messrs. Fritz
Rodriguez and Aziz Kassab appraised the project in October 1978.
Project Objectives
3.04      The basic objective of the project is to increase the percentage
of the total population served with piped water systems from its present
64% to more than 70% by 1981, with at least 41% of that population directly
connected to the distribution networks. The proposed expansion of the
networks is considered feasible as the production facilities in the country
would have sufficient capacity to meet the medium-term water demand (1990)



- 10 -
in the cities. It is also expected that through the rehabilitation and
expansion of the primary systems in the intermediate cities and rural vil-
lages, improved services would be provided to the population presently served
by these systems. At present, the lower income population living in the
outskirts of the cities is generally served through public standpipes. The
proposed project would provide this population with better access to piped
water supply and make it easier for them to install private house connections.
Project Components
3.05       The project composition includes:
(i) the expansion and improvement of primary distribution
systems in the country's intermediate cities;
(ii) the provision of water supply services in rural agglomerated
villages;
(iii) the extension of the distribution networks to connect service
lines into low-income areas of the cities;
(iv) the supply of water meters; and
(v) the review of the national water supply plan to restate the sector's
objectives and proper policies for the design, financing, construc-
tion and operation of water supply systems in the country (see para.
1.17).
Proposed Investments
3.06       The annual investments for the work program outlined above, with the
exception of item (v), appear under lines 16 through 19 of SONEDE's Investment
Program shown in Annex 2. From mid-1979 through 1981 (the period covered by
the proposed project) SONEDE is contemplating investments of about US$72.0
million (D 28.4 million) in the project items. A breakdown of these invest-
ments follows:



- il -
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Item                               -----D Thousands          -----US$ Thousands----
A.  Expansion of Primary
Systems in Cities              1,211    1,231  2,442   3,066    3,116  6,182
B.  Systems in Rural
Villages                       2,50]    2,405  4,906   6,331    6,089 12,420
C.  Network Extension              6,985    4,989 11,974  17,684   12,630 30,314
D.  Supply of Water Meters            591    1,172  1,763   1,496    2,967  4,463
Subtotal                      11,2883   9,797 21,085  28,577   24,802 53,379
E.  Design and Supervision            63.3     -       633   1,602       -    1,602
F.  Physical Contingencies         1,693    1,470  3,163   4,286    3,721  8,007
G.  Price Escalation                1,908    1,655  3,563   4,831    4,191  9,022
TOTAL INVESTMENTS             15,522   12,922 28,444  39,296   32,714 72,010
% of Total                     54.6      45.4  100.0    54.6       45.4  100.0
3.07      The proposed investments are estimated on the basis of construction
price levels in January 1979 and already include customs duties on imported
equipment and other taxes on sales and services. Engineering design and con-
struction supervision are estimated to account for only 3% of the construction
costs, as detailed design is available for most of the subprojects and since
project execution is supervised by SONEDE's engineering department (para 3.15).
The cost estimates are further increased by 15% for physical contingencies.
Price escalation is projected to average 7.5% per annum for civil works and
equipment supply; this rate follows the trend of construction price increases
observed by SONEDE in water supply projects during the last three years. The
current exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar to the US dollar (US$1 = D 0.395)
is assumed to remain constant during the project execution.
3.08      Annex 6 gives the planned annual investments (in current prices)
for different types of expenditures.  Most of the proposed investments would
be in civil works construction (essentially pipe installation) which would
account for about 47% of the total expenditures. Foreign expenditures which
would amount to about 24% of the total costs, would basically cover the
purchase of pipes and equipment for wells and pumping stations. About US$7.1
million would be paid in for customs duties and other taxes.
Project Financing
3.09      A Bank loan of US$25 million to finance the full foreign exchange
cost of items A, B and D of the proposed investments, and part of that
of the network extension (item C), is proposed. The loan would be made to
SONEDE, with the Government's guarantee, and would mature in 17 years includ-
ing 4 years of grace, with an interest rate of 7.90%. The proposed loan would
cover about 34.7% of the total project costs, and would be disbursed according
and up to the amounts specified for the project items.



- 12 -
3.10       About 60% of the cost of the network extension program would be borne
by SONEDE while the remainder would be charged to new customers as contribu-
tions towards SONEDE's capital. New domestic customers can obtain credit
facilities from SONEDE (para. 5.05) for payment of the cost of their exten-
sion pipelines. But SONEDE now has the option of refinancing these credits
through medium-term loans from commercial banks in London. The loan amount
allocation for the network extension program would be limited to US$8.6 mil-
lion and would only finance the foreign exchange cost of SONEDE's share of
this program. The remaining foreign exchange would be covered by the commer-
cial banks' credits. The local costs would be financed by SONEDE. On this
basis the financing plan for the project is as follows:
Mid 1979-1981
Requirements                                         D       US$       %
----Thousands----
Proposed Investments                              28,444  72,010  100.0
Financed by:  SONEDE                              15,522  39,296   54.6
Commercial Credits                 3,047   7,714   10.7
Proposed Bank Loan                 9,875  25,000   34.7
Total Financing                                   28,444  72,010  100.0
Selection and Review of Subprojects
3.11       Design standards that SONEDE will use for the subprojects were
reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. The basic criteria that SONEDE
would follow to select the cities and rural villages to be included in the
project, would be the discounted (10%) per capita investment and operating
cost of the proposed facilities in a given location. However, SONEDE would
also give consideration to other socio-economic aspects of a subproject, such
as the potential for rapid industrialization of a community, the means of
communication of a rural village, the state of the social infrastructure
(school, health facilities, etc.) in a rural center. The average cost of
expanding the primary distribution network in cities has been determined to
be a power function of the population already connected to the network and is
illustrated in Annex 7. This cost varies between US$18 (D 7) for 60,000
people served, and US$92 (D 36) for 2,000 people served. For rural villages
the discounted per capita cost averages US$81 (D 32).
3.12       The methodology that SONEDE would follow to compute the discounted
per capita cost of a subproject is described in Annex 8 (Schedule 4 to the
draft Loan Agreement).  In principle SONEDE will give priority to subprojects
with the lowest per capita cost and any subproject whose discounted per
capita cost does not exceed the average cost by more than two standard devia-
tions will be automatically eligible for financing under the Bank loan. A
subproject with a higher cost will require a special justification by SONEDE
and its approval by the Bank before it can be financed by the loan. In cal-
culating the per capita cost of works in a location, contributions by custo-
mers, either in capital or labor, towards the initial investments or future
operations, will be subtracted from the stream of costs.



- .13 -
3.13       Annex 9 (Schedule 5 to the draft Loan Agreement) gives a checklist
of data that SONEDE should compile for all subprojects. The Bank will have
an opportunity to comment on subprojects for which capital investments are
estimated to ey2eed US$1.5 million. To this effect SONEDE will submit the
feasibility studies of these subprojects, together with the checklist of
data previously mentioned. The Bank should pass its comments to SONEDE
within 30 days of receipt by the Bank of the above documents. A similar pro-
cedure would be followed for subprojects with a per capita cost higher than
allowed, requiring the Bank's approvaL (para 3.12).  For all subprojects
SONEDE prior to inviting bids for thern will submit to the Bank a list of these
subprojects showing their location, proposed investments and their discounted
per capita cost.
3.14       During negotiations assurances were obtained from SONEDE that it
will follow the procedures outlined in Annexes 8 and 9 for subproject selec-
tion and, when required, for the review and approval by the Bank of the
selected subprojects.
Project Implementation
3.15       The proposed investments would be made in the period mid 1979-1981.
Detailed design is available for a variety of subprojects whose execution
should start once the loan is signed. The project execution will be adminis-
tered by SONEDE's engineering department which is well organized and suffi-
ciently competent to carry through this task. During the early stage of proj-
ect execution, the Bank supervision missions will emphasize on strengthening
SONEDE's capability in appraising subprojects.
Procurement
3.16       Individual contracts for civil works and in particular for supply of
equipment and pipes for subprojects will be grouped to the extent possible
together so as to attract both smaller and larger contractors and to speed up
the procurement process. All major contracts financed by the Bank will be
placed by means of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank Group's Guidelines for Procurement. In evaluating bids for the supply
of equipment and materials procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding, a 15% margin of preference or the actual customs duties, whichever
is lower, would be allowed for goods manufactured in Tunisia.
3.17       Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$150,000 and for
civil works of less than US$550,000, aggregating to not more than US$3,000,000
may be awarded on the basis of competiLtive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with SONEDE's procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Foreign
suppliers are expected to win the contracts for equipment, water meters and
two thirds of pipe supply. Local contractors should win the remaining pipe
supply and the civil works contracts.
Disbursements
3.18       Annex 10 shows the proposed allocation of the loan proceeds accord-
ing to the types of expenditures, and the expected quarterly disbursements.



- 14 -
The loan would be disbursed against: (i) the full CIF cost of all direct
imports for the project; (ii) 70% of the ex-factory cost of locally manu-
factured goods; and (iii) 40% of the total expenditures for civil works
construction. Overall the Bank loan would cover 34.7% of the planned
investments. The closing date of the loan would be December 31, 1982.
IV. THE BORROWER
Background
4.01       The borrower of the proposed sector loan would be SONEDE, the
national water supply authority, which was established in 1968 to replace a
Government office, the "Regie de Distribution des Eaux (RDE)", in an effort
to shape up adequately the financial and managerial resources of the sector.
SONEDE has the status of an autonomous public enterprise, and is managed as
a commercial undertaking. It is owned by the Government and operates under
the tutelage of the Ministry of Agriculture. SONEDE is the borrower and
beneficiary of previous Bank Group lending to the sector (Loan 581-TUN,
Credit 209-TUN, Loans 989- and 1445-TUN), as well as the executing agency
for the water supply component of the Tourism Infrastructure Project (Loan
858-TUN and Credit 329-TUN) and the Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project (Loan
1431-TUN).
Past Performance
4.02       As previously mentioned in paragraph 1.14, SONEDE has successfully
implemented the projects financed by the first two Bank loans. Most of the
project facilities became operational in 1974, and water supply services in
the project areas have since greatly improved. The execution of the project
components included in the third Bank operation 1/ (Loan 989-TUN) is near
completion and is already judged also successful. The implementation of
the fourth water supply project 2/ (Loan 1445-TUN) is progressing well and
according to the appraisal schedule. The setting up of SONEDE has also
been successful and has produced the reforms necessary for improving water
supply operations in the country. At the end of 1978, after ten years of
operations, SONEDE had almost quintupled its initial assets, nearly doubled
its water sales (from 63.4 Mm3 in 1968 to 115 Mm3), and more than tripled
the number of house connections (from 102,000 to 369,700).
b/   Report No. 369a-TUN, Appraisal of the Third Water Supply Project, May 6,
1974.
2/   Report No. 1532a-TUN, Appraisal of the Northern Tunisia Water Supply
Project, May 9, 1977.



- 15 -
Organization and Management
4.03      Annex Il shows the current organizational structure of SONEDE.  A
Board of twelve members, chaired by SONEDE's General Manager, supervises
the company's activities. Nine Board members are public officials and repre-
sent the Government Ministries and other public agencies involved in the
water resources sector. The remaining three Board members, though appointed
by the Minister of Agriculture, reprebsent the private sector and SONEDE's
customers. The overall control exercised by the Government, beyond the
appointment of the Board Directors, covers other decision processes such as
approval of the company's investment programs, borrowings and tariff levels.
4.04      The General Manager is appointed by the Minister of Agriculture
and is responsible for the day-to-day operations which are handled by five
departments: production and distribution in Greater Tunis, production and
distribution in the rest of the country, new works, engineering studies,
and administration and finance. Two divisions in charge of internal audit
and organization, and operational control assist the General Manager in
preparing long-range planning and policies. Under the existing agreements
for the previous loans, SONEDE is committed to consult with the Bank before
making any changes in its organization and administrative structure.
4.05      As part of the fourth project, SONEDE made a study of its manage-
ment information system and computer activities, in order to line them up
with the continuing expansion of the company. SONEDE also carried out a
review of its organizational structure and procedures, and ways to improve
them. Revised procedural guidelines covering the content and scheduling of
reports to management, the standardization and control of the company's
operations, have been issued by the audit division, which is also implementing
an improved reporting system.
Staffing
4.06      At the end of September 1978, SONEDE's staff numbered 3,145, or an
average of 0.84 employee per 1,000 people served. This ratio is considered
adequate for SONEDE's decentralized organization type, and should continue to
decrease slowly, as SONEDE is now sufficiently staffed with engineering and
administrative personnel to meet the requirements of further expansion of its
operations. SONEDE's salaries and conditions of service are competitive with
those of other sectors and are adequate to recruit and retain qualified per-
sonnel.
4.07      Current staff training in SONEDE is considered aclequate.  In colla-
boration with the "Office de l'Emploi et de la Formation Professionnelle",
SONEDE maintains a continuous training program for its rank and file person-
nel. In addition, a number of short-term seminars covering various aspects
of its operations are arranged each year by SONEDE for its staff. It also
regularly arranges for overseas scholarships for its engineers to specialize
in sanitary engineering and other areas related to water supply. With the
proposed project in sight, SONEDE has also focussed the training of its staff



- 16 -
on the planning, financial and economic evaluation of projects. In the
future, the staff will be encouraged to continue to follow specialized courses
of the Economic Development Institute of the Bank Group and of other advanced
institutions.
Current Practices and Procedures
4.08       SONEDE's accounting system is comprehensive.  Its financial accounts,
billing of water sales, related charges and new connections, inventory con-
trol and payroll are performed on a computer programmed and operated by its
staff. A cost accounting section monitors the cost effectiveness of each sec-
tion and activity. SONEDE performs annual physical inventory controls and
recorded levels of inuentories are reliable.
4.09       SONEDE's operations are monitored by a Technical Controller and
a Financial Controller who are appointed by the Government, and who are
advisory members of the Board of Directors. In addition, an external audit
of SONEDE's financial statements is carried out annually by independent
auditors who are acceptable to the Bank. The existing arrangements between
the Bank and SONEDE provide for the submission to the Bank of the auditors'
annual report within six months after the close of each fiscal year. These
audits have been received within the time limit specified in the agreements.
The covenant has been restated in the agreement for the proposed project.
4.10       SONEDE bills its customers on a rotating basis every three months
for the volume of water consumed and fer a fixed charge covering meter rent
and connection maintenance. Collection from private customers is efficient,
as of December 31, 1978, accounts receivable from these customers stood at
about 1 month of sales, while accounts receivable from the Government offices
and municipalities were at about four months of sales. The existing agree-
ments between the Government and the Bank commit the former to take all
necessary steps to enable SONEDE to receive full payment for water consumed
by all national, regional and municipal entities within 120 days of billing.
However, since such payment is made through budgetary allocations which
usually become available only during the first half of a fiscal year, the
Government and SONEDE have requested that the levels of arrears from the
Government and municipalities be monitored only twice a year, at the end of
June and December. This request was approved during negotiations.
4.11       SONEDE carries insurances covering motor vehicles, fire damages for
buildings, third party liability and special coverage for damages caused by
polluted water accidentally distributed by SONEDE, all of which are considered
adequate. SONEDE-is self-insured for workmen's compensation and has set up a
special fund for this purpose. Projections of the fund requirements indicate
that the current contributions towards this fund are sufficient. All supply
and civil works contracts for the project will be insured by private companies
against loss and damage in shipment, accidents, fire and property damages.



- 17 -
Outlook of SONEDE's Future Operations
4.12       Since its creation in 1968, SONEDE has steadily expanded its ser-
vices to larger segments of the population, and has continued to build up
its operating efficiency. The current outlook of its operations is that it
will continue in the future to pursue both its expansion and management
efficiency policies with increased decentralization of its administrative
services. The objective of the proposed project is to help SONEDE accomplish
the first goal; implementation of the recommendations of the recent manage-
ment information study (paragraph 4.05) should help it meet: the second one.
SONEDE's management is cost-conscious and performance-oriented, and in this
regard is being assisted by two specialized divisions responsible for audit-
ing, organization and operational control.
4.13       There are some specific arieas where SONEDE will particularly focus
its improvement efforts. One of them would be to reduce the volume of un-
accounted for water which presently accounts for about 31% of the production.
The goal is to reduce this percentage to no more than 25% by 1986. Efforts
would also be made to forecast more accurately stock needs in order to accom-
plish better inventory management.
4.14       In accordance with existing legislation which allows for three
consecutive 5-year periods of tax hoLiday to newly set up public utility
entities, SONEDE has been (since its creation) exempted from income taxes.
The third five-year tax exemption wiILl expire at the end of 1981. However,
since the first period covered only three years, SONEDE has taken the posi-
tion that the Government should grant it an additional period of tax exemp-
tion.   The financial projections discussed in Chapter V have been prepared
assuming that SONEDE will not pay income taxes during the period under con-
sideration. The study mentioned in paragraph 1.17 will examine the need for
further tax exemption to SONEDE and will make recommendations to the Gov-
ernment on the matter. Should the tax holiday not be extended, the impli-
cation of such liabilities on SONEDE"s financial performance and its ability
to finance its expansion programs will be reviewed with the Government.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past and Present Financial Position
5.01       SONEDE's income statements, cash flow statements and balance sheets
for the years 1975 through 1978, together with the projections for 1979
through 1984, are shown in Annexes 12 to 14. SONEDE has in the past consis-
tently earned a surplus averaging USS6.6 million (D. 2.60 million) a year.
The average rate of return on its net: revalued fixed assets in operation,
after deducting customers' contributions and assets in villages with less
than 2,000 inhabitants fluctuated between 9.0% in 1975, and 7.5% in 1978,
and satisfied the financial covenants for all these years. During the same



- 18 -
period, the operating ratio (operating expenses including depreciation as a
percentage of revenues) remained fairly unchanged at about 72%. Over the
past four years, SONEDE has financed about 51% of its investment programs out
of internally generated funds and customers' contributions; the Government
contributed about 23% of these investments as equity capital. The remaining
26% was financed through medium- and long-term loans.
5.02      The major part of SONEDE's initial equity was provided by the Gov-
ernment in transferring the ownership of the fîxed assets (less related debts)
of the "Regie de Distribution des Eaux" (RDE) to SONEDE (see paragraph 4.01).
These assets whose valuation has been recently completed, have been estimated
at US$40.3 million (D 15.9 million). About D 1.5 million of SONEDE's liabili-
ties represents a sum due to the Government in respect of the pre-1968 revenues
of the former RDE, for which SONEDE is acting as liquidator.
5.03      SONEDE's working capital (current assets less current liabilities
excluding customers' deposits) was not fully adequate in the last five years
as the current ratio dropped from 1.1 in the beginning of 1975 to 0.6 at the
end of 1978, due to a substantial build-up of accounts payable. This build up
was brought about by accumulation of contract retentions and a large increase
in unpaid contract installments, as SONEDE's investments rose from US$30.4
million in 1975 to US$64.3 million in 1978. The current ratio is projected to
stay at its present level in the future, but this situation should not cause
any real operational problem as 80% of SONEDE's investment program is financed
by secured loans and Government contributions. Meanwhile, the debt-equity
ratio which practically remained constant (29:71) between 1975 and 1978 is
forecast to increase to 31:69 by 1982.
5.04      SONEDE's cash balances were adequate for day-to-day operations
in 1977, but were reduced in 1978 to less than US$0.5 million, which was too
low. Conversely, the value of inventories in the period 1975-78 exceeded 6.5
months of consumption, a level which was considered too high. During these
years, the debt service coverage was always higher than 2.
Revenues
5.05      Essentially, SONEDE derives its revenues from water sales which
are practically all metered, and from charges for meter rentals and connection
maintenance. In addition, new customers pay the cost of their connections,
plus a contribution to the capital cost of the distribution network, and a
deposit covering at least three months of service. On top of these payments,
SONEDE levies a Government tax of 4.3% on water sales, and 7.5% on services
rendered. SONEDE accords credit facilities to new low-income customers for
payment of their connection costs and capital contributions.
5.06      As previously discussed in paragraph 5.01, SONEDE's tariffs, which
in 1978 averaged D 0.087/m3 (US$0.22/m3), were until then sufficient to
finance the company's operations and expansion programs, and to satisfy the
rate of return covenant. With the effects of inflation since the implementa-
tion of these tariffs in mid-1974, and new and larger programs to finance,



- 19 -
it became necessary for SONEDE to adopt increased rates which went into
effect on November 15, 1978. A comparison of the current rate structure
with the former one follows:
Class of Consumption                      New Structure               Old Structure
-------------D/m3 in quarLer-----------
Domestic                                  0.068 for                   0.068 for
first 40m3                  first 40m3
0.110 for                   0.090 for
next 3Om3                   any excess
0.150 for
any excess
Public                                    0.110                       idem
Commercial and Industrial                 same as                     0.070
domestic
Tourism                                   0.220                       0.150
5.07      Like in the old structure, a progressive rate is applied for domestic
consumption, with no increase in the basic tariff. A third category corres-
ponding to consumption in excess of 70m3 was introduced in the domestic class,
and as a result, large domestic consumers would pay more for the same past
consumption. But low income consumers who on average do not consume more
than 40m3 per quarter, would bear no increase in their water bills. 1/ All
in all, the expectation is that the increased domestic rate would induce
large consumers to restrict their water usage (see paragraph 1.05), which in
turn would help to reduce SONEDE's capital outlays.
5.08      The new tariff structure takes into account the high cost of meeting
peak demand of tourism and industrial facilities. But it is estimated that
these tariffs have only slightly increased the average bednight hotel operat-
ing costs, probably by not more than. 0.2%. With regard to industrial use, the
production costs should rise on the average by not more than 0.1%.
5.09      The current tariff levels are expected to be sufficient to meet,
to the end of 1980, the existing rate of return covenant of 7.5% on properly
revalued net fixed assets (Loan 1445-TUN, Fourth Water Supply Project), after
deducting SONEDE's customers contributions as well as the assets in rural
villages with less than 2,000 inhabitants. Additions to fixed assets and
inflationary increases of operating costs will require periodic adjustments
1/   The lowest income consumers expend about 3% of their income for water
supply services, well below the usually accepted norm of 5%.



- 20 -
of the tariff levels to satisfy the covenanted return. From the present D
0.125/m3, the average tariff is projected to raise to D 0.157 in 1981, and to
reach D 0.220 by 1984. These tariffs would enable SONEDE to finance about 28%
of its capital investments in the years 1979 through 1982. This added to its
customers' contributions (10%) and borrowings (42%), would account for 80% of
the investment requirements in this period. At this stage of SONEDE's devel-
opment, its share of the capital requirements appears to be more than adequate.
5.10       Thus, it is proposed to maintain the present rate of return covenant
which has been restated in the draft agreement for the proposed project.
In the context of the review of the National Water Supply Plan (paragraph
1.17), the financing scheme for the sector and SONEDE's return would be
reviewed, and later discussed with the Bank. Should a change in the return
aver to be necessary, the Bank should then be willing to discuss it with the
Government and SONEDE.
Financing of SONEDE's Investment Program
5.11       The following sets out SONEDE's estimated total funds requirements
for the period 1979-1982 and the sources from which they would be met assuming
that the tariffs would be increased as outlined in paragraph 5.09:
FINANCING PLAN
1979-1982
D     US$ /1      %
---- Million ----
Requirements
Capital Investments                                 194.5   492.4       97.2
Long-term Advances                                    4.3    10.9        2.1
Increase in Working Capital                           1.4      3.5       0.7
Total Requirements                                  200.2   506.8    100.0
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                             80.4   203.5       40.2
Less:  Debt Service                                  24.4    61.8       12.2
Net Internal Cash Generation                         56.0   141.7       28.0
Proposed Bank Loan                                    9.9    25.0        4.9
Other Long-term Loans                                69.8   176.8       34.9
Medium-term Loans                                     5.3    13.4        2.6
Total Borrowings                                     85.0   215.2       42.4
Customers' Contributions                             19.4    49.1        9.7
Governnent Equity                                    39.8   100.8       19.9
Total Sources                                       200.2   506.8    100.0
/1  Based on a constant rate of exchange of US$1 = D 0.395.



- 21 -
5.12      The contemplated requirements include US$10.9 million for loans
to low-income customers (paragraph 5.05). In addition to the proposed Bank
loan of US$25 million, the capital sources include borrowings of US$24 mil-
lion, which are the proceeds of two previous Bank Loans (989- and 1445-TUN)
during the period 1979-1982. The remaining long-term borrowings would come
from the inte-tational lenders mentioned in paragraph 1.15. The medium-term
loans would be made by commercial banks (paragraph 3.10) to finance credit
facilities to low-income customers for payment of their extensions and
connections. The Government contribution of US$100.8 million would be to
some extent offset by revenues over the period considered from taxes on water
sales and services rendered by SONEDE (US$18.4 million), customs duties and
other taxes on equipment and materiails procured by SONEDE for its investment
programs (US$29.1 million).
Future Financial Performance
5.13      SONEDE's forecast financial statements from 1979 through 1984
are shown in Annexes 12 to 14.  The assumptions made in preparing these
statements are explained in Annex 15. SONEDE's financial performance is
expected to continue improving steadily. Financing of investments out of
internally generated funds and customers' contributions would gradually
increase to reach about 38% for the period 1979-82 and 49% for 1983-84.  The
company's working capital would gradually improve with a build-up of cash
reserves and the release of retention money. Fluctuations caused by the
implementation of the investment program should stabilize by 1981.
5.14      Internal cash generation should cover debt service adequately.  The
debt service coverage is projected not to fall below 2.3. Under the existing
loan and credit agreements, SONEDE is committed not to incur any long-term
debt (except for the projects covered by the agreements) without the Bank
Group's concurrence, unless its net revenues at the time of incurrence of the
debt, before depreciation and interest, are at least 1.5 times the maximum
future annual debt service on the proposed loan and existing debts. This
commitment has been restated in the draft agreement for the proposed project.
Monitoring System
5.15      Annex 16 shows the indicators which would be monitored during
the execution of the project to measure the achievement of the technical
and financial goals set for the proposed project. This Annex also gives
the values forecast for these indicators in the years 1979 through 1984.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with SONEDE on the proposed list
of monitoring indicators, which further agreed to discuss and concur with the
Bank, not later than July 31, 1979, on the target values for these indicators
in 1980 and 1981, and by July 31, 1982, on the target values in 1982 through
1986 or the period of the next National Development Plan, but with the proviso
that these targets might be annually reviewed and possibly modified with the
Bank's concurrence. Assurances were also obtained from SONEDE that it will
carry out any reasonable remedial action suggested by the Bank in order to



- 22 -
meet the targets set for the indicators. The actual values of the indicators
in a preceding year will be reported to the Bank together with the forecasts
for the current and following years, by July 31 of the current year.
5.16      At negotiations, assurances were also secured that SONEDE, with-
in six months following the closing date of the loan, will prepare and submit
to the Bank a completion report on the execution and initial operation of the
project, its costs and the benefits derived or to be derived from it, the
performance and fulfillment by SONEDE and the Bank of their respective obliga-
tions under the loan agreement, and the accomplishment of the objectives of
the Bank loan.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Beneficiaries of the Project
6.01      The prime beneficiaries of the project would be the 96,000 families
(about 600,000 people) who would be provided with direct water supply services
after their dwellings are connected to the water network. A majority of these
families would be among the low-income population who would receive a safer
supply through more convenient means. Other direct beneficiaries would be
those living in the outskirts of the intermediate cities and in the rural
villages, and presently drawing their supply from unsanitary water sources,
who, as a result of the proposed expansion of the distribution systems and
the installation of public taps, would have access to a safe supply. Many of
the existing customers in the cities where the project would be implemented
would also note a great improvement of the services, after the expansion and
upgrading of the primary distribution systems are completed.
6.02      As mentioned in paragraph 1.07, it is forecast that part of the
rural population will continue to migrate towards the cities which in some
cases will experience high annual population growth (about 4%) during the next
decade. Such migration has already resulted in the proliferation of shanty
towns around the major cities of Tunisia. The expectation is that the pro-
posed expansion and improvement of water supply in the medium-size cities and
rural villages will help make those agglomerations more livable and thus slow
down migration towards the major cities.
6.03      Under the proposed project, about 1,450 jobs would be created, of
which 150 would be permanent. About 80% of the jobs would go to unskilled
laborers.
Least-Cost Solution
6.04      For all subprojects, SONEDE will carry out an economic comparison of
feasible alternatives to determine the least-cost solution in a given location.
The calculation of the per capita cost of a subproject and the determination
of its eligibility for financing under the Bank loan would be made for the



- 23 -
least-cost alternative.  The technical criteria used in the design of the
subprojects are acceptable to the Bank.
Economic Justification
6.05      At this stage of the project preparation, it is not possible to
compute a global incremental rate of return on the proposed investments,
since the exact number and cost of the subprojects which will be executed
with the investments are not yet known.  However, a realistic value of the
return can be established assuming that the final average investment and
operating cost of the subprojects will equal the estimated discounted average
per capita cost. Thus, using the current average tariff revenues (including
sales taxes) in the subprojects' area as a minimal measure of the project
benefits, the internal financial rate of return on the proposed investments
would be about 8%. A more meaningful economic rate of return is difficult to
calculate, but is certainly higher, in view of the unquantifiable health and
environmental benefits which accompany improved water supplies.
6.06      The overriding justification for the proposed project is the neces-
sity for providing urgently needed potable water supply in the medium-size
cities and rural villages. SONEDE's; current overall average tariff is nearly
equal to the long-run average incremental cost of providing water, based on a
10% opportunity cost of capital which is considered appropriate for Tunisia.
Besides, because of the progressive tariff structure, large consumers now pay
more than the average cost for their water and have thus demonstrated their
willingness to pay the cost of providing additional water.  The lowest pos-
sible value of the return can be estimated assuming that all the subprojects
would be built at the cut-off per capita costs. In this case, the rate of
return would be about 6%, which is still acceptable, considering the social
character of the project.
Environmental Impact
6.07      One of the main objectives of the Government's Fifth Investment Plan
(1977-1981), is to continue to equip the country's intermediate cities with
basic infrastructure such as water supply, sewerage and drainage. The pro-
posed project would help the Governmient meet this objective. Piped water
supply systems would be installed mainly in low-income areas and as a result,
sanitary conditions in these areas would be substantially improved. Provision
of running potable water inside the lots and dwellings would enhance the
living conditions in these areas. l'his in turn would push for improved
productivity stemming from better ernvironment and public health.
6.08      As a result of the project, the cities' wastewaters would increase
substantially. In order to prevent the corresponding detrimental impact on
sanitary conditions and to ensure that the full benefits of the water supply
project will be achieved, wastewater would need to be disposed of. In areas
where sewerage is not a suitable solution, i.e. where water is supplied
through standpipes and yard hydrants, alternate means of human waste disposal
would have to be provided to ensure the maintenance of a healthy environment.



- 24 -
The European Economic Community is considering financing the construction of
waste disposal facilities in Tunisia's intermediate cities.
Institution Building
6.09      The establishment of SONEDE as an effective national authority with
the capability of efficiently managing the sector continues to be one of the
Bank's main objectives. In this regard, the project includes the review and
improvement of SONEDE's financial policies and sector development objectives.
Besides, the proposed project offers the opportunity for SONEDE to strengthen
its methodology of subproject selection and its appraisal procedures.
Risks
6.10      The measures proposed to be taken in the course of the project exe-
cution, such as the Bank's assistance to SONEDE in selecting the subprojects
and monitoring key indicators of progress in project implementation, should
minimize the risks involved under the proposed project. Works similar to
those scheduled have previously been successfully completed by SONEDE and
implementation of this project should pose no major problem. SONEDE is now a
well-established public authority which has already demonstrated its effec-
tiveness. Its staff is dedicated and the population is willing to pay for
water services. Therefore, the risks of not achieving the project goals are
low.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement having been reached on the issues referred to in Chapters
I through VI of this report, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$25 million to SONEDE for a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace.
April 20, 1979



- 25 --
ANNEX 1
YEARS
1926            1936             1946             1956             1966             1976             1986              1996
1 X 107
9
7
5                             ~~~~~~~~TOTAL POPULATION,
4--
URBAN POPULATION
3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~3
RURAL POPULATION
TUNISIA                                              Legend: O Census Population
1 X 106    NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION 1'ROJECT
POPULATION DISTRIBUTION
4.000
DISTRIBUT IN OF RURAL POPULATION BY
SIZE OF VILLAGE IN 1975
60                                                                                                                        3.000 "
60DISTR IBUTION 0F URBA N POPULATION BY  _                                                                               -_<
SIZE 0F CITY N 1975
I~~~~~
cn 40                                                                                                                     2,000
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 203,000 U
Decrrbr 178    SIZE OF CITIES                                                  SIZE OF RURAL VI LLAGES
No,Id Bank  19853



TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
SONEDE'S INVESTMENT PROGRAI4/ (1979-1984)
(D Thousands)
Year                                      Year
Total                                      Total
Line    Project                                  1979      1980      1981    1979-1981    1982        1983      1984    1982-1984
1     Northern Tunisia - Production            3,000    6,000    8,000       17,000      3,000    1,523         -        4,523
2     Northern Tunisia - Distribution         4,000    5,500    6,129        15,629      3,220    3,540    3,900        10,660
3     Third Water Supply - Sfax                  600       300      -            900       815       -       4,000       4,815
4     Northern Water Sources for Sahel         2,800    7,500    7,638       17,938      9,320   12,080   13,300        34,700
5     Southern Tunisia                           500    1,000    4,000        5,500      4,000    4,000    2,261        10,261
6     Improvement of Bizerte System              230       -        700          930     3,000    3,300    3,000         9,300
7     Relocation of Kasseb Pipeline            4,000    1,170       -         5,170         -         -         -           -
8     Gabes Industrial Area - SEPA             1,741    4,000    4,000        9,741       2,324       -         -        2,324    M
9     Supply of Ghomrassen/Tataouin              200    3,000    3,237        6,437         211       -        -            211
10     Improvement in Tourism Areas               250       -         -           250        -         -         -           -
il     Buildings, Warehouses, Shops             1,637    1,774    1,927        5,338       2,098    2,289    2,513         6,900
12     Replacement of Undersized Pipes            592       636       682      1,910         733       786       844       2,363
13     Improvement of Existing Systems          1,210    3,166    3,418        7,794      4,526    5,040         -        9,566
14     Distribution Works                       3,737    2,000        672      6,409       3,462    4,715    2,807       10,984
15     Improvement Works in Rural Areas           910    1,020        770      2,700         -         -         -           -
16     Expansion of Primary Networks              220    1,390    1,795        3,405       5,402    2,880        -        8,282
17     Water Supply in Rural Centers            1,155    2,512    3,529        7,196      4,642    3,032         -         7,674
18     Extensions for Service Lines             5,926    6,361    6,829       19,116       7,331    7,869    8,447        23,647
19     Purchase of Water Meters                   700       943    1,085        2,728      1,248    1,435    1,650         4,333
20     GRAND TOTAL                             33,408   48,272   54,411    136,091    55,332   52,489   42,722    150,543
2/                                                                                                    >
21     Grand Total in US$ -                   84,577  122,208  137,749    344,534   140,081  132,884  108,157    381,122   f
1/ Expressed in current prices.
2/ Based on a constant exchange rate of US$1 = D 0.395
November 16, 1978



- 27 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 1
TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
Terms of Reference For Review of
the National Water Supply Plan
Scope of the Review
1.        The proposed review includes a complete evaluation of (i) progress
accomplished in providing water supply services in the country; (ii) the
current levels of services in the sector; and (iii) what remains to be accom-
plished to serve a certain optimum level of the population. The review will
cover both (a) the technical aspects in the sector, such as the per capita
consumption, the conditions of the water supply facilities and the quality of
the services; and (b) the financing aspects, such as the cost of providing
the services, the levels and affordability of the tariffs, and the financial
performance of SONEDE. Following this evaluation, an analysis of the finan-
cial options available to SONEDE in order to reach the service level objective
by a target date will be carried out.
Data Collection
2.        During this first phase of the review the following elements of
the sector will be updated:
(i) the percentage of urban population, agglomerated rural
population and dispersed rural population already served;
(ii) the number and size of cities and rural villages already
provided with water services, the geographical repartition
of these cities and villages and the distribution of the
total population in these locations;
(iii) evaluation of the capacity of the existing systems, water
production available, conditions of the production facili-
ties and distribution networks and quality of the services;
and
(iv) water consumed for different types of usage, per capita
water consumption and unaccounted for water.
Sector Goals
3.        Based on the above data and the evolution of the service levels in
the last ten years, SONEDE in agreement with the Government will set out
realistic goals for the service levels to be reached by the year 1990 and the
year 2000. In establishing these goals, consideration should be given to the



ANNEX 3
- 28 -                             Page 2
limitation of the country's water resources, and consequently to appropriate
levels and convenient means to supply different strata of the population. The
required investments to meet these goals, together with a scheduling of these
investments will be determined.
Financial Mechanism
4.         In this third phase of the review, an evaluation of the sector's
financial policies will be carried out. The current and projected tariff
levels, as well as their affordability by low-income customers, will be
analyzed. Having established appropriate norms for future tariffs (and thus
revenues), SONEDE's financial performance will be evaluated. The need and
conditions of funds to be provided to SONEDE by the Government, the propor-
tions in which these funds will be divided between capital contributions and
loans, and the possible setting up of special funds to finance water supply
works will be discussed. Finally a financing plan of the investment program
will be prepared.
5.        At the conclusion of the review, an analysis of the financial
policies in the sector beyond the target date will be carried out. Recom-
mendation will be made of the measures and policies to be adopted by SONEDE
to ensure the continuing development and self-financing of the sector.
April 20, 1979



TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
POPULATION, WATER SALES AND SERVICE LINES, PAST AND FORECAST
1/                          1/
Urban Population in Thousands/ Water  Per capita  Total-/        New?-/ Consumption  Av. No.
Sales  Consumption Service   Service Per Sexvice  Persons
Year  Total   Connected  %ofTotal   106m3/yr   m3/yr       Lines      Lines  Line m /yr   Per Line
(1)     (2)       (3)  (4):3)x1O0       (5)   (6)«5)        (7)       (8)   (9)<5)   (10)-(3)
(2)                   (3)                            (7)       (7)
1968    1,979      855       43.2      63.376    74.1      102,375    7,998      619     8.4
1969    2,064      939       45.5      63.800    &7.9      113,812   11,437      561     8.3
1970    2,153    1,025       47.6      69.432    67.8      125,431   11,619      554     8.2
1971    2,245    1,118       49.8      73.928    66.1      139,651   14,220      529     8.0
1972    2,342    1,230       52.5      76.813    62.5      157,082   17,431      489     7.8
1973    2,442    1,343       55.0      82.009    61.0      176,466   19,384      465     7.6
1974    2,547    1,487       58.4      87.780    59.4      205,712   29,246      427     7.2
1975    2,656    1,647       62.0      93.475    56.8      242,266   36,554      386     6.8
1976    2,766    1,837       66.4      97.737    53.2      281,108   38,842      348     6.5
1977    2,859    1,942       67.9     109.827    56.5      315,748   34,640      348     6.2
1978    2,955    2,074       70.2     114.772    55.3      351,700   36,000      326      5.9
1979    3,055    2,212       72.4     120.815    54.6      388,700   37,000      311      5.7
1980    3,158    2,359       74.7     126.737    53.7      426,700   38,000      297     5.5
1981    3,264    2,513       77.0     132.553    52.7      465,700   39,000      285     5.4
1982    3,374    2,672       79.2     138.277    51.7      505,700   40,000      273     5.3
1983    3,488    2,843       81.5     143.919    50.6      546,700   41,000      263     5.2
1984    3,605    3,017       83.7     149.489    49.5      588,700   42,000      254     5.1
1985    3,726    3,204       86.0     154.995    48.4      631,700   43,000      245      5.1
1/ Refer to mid-year populations and service lines
2/ Installed during the year
January 31, 1979
.Is



- 30 -
ANNEX 5
TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
FORECAST OF WATER SALES
YEARS   1966   1969  1971   1973         1975    1977        1981      1985
1000                                                                           I     I_             _  _ _ _  _ _  _
900 
800 
700-
600-
500 
400-
300 -
Y -5~67 X 0.51                 209
CORRELATION COEFFICIENT R29
20 0                                                                   _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _                             _
10                                   Il                   l    l      l                                
9 0                   2                                                 02                                0        0     5     0   7    0  9   0
80 
70 -
60 -
40
30                                              _ _ _  _ _ _  _ __              _ _  _ _ _  _
20                                                                                              _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _                   _ _  
Legend
®HistoricaJ Data
1             ~~~2          3       4      5    6   7   8       10                   20           30       40    50   60  70 0090 100
NUMBER 0F SERVICE LINES 104 x
December 197e
World Bank - 19854



- 31 -
ANNEX 6
TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
ANNUAL PROJECT INVESTMENTS
(US$ Thousands)
Type of Expenditures                           Year --------        Total      %
1979     1980      1981
Foreign Procurement                  2,362    6,688    7,899       16,949     23.5
Local Procurement                    1,303    3,439    3,973        8,715     12.1
Civil Works                          4,761   13,487   16,043       34,291     47.6
Transportation                         2'35     821    1,011        2,067      2.9
Customs Duties
and Other Taxes                     1,005    2,799    3,291        7,095      9.9
Administration and
Supervision                      462    1,135    1,296        2,893       4.0
TOTAL EXPENDITURES             10,1.28   28,369   33,513      72,010    100.0
TOTAL EXPENDITURES in D 1/      4,000   11,206   13,238       28,444    100.00
Total in %                            14.1     39.4      46.5       100.0
Accumulated %                         14.1     53.5    100.0          -
l/ Based on a rate of exchange of US$ 1.00 = D. 0.395
April 1979



- 32 -
ANNEX 7
TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
INCREMENTAL INVESTMENT AND OPERATING COSTS
0F PROPOSED WORKS IN CITIES
100
5
rn                                           '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~er Capita Cost , ;         '_       _
-          I     .Y=1,58775X-0497
z
&      10
r   S                   .                                                                          2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Standard Deviation!  
'o         ~~Correlation Coefficient R2  0 093
o-                                                                                                                 2 Standard Deviain
Population Connected C
2,000 - 3,000   < 36
3,000-  5,000  <31
5,000 -  8,000  < 24
8,000 - 15,000  < 19
15,000- 25,000  < 1 5
25,000 -60,000  < 1 1
More than 60,000  <  8
Legend
* Sample Data
January 1979
1                                                                                               ______________________
103                        2.5                                   8    104           1 5       2            3                5                  105
POPULATION CONNECTED
World Bank - 19934



ANNEX 8
- 33 -                              Page 1
TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
Selection and Review of Subprojects
1.        Consideration will be given to upgrading and expanding the water
distribution system in an intermediate city, to the extent that the existing
water production facilities have sufficient capacity to meet the medium-term
potable water needs in this city. The selection of subprojects will be based
in particular on the size of the population already connected to the network,
the percentage of population served, the condition and capacity of the exist-
ing distribution system. In principle priority should be given to larger
populations since the discounted per capita investment and operating cost
increases as the population connected decreases.
2.         In selecting the rural villages, priority should be given to the
agglomerated ones with a sizable population, for which an integrated system
can be put in place. It should also be ascertained that reliable water
sources can be accessed at and operatFed at moderated costs to supply these
villages. Priority should be given to systems with the least discounted
cost.
3.        For the purpose of this Annex, the discounted per capita investment
and operating cost (C) of a subproject will be calculated as follows:
(i) The capital costs of a subproject, including the subsequent
investments needed to fullv utilize the subproject facili-
ties in the next 40 years (the average life of the sub-
project) will be expressed in terms of the price levels of
mid-1979. Any investment aiming at improving the services
of existing customers (estimated to account for less than
half of one percent of the proposed investments), or any
contributions by the customiers, either in capital or labor,
will be subtracted from the stream of costs;
(ii) the incremental operating expenses resulting from the pro-
posed expansion of the system will be calculated for each
year of the subproject's life and expressed in terms of the
price levels of mid-1979;
(iii)  the total subproject cost in a year (the sum of (i) and (ii)
for this year) will be discounted at the rate of 10%;
(iv) the incremental populations; which will'be connected each
year to the network will also be discounted at the same rate;
(v) finally the discounted per capita investment and operating
cost (C) will be the ratio between the discounted total cost



ANNEX 8
- 34 -                              Page 2
of the subproject and the discounted total incremental popula-
tion served by the subproject.
4.        Any subproject with an existing population connected (P) and a cost
(C) showing the following characteristics:
With P between 2,000 and 3,000, C is lower than D 36
With P between 3,000 and 5,000, C is lower than D 31
With P between 5,000 and 8,000, C is lower than D 24
With P between 8,000 and 15,000, C is lower than D 19
With P between 15,000 and 25,000, C is lower than D 15
With P between 25,000 and 60,000, C is lower than D Il
With P more than 60,000, C is lower than D 8.
will be automatically eligible for financing under the proposed Bank loan.
5.        For the rural villages any subproject with a cost (C) lower than
D 39 will be automatically eligible for financing under the Bank loan.
6.        A subproject with a cost (C) higher than those stated above, but for
which SONEDE wishes to secure the Bank financing, will require the specific
approval of the Bank. To this effect SONEDE will submit to the Bank a note
outlining the reasons for making the proposed investments, the special charac-
teristics of the subproject, the particular conditions of the city or rural
village where the subproject will be executed, and a socio-economic justifica-
tion of the subproject. This note will accompany SONEDE's own appraisal of
the subproject.
April 20, 1979



ANNEX 9
35                              Page 1
TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
Checklist for Subproject Appraisal
1.        For each subproject SONEDE will prepare an appraisal note which
will cover the following aspects:
s - The physical and economic characteristics of the city or rural
village where the subproject will be implemented, the popula-
tions recorded in past censuses and the forecast of future
populations in the subpro;ject area.
-    The condition of the existing water supply facilities, the
estimation of per capita consumption, water consumed and number
of service lines in previous years, and the quality of the
services.
The volumes of water consumed for various types of usage
(domestic, industrial, commercial, public, tourism), a com-
parison of these volumes with similar ones in other parts of
the country.
The determination of the maximum day demand and the maximum
hour consumption.
An estimate of the volume of water unaccounted for in the
transmission pipelines and the distrituion network, the pro-
posed measures to reduce water losses and any consumption
judged to be excessive.
The forecast of future consumption and number of service lines,
the evaluation of the percentage of population served.
-    The conditions of the production facilities, the physical,
chemical and biologic characteristics of the waters, the
future demands that can cover the existing resources and the
measures required to meet the demand in the year 2000.
-    Discussion of the feasible alternatives to supply the sub-
project area with water, and ways of improving and expanding
the distribution network.
-    Calculation of the estimated costs of the selected alter-
natives, and economic comparison of these alternatives.



- 36 -                             ANNEX )
Page
-    Selection and justification of the proposed scheme, prepara-
tion of detailed cost estimates and programmation of the
investments.
-    Calculation of future operating expenses, including deprecia-
tion of fixed assets and interest payment on debts, evaluation
of staff needs, management system and relations with regional
offices and headquarters.
-    Forecast of water sales and other revenues.
-    Calculation of the discounted per capita investment and operat-
ing cost of the subproject, the internal financial rate of
return on the proposed investments and the incremental cost of
providing additional water.
-    Conclusions and recommendations.
2.        For any subproject whose investment cost is estimated to exceed US$1.5
million, or requiring the Bank's approval as indicated in paragraph 6 of Annex
8, SONEDE will submit this checklist together with any existing feasibility
report on the subproject. The Bank will pass its comments to SONEDE within 30
days following the receipt of these documents.
April 20, 1979



TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
ALLOCATION OF THE LOAN PROCEEDS
(US$ Thousands)
Project Item                         Foreign            Local         -- Civil Works --        Transportation    Customs          Administration        Total
Procurement       Procurement      Contracts  SONEDE                           Duties               &
& Taxes         Supervision
A. EXPANSION OF PRIMARY
SYSTEMS IN CITIES                  2,000               762           4,240        -               214              792               334            8,342
Loan Allocation                    2,000               534           1,696        -                 -              -                  -             4,230
% of Total Expenses                100.0              70.1            40.0        -                 -              -                  -               50.7
B. SYSTEMS IN RURAL VILLAGES          3,559             1,289           9,380        -               461            1,395               670            16,754
Loan Allocation                    3,559               926           3,752        -                 -              -                  -              8,237
% of Total Expenses                100.0              71.8            40.0        -                 -              -                  -               49.2
C. NETWORK EXTENSION
(i) SONEDE ts Share or
60% of Total Cost             5,111             3.035           3,190      8,588             835           2,797                981           24,537
Loan Allocation               5,111             2,151           1,243        -                -               -                  -             8,505
% of Total Expenses           100.0              70.9            39.0        -                -               -                  -              34.7
(ii) Customers' Share              3,390             2,037             -        8,893             401              728               908           16,357
D. SUPPLY OF WATER METERS             2,889              1,592             -          -               156           1,383                 -             6,020
Loan Allocation                    2,889             1,139              -         -                 -              -                   -             4,028
% of Total Expenses                100.0              71.5              -         -                 -              -                   -              66.9
TOTAL INVESTMENTS                 16,949             8,715          16,810    17,481            2,067            7,095             2,893            72,010
TOTAL LOAN ALLOCATION             13,559             4,750           6,691         -                -              -                   -            25,000
O. 0F TOTAL INVESTMENTS             80.0              54.5             39.8        -                -              -                   -              34.7
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Thousands)
BANK FY                             Ist Quarter -----       ----- 2nd Quarter -----       ----- 3rd Quarter -----         ----- 4th Quarter -----
In Quarter   Cumulative       In Quarter   Cumulative       In Quarter   Cumulative         In Quarter   Cumulative
1980                            -              -              610            610            940           1,550           1,260          2,810
1981                          1,760          4,570          1,950          6,520          2,100           8,620           2,350         10,970
1982                          2,540         13,510          2,870         16,380          2,980          19,360           3,080         22,440
1983                          2,560         25,000            -              -               -              -               -              -
April 1979



TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE DISTRIBUTIONDES EAUX -- SONEDE
ORGANIZATION CHART - 1978
jOARD OF DIRECTOR
_I   AUDITING 
CIRANIZAT ION
0I'ERAT INA
L CONSHOL
==
FNO1NEOTINL OPERAT ON
GREATER        L    NWWORKS   I                      FNANCE &                       FN.INFEIRININANPERA710
TUNIS       7                I                ~~~~~~~~~~~~ADMINISTRATION           STOOE)lS                                    INTERIOR
PRODLCI ION                                                                                  R DISTIUION  |PROGRAMMIN  FINANCE  STRT  DESIG}  RFIONON 
REPAIRS&     D     A    M    KS I                    rE0                                   SURVL LE(.A NI STRIVETION|  PRODUCTION
I  NORTHERN    I  I  CUSTOMERS   I   I  WORK    F  COST  I                         I                L    |   REPAIRS &   I      ISREPAIHS &IBTI
"   TRUNKLINES   I   METERS  _  SECTIONS 131   ACCO(JNTI NC    mSTAT ISTICS                                   MAINTENANCE  _        MAINTENANCE
OUTERUN      K     LINE I   I DISTRICT      |SORSR |-                                                        HYDRDLOGY            PROCUREMENT            PCREMENTC|-
TRUNKLINES  SECTIONS W4 SECTIONS ITAI
ISECTIONS (3       PROCESSING                                                                                DISTRI6UTION          PROCUREMENI
I   I                                                                      I   OISTRICT    }_   |   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT L
Jt>rY 1979
'orId B->k  19935



TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
SONEDE - INCOME STATEMENTS - ACTUAL-/ (1975-78) AND PROJECTED (1979-84)
- -----------------Actual-/------ -------------------------Projected-----------------------------
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                        1975       1976       1977        1978       1979       1980        1981       1982       1983        1984
3---                                 - -  -- - -  - - --  - - - - --  - -   N   illion -- - - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - -  - -
Water Sold (million m )                                   93.5        97.6      109.8      114.8      120.8       126.7      132.6      138.3       143.9      149.5
Special Water Sales (million m3)                            -           -          -          -         4.0         7.1        7.1         5.1        8.4       11.7
Nuraber of Connections at Year End (000)                 242.266   281.108   315.748   351.700   388.700   426.700   465.700   505.700   546.700   588.700
Average Rate (millimes/m3)                                84.49       84.73      87.80      86.61     125.0       125.0      156.6       196.4      215.8       220.0
Operating Revenues                              ----__-------------------------D Million--------------------                      ---- ----------------------------
Water Sales                                              7.90        8.27       9.64       9.96      15.62       16.76      21.94      28.10       32.89      35.66
Meter Rentals and Maintenance                             .84         .97       1.16       1.32       2.50        2.76       3.02        3.29       3.56       3.84
New Connection Charges                                   2.28        2.73       2.82       3.31       4.00        4.28       4.58       4.89        5.24       5.60
Water Sales Taxes and Others                              .46         .54        .72        .83       1.36        1.48       1.74        2.07       2.32       2.50
Miscellaneous                                             .47         .50        .72       1.05       1.44        1.80       1.89        2.12       2.37       2.93
Less: Bad Debt Provision                                 (.09)       (.40)      (.30)      (.20)      (.64)       (.62)      (.56)       (.45)      (.52)       (.66)
Total Revenues                          11.86       12.61      14.76      16.27      24.28       26.46      32.61      40.02       45.86      49.87
Operating Expeiibes
Personnel                                                3.20       3.87        5.18       5.52       5.92        6.20       6.50        6.83       6.97       7.53
Fuels                                                     .64         .72        .96       1.20       1.36        1.52       1.70        1.91       2.15       2.40         .
Chemicals                                                 .44         .49        .56        .68         .76        .87        .97        1.09       1.23        1.37
Materials                                                2.95       4.00        3.24       3.41       3.86        4.13       4.42        4.73       5.06       5.41
Maintenance                                               .19         .25        .40        .53         .59        .76       1.01        1.17       1.30       1.42
Water Sales Taxes and Others                               .58        .63        .84        .95        1.50       1.62       1.90        2.23       2.50        2.68
General and Administrative Expenses                       .67         .90       1.10       1.30       1.36        1.39       1.43        1.46       1.51       1.53
Water Purchases                                           .06         .05        .07        .04         -          -           .10        .19        .28         .38
Less: Capital Expenses2/                                (2.47)      (3.92)     (5.26)    (5.44)      (5.98)    (6.27)       (6.79)      (7.54)     (7.98)    (9.23)
Sub-Total                                6.26        6.99       7.09       8.19       9.37       10.22      11.24       12.07      13.02      13.49
Depreciation                                             2.11       2.49        2.97       3.63       4.70        6.22       8.20       10.28      11.96      13.54
Total Operating Expenses                 8.37        9.48      10.06      11.82       14.07      16.44      19.44       22.35      24.98       27.03
Net Operating Incoyme                                      3.49        3.13       4.70       4.45       10.21      10.02       13.17      17.67      20.88       22.84
Interest                                                  .79       1.00        1.39       1.95       2.49        3.24       4.31        5.41       6.72       7.79
Net Operating Income before Taxes                          2.70        2.13       3.31       2.50        7.72       6.78        8.86      12.26      1' .16      15.05
Net Income                               2.70        2.13       3.31       2.50        7.72       6.78        8.86      12.26      14.16       15.05
Operating Ratio (%)                                     70.6        75.2       68.2       72.6       57.9        62.1       59.6        55.8       54.5       54.2
Return on Average Revalued Net Fixed Assets(%)           9.03        7.23       9.5        7.50      12.04        8.00       7.50        7.50       7.50        7.50
Average Revalued Net Fixed Assets-                      38.65      43.30       49.45      59.80      84.77      125.55     175.56      232.25     272.44    307.01
1/1978 Results Preliminary
2./Cost of Extensions Carried out by Force Accounts.
2/After deduction of Customers' Contributions and Assets in Villages with less than
2,000 Inhabitants.



TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECI
SONEDE - TABLE OF SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS - ACTUAL-/ (1975-1978) AND PROJECTS (1978-1984)
----------------Actual-/---------------------------------Projected----------------------------___
1975       1976       1977       1978       1979        1980       1981       1982       1983        1984
D Million
I. Uses of Funds
Capital Investments             (5)         9.95      26.72       20.51      23.47      33.41      48.27       54.41      58.45      52.49      42.72
Increase (Decrease) in Long-
Term Advances                 (5)         2.05       2.65       2.70       1.93       2.25        1.00       0.41       0.64        0.30       0.10
Increase (Decrease) in Working
Capital other than Cash and
Current Maturities             (4)       (0.04)     (6.26)      0.64        0.88       1.85      (2.601)   (1.62)        1.22        .31       2.54
Debt Service:
Interest charged to Operations            0.79       1.00       1.39        1.95       2.49       3.24       4.31        5.41       6.72       7.79
Amortization of Loans                     0.61       0.21        0.75       0.78       1.19       1.75        1.84       4.21       6.04       7.86
Total Debt Service      (4)          1.40       1.21       2.14       2.73       3.68       4.99        6.15       9.62      12.76       15.65
Total Uses                         13.36       24.32      25.99      29.01      41.19       51.66      59.35      69.93      65.86       61.01
Il. Sources of Funds
Operating Income before
Depreciation               (4)            5.60       5.62        7.67       8.08      14.91      16.24      21.37       27.95      32.84      36.38        o
Borrowings:
IBRD/IDA                                  1.86       5.98       3.18        1.61       2.96       2.53       3.24        1.24        .55         .04
Swedish Lending                            .69       1.75        1.69        .76        .23        .05         .02        -          -           -
Proposed Bank Loan                         -          -           -          -          -         1.11       3.22        5.55        -           -
Other Loans, Existing                     (.41)        .11        -          .26       4.08       7.52        9.68       6.10       6.92        1.43
Other Loans, Proposed                      -           -          -          -         5.71       4.97       10.96      10.54       6.57        3.09
Other Loans, Unidentified                  -           -          -          -          -          -           -          -        14.16      15.88
Total Long-Term Loans                2.14       7.84       4.87       2.63      12.98       16.18      27.12      23.43      28.20       20.44
Medium-Term Loans                          -           -         3.40       2.52       2.47       1.48         .65        .70         .77        .85
Total Long and Medium-Term           2.14       7.84       8.27       5.15      15.45       17.66      27.77      24.13       28.97      21.29
Loans
Covernment Contributions                    2.92        4.07       6.48       6.90       6.65      13.18        8.69      11.25         -          -
Customers Contributions                     2.81        5.17       4.43       8.93       4.47       4.74        3.30       6.96       4.06        4.29
Total Sources                       13.47      22.70      26.85      29.06      41.48       51.82      61.13      70.29       65.87      61.96
Cash Increase(Decrease)for Year               .11      (1.62)       .86        .05         .29        .16       1.78         .36        .01        .95
Cash at Beginning of Year                   1.86        1.97        .35       1.21       1.27        1.56       1.72       3.50       3.86        3.87
Cash at End of Year                         1.97         .35       1.21       1.27       1.56        1.72       3.50       3.86       3.87        4.82
Debt Service Coverage (Tiues)               4.0         4.6        3.6        3.0        4.1         3.3        3.5        2.9        2.6         2.3
Internal Financing of Capital 
Investment 2r(%)                         35.3       36.3        21.1       17.6       26.3       28.1       30.7        29.0       37.5       42.5
Internal Financing of Net                                                                                                                                     W
Fixed Assets Plus Work-in-Progress        7.7       14.5         5.0        3.7        6.3        7.2         6.9        5.6        5.4         4.4
Annual Average Total Fixed Assets(6)   55.03           73.42      97.23     119.61    148.84    191.12    244.75         304.40    363.78    415.70
1/1978 Results Preliminary
Z/Lines (4) as a percentage of Lines (5)
3/ Lines (4) as a percentage of Line (6)



I il iS IA
NAI IÙNWIIWE WATIR KBPPLY EXPANSIiN PROJEIC
SONEDE - BALANCE SHEITS - ACTUAL" (1795-C4) AND PROCBCTB   (1979-84)
----------Actual---------------------------------AProjo td -------------------------
Ëiscal Yeat Ending DBcenber 31                        1975       1976        1977       1978        1979        1990       1981        1982       1983        1984
------------------- -------------1 Milli- --l---.--------------------------------------------
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                                80.12       94.06     114.10      140.40     189.55      246.79     328.76      391.94      445. '    502.63
Las  Accumulated Depreciation                     31.01       35.04      39.77       45.38      52.35       61.19      72.45       86.36      102.1/     121.31
Net Fiaed Assots                       49.11      59.02       74.33      95.02      137.20     185.60      256.31      305.58     343.29      381.32
Work-in-Progress                                  10.88       27.83      33.29       36.57      28.88       30.55       17.03      29.88       48.81      57.97
Total Fixed Ass-ts                     59.99      86.85      107.62     131.59      166.08     216.15      273.34      335.46     392.10    439.29
Long-Trm  Advances                                 7.06        9.71      12.41       14.34       16.59      17.59       18.00      18.64       18.94       19.04
Sub-Total                              67.05      96.56      120.03     145.93      182.67     233.74      291.34     354.10    411.04        458.33
Carrent Assets
Cash and Equivalent                              1.97       0.35        1.21        1.26       1.56        1.72        3.50       3.86        3.87       4,82
A-rounts Roceivablo                              4.76       4.79        4.71        5.36       5.42        4.73       4.51        5.46        6.26        7.96
Stocks                                           1.71       3.21        3.86        2.86       2.88        2.69        2.70       2.97        3.48       4.13
Total Current Assots                    8.44       8.35        9.78       9.48        9.86        9.14      10.71       12.29      13.61       16.91
Total Assots                                     104.91      129.81     155.41      192.53     242.88      302.05      366.39     424.65      475.24
Eqaitv and Liabilitics
Equ i ty
Govor-nent Conteibt1ana                         31.68      35.75       42.23      49.13       55.78       68.96       77.65      88.90       88.90      88.90
Costomers  Cantribatian.                         6.95      12.12       16.55       25.48      29.95       34.69      37.99       44.95       49.01      53.30
Reval. atian Resorve                             2.08       4.71        7.94       12.07      17.86       25.88       36.86      50.81       66.92      84.93
Earned SBrplus                                   7.54       9.67       12.98       15.48      23.20       29.98      38.84       51.10       65.26      80.31
Total Eqaity                           48.25      62.25       79.70     102.16      126.79      159.51     191.34      235.76     270.09      307.44
long-Tons Debt
Previoas IBRD/AID Lending                        8.42      14.19       17.01       17.90      19.47       20.58       22.35      22.09       21.09       19.54
Swcdish Credits                                  3.05       4.80        6.50        7.05       7.20        7.12        6.99       6.84        6.70        6.55
Propaosd IBRD Loan                                -           -          -           --          -         1.11        4.33       9.88        9.12        8.36
Othor Existiag Loans                             7.16        6.73       6.30        6.30       10.10      17.33       24.76      28.37       32.80       31.73
Othor Proposed Loans                              -           -          -           -          5.71      10.68       21.30      29.94       33.59       33.76
Unidentified Loana                                                                               -                -           -              14.16       30.04
Total Long-Torm Debts                  18.63      25.72       29.81       31.25      42.48       56.82      79.73       97.12      117.46     129.98
Mediur-Tons Debts                        -           -         3.40        5.92       8.39        9.87       10.52      11.22       11.99       12.84
Total Long and Mediun-Tens Dcbts  18.63           25.72       33.21       37.17      50.87       66.69       90.25     108.34      129.45     142.82
Carrant Liabilities
Custonera' Depasits                                .87        .99       1.15        1.28        1.56       1.77        2.05        2.29       2.54        2.82
Contra-t Retentions                                .57       1.72       1.96        1.40        1.57       1.86        1.67        1.57       2.44        3.06
Payable ta Contractors                           1.38        3.88       3.16        4.20       4.14        5.99        b.74        6.86       6.51        5.30
Accounts Payable                                 5.58        9.60       9.85        8.01        5.85       5.22        5.79        5.53       5.76        5.88
Currerrt Maturities of Long-Teer  Debts           .21         .75         .78       1.19        1.75       1.84        4.21        6,04       7.86        7.92
Total Current Liabilities               8.61      16.94       16.90       16.08      14.87       16.68       20.46      22.29       25.11       24.98
Total Eqaity & Liabilities             75.49     104.9î      129.81     155.41      192.$       242.88     302.05      366.39     424.65      475.24       o
Debt Rquity Ratio                      28:72      29:71       29:71      27.73       29:71       29:71      32:68       31:69       32.68      32.68       x
I/ 1978 Results Prcliminary



ANNEX 15
- 42 -                             Page 1
TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Projections of Water Sales
1.        Future water sales and number of house connections are shown in
Annex 4. It is estimated that SONEDE should execute annually about 39,000
house connections in order to realize the projected sales.
Revenues
2.        Under the terms of the proposed agreement, SONEDE's revenues should
be sufficient to enable it to generate a rate of return of 7.5% on its net
revalued fixed assets after deduction of the assets in rural villages with
less than 2,000 inhabitants and customers' contributions. In compliance with
this covenant, the average tariff is projected to increase gradually from 1981
onwards as follows:
Year                     1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Average Tariffs
Millimes/m3               125    125    157    197    216    220
Income Statement
3.        The following summarizes the assumptions for items appearing in
the Income Statement Projections, other than water sales:
(1)  Meter Rentals and Maintenance.  Included hereunder are
meter rentals and maintenance charges levied on all con-
nections. The average fee of D 7.27 includes D 3.89 for
meter rental and D 2.87 for maintenance, plus a service
tax of 7.52%. The fee is calculated on the mid-year
average number of connections.
(ii)  New Connections.  Connections are the property of the
customers. They are installed by SONEDE and their cost
billed to the customers. The 1978 average cost of a
connection is based on available data for materials
used and time of manpower needed to install it. From
there the cost of material and labor is increased annually
by 7%. Overhead expenses amount to 15% of the total cost
of a connection. A service tax of 7.52% is levied on the
labor and overhead expenses for a connection.



ANNEX 15
43 -                             Page 2
(iii) Water Sales Tax. All water sales are subject to a 4.3%
sales tax which is included both as a revenue and expense.
Operating Expenses
4.   (a)  Personnel.  Personnel expenses are projected to increase
annually by 5%. In addition, it is assumed that on average
60 more workmen would be hired each year.
(b)  Energy and Fuel.  Vehicle fuel is projected to increase
in quantity by 3% a year, and power consumption for pumping
by 6% a year over the 1978 levels. All unit prices are
forecast to increase annually by 12%.
(c)  Chemicals.  Based on the evolution of production, the
quantities of chemicals used are projected to increase
annually by 6%, and subject to an annual increase of 12%
in the unit prices.
(d)  Materials.  Their quantities are based on the estimated
number of new connections (39,000 a year) and lengths of
main extensions (450 km a year). The average cost of
materials for a house connection is calculated to be
D 43.6 and that for an extension at D 4.2 per meter.
These unit costs are projected to increase annually
by 7%.
(e)  Maintenance.  Provision for routine maintenance (exclud-
ing replacement) is estimated to average 0.3% of gross
fixed assets.
(f)  Taxes.  Calculated in det:ail according to their nature:
a tax of 4.3% is levied on all water sales and of 7.52%
on services rendered.
(g)  Water Purchased.  Bulk purchases of raw water will become
necessary from 1981 onwards at prices shown below:
Year                     1981   1982   1983   1984
Water purchased in 10 m           6.7   12.7   18.7   25.6
Millimes/m3                      15     15      15      15
(h)  General and Administrative Expenses.  Assumed to increase
annually by about 1.5% and to be subject to a price escala-
tion of varying rates up to 7.5%.



ANNEX 15
-44 -                                Page 3
(i)  Expenses Transferred to Assets.  This represents the cost of
extensions (material, labor, overhead and tax) included in the
foregoing items and constructed by SONEDE.
(j) Depreciation. Calculated at straight-line rates based on
the estimated service lives of the major assets components.
An annual average rate of 2.6% is used.
Cash Flow Statements and Balance Sheets
Customers' Contributions
5.        Customers (howeowners, industries and tourism facilities) contribute
to SONEDE's investment program in two ways: a fixed fee of D 1.5 per meter
of property frontage of up to 100 m, and the payment of actual costs of
all extensions required beyond the first 100 m. While the first is projected
on the average frontage fee ta be paid by each new customer, the second is
arrived at by past averages on diameter, length and labor, adjusted for
inflationary increases.
Long-Ternm Accounts Receivable
6.        Charges for new connections, provided they are incurred for single
residences occupied by their owners, can be financed over a period of five
years with interest charged at commercial rates on the outstanding balances.
Data on record were used to determine the part of new connections that would
be eligible for this financing.
Accounts Payable
7.        Accounts payable are variously projected as shown below:
(i) Suppliers: 2 months of total capital expenditures and
purchase of materials;
(ii) Retention Money: 6.75% of annual investment which is paid
back at the end of the guarantee period;
(iii) Customers' Deposits: D 5 per new customer in 1979 and
1980, and thereafter adjusted for tariff increases in fol-
lowing years.
Stocks
8.         Stocks are assumed to be in 1979 at 6.4 months of consumption of
materials, fuel and chemicals, an then to decrease to an average of 5 months'
by 1982 and thereafter.



ANNEX 15
- 45 -                              Page 4
Accounts Receivable
9.         From 1979 onwards, for water consumption, arrears from private
customers are sxpected to be at one month's of sales, and those from public
authorities are assumed to decline to 4 months of sales for Government and
municipalities. Other receivables will vary slightly over the projection
period. Bad debts are projected to reach 4% of total sales in 1979, decreas-
ing gradually to 1.5% by 1984. Cash is maintained at the levels required to
cover SONEDE's normal operations.
Other Proposed Loans Under Negotiaticn
10.        Four long-term borrowings are assumed to carry interests varying
from 2 to 6% per annum and to be repaid over 20 to 25 years after a 5-year
grace period. For a medium-term loan also under negotiation, an interest of
8% per annum and a repayment period of seven years are projected.
April 20, 1979



TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
Indicators                                     1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982      1983      1984
1. STAFFING
Staff per 1,000 Customers                    9.8       8.9      8.2       7.7       7.1       6.7       6.3       6.o
2. SYSTEM OPERATIONS
Water Produced  106 m3/year                162.0    166.4    172.6    178.5    185.5    192.1    198.5    204.8
Water Sold, 108 m3/year                    109.8    114.8    120.8    126.7    132.6    138.3    143.9    149.5
Water Purchased, 10   m3/year               -         -         -        -         6.7      12.7      18.7      25.6
Unaccounted-for Water, %                    32.0      31.0      30.0     29.0      28.5      28.0      27.5      27.0
Number of Connections, 103                   316       352       389      427       466       506       547       589
3. FINANCE            l/
Rate of Return, % 1/                         9.5       7.5     12.0       8.0       7.5       7.5       7.5       7.5
Operating Ratio, % 2/                         68        73        58       62        60        56        55        54
Debt Equity Ratio                          29:71    27:73    29:71    29:71    32:68    31:69    32:68    32:68
Debt Service Coverage                        3.6       3.0      4.1       3.3       3.5       2.9       2.6       2.3
Ave. Revenue in D per m3 Produced          0.091    0.098    0.141       o.148    0.176    0.208    0.231    0.244
Operating Expenses in D per m3 Sold        0.092    0.103    0.116    0.130    0.147    0.162    0.174    0.182
Average Rate in D per m3 Sold              0.087    0.087    0.125    0.125    0.157    0.197    0.216    0.220
Collection Period (Day)3/
l/Income after Taxes but before Interest divided by Average Rate Base x 100.
2/Total Operating Expenses divided by Total Revenues x 100.
3/Accounts Receivable at a given Date divided by Daily Average of billing in preceding year.
This checking will take place on June 30 and December 31 every year for each category of
consumers. Results of this checking would be sent to the Bank within one month following
aforementioned dates at the latest.



ANNEX 17
- 47 -
TUNISIA
NATIONWIDE WATER SIIPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in
the Project File
1.   SONEDE's Statistical Report - 1977.
2.   Investment Program (1977-1981) in Water Supply Works in Cities and
Rural Villages.
3.   Identification of Cities with Needed Distribution Works.
4.   Index of Cities and Rural Villages - Water Supply Situation and Estimated
Cost of Proposed Works.
5.   Determination of the Discounted per Capita Cost of the Sub-projects.
6.   Economic Evaluation of the Sub-projects.
February 24, 1979






BRD 14146
JANUARY 1979
90                             19O                             1 jo
NATIONWIDE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION
O  \tnGUZf OfLINuX370 
Tjb/            D Abd                                                            CAP BON
rs  et~~~s_ < }    ,     ;          <        '    îU'lrmon /~, ~.
EA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K EA,oNt8;
200    \   1  ~~~~ > 2 9         ~ ~~                  rCeÇhiro          \40
'-                          CUif 0F  HAFMMAMEr                    39
~Mhdi.
400-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
C, KERKENNA
ISLANDS
-34-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
I   O Û V   ~~~~~~~~~~<                                      t\                        >    15 ~~~~~~~~~~SAND
TA    ho beoU  propsA bby' thS.                                                       r
WdS*'0 stoff -00001' 50,                                                                                                     Zoo
t(W oe. sm. *f th. -readers of
09 ,Wwort RU eUs/sA h l'.tt-ChOd
17, *nowtWis und and thne 
AotdMOhO ttFtshow" os se t , «
KsO nff wo t0ttatt of rhe Mg, Moto c t
atArt.shtRUysr,TtKoRtdSsoo,tlsot                          ALTITUDES N METERSX
« oos.pCo,tc #5oh hoonder< 30 0i
_   00TUIDSIA  MC0DlTElf OOH500500EA  ,  300 600
600 900
~900
4        <                          A~~~~~~~~~~~~c5  CHOTTS                                    5;hin                           Çp:33
- 200 -   ANNUAL AVERAGE RAINFALL IN m|
MAIIN ROADS
-.--o------  RAIIWAYS
J     INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
PORrS
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
t        -        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES          4
ATLANrITc OTEAN
f     210    4]0    610    B0     1010 KL T
9  X                           ~~~~~~KILOMETERS                                                Z    
i                                           ~~~ ~~,                                                        * , 



