Z-Al _è&O5   ' c6 7
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No, 11107-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 20, 1992
IjNTERAL DOUMETS UNIT
- 814151 X341
Infrastructure Operations Division         Privatization & Project Planning
Country Department II                      Cofinancing and Financial
Middle East and North Africa Region        Advisory Services
Tbi document has a resticted disribution and may be usd by recpients ondy in de pedonnance of
thei officiad duties Its contents may not odtewise be disosed witbout Wodd Bank authodzabon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Ai of July 1, 1992)
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound (LE) = 100 Piasters = 1000 Miliemes
LE 1.0 = US$0.3
US$1.0 = LE 3.33
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km (kilometer)                 0.62 miles
m3 (cubic meter)         =     35.31 cubic feet
I/s (liters per second)  =     22,800 US gallons per day
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AC         -  Affiliated Company
ASD        -  Abu Soma Development Company
CZM        -  Coastal Zone Management
EEAA       -  Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency
EGOTH    -  Egypitan General Organization for Tourism and Hotels
EIA        -  Environmental Impact Assessment
ERSAP    -  Economic Reform and Structural Adjustment Program
GDP        -  Gross Domestic Product
GEF        -  Global Environmental Facility
COAC       -  Central Organization for Auditing and Control
GNP        -  Gross National Product
GOE        -  Government of Egypt
GOP        -  Gross Ooerating Profit
HC         -  Holding Company
IBRD       -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA        -  International Development Association
IFC        -  International Fmiance Corporation
IMF        -  International Monetary Fund
LCB        -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOT        -  Ministry of Tourism
OECD       -  Organi-.tion for Economic Cooperation and Development
SHBD       -  Sahl Hasheesh Bay Development Company
SOE        -  Statement of Expenditure
TDA        -  Tourism Development Authority
TSHC       -  Tourism Sector Holding Company
UNDP       -  United Nations Development Program
USAID      -  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL-YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCiAL USE OnLY
EGYPT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY             .      ........................i
L      I THE ECONOMY% ....                   ........................1
II.    THE TOURISM SECITOR              .........................1
A.   Tourism in the Economy             .       ...............1
B.  The Tourisln Market ........                       ..        .       3
C.    Institutional Setting .............4
D.   Constraints in the Sectur .............                             5
E. Torisn Strtegy ..............9
F.    Past Involvement of the Bank Group       .     .     ..................... 10
0.    Rationale For Bank Involvetnent               ...      .     .       10
IIm THE PROJECT ..........1 1
A. Project Objectives                         . . . 1 11
B.    Project Description ....................... ....
C. Detailed Featues                           .. .    12
D.  Project Cost and Financing Plan                 . . .    18
E.    Procureent and Disbursenint .................... 22
F.    Project Supervision and Monitoring .................... 25
IV.   THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY ........................                         26
A.   Organization and Management ........................ 26
B.    Staffing ........................  ..26
C     Financial Position of TDA          .       .      .     ..................... 27
D.    Accounting and Auditing             .      .       .    ..................... 28
This report w s prepared by Ms. Minh Chau Nguyen and Mr. Arun Banerjee (Task
Managers), Mr. Albert Pelteldan (Sr. Municipal Engineer), Ms. Abha Joshi-Ghani, Mr.
Ranzi Al-Bader (Fmancial Officers), Ms. Meriwether Wilson and Mr. Jonathan Wager
(Environment Specialists). Secrtaial assistance was provided by Mrs. rInin Mahase. The
report has been reviewed by Messrs. Michel Pomnier (CODOP), Enile Sawaya (MN2IE),
and Dhananjaya Kumar (EMTIE).
This document ha a restictd distibution ad may be used by tocipients only in the perormance
Iof their offlciad duties Is contents may not othewine be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.   PROJECT JIJSTIFICATION ............................  8
A.  Project Benefits                                 ...........8
B.    Financial and Economic Analysis             ..........           29
C.    Project Risks........                                            36
D.   Environnental In        p a c t              .............................. 3 6
VI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..37
Annexes
Annex 1 "  Ministerial Jurisdiction Over Tourism
Annex 2 - Terms of Reference for Land Allocadon Study
Annex 3 - Terms of Reference for Traffic Control, Navigadon, and Safety Systenm
Annex 4 - Abu Soma Development Company
Annex 5 - Sahl Hasheesh Development Company
Annex 6 - Infastructre Development in the Red Sea Coast and for Nile Cruises
Annex 7 - Project Inplementation Schedule and Monitoring Plan
Annex 8 - Project Disbursement Schedule
Annex 9 - Project Supervision Forecast
Annex 10 - Tourism Development Authority: Organization and Function
Annex 11 - Economic Analysis of Red Sea Infrastuctre and Nile Cruise
Annex 12  Sununary of Environmental Assessment
MIN
IBRD No. 24046
IBRD No. 24047
Approving Regional Vice President :   Mr. Caio Koch-Weser
Approving Director                    Mr. Ram K. Chopra
Approving Division Chief        :     Mr. Alastair J. McKechnie



EGYPr
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Tourism Development Authority (IDA)
Guarantor            Arab Republic of Egypt
BendiciazkI TDA, Private Sector, Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency
(EEAA), Red Sea Govenoat
LoanAmouK.           US$130 million equivalent
Tenns:~              20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's stdard
variable interest rae
O 1lnding I: lm The Loan would be made to TDA at the Bank's standard variable
interest mte. TDA would onlend the prceeds to eligible private sector
sub-projects for 15 years, including S years of grace at the Bank's
stdard variable rate plus a margin of 200 basis points, and an
additional 100 basis points for a suboinated loan.
.DPM Degtdon;   IThe Project would consist of. (a) implementaton of measures to
improve the policy envionment in the tourism sectr; (b) financial
support for. (i) fte development of infrtct  for two integated
area development sub-projects in the gmenfild sites on the Red Sea
coast (Ras Abu Soma and Sahl Hlsheesh) sponsord by two private
companies; (ii) the provision of viamer supply, sewenge, solid waste
collection and disposal facilites for ex :ting touist sorts on the Red
Sea Coast (South Hurghada to Safaga area) by the private sectr, (ffl)
th construcdon of additional berthing faciities for Nile cruises at two
major and four minor sites by the private sector, and (iv) imprvemen
-of tic and navigation facilites and access to touist sites in the Nile
valley by the public sector, (c) development of a coastal zone
envmental management plan and inidating the implementaton of
the plan for the Red Sea coast, under the auspices of the Global
Environmental Facility (GEF); and (d) provision of technical
assistance to TDA and training for TDA, EEAA, and local govenorate
staff.
kn@flza:             The Project would support the Goverment of Egypt (GOE) in the
formulation and implemenion of a strategy and policy framework
for the development of one of the most important sectors in the
Egypdan econmy. The Project would also assist in the development
and sM ngthening of an instituidonal framework which would ensure
that all further developments in the sector take place in an
environmentally sound manner. Additional benefits would be: (a)
M&  doum" has a iuited dbutio and may be used by rcipt nly in the pXifamc of o e
dWd due   s coswmay        to; m o&aw_



-ii-*
improved opportumities for private sector investments in the tourism
industry, (b) higher foreign exchange earnings for the country; (c)
increased employment both in the tourism industry itself, as well as in
industries which serve tourism; and (d) aresting the environmental
degradation taldng place In some of the adjoining tourism areas. lhe
Project would have a demonstradon effect in mobilizing the private
sector for financing, building and opeating infrastructure which has
raditionally been underaken by the Govemment. If successful, the
*eperience would be valuable for GOE in promodng private sector
partcipaton in public services in other sectors. The Project would
also make a significant contribution to the global achievements in
protecting coral reefs, endemic island wild life and diverse marine
environments dough the GEF component. Once fully developed by
about year 2002, the Project would generate incremental foreign
exchange receipts of about US$380 million per year in constant tenns
and provide direct employment to about 12,000 people, and idirect
employment to about 20,000 pople.
Ricsh:              The implementation of the Project will be complex, with a need to
coordinate the actions of many parties: ministries, agencies,
goveromes, commercial banks, private investors, and contctors.
Given the dispersd nature of the work, there ae some risks of delays
i implementaIon. The areas to be developed under the Project e
evironmentally sensitive and must therefoe be proected against any
possibies of environmental degrdaton The strengening of TMA
being undertaken under the Project would ensure an integrated
approach to the development of the toursm sector as a whole and
would pardcularly focus on achieving coordinin among the %arious
pardes involved in the Project Steps ae being taken to ensure that
TDA is staffed with suitably qualified professionals in critical areas
and arrangements have been made so that the Projeci, at least in the
intial stages, would be closely supevised by the Banlk  The private
sector would be implementing major parts of the Project and since it is
within their interest to complete construction on time, this should
minimize delays in project implementation. The environment
component of the Project has been deigned specifically to mitgate the
environmental risks inherent in lage tourism developments in coastal



Proiect Cgst:
Local   oeign      Total   Lwal   Eoreign      Tal
(LE Milion)                 (USS Million)
Area Development in Greenfiek Sites
Ras Abu Soma                               654.30     408.52 1,062.82   196.49    122.68   319.17
Sahl Hasheesh                              401.47     201.27   602.74   120.56     60.44   181.00
Working Capital                             2658       26.61    53.19    7.98       7.99    15.97
Sub-total                             1,08235     636.40 1,718.75   325.03    191.11   516.14
nfastructure Development in Existing Touism Areas 
Nile Cmuises                                61.90      28.90    90.80    18.59      8.68    27.27
Red Sea                                     21.53      42.96    64.49    6A7       12.90    1937
Sub-total                               83.43      71.86   153.29    25.05     21.58    46.63
ESuionmental Management                          3.26      15.82    19.08    0.98       4 75     5.73
Technical Assistance                             5.04      11.70    16.75    1.52       3.52     5.03
Total Bse Cost                            1,174.08    735.78  1,909.86   352.58   220.95   573.53
Physical Contingencies                          79.18      6539   144.58    23.78      19.64    43.42
Price Contingencies                            329.15     124.99   454.14    98.84     37.53   13638
TOTAL PROJECT COST                            1,582.42    926.16 2,50858   475.20     278.13   75333
IDC on Bank Loan                                1031       4933    59.64     3.10      14.81    17.91
IDC on O0t  Loans                               81.77      3036   112.13    24.56       9.12    33.67
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                      1,674.50   1,005.85 2,680.34   50285    302.06   804.91
FmaCing Plaxl
Lf ai  sEmMgal
flJ$ milluion
IBRD                           22        108           130
Private Sector Equity         229        101           330
Commercial Banks              212       . 88           300
Gomait                         40        -              40
GEP                            -          5              5
TarAL                 503        302           805
Pisbmenxlnt
EY3   E9    EX9    EX            EX2Z   E98  EY2   FY200
Anmu  (US$ M)             0.9    11.0    18.2   23.2    32.6   22.7   16.2          5.2
Cumuladtve (US$ M)        0.9    11.9    30.1   53.3    859   108.6  124.8   130.0
Cumuladw (%)              0.7     9.0    23.1   41.0    66.0   83A    96.0   100.0
EgimaBk Econoinc Rates o£fRebI   11% to 27%



EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM IFRSTRUCTVRE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. rHE ECONOMY
1.01        Egypt has nearly 55 million inhabitants with an average per capita GNP estimated at
US$620 for 1990/91. Over the last four decades and untl very recently, Egypt has pursued a public-
sector-led and inward looldng development stategy. The economy has been affected by resource
misallocation, stemming from a legacy of central planning, excessive state intervention, and
ineffective public management of productive assets. The incentive system was distorted, reflecting a
multitude of price, foreign exchange and trade controls. The public sector representing 60% of total
investnents, 80% of manufactred exports, and 40% of GDP has weak financial performance,
deteiorating factor productivity, and low efficiency in investment. Inadequate policy adjustments for
dealing with these structural problems resulted in substantial macroecononic imbalances. Between
mid-1970's and up till late 1980's the Govemment of Egypt's (GOE) overall budgetary deficit was
over 20% of GDP annually. Egypt increasingly relied on external borrowings to meet its budgetary
deficits. As a result, Egypt experienced an unmanageable external debt burden exceeding 150% of
GDP and high domestic inflation. Realizing the need for fundamental changes in economic policies,
GOE has adopted an econonic refonr and structal adjustnent program (ERSAP) in March 1990
with the objective of achieving sustainable economic growth and inprovement of the country's living
standards.
1.02        ERSAP focuses on ftfree areas: (a) stabilization to restore macroeconomic balance and
reduce inflation; (b) structural adjustment to stimulate medium and long term growth; and (c)
modification of current socil policies to ninimize the effect of economic reforms on the poor. These
measures were supported by an DIP Standby, an IBRD Strucural Adjustment Loan, exceptional
debt relief granted by the Paris Club, and a Social Fund for De 'lopment Project financed by IDA
and other donors. The stabilization and adjustment program provides an economic framework for
restoring economic equilibrium and reorienting the economy to a maket based system.
1.03        Egypt's econoniic performance in FY91 and in the first half of FY92 has been better
thar was anticipated a year ago. Prmnary estmates indicate that the real GDP increased by about
2% in FY91, compared with a projected decline of 1.5%. The inflation rate which rose from 16% in
FY89 to over 20% in FY90, remained in the range of 15% in FY91. Although the inflation rate is
esmated at 21% for FY92, ihe pace of price increase has decelerated sharply in second half of FY92
(under 10 % in the 12 months tirough June 92). Also, the balance of payment has been significantly
stronger an wae projected a year ago. The current account balance (including transfers) is estimated
to have shifted from a deficit of US$2.6 billion in FY90, to a surplus of US$2.4 billion in FY91, and
an estmated surplus of US$2.6 billion in FY92. This has been achieved mainly because of the debt
service relief that was grnted to Egypt by the Paris Club, increases in foreign exchange revenues
from touism, workers' renittances, Suez Canal dues, and petroleum exports, together with lower
imports.
IL THE TOURISM SECTOR
A. Tourism in tLe Economy
2.01        Egypt has considerable potential for developing its tourism sector. It is endowed with
historical monuments and landmaks covering several millennia which brings together in a relatvely
small area histocal monuments of the p-Chisan, Christian, and Islainc civilizatons. In addition,



-2-
Egypt enjoys a coastline of about 2,700 km, on both the Mediteraean and the Red Sea, most of
which remains underexploited. These are further enhanced by mild weather for at least 8 months of
the year.
2.02        During the 1950s and early 1960s the tourism sector received substantial attention.
However, this support softened as the development emphasis shifted to the industrial sector. The
deterioration in the tourism industry was further aggravated by the war of 1967 and continued
hostilites for about 10 years until the Peace Agreement During this period, the influx of tourists to
Egypt declined substantially. The quality of services reached the lowest level as the infrastructure for
transpor, accomnodation and services for touists deteriorated. The change in the national econonic
philosophy coupled with the signing of the Peace Agreement in the mid-seventies, brought with it
increased emphasis on tourism, In addition, the Ministry of Tourism adopted in the mid-eighties an
aggressive policy which aimed to liberalize the tourism sector and encourage a greater role for the
private sector in tourism development As a result, the number of hotels increased, facilities for
servicing the tourism sector improved and the number of arrivals rose substantially relative to
previous decades. This was further assisted by a liberalized civil aviation policy and efforts towards
diversification of Egyptian tourism from a culural destination to a combined leisure and cultural
ataton.
2.03        Between 1985 and 1989, tourism in Egypt, as measured by the number of
international arrivals, grew on average by about 13.6% per annun, much higher than world tourism
which grew at an average annual rate of about 5.9% during the same period.t Prom being the
smallest contributor to foreign exchange  nings of about US$300 milion in 1986, tourinsm receipts
reached US$0.9 billion in 1990/91, placing the industry in second place after workers' remittances,
but ahead of Suez Canal revenues and revenues from oil exports. In addition, Egypt has considerably
more domestic control over the generaton of foreign exchange through tourism which has shown a
greater responsiveness to favorable domestic policies compared to other sources of foreign exchange.
As an illus on, the 37% exchange rate depreciation in May 1987 coincided with a 28% increase in
tourist arivals, a 34% increase in nights spent in Egypt and a 133% increase in recorded tourist
receipts in 1987/1988 over the previous year. In 1991/92, tourism recepts reached US$1.8 billion.
2.04        Apart from being an important foreign exchange eamer, tourism development also has
a substandal impact on employment in other sectors such as transport, food industry, textiles, cottage
industry and the small scale informal sectors in manufacturing and services which are particularly
labor-intensive. This is especially relevant with the current problem of growing unemployment and
the need to redeploy redundant labor frm govement and public owned enteprises. Direct and
indirect employment in the tourism sector is estmated at 250,000. This is based on estimates of
60,000 employed in the hotel sector, 15,000 in travel agencies, 10,000 in restaurants, 20,000 in
tourism-related retail trade and some 500 tour guides, the remaining 145,000 or so being indirect
employment About 17% of the work force in tourism are women, which is higher than the national
average of 12%.
2.05        The inportance of the tourism sector becomes even more evident over the coming
years due to uncertainties in other major sources such as workers' remittances, oil exports and Suez
Canal fees, which are all likely to expand at slower rates. Although tounsm still contributes less than
2% of GDP, it has been the fastest growing sector in the economy since 1987. The opporunities for
increasing its contribution to the economy are excellent given the country's unique but under-
exloited tourist po"dal.
ntnainl Toudsm Report, No., 1991, Ecnomit Intigen  Unk



-3-
B. The Tourism Market
2.06         Tourism to Egypt originates from two distinct markets: Arab and foreign. The Arab
market consists of visitors from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Libya and Sudan who accounted for about
32% of Egypt's tourism market in 1990. The foreign market is dominated by visitors from Europe,
mosdy from Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Italy. These accounted for about 43% of
Egypt's tourists in 1990. Only in three long haul markets has Egypt built up a significant market
share: the USA, Japan and Australia. Tourism arrivals are evenly spaced between the summer
months (April - September) and winter (October - March). Growth in tourist anrivals and in touxist
nights in the past few years is sunmmized by main region of origin in Table 1. However, the overall
average increase in arrivals of 44.9% between 1987 and 1990 masks regional variations. The Arab
countries of the Middle East grew most rapidly as a source, with Europe ard the Americas just below
average.
Table: I
Trends in F.Vnt Tnunim bv OQi
1987-90('0G,)
change
19V    1988   1989   1990  1987-90
A.
From:
- Mdiddle East       477.6  469.0  731A   829.4    73.8
- Africa             1923   204.8  238.5  326.6    69.8
- Americas           149.0  164.1  200.5  179.1    20.2
- Europe             863.0  1011.7  1188.8  11232   30.1
- Asia-Pacific       112.1  119.2  143.4  141.0    25.8
..    - (0her          0.3    0.7    0.8    0.8   166.7
Total aJ               1794.9  1969.5  25034  2600.1    44.9
From:
- Mfiddle East        S.42    5.58   7.72    725    33.7
- Afica               2.40    2.19   2.05    2.51    4.
, ..*      - Americas            0.95    1.05   1.27    1.18    242
- Eurqpe              6.23    8.04   8.52   7.90    26.8
- Asia-Pacific  X     0.86    1.00   1.01    1.10    27.9
- Other               0.01    0.01   0.01    0.01      -
Total/A                 15.86   17.86  20.58   19.94    25.7
/A Totas may not add up due to rounding
Source: oisxy Of Tourism
2.07         The majority of tourists are on leisure trips rather than business, and an estimated 90%
are attacted to the country by the historical atractions of the Nile valley. In general, most visitors
take one of a variety of trips along the Nile Valley between Cairo, Luxor, Aswan and Abu SimbeL
The traditional "cultural" visits, however, do not bring about repeat touinsm. Recent government
policy has been oriented towards trying to spread tourism more evenly throughout the country rather
than continuing to concentae heavily on the trditional historic sites of the Nile valley. Implicit in the
policy is diversification by providing new toursm products, which would allow Egypt to appeal to a
much wider overseas market than has been possible in the past. The coastines along the Red Sea and
the Gulf of Aqaba are being increasingly promoted for leisure tourism. In recent years there has been
a rapid expansion in hotels and tourism facili8es along the Red Sea coast near the South of Hurghada
and along the coast of the Gulf of Aqaba. This has begun to atract a number of visitors for sea coast
tourism as wel as those whose main pursuit is diving. This is a relatively specalized, though



-4-
potentially lucrative market, and rapid rates of growth have been achieved due to the low base from
which it began. Although the competition in the market is strong from comparable Mediterranean
destinations such as Morocco, Tunisia, Greece and Turkey, Egypt has an advantage over these
destinations in terms of a longer season lasting for eight to nine months of the year. Another
specialzed segment of the tourism maket which has recendy acquired prominence in Cairo is that
associated with conference and incentive travel. There are a number of possible venues in Cairo
which can accommodate large conferences. Statistics sugjest that there may be some 30,000 visitors
per annum in this segment of the market.
2.Ob        Undl the Gulf crisis intervernd, tourism in Egypt was enjoying a period of exceptional
expansion. This was due partly to the li ion policy and partly to the strong economic growth
during the 1980s. in the OECD origin countries. As a result of the Gulf Crisis, growth has slowed
down and tourism arrivals in 1990 were close to the 1989 levels of 2.5 million arrivals and about 20
million nights. Like other tourism destinations, Egypt is vulnerable to political instability in the
region. However, Egypt's tourism sector has shown unusual resilience. Signs of recovery after the
Gulf crisis are apparent, with tourist arrivals during the 1991 summer season surpassing the 1989
level by about 25%.
2.09        International tourism is projected to grow at a rate of 5% per annum in the 1990s
compared to about 6% during the latter half of the 80s, and to become the largest single item in world
trade by the end of the century. This lower rate of growth is due to the projected slowing of economic
growth in OECD countries. It is therefore expected that tounsm growth in Egypt would slow down
reflectng world market trends. Assuming that Egypt wil only maintain its share of world tounsm at
0.6%, tourist arrivals would increase from 2.6 nmllion in 1990 to over 4.2 million by the year 2000.
This translates into a need for approely 40,000 additional hotel rooms by the end of this decade.
If the development of coastal resorts to accomnmodate leisure tourism is successful, it is possible that
Egypt could capture a larger share of the world toursm market provided Egypt maintains a stable
political and economic environment, and major constraints to the development of the sector are
adequately addressed.
C.  Institonal Setting
2.10        The Ministry of Tourism (MOT) is the main authority dealing with tourism in Egypt.
Like most other government orgamzations, MOT suffers from over staffing, low staff motivation,
and inadequate technical capability. In cognizance of these deficiencies, MOT is being streamlined to
improve efficiency and strengthen its technical expertise in support of a private-sector-led tounsm
development statewgy, to be competitve with neighboring counties, and to protect the unique cultural
and natual resources in Egypt from ervironmental degrdation. The first step has been the creation
of the Tourism Development Unit (IDU) in MOT by a ministerial decree in 1989. TDU has been
tansformed into the Tourism Development Authority (IDA) by a presidential decree in September
1991, to become an autonomous agency with the required jurisdictional authority over tourism
development are. TDA draws on pnvate sector expertse to carty out national tourism development
plans, and to guide and promote increased private sector investments in the sector. These changes are
expected to provide the sector with a stronger institutional framework for coherent, private sector
oriented and environmentally sound tourism development.
2.11        MOT also oversees the following public sector organizations: (a) Egyptian General
Authority for Promotion of Tourism responsible for promoting tourism in both interational and
domestic markets; (b) Public Authority for Conference Centers for management of conference
centers under MOVs jurisdiction; and (c) Tourism Development Authority. Under Law 203, the
Public Tourism Authority, which was under the supervision of MOT in the past, became a holding
company in May 1992 for the sector and consists of the following affiliated companies: (i) Egyptian



.5-
General Organization for Tourism and Hotels (EGOTH) (ii) Misr Travel Company (iii) Egyptian
Hotels Company (iv) Misr Hotels (v) Grand Hotels of Egypt. These affiliated companies are
expected to be gradually restructured and privatized under the Govemment's privatization policy.
D. Constraints in the Sector
Long-Tern Planning
2.12         The planning capabilities of MOT are inadequate in terms of providing the integrated
plans needed for the development of the sector. The tourism sector, despite its contribution to the
economy, lacks the database needed for indicative planning and investment by private and public
sectors. Data on tourist arrivals, length of stay, types of tourist are incomplete and inaccurate.
Expenditures by tourist class and activity are virtually non-existent. Investment expenditure by
project and the source of financing for each item are unavailable, as are employment statistics.
Planning for the sector is based on global figures and the interface at the planning stage between the
physical and financial aspects is particularly weak. Overall plans for investments are drawn without
adequate attention to the impact of the planned outlays on the national budget. Inflation rates are
underestimated, which results in significant differences between planned and actual investments. In
view of the emphasis and the increased reliaice on private investments, the sector planning
responsibility has been vested in TDA which would be reinforced under the proposed Project to: (a)
provide reLiable information on the sector particularly for investment planning; (b) strengthen land use
and environmental planning functions; and (c) ensure that public and private sector investments are
conplementary.
XndMaate EraMLd fj P=rnjtigCompettio
2.13          ricing Policies. MOT is required by law to rate all tourist establishments in
accordance with the level of service, and to approve the prices for services. In determining the prices
of services, MOT confers with the Chambers of Hotel and Tour Agents in order to set the prices for
the year, based on suggestions presented by owners and managers.2 In the past, the triff level and
suucture for hotels were detemined by taking into account the cost structure and revenue requirement
of each category of hotels. These tariffs tended to be set at levels that were pegged to the lowest
performers which promoted inefficiency within the sector antd acted as a disincentive for the
imrovement of productivity and better management In April 1992, the Minister of Tourism issued
a decree to remove the ceiling on prices of each grade of hoteis. However, the minimum price level
was still maintained in order to protect lower category hotels from price wars durmg the lean seasons.
Hotels are allowed to set prices for food, beverages and services. However, they sdll have to seek
approval from MOT. While the Government's intention is to protect consumers and owners of two
and three star hotels, MOT"s intervention may create barriers to entry to the sector, and subjects the
pnvate sector to cumbersome procedures that affect the improvement of productivity and efficiency.
2.14         The prices paid in the tourism sector for some inputs, e.g., electricity, sewerage and,
water supply, etc., are not based on the real cost of the resources to the economy. Different hotels
incorporated under the various laws pay different prices. Law 230 hotels pay economic prices for
2 Hotel rooms are priced in US Dollars for three, four and five star hotels and in Egyptian pounds for one and
two sas. Hotels are allowed to give discounts to groups and travel agents. These discounts are not allowed
to exceed 50% of the "rack rae" approved by MOT. Egyptian nationals and residents are given a mandatory
discount of 40%, to encourage domestic tourism. Food and beverage pricing is based on actual cost of
ingredients plus a profit margin that varies according to the rating of the establishment. Pticing of ground
ifInsportation is also presented for approval to MOT. Buses are graded by category and rates are set for each
category.



-6-
electricity and water, and others pay, subsidized prices. Costs for municipal services, site
improvement, are all borne by the public sector through the municipalities or the various ministries
without proviswn for recovering these costs from the hotels and their patrons. The adjustment of
factor prices to reflect their market determined prices coupled with the deregulation of the tariffs for
the services provided by the hotels, would provide the most reliable measures for determining the
viability 3f each of the hotels and signal the need for restructuring should the financial performance of
the hotels be deemed unsatisfactory. The input pricing distortion is being addressed under the SAL
and output pricing would be covered under the proposed Project (para. 3.04).
2.15        MuftliciU gaf Laws. Competition in the Wconomy as a whole has been hindered by
the multiplicity of laws governing the activities to be undertaken through joint venture, foreign
investnent, etc. i.e., Investment Law 230, Company Law 159, Public Sector and Business Enterprise
Law 203, and Tourism Law 1. These provide different treatment to entrprises within the sector in
terms of access to foreign exchange, level and distribution of profits, factor prices, subsidies, taxation,
repatration of profits, etc. The multiplicity of laws and differentiated treatnents have not only caused
confusion to investors but in most cases result in unfair competition with negative effects on the
oveall investment environment. GOE is now taking steps in harmonizing these differences by the
preparation of an uniform law that would be applied to all public and private enterprises.
2.16        Distorted Taxation System. Tax exemption for interest earned on deposits have
exacrbated the problems related to investments and in the development of other financal instruments
which could effectively mobilize the substantial level of savings in the country. Incomes from
deposits are tax exempt, while others are subject to corporate and dividend taxes. As such, it has been
difficult for entrepreneurs to mobilize equity. Expansion of an existing tourist facility, e.g., a hotel,
would be eligible for a tax holiday only if it is an investment law company (Law. 230). For
companies established under other laws, tax holiday is not allowed. Differential treatment of tax
holiday regarding expansion of existing facilities would have an important inmplication on the selling
price of public tounst facilities. The taxation issue is being addressed under the SAL.
2.17        E=Qanwt Poliav. For the tourism sector, staffing flexibility is needed to respond to
seasonal shifts in demand and to the volatile nature of the business. However, there is no clear labor
policy, and thus the disiissal of workers is an extremely time consuming and difficult process. If
the tourism sector is to be developed and managed efficiently, a flexible employment policy is
required, combined with an adequate compensation framework to maintain social stability. The
reform of labor laws would need to be addressed under a larger context than the proposed Project,
and is pursued under the policy dialogue between GOE and the Bank.
2.18        Responsibility for tourism development is shared among several ministries (Annex
1). The task of achieving coordination and cooperation is extremely complex and time consuming.
This has been one of the major obstacles to private investments in tourism in Egypt. MOT was
established in 1965 with limited responsibilities and resources. In 1981, it was expanded under
Presidential Decree No. 712 with an extended mandate that went well beyond the operational aspects
of licensing and travel promotion. More recently, MOT was authorized by the Council of Ministers
through a Prinme Ministedal Decree (933/1988) to plan the development and coordinate the provision
of infas    and facilities for all areas designated as tourism zones. These zones are desert areas,
piedominantly situated outside the limits of populated cities in the Nile Valley, Red Sea and the South
Sinai Govemorates. However, in spite of the changes in the mandate of MOT, several ministries and
subordinated entities are also involved in activities which affect tourism development direcdy or
indirectly. In cognizance of this problem, in March 1991, Law 7 was enacted to grant the



.7-
jurisdictional authority over the designated tourism zones to a national tourism authority. However,
coordination with a large number of ministries and agencies on the needs of the tourism sector
continues to be a time consuming and difficult taskL
Lgaftquate J&eguator Fmamework
2.19        Rgulatory Standards and Eafg    . MOTs emphasis on touTism development
in Egypt has been to maxinize the number of tourist anrivals and foreign exchange earnings. Since
1986, GOE's policy has been to spread tourism more evenly throughout the country rather than
concentrate solely on the traditional historic sites of the Nile valley. However, this strategy has not
been supported by an institutional framework that would rationalize investments according to sound
technical, economic and environmental standards. There is a lack of proper development,
environment, safety and public health standards. Ineffective monitoring and enforcement of existing
regulatory standards has also rendered an alrcady weak regulatory framework even more fragile. The
absence of a clear mandate and overlapping authority between many ministries and organizations is
one of the main reasons for the ineffectiveness of existing regulations. This is exacerbated by the
scarcity ot expertise and adequate motivation to monitor and enforce these regulations. Thus, private
proposals prior to mid-1980s have been negotiated and approved in an ad hoc manner without due
regard to the adequacy of infrastructure support and environmental protection. This lack of a proper
regulatory framework has resulted in uncontrolled development on the Red Sea coast, land
speculation, crowded and unsafe cruise operations on the Nile, and even some spoilage of the coast
line. The institutional reinforcement for monitoring and enforcing development, environment, and
safety standards would be addressed under the proposed Project.
2.20        Land Allocation andl QrLIW. Clarity in land allocation and owntrship is essential
for real estate development. MOT has attempted to develop policies and guidelines in promoting
private investments on land in the remote areas. However, these are inadequate and inconsistently
applied. For example, land is allocated to private developers for a nominal price with the condition
that the area would be developed according to a master plan acceptable to MOT. If development does
not take place within five years, the allocated land would be reclaimed by MOT. The actual transfer
of title does not take place until the developed land is sold to investors for the construction of
supeucture. At tk. At time, MOT would have a claim to 50% of thfe sale proceeds after deducting
the cost of providing inucture. This practice has been contested by private investors as they take
all the risks for development but have to share 50% of the retumrns. Furthermore, there may be a
tendency by the private sector to overprice the cost of development to reduce the share of capital gains
to MOT. This policy may also induce private developers to use the land as equity in superstructure
development, and thus limit market mobility and deprive MOT a source of income. Finally, the
uncertainty and prolonged process in getting the tile to the land impedes private sector access to
maricet financing. MOT would need to strike a balance between tedious and cumbersome procedures
which may result in locling away tracts of land that could be gaifully and imaginatively develop:d
by the private sector and those which may lead to land speculation and accusations of giving away
public land. This issue would be addressed under the proposed Project
DCtdorating           re
2.21        The past enphasis on meeting basic needs through subsidized services and the inward
looking development sategy based on industry has resulted in deteriorating infastructure in Egypt.
Nile cruises are one of the major tourist aations as well as a means of tansport Over the 1980s,
cruise travel grew at an average rate of 13.3% per annum. The number of cruise ships in service
grew from 47 in 1982 to 119 in 1989. The growth has been faster since 1989, which led MOT to
impose a temporary freeze on ganting new permits to build and operate cruise ships through a



-8-
regulatory restriction linking the granting of permits to availability of berthing facilities. In spite of
this, over 180 cruise ships are operating in 1992. It is projected that by the year 2000 there would be
about 276 ships on the Nile. However, rapid and uncontrolled growth of the cruise travel in the
Upper Nile has brought with it several problems which could become substantially more serious over
the coming years. The infrastructure supporting the Nile cruises is poorly maintained, and berthing
facilities are inadequate and insufficient. At present there is a very basic and outdated system of
navigational and traffic control in place which is not only overburdened due to increased traffic but is
also hazardous given the number of vessels on the waterways. Finally, one of the most serious
dangers posed by uncontrolled and unregulated traffic on the Nile is the danger of environmental
pollution from sewage and other discharges from the vessels. Regulations exist to protect the Nile
from various sources of pollution especially concerning treatment of waste water but they are poorly
enforced. The Nile cruise infructure would be upgraded under the proposed Project.
2.22        Development of tourism in remote zones was sarted in Hurghada, which is situated
by the Red Sea. Although the first major property was the government owned four star Sheraton
Hotel, later developmtents comprised low capital "holiday villages' by the private sector, erected on
land provided by the Government at nominal costs. However, land use planning has been inadequate,
and developments have been too close to each other and to the sea. In addition, the scale of
development has been excessive in relation to the carrying capacity of existing infrastructure. These
developments are now in need of new water and sewage disposal facilities. MOTtIDA plans to
further develop the Red Sea area to attract leisure touism  As this is a greenfield area where potential
tourist arrivals are uncertain, there is a need for proper planning of basic infrastructure to attract
private investments and at the same time to scale the development in accordance with market demand.
The improvement of infastuctr in the existing tourist area and the development of new facilities in
remote zones would be addressed under the proposed Project.
Limited Access to Long Term Financing
2.23        GOE is currently undertaking measures to improve resource mobilization and
allocation and to increase pivate sector access to financing at a reasonable cost. Notwithstanding the
reforms, the business comniumty in Egypt still has limited access to long-term financing, particularly
from the international capital and credit markets. As Egypt is undergoing debt rescheduling, lending
with guarantees by export credit agencies is scarce. Limited recourse financing is virtually non-
existent in spite of the guarantees provided by the Govenmment under law 230 against expropriation
and the right to repatiate profits. The recent macroeconomic reforms are expected to help restore the
international comnmecial lenders' confidence in Egypt and thus improve access to long-term loans.
However, this will happen only in the long term  The avalability of financing in the domestic market
is linited by the credit ceiHings imposed on the banking system since February 1991, high interest
rates (at present about 22% to 28%), and substantial Government borrowing.
2.24,  Most lending to private tourism projects has catered to small and medium sized
superstructure projects such as tourist villages, low to medium grade hotels on the west coast of the
Red Sea and the historic tourist sites of Luxor and Aswan, and to cruise ships on the Nile.
Commercial lending for infuctre on a large scale is nonexistent. There have been only about ten
long-term loans for tounsm projects in the lending prtfolio of the banking system during the last five
years. The maximum tenor is seven years including two years of grace which is inadequate for
development projects having a gestation period of at least three to four years under Egyptian
conditions before becoming fully operationaL As a result, private investors have had to reschedule
loans, resting in high costs and delayed and lower returns. Instutional lending outside the banking
system is nonexistent as most of them prefer safer investments such as term deposits and treasury
bills. Under the present circumstances, investors have to rely more on mobilizing equity or scale



-9-
down investments in the face cf non-availability of financing. Domestic venture capital exists, but in
a very limited capacity. The limited access to long-term financing is a real impediment at a time when
tourism is gaining importance in the Egyptian economy as a sector with high economic potential.
E. Tourism Strategy
2.25        GOE's tourism strategy is aimed at: (a) changing the role of the public sector from that
of owner/operator to planner/regulator and protnoter/faciliuttor, (b) deregulating the industry to allow
the private sector to operate feely in a competitive environment; (c) protecting and conserving the
unique cultural and natural resources in the tourism areas; and (d) promoting a larger role for the
private sector in the design, finance, implementation, ownership and operation of tourism facilities.
These policies are expected to substantially increase the role of the private sector in the development
of new facilites and operation of existing public sector facilities acquired through privatizAtion and
divestiture, or leasing arrangements. Private sector investnents, however, have tended to concentrate
in the narrow corridor of the Nile Valley and Cairo where infrastructure is already developed and
where tourism demand has been growing substantially. Atuctive, but remote, sites suitable for
leisure tourism have to be developed with the residual resources, resulting in unattrawve facilites and
inadequate infrastructure. Tourist facilities along the Red Sea coast have evolved in response to
demands in the absence of long term land use plans. Today, Hurghada, the site seen a few years ago
as the first to be developed for tourists and vacationers, stands as a monument to unguided
development, inadequate infrastructure and virtually non-existent environmental management.
2.26        GOEs approach to stemming this undesirable approach to the development of the Red
Sea coastal areas was to give responsibility to TDA for planning, developing and monitoring tourism
development in the remaining coastal areas and some of the areas in the Nile Valley (para 2.10).
TDA initiated the preparation of extensive land use plans with the assistance of international and local
consulting firms and to promote private sector investnents in accordance with these plans. Initially,
TDA intended to assume responsibility for infrastructure and let the private sector develop the
superstructure. This approach implied that TDA would secure loans and credits and use its own
resources to develop infrastrucure on a large scale with the hope dw this development would allow
the private sector to mobilize the funds needed for supersre. The public sector would bear all
risks associated witi the development of inrastructure. Experience elsewhere has shown that
provision of publicly financed infrsru     without parallel development of superstructure often
results in over investment and underd infrstructure and encourages land speculation.
2.27        A different approach is needed if GO3Es tourism strategy is to succeed. There is a
need for an integated development of infrastructure and superstructure in an environmentally sound
manner and for private sector investments to be based on the principles of project finance under
limited recourse where lenders and investors assume well specified risks and rely on the project's
ability to generate revenues needed for securing the debt and providing the returns. Under this
concept, the private sector would assume aU the commercial risks (i.e., market, viability, design,
finance, constuction and operation). This approach has the advantage of subjecting the projects to
market forces and scrutiny of the financial community, avoiding the need for direct intervention by
GOE in project design and implementation, thus reducig the probability for resource misallocation.
A phased approach to infrastructure development by the private sector would also allow GOE to
postpone major investnents in trunk infrastructure until they are economically or environmentally
justified. GOE has requested the Bank's assistance in implementing the strategy highlighted above.



-10-
F. Past Involvement of the Bank Group
2.28        The Bank's only lending operation for tourism in Egypt was an IDA Credit for the
Egypt Tourism Project (Cr 909-EGT) in the amount of US$32.5 million, approved in May 1979.
The main objectives of the project were to increase foreign exchange earnings by increasing the
number of tourists visiting the major antiquities centers of Luxor and Abu Simbel, and to promote the
economic development of the Luxor region through the provision of needed infrastructure and
services. The project consisted of: (i) improvement of the infrastructure and tourist superstructure
facilities in Luxor and the introduction of measures to protect important archaeological sites; (ii) a
modest expansion of the Nefertari Hotel in Abu Simbel and improvement of supporting
infastructure; and (iii) the renovation of the Egyptian Museum in Cairo. While the project succeeded
in providing most of the needed improvements to the infrastructure and other services,
implementation was delayed by five years. All major project components were implemented with the
exception of the renovation of the Egyptian Museum in Cairo and the protection of six pharaonic
tombs. The project was also less successful in achieving the institutional and administrative reforms
envisaged at the time of appraisal. Among the key factors causing delays in the project were
jurisdictional fnmentation and discontinuities in personnel, complexity of the project, i.e., too many
components, and the complexity and slowness of Egyptian procurement procedures. The project
closed in December 1989 with about US$10 million remaining undisbursed due to canceled
components, and the devaluation of the Egyptian pound.
2.29        IFC has been involved in the touism sector ftrough lending and equity paTicipation to
the hotel industry. [FC recently completed the Crocodile Tomrist Project in Luxor where it
participated vith an equity investment of US$1.37 million and has approved participation in the
Serena Beach Hotel Co. with an equity participation of US$1.2 million and a loan of US$6 million.
[FC is also participating in the Egyptian Toursm Investment Company with an equity contribution of
about US$2 million. The project involves the establishment of a debt-equity fund, capitalized at
approximately US$20 million to finance private sector projects in the tourism sector.
2.30       Lessons Learnt*om  the Past The proposed Project is an innovative operation which
has not been tied out in the past in Egypt. However, some of the lessons learnt from previous
operations have been usefil in its design. First, the jurisdictional overlapping and fragmentation
problems experienced previously would be mitigated by focusing project implementation under the
TDA. Second, jurisdictional authority over tourism infrastructure has been clearly delineated and
recognized by law and by Presidential decree. Third, as the Project would be mostly implemented by
the private sector, delays experienced in public procurement processes would be avoided. Fourth,
previously experienced mismatches between public investments in infrastructure and private
investments in superstructure would be mitigated under the Project by designing the area
development as an integrated package, to be fully developed by the private sector. Finally, potential
environmental problems would be avoided through a master plan concept of land development and
close monitoring of development and operational standards in the tourism area.
G. Rationale For Bank Involvement
2.31        The country assistance strategy gives high priority to projects which increase
employment and foreign exchange earnings. Tounsm has gr  potental in both of these aspects. As
the tourism sector is at the forefront of deregulation, privatization and promotion of private
investments, the Bank's involvement in the sector will be instrumental in accelerating the pace of
reform and main    its momentum  Bank assistance in the Project. has proved essential to
catalyze lending and equity investments from the private sector for infrastructure, an area that has
traditionally been financed by public resources. The Bank loan is also critical given the shortage of



-11-
sufficiently long term local financing from the financial system, while Egypt's performance in
servicing external debt severely limits access to foreign resources. Finally, Bank support in mapping
out an environmental management program under the auspices of GEF including institutional
strengthening and financing of public sector environmental component would assist GOE in
regulating tourism development in an environmentally sound manner. The Bank's support to the
Project would also complement IFC's role in private sector development in Egypt.
IL THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01        The objectives of the proposed Project are to: (a) support the Government in
improvimg the policy environment for the tourism sector through further investment rationalization,
deregulation, and privatization of the touism portfolio;- (b) provide catalytic financial support for
infrastructure development in major tourist areas sponsored by the private sector in order to mobilize
long-term financing from commercial banks and venture capital for equity investments; and (c)
ensure sound environmental management of the Red Sea coast with the support of the GEF.
B. Project Description
3.02        The proposed Project would consist of.
(a)   implementation of meaes to improve the policy environment in the tourism sector
consisting of: (i) development of an overall framework for public and private sector
investments; (ii) liberalization of prices for tourism related services; (iii) development of land
allocation and ownership policies for private investments; and (v) improvements in the
regulatory framework affecting the operation of the tourism sector (ie., development,
operation, environment and navigation);
(b) financial support for: (i) the development of infrastructure for two integrated area
development sub-projects in the greenfield sites on the Red Sea coast (Ras Abu Soma and
Sahl Hasheesh) sponsored by two private companies; (ii) the provision of water supply,
sewerage, and solid waste collection and disposal facilities for tourist developments on the
Red Sea Coast (South Hurghada to Safaga area) by the private ser, (iii) the construction of
additional berthing facilities for Nile cruises at two major and four minor sites by the private
sector; and (iv) the inVrovement of traffic and navigation facilities and access to tourist sites
m ihe Nile valey by the public sctor.
(c)   development of a coastal zone management plan and initiating the implementation of
the plan for the Red Sea coast, pardcularly as it affects the protection of the marine habitat in.
the touist areas to be developed under this Project; and
(d)   provision of technical assistance and training for TDA and EEAA staff to (i)
strengthen capacity in tourism planning and marketing; (ii) procurement and financial
managernent; (iii) development of environmental guidelines, and capacity for monitoring and
enforcement of environmental rules and guidelines in tourism zones; and (iv) preparation of
projects to promote further tourism development.



-12-
C. Detailed Features
Pol*X Reforms
3.03        Investment Program. Public sector investments in the past had crowded out private
initiative, competed for scarce resources, and resulted in unfair competition between public and
private sector companies (para 2.12). If the tourism sector is to expand its capacity to accommodate a
larger number of tourists during the next decade in a deregulated environment, there is a need for
MOT to rationalize its investments by concentrating on a core investment program comprised of high
priority infrastructure projects which, although essential and economic, may not be undertaken by the
private sector in the present climate. An agreement has been reached with GOE/MOT on a core
investment program of high priority projects for the sector over the next five years. The program
identifies projects suitable for both public and private sector investments. The projects for the private
sector would serve as an indicative list which TDA could use as a basis to promote private sector
interest. The core investment program would be reviewed under the context of public expenditure
review under the SAL.
3.04        PricAg Polia. Price regulations promote inefficiency and provide disincentives for
the improvement of productivity in the sector (para 2.13). If the tourism sector is to be developed
efficiently, hotels should be allowed to compete on the basis of both price and services. To this effect,
MOT would issue a ministeriladecree  or ta La  effectiveness that it would withdraw compete
from setting_ a egultng gric  of all torist sce  The Chamber of Hotels and Tour Operators
would provide a guideline for the relative structure of tariffs according to the grade of the hotels.
Hotels and resturants would post prices publicly and would not charge more than the posted pices.
GOE is planning to phase out subsidies for u.uel and electricity by June 1995 under the ERSAP and
the difference in input prices for enterprises established under Law 230 and Law 159 would be
eliminated under a unified law in 1993, both supported by the SAL
3.05        LandAlloca£io andOWnEb.U Existing land allocation policy is deficient in terms
of promoting a competitive and efficient framework for private sector investments in the sector (para
2.20). To improve the existing land allocation policy, TDA would undertake a study by June 30.
1993 based on tenns of reference agMed with the Bank (Annex 2V- and by December 31. 1993. TDA
would issue a new land allocation pRolicy to be used in promoting g$vate sector investments in the
tourist zones. after consultation with the Bank.
RMtor Framaad
3.06        The regulatory functions of the tourism sector should be defined and streamlined
a;nong the various institutions. The Presidential Decree of September 1991, which created TDA, has
granted it the responsibility for: (a) establishing and supervising the implementation of development
plans for designated tounist zones; (b) preparing, reviewing and evaluating programs, studies and
projects required for tourism development, and setting priorities for their implementation; (c)
implementing infrastructure projects in the designated tourist zones and recovering their costs; (d)
supenising the implementation of the development plans in these areas (e) managing, exploiting and
disposing of desert lands allocated to the tourism projects; and (f) preparing and monitoring
environmental regulations. MOT would maintain its role as a regulatory body for tourist services in
tem  of licensing hotels and cruise ships, approving ratings of hotels and cruise ships, ensurng that
services such as food, beverages, casino, entertainment etc., meet the required standards in order to
protect consumers, and enforce environmental and health regulations in the tourist zones.



-13-
3.07        The explosive growth of Nile cruise travel has occunred without adequate planning,
monitoring or regulation The volume of traffic, the limited area in which it takes place, and the
potential for accidents and damage require that some forn of overall management plan be developed
(para 2.21). An arrangement would be required, through better delineation of responsibilities of
existing autnorities, and reinforcing them with equipment and trining for integrating not only travel
scheduling, but also setting standards and monitoring the performance of other operational areas such
as facilities management (berthing, service centers, navigational aids, emergency equipment), sewage
and solid waste disposal from cruise ships, and safety inspection of vessels for health and fire
hazards. The operational cost could be supported from fees paid by the ship operators who use the
Nile River. The insitutional arrangement for Nile cruises and the cost recovery mechanism based on
terms of reference agreed with the Bank (Annex 3) is currently under preparation. An &gmen has
been rea,ched with TDA that the insiuional ap=angement for improvin   afety regulations for Nile
cruises would be Reared by December 31. 1993, and appropriate measures would pe taken
Xforce such regusati
Area Devegloment Sub-pEajects n GIreenfelSd Site
3.08        The two area development sub-projects, Ras Abu Soma and Sahl Hasheesh, to be
financed under the proposed Project, are large tourist resorts in the remote zones to be developed
according to tourism development master plans approved under the guidelines set by TDA. Both sub-
projects are sitated on the Red Sea towards the south of Hurghada (see Maps IBRD No. 24046 and
24047). The sub-projects include an integrated development of infrastructure network and
uperstructure over an area of about 22 million mn2. The sub-projects were identified for infriastructure
financing under the proposed Project since: (a) they constitute major centers of development in areas
which attract tourism and further private investennts in super s on a significant scale and in an
e,nvironmentally sound manner, (b) their proposals for inhfastructure development follow a gradual
aroach which would allow the public sector to phase in major investments in trunk infrastructure
based on economic or environmental justification; and (c) the sub-projects are in an advanced state of
preparation which would allow them to go to the market to obtain financing by the end of 1992. The
Bankes financial support for the sub-projects would be linited only to the infastructure component.
3.09        Rasbg Soma The resort is located some 40 Ikm south of Hurghada. The area is
being developed by the Abu Soma Bay Development Company (ASD), incorporated under
Investment Law No 230 of 1989 with an authorized capital of LE 300 million and issued capital of LE
25 million. The majority shareholding of the company is with the Egyptian Fmance Company, a well
known and established company in Egypt. ASD is the master developer for the Ras Abu Soma Bay
site and has executed an agreement with the MOT whereby it has purchased 1 million m2 of land and
has leased another 9 million m2 of land (with the right of purchase) on the Ras Abu Soma peninsula.
ASD has developed a comprehensive development plan approved by TDA, and acceptable to the
Banlk
3.10        The area would be developed as an integrated package with overlapping development
of infrastructure and superstucture. Detailed description is provided in Annex 4. The infrastructure
facilities to serve an area of 10 million m2 would include: (a) about 17 km of roads; (b) water
desalination plants with a capacity of 2,500 m3 per day and associated storage and distribution
network; (c) two sewage treatment plants with a capacity of 1,000 m3 and 2,500 m3 per day,
respectively; (d) an irzigation network for landscaping, (e) four diesel generators with a total capacity
of 20.8 MW; and (f) electical and telecomunwncaions networks. The supertucture would consist of
about 10 four to five star hotels (about 300 rooms each), 400-500 resort villas and condominiums,
two mainas, a retail center, sports and recatonal facilities, and employee housing for about 5,000
staff. The area would be developed in two phases over the next ten years Ehae I would involve the



-14-
development of relevant central infrastructure facilities, four hotels and tourist resorts over an area of
1.5 million m2. Phase b   would cover the remaining infrastructure, six hotels and tourist resorts over
an area of 8.5 million M2.
3.11        ASD has commissioned engineering and technical consultants to produce the detailed
designs and cost estimates for the infrastructure facilities supporting the proposed ten hotels of Phases
I and II. As a master developer, ASD would own and operate all central infastructure facilities, and
maintain all public use sites. ASD would establsh separate corporate entities for each of the hotels to
be constructed within the development. To maintain ASD's control in the design, operation and
management of these hotels, ASD also plans to take an equity position in each of these affiliated
corporate entities. The hotels and resorts would be managed by intemnational hotel chains. ASD is
negotiating contacts with Club Robinson and Sheraton for the management of the first two hotels.
3.12        Sahl llashmk. The resort is located some 20 km south of Hurghada. The sub-
project is being developed by Sahl Hasheesh Bay Development Company (SHBD), incorporated
under Investment Law No 230 of 1989 with an authorized capital of LE 700 niilion and issued capital
of LE 46 million. Shareholders consist of both foreign investors (50%) and Egyptian sponsors
(50%). The total area of the proposed sub-project is nearly 12 million in2, of which 6 million m2 has
been purchased, and the rest has been leased from the MOT with the option to purchase. SHBD has
developed a comehensive development plan approved by TDA, and acceptable to the Bank.
3.13        The area would be implemened in phases, with Phase I consisting of the development
of 6 million m2. The inftucture facilities for this phase, for which financing is sought under the
proposed Project, would consist of: (a) 32 kan of access roads and walkways; (b) two water
desalination plants of a capacity of 2,000 m3 and 4,000 Mi3 per day, respevely and associaed storage
and distibution network; (c) two sewage treatment plants of a capacity of 1,500 m3 and 3,500 m3 per
day, rsectively, (d) sewerage and irrigation networks; e) four diesel generators of a total capacity of
20.8 MW; and (e) electrical and telecommunication network. Detailed description of the sub-project is
provided in Annex 5.
3.14        Phase I, to be developed over a period of eight years, is further sub-divided into two
stages: Phase la would consist of the development of 2 million m2 of land and would comprise all the
basic infrastructure facilites, set up in modular units to fit the needs of this stage, two five-star hotels
(300 rooms each) and one four-star village (165 rooms), and a marina. Phase Ib. covering the
remaining 4 million m2 of land would constitute two four-star resorts (200-250 room each), villas,
chalets, a boat marina, and a town center (with a 300-room five-star hotel and casino).
3.15        SHBD has comiissioned engineering and architectural consultants to produce the
detailed designs and cost estimates for the Phase I infrastruture facilities. SHBD would own and
operate all central inrastr   facilities and public areas. SHBD would also aim at creatng affilated
companies for hotels and resorts and participate in their equity. SHBD would enter into an operation
and management contract with a specialized firm for the infrastructure facilities. As in the case of
ASD, hotels and resorts would be operated and managed by international chains. SHBD is
negotiatng with Forum and Ritz Carlton for the management of the first two hotels.
frastmeture DereloUMfnt in Existin Toul reasm
3.16        This component would consist of: (i) provision of infrastructure services on the Red
Sea coast between the municipal boundaries of Hurghada and Safaga; and (ii) improvemnents to cruise



-Is-
ship operatibns at the sites of antiquities on the Nile, between Aswan and Luxor. Detailed
descriptions are in Annex 6, and sunmarized below.
3.17       The Red Sea Coast infrastructure would consist of: (i) reverse-osmosis desalination
plants with a capacity of 3,000m3 per day, associated distribution networks and administration
buildings to serve South Hurghada; (ii) sewage stabilization pcnds with an initial capacity of 3,000
m3 per day, about 1.0 km to the west of the Hurghada-Safaga road, two pumping stations of 70 I/s
and 140 I/s capacity, respectively, and associated gravity collector and pipes; and (iii) a sanitary
landfill with an ultimate area of 80 hectares, compactor tucks and collection bins.
3.18       The Nile Cruise component would consist of: (i) the construction of 14 additional
berths at Aswan, 28 at Luxor, 11 at Dandara, 4 at Esna, 8 at Edfu and 8 at Kom Ombo. Berthing
facilities would be provided with water supply, power supply, sewage disposal, and solid waste
disposal services; (iil a traffic and navigation control center equipped with emergency fire fighting
and medical services and facilities for inspection and licensing of both cruise ships and crew; and
(iii) improvements to the access roads to the antiquity sites at Kom Ombo, Edfu, Esna and Dandara;
and provision of improved facilities near the antiquity sites for the tourists.
3.19       The implementation of these components would be essential to prevent further
degradation of the environment and existing infiaucture in Hurghada and tourist sites on the Nile
river. In line with the new tourism strategy (paras 2.25-2.27), TDA is presently soliciting private
sector interest to build, own and operate these components (except for the navigation control center
and access to tourist sites) and prequalificaton of sponsors following intenational advertisements is
underway. MA would fmnish to the Bank. not later than December 31. 1993. nroposals for the
assiannent to private sector sonsors for the construction, ogperation maintenance of Red Sea
infrastcture and Nile berthing facilities. In case financial closure would not be completed by pivate
sonsors for these components by December 1993. TDA would execute them with public resources.
In hi een MA would lease out the facilities to the priat sector for opeation and managemnt
3.20       The Red Sea has an unusual physiography which has ceated a manne envirbnment
that supports flourishing coral reefs and endemic wetland communities in latitudes far north of their
limits elsewhere. However, the demands for oil exploration, shipping and tourism have resulted in a
loss of bio-diversity and marine pollution and it is increasingly evident that the fragile coral reef and
marine environment will not be able to withstand unregulated, unmanaged development. While
environmentl units and regulations are being devloped in various government agencies, and private
sector developers are now seeing the impact of unplanned development on Egypt's Mediterranean
coast and some parts of the Red Sea, there is stil a severely limited insdutional capacity to handle the
complexit of competing intersts for the Red Sea.
3.21       In recognizing the need for sustainable development of the Red Sea resources by all
the Red Sea nations, GOE sought funds from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) of about
*       US$4.75 million to develop a coastal zone management program to reduce the loss of biodiversity
and maine pollution and also orchestrate the currently competing tourism and oil interests in a way
that would be compauble and productive for both concerned agencies and the Egyptian people. The
grant would be used to assist, over a thee year period, the TDA, the Egyptian Environmental Affairs
Agency (EEAA), and the Red Sea governorate to imnplement an integrated coastal zone management
program in the Egypian portion of the Red Sea between Ras Shukeir in the north and the Sudanese
border in the south. Detailed description of the program is in the Memorandum of the Director



-16-
(Report No. 11 131-EGT) which is summarized below. A cross effectiveness condition would be in
place for the groposed Loan and the GEF Grant Areement
3.22        Coastal Zone Management Plan. This component would develop an integrated
coastal zone management (CZM) plan to guide a program of inter-sectoral coastal zone management
during the Project implementation phase and beyond by carrying out necessary scientific base-line
inventories analysis of the resources, and zone the coast according to the allocation of significantt areas
for conservation and development. Resource allocation would illustrate a spectrum of management
practices from pure development to conservation with an emphasis on interactive roles between the
two and the private and public sectors. Due to the complex, multi-sectoral nature of developing such
a plan, a high degree of background work through inventories and studies are needed to consider the
broad range of concerned agencies and resource uses possible, and make judgments on what activities
can be developed in an environmentally sustainable manner. This component would establish a data
base incorporating existing information, new surveys, with Geographical Information System (GIS)
as an interactive planning tool. Studies on resource use options and management, such as tourism
altenatives, recurrent funding and carrying capacity would build on the data directions needed for the
plan. A final plan with policies for zoning and managing coastal and marine resources would be
developed and approved by all concerned agencies.
3.23        Environmental Assessment Capability. One of the most potentially effective
mechanisms to support environmentally sound development and to mitigate impacts on the marine
resources of the Red Sea, is the environmental impact assessment (EIA) process. However, neither
the TDA nor the EEAA currently have the capacity to evaluate and enforce rigorous EIAs. This
component would develop EIA practices for touism and other development activites impacting the
coast and the Red Sea. It would improve TDA's and the EEAA's capability to manage EIA
requirements and review tourism-related EIA studies. It would provide TDA and EEAA with a
model of EIA guidelines and procedures to develop their capacity to manage ElAs for large-scale
private sector investments. TDA's and the EEAA's environmental units would be staffed and
trained in ETA methods and procedures, and would produce a manual on EIA procedures to be used
by developers, other agencies, etc.
3.24        Maine Pollution CotrL As described earlier, the Red Sea is a unique ecosystem
whose phsiogeographic configuration is conducive to a rapid concentration of land and water-based
pollutants, affecting many countries. To effectively implement the CZM plan and EIAs, a capacity to
monitor and enforce rules and regulations must be developed. Rather than establishing an
independent regulatory system for CZM, the Project would facilitate the coordination and
strengthening of capacities between the TDA, EEAA and the Red Sea Governorate and other
agencies. Red Sea office would be established in the Governorate to provide a focus of operations
with the establishment of a monitoring and enforcement unit, which would coordinate these
responsibilities with the environmental units of EEAA with the Red Sea Governorate and TDA.
Additional local staff from other concerned agencies may be attached to this unit to implement the
C2M guidelines, regulations, pernitting procedures and pollution control in the project area, and
receive training in carrying out these activies.
3.25        &e&crea  tLMan=mggaL Egypt's coral reefs are the primary tourist attraction on
the Red Sea, yet the very people who enjoy theem and make their living from promoting them are also
killing them Uneducated snorkelers and divers can cause considerable damage to reefs through
physical cont Anchor damage is one of the major causes of direct reef destruction. To implement
actions under the CZM4 plan there is a need to establish a capacity to manage recreational facilities to
protect the coral reef habitats and promote sustainable visitor use and enjoyment. This component
would manage activities that provide enjoyment and appreciation of coral reefs and other coastal



-17-
marine habitats in this area, through training activities, recreation facility management, public
awareness efforts, in cooperation with private sector tourism businesses. The above would be done
through the development of a Reef Recreation Management Action Plan and Program. the
establishment of Reef Recreation Management Unit, management arrangements between public and
private sectors and other entities. This component would incorporate information from the nature-
based tourism and carrying capacity studies developed during the CZM planning process and also the
monitoring and enforcement activities from the pollution control component. While this component
would focus on the Hurghada-Safaga area, the activities would also apply to the establishment of the
marine park and reserves in the following protected areas component.
3.26        lgd   PrtecW AM &t4aWIhMent, The Red Sea coast offers a range of nature
conservation opportuiies through the establishment of protected areas to not only protect the
biodiversity of the reefs and ecological integrity of other island and coastal habitats, but also
potentially support socio-econonic benefits through nature-based tourism, local pride, scientific
research and environmental education. Protected areas of intact ecosystems also offer a control area
that can provide valuable information in comparison with research catTied out in areas being restored,
e.g. Hurgada. In spite of documented economic, ecological and social benefits directly associated
with protected areas, funding to adequately establish and manage protected areas, especially marine
areas, is rare. Therefore, too many parks are "paper parks" and in some cases are actually catalyzing
in-situ habitat destruction because they attt tourists but do not have management controls in place.
Given the reality that funding for protected areas in an ecologically necessary scale through the
Egyptian government, and coordination with private-sector initiatives is difficult, there must be a
mechanism such as this component to protect selected sites along Red Sea.
3.27        To protect the unique biogeographical character of the Red Sea coast, the whole area
from Mersa Alam to the Sudanese border is proposed as a protected area(s), which would incorporate
a range of levels of conservation protection zones. This area includes the Gebel Elba and Ras Banas
region and exhibits high biodiversity and exceptionai scenc value, that is both regionally and globally
signifcant. The CZM plan strategy would identify areas that would support different management
zones, e.g., pure protecdon of terrestrial and marine environments to incorporation of low density
natue-based tourism. The area is well suited for the implementation of UNESCO's Man and
Biosphere Reserve approach, incorporating core conservation zones as well as adjacent buffer areas,
and requiring a high degree involvement by the local communities and different government sectors.
The component would conduct detailed surveys and prepare management plans for areas to be given
legal protection. This component would support basic facilities to ensure management and control of
sites, provide small scale visitor facilites in partnership with private interests and the local community
and train a core staff in park management techniques. The protected areas program would draw on
the experience of the Ras Mohammed Park in South Sinai
3.28        CZM Monitoring and Evaluation. The Project would demonstrate mechanisms for
multi-agency and multi-disciplinary arrangements to plan, conserve and manage coastal resources and
to control and promote sustinable development involving government agencies, private-sector parties
and local communities. Such an approach is new to Egypt; the achievements and difficulties
encountered and lessons learned would be valuable for CZM activities in the rest of the country and in
other countries around the Red Sea A review of the CZM plan and arrangements for pollution
control and monitoring, reation management and protected area management would be undertaken
mid-way through the Project. Built into each of the components are a series of monitoring and'
evaluation activities, such as inventories and pollution monitonng. The mid-term and final reviews
would concentrate on ways to improve institutional arrangements and coordination between
concerned agencies, and to ensure that user fees and other sources of funding generated by the
actvities of CZM are available to maintain these functions when the project ends.



D. Project Cost and Financing Plan
RM Cost
3.29           Total financing requirenent, including interest during e;nstruction, is estimated to be
about US$805 million of which US$302 million or about 38% is in foreign exchange. Physical
contingencies are estimated at 10% for the area development component and the Red Sea and Nile
Cruises infrastructe. No physical contingeiacies are included for technical assistance or engineering
services. Price contingencies for these components have been included at 3.9% for foreign cost, and
15% for local cost in FY93, 9% in FY94, 6% in FY95 and 5% thereafter.
3.30           A summary of cost estimates and financing requirement for the Project is given in
Table 2. The cost estimate includes the sum of US$4.75 million in grant funds from GEF for the
protection of the Egyptian Red Sea marine bio-diversity.
Table. 2
urn ~ ~ ~ ~~r:
itt                                                                                    %       % 
%   Base    Total
lQI    Egmiga    IaMl   LF           Eorign      aW   EX           Financing
(LE Mili)                   (USS Million)
Area Developmaent in
Geefield Sites
Ras Abu Soma         65430     40852 1,062.82   196A9       122.68   319.17
Sahl Hasheesh        401A7      20127   602.74   12056       6OA4   181.00
Working Capital       26.S8      26.61    53.19    7.98       799    15.97
Sub-total       1,08235     636A0 1,718.75   325.03     191.11   516.14  37    9)       64
ifrasuctue Development in
Existing Touism Areas
Nile Cuises           61.90      2890    90.80    1859        8.68    2727
Red Sea               2153       496    6449       6A7       1290    1937
Sub-Wtotal        83A3       71.86   15.29    2.05       21.58    46.63  46     8        6
Eiemental  Management   3.26         15.82    19.08    0.98       4.75    5.73  83    1.0       Q7
Technical Assistance       S.04      11.70    16.75    152        3.52    5.03  70    09        0.6
Total Base Cost     1,174.08    735.78 1,909.86   352.58    220.95   57353  39   100        71
Physical Contingencies    79.18      6539   14458    23.78       19.64    43A2  45               5
Price Contingencies      329.15     12499   454.14    98;84      37.53   136.38  28             17
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1,582A2          926.16 2,50858   47520      278.13   75333  37              94
IDC on Bank Loan          1031       4933    59.64     3.10      14.81    1791  83               2
lDC on Other Loans        81.77      3036   112.13    2456        9.12    33.67  27              4
TOTAL FINANCING         1.67450   1,005.85 2,68034   502.85     302.06   80491  38             100
Financing Flan
3.31           The total Bank loan would be US$130 millon. Of this, about US$100 million would
finance both foreign and local costs of the infrstrctm e component of the area development sub-
projects, estimatd at about 14% of the total cost of the integrated package of infasucture and
superstructure. For other infasuc   componets and technical assitance, about US$30 million of



-19-
the Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange cost. The financing of the local cost in the area
development sub-projects is justified on the basis that private sector investment is an integrated
package of both infrastructure and superstructure, and that Bank fuiancing of infrastructure subject to
the debt/equity ratio of 60:40 of ASD and SHBD capital structure would have an important catalydc
effect in mobilizing equity and commercial borrowing. Furthermore, the total financing would be
less than the foreign exchange cost estimated at US$263 million of the total integrated project costs.
The private sector would contribute US$330 million in equity and US$300 milion in commercial
loans. GOE would be expected to contribute about US$40 million which would cover the local cost
of the Red Sea and Nile cruise ifrastucture, technical assistance, and the environmental management
program. However, if private sector equity would be forthcoming for the Red Sea and Nile cruise
infrastructure, government contribution would be decreased. The foreign cost of the environmental
management component would be financed by a grant from the GEF. Table 3 shows the financing
plan.
Tabe: 3
(in US$ mlon)
FinAncing
Funding Asene     LOA    Foreign    liwi     ESan
IBRD                    22      108     130         16
Private Sector Equity  229      101     330         41
Commercial Banks       212       88     300         37
Government              40      -        40          5
GEP                    -         5        5          1
TOTAL            503      302     805        100
0lnendiIgAmnangmM -
3.32        The proceeds of the proposed Loan, would be made available by TDA to ASD,
SHBD and private inv4stos for the Red Sea infrastructure and Nile berthing facilities. TDA would
enter into sub-loan agreements with ASD and SHBD and other selected private sector sponsors for
the Red Sea and Nile cruise infrastructure. The draft Sub-Loan Agreements has been reviewed
during negotiations. Condition of disbursement of the proceeds of the sub-loans to ASD and SHBD
would be the effctivenes of gMes Sub-Loan Agremnt and the fulilmentof conditions speified
under the security a gement (paras. 3.35 - 3.37l.
3.33        The loans made by TDA to private sector would bear a maturity of 15 years including
a 5 year grace period in order to provide long term financing to the sub-projects compatible with the
implementation schedule and cash flow of the sub-projects. The grace period would facilitate
completion of construction reflecting the gestation period characteristic of such projects. The loan
from TDA could be subordinated to othe commercial borrowings by private developers in order to
leverage the resources onlent and to mobilize local commercial borrowings for longer tenors than is
possible at present. TDA would onlend to the private sector sub-projects at a variable lending rate
detemined semi-annually and comprised of the following: (i) the variable Bank lending rate to TDA;
(ii) a spread of 175 basis points; (iii) a premium of 100 basis points for the subordination feature of
the loan; and (iv) the cost of managing and administering the loans determned at 25 basis points.
The onlending rate would be adjusted semi-annually based on the Bank's lending rate to TDA. TDA



-20-
would also pass on comnuitment fees of the relevant portions of the Loan to the private sector where
applied. The funds onlent to private sector would be denominated and repaid in US dollars.
Securitv ArrangeMents fgr Area Develonment Sub.Projects
3.34        A security package has been developed and agreed with ASD and SHBD in order to
ensure that: (i) the financing plan for the sub-projects meets the requirements outlined under the
Project; (ii) private sector borrowers assumne all financial charges and foreign exchange risks that
would be incurred under the onlending arrangements with TDA; (iii) the master developers carry out
the overall development of the resorts as agreed with TDA; and (iv) there are sufficient revenues
available from the sale of utilities to a critical mass of superstructure, as well as from land sales, in
order to service the debt.
3.35        Disbursements under the loan to ASD and SHBD would take place only when the
following requirements have been fulfilled to the satisfaction of the Bank and TDA:
(i)   Loan Agreements with the commercial banks lending to ASD and SHBD for
infrastructure to be constructed during the first phase;
(ii)  financial closure on the first two hotels to be constructed under the first phase
consisting of a Shareholders Agreement, (since both ASD and SHBD would be
shareholders in the respective hotels), and Loan Agreements from commercial banks
lending to hotel companies; and
(iii)  signed construction contracts for the construction of infrastructure facilities under
consideration for the first phase including roads, water desalination plant, waste water
treatment plant, and communication networks;
(iv)  signed operation and management contracts where appropriate, or staffmg and
organizaion plans for the operation and management of the infastructure facilities;
(v)   signed land sale agreements with the first two hotels;
(vi) signed construction contract for the first two hotels;
(vii)  signed O&M contracts with reputable hotel operators for the first two hotels; and
(viii) signed utility contracts between ASD/SHBD and the first two hotel operators setting
out that all utility services required by the hotels would be bought from ASD/SHBD
and the tens and conditions for the sale and purchase of utility.
3.36        As the sub-projects are in greenfield areas, these conditions are aimed at reducing the
lag dme between the construction of inacture and superstucture, and thus help accelerate tourist
arrivals to the Red Sea. These conditions also aim at ensuring that a critical mass of superstructure
would be in place at the completion of the first phase of the infrastructure to assure a secured source
of revenue for debt service. The two private sponsors have progressed well in preparing the design of
the first two hotels and in selecting international hotel operators. The mobilization of resources would
be accelerated once there is a preliminary commitment from TDA to ASD and SHBD for financing
of the infastucture.
3.37        A mid-tenn implementation review of the area development sub-projects would take
place towards the end of the first phase for ASD and SHBD (around December 1996 for ASD, and
December 1995 for SHBD). At that time, ASD and SHBD would be expected to submit an updated
feasibility for the second phase to ascertain that its implementation would be technically, financially,



-21-
and environmentally viable, based on experience under the first phase. Disbursements for contracts
under the second phase ould take place subject to (fil Bank aiWd 3DA- -rloyal of the updated
feasibility sUUdX; and (ii) substantial coMe   f the infrastructure and superstructure in the first
Financing Plan for the Area Development Sub-Projects on Greenfield Sites
3.38         Ras Abu Soma Develogpment. The total financing required for the development of
infrastructure and superstructure for the Ras Abu Soma development is about US$461 million. Of
this US$371 million would be for the development of superstructure consisting of hotels, marina and
employee housing, and US$90 million would be for the financing of the infrastructure facilities
consisting of roads, water desalination plant, waste water treatment plant, electricity generation,
communications and all associated networks. The total amount of debt of about US$245 million
(53% of the integrated cost) would be financed by US$50 million from TDA to ASD towards
infrastructure cost (11% of the integrated cost), US$7.5 million from commercial banks to ASD,
US$1.5 million in the form of land mortgage from MOT and about US$185 million from
commercial banks towards superstructure costs. The total amount of equity would be about US$216
million (47% of the integrated cost), consisting of a cash contribution of US$31 million from ASO
towards infrastructure cost, and about US$185 million equity in the hotels. The financing plan for
ASD is summarized in Table 4 below. Details of financing are in Annex 4.
Table: 4
Abu Sam. Davannw
MProg Phudg Et
Phase I       Phase II        Total
1993-96       1997.2002
SOURCES OF FNANCNG:          m1      9b  USI miltion  i,Lo
.                    ~~~~~~~~~~million              million 
Superstructure
Equity/l                        69    5        116.5   5)    185.5    40
Commercial Debt                 69    5)       116.5   50    1855    40
Total Financing Superstructme   138   100       233  100      371    so
Infrastructure
Equity                         12.3    29      18.7   40       31     7
Land Mortgage2                  IA      3                     IA
EBRD/TDA Loan                  27.8    65      22.3   47    50.1    11
Commercial Debt                 1.7     4       53   13       75      2
Total Financing Inastuture     43.    100      463   100       9)
Total Sub-Project Finawct     181.2           279.8           461   100
/1 including equity from ASI in the formn of developed land and cash contribution.
12  80% of the purchase value of land would be financed in the form of debt (land deferred
payments) from GOB
3.39         Sahl Hasheesh Devifpment. The total financing required for the development of
infrastructure and superstructure for the Sahl Hasheesh development is about US$258 million. Of
this, about US$165 million would be for the development of superstructure consisting of hotels and
tourist villages, and about US$93 million would be for the financing of the infastructure facilities
consisting of roads, water desalination plant, waste water treatment plant, elec;ricity generation,
conununications and all associated networks. The total amount of debt of about US$145 million
(56% of the total integrated cost) would be financed by US$50 million from TDA to SHBD towards
the infrastructure costs (19% of the integrated cost), US$7.5 million from commercial banks to
SHBD for the infrtructure cost, about US$82 milion for the superstructure, and US$5 million in



-22-
the form of land deferred payment to MOT. The total amount of equity would be about US$113
million (44% of the integrated package), consisting of a cash contribution of about US$31 million
from SHBD towards infrastructure cost, US$82 million from SHBD and superstructure investors
towards superstructure costs. The proposed financing plan for the Sahl Hasheesh Development is
sumumarized in Table 5 below. Details of financing are provided in Annex 5.
Tabke: 5
Sakise Unanc0 e Pa
EcauLuwdLEka_                            _
Phase la       Phase lb         Total
1993-95        1997-99
SOURCES OFFEINC11                 i              I Ye           o.af
million        million         milinn   Toal
Superstructure
Equity /I                  42.8     50    39.4    .0    82.2       32
Commercial Debt            42.8    .S0   39.4    50    82.2        32
Total Financing Superstructure    85.6    100    78.8   100   164.4  64
Infrastructure
Equity                     10.7     26      20     40    30.7      12
Land Mortgagel2             52       12                    5.2      2
IBRDIDA Loan               27.5     62    22.7    46    50.2       19
Commercial Debt              -       -      7.5    14      75       3
Total Financing Infrsncue  43.4    100    50.2   100    93.4       36
Total SubPro.ject Flnancina    129.0      129.0          258.0    100
I This includes equity from SHBD in the fonn of deveoped land and cas.
/2 80% of the purchase value of land would be financed in the forn of debt (land defenred
payments) from GOE
E. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.40        All Bank-financed procuremnent for civil works, equipment and materials, for both the
private sector and public sector components would be in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. Procurement of consultant services and technical assistance would follow Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Egyptian manufacturers competing under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF
price or the prevailing custom duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less, provided
the local value added to the product is not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.
3.41        Contracts for supply of goods and equipment valued at US$250,000 or more would
be awarded through ICB procedures. These contacts would be grouped, as far as practicable, to
attract international competition. Goods and equipment costing between US$50,000 and
US$250,000 would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) and those below
US$50,000 would be procured through solicitation of at least three price quotations from more than
one country.
3.42        Contcs for civil works valued at US$500,000 or more would be awarded through
ICB. Civil works contracts under US$500,000, and civil works for the upgrading of antiquities sites
and accesses, would be awarded through LCB open to foreign contractors. LCB procedures are
generally consstent with economy and efficiency in the execution of the project There are, however,



-23-
a few procedures inconsistent with Bank procurement guidelines, and others requiring clarification at
negotiations. During negotiations, Government agreement was obtained regarding changes needed to
make the procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.43         With few exceptions, the types of works are of a relatively conventional nature and can
be implemented by the larger Egyptian contractors. Similarly, with the exception of the Nile cruise
components Egyptian consultants are capable of designing most components of the Project. It is
expected that about 50 percent of all consultancy work would be carried out by local consultants,
while 60 percent of contracts would be carried out by local contractors. Both major private sector
developers have agreed to follow the Bank's guidelines for procurement and intend to appoint
reputable international and local consultants for project management. These firms will provide
technical assistance to the developers in (i) planning and packaging contracts; (ii) issuing and
evaluating bids; (iii) monitoring the implementation of contracts; (iv) monitoring cash flow and
payments; and (v) dealing with all implementation matters.
3.44         TDA has adequate capability to implement the project components under its direct
responsibility. MOT has seconded a complete unit from its procurement department to TDA to
handle the legal and procedural aspects of procurement The unit has full authority to award contracts
and enter into comnmitments with regard to the expenditure of public funds. TDA has also recruited a
number of senior engineers with experience in procurement and project management. These
Table: 6
PtouDetment Arrageements
P'rocuremnent Method
No of       la       LX0i2a
-mContracts-
AMa Development In Greenfield Sites
Ras Abu Soma                   16      331.91  i1056     18.47    460.94
(35.84) (12.05)   (2.11)    (50.0)
Sahl Hasheesh                 16       183.03   64.55    10.24    257.82
, (3.S.62), (12.10)   (2.29)   (50.0)
Sub-total   -           32      514.94  175.11    28.71    718.76
(71.5)  (24.1)    (4.4)    (100.0)
Infiuswtre l)eyelomn=in Existing
Tourismn Area
Red Sea                        14       18.48   10.56     2.39     31.43
(8.1)   (3.6)    (1.1)    (12.8)
Nile Cruims                   32        6.74   31.36     5.86      43.96
(4.8)   (7.8)    (1.6)    (14.2)
Sub-total              46        25.22   41.92    8.25      75.39
(12.9)  (11.4)    (2.7)    (27.0)
Technical Assistance -                                           5.03      5.03
(3.0)     (3.0)
ONF Component                        NA                          5.73      5.73
(4.75)    (4.75)
TOTAL                           78      540.16  217.03    47.72     804.91
(84.4)  (35.5)  (1485)   (134.75)
Not: Figures in parentheses represent portion financed by the Bank including interest during construction.



-24-
engineers wiU be responsible for the review of bidding documents, evaluation of bids and provision
of advice to the management of TDA.
3.45        All documents relating to the procurement of Bank-fmanced consultancy services
would be subject to the Bank's ptior review. All bidding packages for works and goods estimated to
cost US$250,000 equivalent or more, would be subject to the Bank's prior review of the bid
packages. These limits would result in prior review of about 95 percent of the loan amount. Other
contracts for works and goods would be subject to the Bank's review after award of the contract.
Table 6 gives a breakdown of Project components to be procured by ICB, LCB and other procedures.
The quarterly progress reports to be submitted by TDA (para 3.51) would include details on
procurement matters, showing the date and value of any new contract awards, changes in the scope
and value of contracs under implementation, any changes in contract value and cost overruns, and a
brief summary of forthcoming tenders.
3.46        status afEwiEcwa=m. Feaibiity studies and conceptua designs have already
been completed for all project components. The waste water treatment plant for South Hurghada has
been carried to final engineering, whereas some parts of the Nile cruises, namely the berthing facilities
at Aswan and Dandara, and the navigation control center have been carried to preliminary
engineering. TDA has prepared terms of reference for carrying all Project components to final
engineenng and a timetable has been agreed upon for the appointment of consultants for these
activities. For the two area development sub-projects, preliinary engineering has been completed
for all infrastructure components and prequalification for major contracts (i.e., water supply and
electrical povaer plants) is underway. Terms ofreference for all project related studies have also been
agreed upon with TDA.
D         i isburme
3.47        Table 7 shows how the proposed Bank loan of US$130 million would be disbursed
against the various project components. For the two area development sub-projects, the proceeds of
Bank loan would be disbursed against 100% of the cost of infrastructure and interest and finance
charges. For other components, the proceeds of Bank loan would be disbursed against 40% of the
total cost in case of Nile cruises, and 50% of the total cost for the Red Sea infrastructure and interest
and finance charges. If there is private sector commitment in investing in these components, TDA
would enter into loan agreements with the selected private sponsors. In this case, the disbursement
for these two components would be contingent on the effectiveness of the Loan Agreements with the
respective investors.
Table: 7
Disburaewen=
% of
Amount         Expenditures
Catel  Desitiou                  US$ million    To be Financed
1      Private Sector Area Development  80   100% of the cost of infrasct
Sub-project
2      Nile Cruises infrasucue      13   40% of the total cost
3       Red Sea Infrastrctu         12   50% of the total cost
4      Technical Asistance           3   100% of the foreign cost
S       ntwera anO FTA anLal Chat   22   100% of amount1 3ue
.       ~~~TOTAL                   130



-25-
3.48        The estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is given in Annex 8. The
disbursement schedule is based on the Bank's disbursement profile for Egypt but has been slightly
modified for a seven and a half year implementation period instead of eight years. This is due to the
fact that about 90% of the loan will finance private sector investment projects which are expected to be
implemented faster than the public sector supported components. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within six months after project completion. The closing date of the proposed loan will be
December 31, 2000.
3.49        In order to enable TDA to effectively implement the Project and to ensure availability
of foreign exchange to private sector developers, TDA would maintain a Special Account at a
commercial bank in Egypt for a maximum amount of US$5 million, which is expected to cover the
Bank's share of eligible expenditure over a four month period. Payments from the Special Account
would only be made for eligible expendiures indicated in the loan agreement. The account would be
denominated in US Dollars and replenished against withdrawal applications. Applications with
appropriate supporting documentation should be submitted wheui approximately half of the
maximum allocated amount of the Special Account has been spent or quarterly, whichever occurs
first. Disbursements under the Project would be made against standard documentation, except for
contracts valued at less than $250,000 equivalent, which would be claimed under Statements of
Expenditure (SOE). Related supporting documents for SOE claims would be retained at TDA's
headquarters and made available for inspection by Bank missions and project auditors.
F. Project Supervision and Monitoring
3.50     - The implementation of the Project is expected to take about seven and a half years.
The Bank would supervise the Project three times a year during the first two years of project
implementation, and an average of twice a year during the last five and a half years. The core team
for the supervision missions would consist of an ifrastucte engineer, a finance specialist, and an
environmental expert. This core team would be supplemented by other experts as needed. The
Project is complex and the implementing agency is new. Construction of facilities would take place
over a widely dispersed area. Intensive supervision would be required, particularly in the earlier
years. About 17 supervision missions are planned during project implementation and the total
supervision effort is estimated to require a total of 120 staff weeks (avewage of 16 staff weeks per
year). Details of supervision forecast are included in Annex 9.
3.51        A project implementation schedule and monitoring plan is given in Annex '7. In
addition to supervision missions, the Project will be monitored through quarterly progress reports
which would be submitted by the TDA to the Bank witiin 30 days after the end of each quarter
during the entire project implementation period. These reports would focus on both the cumulative
and specific progress achieved during the reporting period for. (a) the implementation of the agreed
action plan to improve the policy environment in the sector, (b) the bidding process for all major
contracts for civil works and equipment to be procured, separately for the private developers and the
public sector, (c) the physical progress by contract of civil works and equipment delivery, separately
for private developers and the public sector, (d) the status of technical assistance, studies, designs,
programs, and staff training to be provided under the GEF financed component of the project; (e) the
status of Bank disbursments and projected disbursements for the next six months; (f) the status of
covenants and accounts and audit; and (g) a summay of any issues raised by Pank missions and



-26-
actions taken for their resolution. A brief summary would be added explaining the reasons for any
delays or shortcomings in any of the above items and of actions taken to improve progress.
3.52        A mid-term review of all project activities would be conducted jointly by TDA and the
Bank. To facilitate this review, TDA would prepare a detailed report covering all aspects of the
project and submit it to the Bank by December 31, 1995 for a joint review in February 1996. The
project completion report would be prepared by TDA and submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after the loan closing date. An agrement has beun rached tha  ld submit: (a)
quarerl  rge  reports within 30 days of the end of each quarter. (b' the detailed renort for the
mid-term revie  Y      ber 31. 1995: and (c) the project completion report within six months
after loan closing.
IV. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
A. Organization and Management
4.01        TDA was establshed as an autonomous authority in September 1991 with a Board of
Directors chaired by the Minister of Tourism which consists of 16 members representing the public
and private sectors and the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of TDA. The Board of Directors is the
supreme authority for setting policies concerning TDA!s activities, for approval of TDA's work
program and annual opeing and capital budgets, for naing decisions on allocating land and giving
development rights to pdvate sector developers in areas designated as tourism zones, for approving
cost recovery policies for tourism related services, and for contracting loans for TDA. The initial by-
laws of TDA have been prepared and adopted. As TDA activities grow, it is expected that these by-
laws would be suitably amended to reflect experience gained in the implementation of its policies.
e 4.02       The CEO is the executive head of the TDA who is appointed by Presidential decree
following nonmination by the nister of Tourism. At this initial stage of TDA's operations the CEO
is assisted by an Adviser with broad based experience in tourism and a Fmancial Adviser. The rest of
TDA is organized into six functional units: Personnel and Legal Department, Financial Controller,
Information Management Unit, Business Development Department, Investment Development
Department, and the Technical Deparamnt. The Technical Department has three units: Planning and
Project Preparation, Environment, and Project Inplementation. Each of these departments and units
either are or will be headed by high caliber professionals recruited outside the civil service system.
the organization chart and the duties of the various functional units of the TDA are provided in
Annex 10.
B. Staffing
4.03        TDA is a small organization. The intention is to keep a small number of high caliber
staff on a permanent basis and contract out specific tasks to outside consultants as much as possible.
With growth in TDA's activities it is expected that the part-time MOT staff would be absorbed by
TDA. The need for foreign experts will also grow temporarily particularly in developing
environmental regulations, and for the implementation of the GEF component of the Project. These
temporary staffing needs are shown separately under the GEF component. Table 8 provides a
summary of the existing and expected staffing level of TDA.



-27-
Table: 8
Stiff Categoz          1221   122=  i2       1994   199S
Full Time Prefessionals    21   26      33     35     40
Foreign Experts           2      4       4      4      4
Part Time Consultants     7      8      10     11     12
Partrime MOT Staff        8      8       8      8      8
SupportStaff              5      9       9     10     12
Total                43      55     64     68      76
C. Financial Position of TDA
4.04         Prior to its formal establishment in September 1991, TDA operated as the Tourism
Development Unit of the MOT. Most of its operational costs were financed by the MOT, which
provided the local funds, supplemented by grant funds from UNDP, USAID and the Japanese Grant
Facility to cover the foreign exchange costs for expatriate personnel, consultants, and equipment.
Since TDA was created to operate as a self-financing organization, it no.w collects fees from land
allocation to private sector for development. These fees are: (i) alIlganfees which are calculated as
2% ofthetotalprice of theland allocated by TDA; (ii) cntfees calculated at 5 % of the total price
of the land sale contract with TDA; and (iii) project review and mnonitong fees which are set at
0.35% of the total estimated cost of the project submitted for approval by TDA. Since payments for
all land allocated by TDA would be nmade over a seven year period, and other fees are paid in
installments in relation to project phasing and implementation progress, these fees would provide a
steady stream of income.
Table 9
TDAIs1                           Ii
Alocion Fees                1138    1194    1254    1003    952
Contract Fees               2844    2986    3136    2508   2383
Mordtodag Fews              2647    2780    2919  - 2335   2218
Studies and Services         52D     546    57        60Q    632
Income from Intet              --              -       -    1838
Toftl Revenues           7149    7506    7882    6448   8023
Sar                         2232    2343    2460    2583   2712
Office Space                2600    2730    1000    1000   100D
Equipmatt and Supplies      1000    10D0   liO2    1157   1215
Operational Expenses         433     455    477       501    526
Travel and Promotion         717     752    790       830    871
Total Exdtures           6962    7330    S829    607    6324
Surplus or (Deficit)         167      176    2053     377   1699
Accumulaed Surplus (Deficit)    167  343    2396    2X      4472
4.05         TDA also denves revenues from canying out studies and providing technical services to
private settor developers who are interested in invesdng in the tourism zones. In addition, TDA
would also receive a small portion (25 basis points) of the interest that would be charged by TDA to



-28-
the private sector developers under the proposed Project. A sunmury of TDA's financial position in
the next few years is provided in Table 9.
D. Accounting and Auditing
4.06        TDA's accounting systems and formats are the samne as of any other public authority.
Until now its financial activities have been rather limited and mainly consist of payroll and payments
for consultant services, operational costs and maintenance. The accounting staff is small. With
growth in its activities, however, these functions would have to expand. The Project would provide
technical assistance to ensure that this expansion of activities takes place in a systematic manner. For
the purposes of this Project, separate accounts would be maintained for all project related financial
transactions. TDA would maintain separate records and project and loan accounts for each private
sector and public sector sub-project, the GEF activities, other institutional support activities,
stments of expendimes, and the special account.
4.07        Public authorities in Egypt are audited by the Central Organization for Auditing and
Control (COAC). The auditing procedures and standards of the COAC are acceptable to the Bank.
Agreement has been reached during negotiations that starting in its fiscal year 1992-93: (a) TDA
would mamintanits overall accounts inl an approriat format accetable to the Bank: (b?) these
(c) the auditors would. in addition to  e overalludit report for the TDA. prere and submit a
seara oinion on the accuracy and appropriateness of the pmjc accounts (including Special
Account to be   ntained by the   A andd the ann  adit  t  and the reort on the project
accounts would be submitted to -the _Bank within six Months of the en  oechfiscal yecar.
Expenditures by EEAA and the Red Sea governorate on the GEP component would be audited
annually as required under the GEF agreement.
4.08        Private investors would also maintain their accounts in appropriate format acceptable
to the Bank and TDA. These accounts would be audited annuaUy by independent and experienced
auditors acceptable to the Bank and TDA. In addition, ASD and SHBD would also submit to TDA
and the Bank their accounts certified by a reputable accounting firm acceptable to the Bank along with
disbursement requests to demonstrate that at all time, ASD and SHBD would maintain a debt/equity
ratio of 60:40. These conditions would be reflected in the Loan Agreements between TDA and ASD
and SHBD, respectively.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A.  Project Benefits
5.01        The proposed Project would assist GOE in the formulation and implementation of a
strategy and policy framework for the development of one of ihe most important sectors in the
Egyptian economy. The Project would also assist in the development and strengthening of an
institutional framework which would ensure that all further developments in the sector take place in
an environmentally sound manner. Additional benefits from the Project would be: (a) improved
opportunities for private sector investments in the tourism industry, (b) higher foreign exchange
eamings for the country; (c) increased employment both in the tourism industry itself, as well as in
industries which serve tourism, such as food processing and small-scale enteprises and (d) arresting
the environmental degradation taking place in some of the adjoining tourism areas. The Project
would have a demonstration effect in mobilizing the private sector for financing, building and
operadng infrastructure which has traditionally been undertaken by the Government. If successful,



-29-
the experience would be valuable for C3OE in pursuing the strategy of promoting private sector
participation in public services in other sectors such as water supply, power and telecommnunications.
5.02        Once fully developed by about year 2002, ASD and SHBD would add about 4,500
roomfs in hotel capacity. Assuming an occupancy rate of 70% and a net foreign exchange expenditure
of US$100 per day (excluding airfares), foreign exchange generated by the two area development
projects would be about US$230 million per year. In addition, as a result of the additional berthing
facilities, about 80 crise ships of a capacity of 70 rooms each would be operating, generating another
additional 5,600 rooms. Assumning an occupancy rat of 76% and a net forcign exchange expenditure
of US$50 per day, foreign exchange generated by Nile cruises would be about US$150 million per
yea.
5.03        The Project would also expect to provide direc employment to about 12,000 and
indirect emnployment to about 20,000 people. Since the salaries in the tourism sector are on an
average almost twice that of the national average, the employment prospects would prove
considerably attractive to the population in Hurghada and Safaga, the two town centers closest to the
development areas. Furthermore, given the size of tourist developmnents and the fact that employment
would be year round, the Project would help promote the growth of secondary cities, and thus slow
down migration to Cairo, Luxor and Aswan. The average employment for women in the tourism
sector, both public and private, is around 17% compared to the national average of 12 %. Although in
the remnote areas, as evident from the emnployment statstcs for Sinai Region and the Red Sea, thins
average is around 14%, the Project would provide increased opportunities for the employment of
womien and would be, able to attrac a higher numnber of women since employee housing and other
commuiunit services would be provided in the Red Sea developments.
5.04        The extensive Red Sea coral reefs are the most complex and valuable habitat in the
Red Sea in termns of richness of species, endermisnm, diversity and ecological functioning. They are
not only invaluable on a sitespecial local scale but are also critical to the overall functioning and health
of the entire Red Sea, as well as representing a truly unique global resource. Protection of the
Egyptian reefs and other coastal habitats& and actions to mitigate pollution of the. semi-enclosed Red
Sea waters would not only benefit the people of Egyt but also the riparia nations as well as provide
an example of integrated management that is needed on coastal areas worldwide. The Project would
make a significant contribution to the global achievements in protecting coral reefs, endemic island
wild Iffe and diverse marine environments. The associated GEF project would be the first of this
scale, in the region. This approach would be adaptable in other Red Sea countries through the regional
framework being developed by UNDP and with a p-arlel GEF project in Yemen.
B.   Flnancial and Economic Analysis
5.05        The modular, decentralized approach proposed for the infrastructure in the Red Sea
would be the least cost solution at this stage for the remnote zones. Analysis was carried out for an
alternative solution involving the construction of a pipeline somrcing water from the Nile from Qena
to Safaga. The analysis demonstrated that such a large investmnent at this stage would not be
financially and economically viable given the projected density of population in the area. If tourist
arrivals would materialize as projected, it is expected that a larger system would be required by the
year 2000. By that time, the desalination plants constructed under the proposed Project would reach
the end of their economnic life. GOE has'no plans to extend the national electrical grid systemn to the
area for similar reasons. In telecommunications, public facilities are adequate for the resort
developments and thus no additional public investmets are envisaged. Under the Project, public
roads to project sites are adequate, and public funds would be require mainly for maintenace, which
would be provided by. GOE under its road maintenance program The private sector would be



*30-
responsible for constructing access roads to various facilities within their developments, and thus no
public investnents would be required over the life of the Project.
5.06        An analysis of the financial and economic performance of the two sub-projects ASI)
and SHBD is provided below. Since cost and revenues of these two sub-projects during the ;econd
phase would be revised based on the performance of the sub-projects from the first phase, the
analysis is resticted to the first phase of the loans. Separate financial analysis has been carried out for
infrastructe and superucture components as the constitution of the shareholders is different for
both (paras. 3.09 and 3.12). The economic analysis, however, is performed for the integrated sub-
projects. Details of assumptions and calculation for the analysis are provided in Annexes 4 and 5,
respectively.
Abu Soma Sal DeXelognlt CoM=![
5.07        Rnuesm    There are three main sources of revenue for ASD: (i) Utiliv rMnm:
These are based on the consumption of four hotels, vilas, condos, marinas that would be built and
commissioned under Phase I. Direct utility rates charged are based on an analysis of the unit cost of
production of each type of utility, plus a suitable profit margin; (ii) Dividends: These would be
received from ASD's share in the hotels. ASD would have an aggregate pardcipation of about 50% in
the equity of the four hotels of Phase 1 equivalent to the value of developed land contdbuted to the
hotels and straight equity. A dividend payout ratio of 95% is assumed for the analysis. Hotel room
rates are assumed at US$100 for a five-star hotel and US$80 for a four-star resort. The former
would reach 70% of occupancy rate, and the latter 80% by year 4 of opertion; and (iii) PevelMd
1mndL Revenues from the sale of any piece of developed land would be collected in the form of a 40%
down-payment, followed by two anmual installments of 30% each. MOT would receive 50% of the
profit from the sale of land other han that which is contributed to the hotels as equity-in-kind. Annex
4 provides a detailed outline of the land sales plan and prices as envisaged by ASD, resulting from
the development of the initial 1.5 million m2. The current market price of land in Hurghada and
Sharm El Sheikh ranges from iE- 150 to LE 350/ m2. Developed land is estimated to be sold to the
hotels at LE 100-180m2. Land sold for the development of other superstructure such as villas,
chalets, et. would be sold at a pice of LE 230/rn2 for 1993. The plan assumes dtat the price of land
would appreciate by 5% annually in real terns, strtng from 1993, although appciation on the price
Of lan4 for compaable developments in the nearby areas has been observed to be much higher.
5.08        Annual Operating Cost. ASD's annual operating costs are those attributed to the
production and distibuton of electricity, water desalination and distibution, waste water drainage
and treatment, and the operations and maintenance of 768,000 m2 of shared facilities as
conununication network, roads, public grounds, and irrigation network. The unit cost of producing
each kwh of power and each cubic meter of potable and recycled water, considering labor, fuel,
lubricants, maintenance, and depeciation of fixed assets would amount to LE 0.28/kwh for power,
LE 5.7/m3 for potable water, and LE 1.9/m3 for recycled water. Furthermore, ASD would incur an
annual expense of about US$0.64 million (LE 2.11 million) associated with the operations and
maintenance of the 768,000 m2 of hared facilities.
5.09        ASD's Financial Pefgormance. Table 10 below summarizes the financial
performance of ASD for the next ten years in constant tems. The proposed utility rates (Table 11)
are assumed to remain constant for the life of the sub-project. Under the assumption of land sales as
indicated above, ASD would be able to service its debt with the proposed utility charges These rates,
though, imply a healthy margin for ASD, and compare favorably to the current rates in the area.
ASD should be able to increase its revenues by captuing a higher market value for its developed



-31-
land, and selling more utlities to future superstucte facilities such as villas, condos, marinas, and
employee housing.
Table: 10
AI,u Sgma Rav &gsncM CZ.
Ea= I - ll      cA (IO..O  ml,
Prolietions  of  Financial  Performange  (Rase  Cnse)
Saw of llIlee               1.66  3.46  3.67 3.84 3.94  3.94 3.94  3.94 3.94 3.94 3.94
DMden Inoomeftom Hatel      1.21   5.72 4.97 4.19 4.48  4.78 5.1S  5.69 8.78 10.62 11.01
Sale of DeedLandp"          fJZIi 2.2 LZ   Loo ag 2 a          2lm am   I Lo  ooo La
TotaRevenuesS$muon   3.24  10.78 11.65 10.73  9.81  8.73 9.10  9.64 12.73 14.66 14.95
Opeatng Epnses /2           L4   1Z1  &U L Z S      za  IZQ  L72 2  AIm  LIZ  L50   i.Q
Not Income                  2.39  2.01  2.90 2.26  1.65 0.92 3.66  4.52 7.95 10.15 10.87
Total0ebt eSvloeOblgstls     0.00  2.08  1.92 1.27  1.14  1.00  1.03  1.17 2.02 2.89  2.97
DOebtServleCoveRatRo        0.00  2.30 2.53 2.44  2.42  2.38 2.87  3.66 6.21  9.07 12.13
/1 Assumes ASO mnage. to see 1t0A of the slble lad area, in addton to the land used by hotes, and that MOT would rean
50% of the prom  from such sale
/2 inudin depmeatIn & aonwftzion.
5.10 Table 11 summarizes financial and economic performance of infrastructure and
superstucture developments under Phase L Both inrastructure and superstructure investments are
econonically viable, with an aggregate rate of return of about 15%. The hotels' shareholders would
earn a real return on equity of about 16%. For a purely infastructe company, ASD's shareholders
would realize an acceptable ad return on their equity investment of about 6%, excluding potential
capital gains from its share in the hotels. This is exprained by the fact that ASD's infrastructure
facilities are more than adequate for 15 million m2 and that it srould need to sell more land during
Phase I to increase the return to shareholders. If ASD would shift land from the golf course to sell
additional villas and condos, the return on equity would improve to about 10%. The upside potental
for retr  on equty is robust as ASD expands its development to Phase II, and sells more land.
Furthermore, GOE has firm plans in the near future to begin a regular ferry service across the Red
Sea.
Table:  11
Abu So=t RAy Dlaudq=nna  Co.
Financial and Economic Results
POUW ozmb)                           0.40
Po*s  Wat                           11.00
PAW/dWad f W JwRm5) 5.00
Ssnke Few OUXh)                      4.50
ASD - Mmn Dst Suvie Cover Mato (MS   1.00
ASO - Retun an Equilyb MM6.2SK
ASD -Om aoow  SM/ "                 22.6%
Holk- AverGOP                     "44.9%
Mdeb - R,Zum an Equly QRR)          15.7%
i*Eoo"" . P91M18.0%
itmns  Prk*ed IRR_          15.0%
it All out and bandit stam  in Economi DRR ¢aduaios
weae ad*usto elImit tae, dt, sad pieog



-32-
between Safaga and Saudi Arabia. This would most definitely serve to boost tourism demand in the
Red Sea area, and provide an upward pressure on land prices.
5.11          Sensititv Anais. Sensitivity analysis measures the effect of lower hotel occupancy
rates and room rates. Table 12 summarizes the results of the analysis. The results indicate that while
the economic IRR of the sub-project is acceptable, the debt service capacity of ASD is highly
sensitive to the pessimistic scenario of lower hotel room rates (US$90 and US$70 per room for five
and four-star hotels, rspectively) and lower hotel occupancy by about 10%. This could be addressed
by higher utility rates, or conversion of land reserved for the golf course to land for villas and hotels,
both of them would still be in line with those in the markeL The financial performance of ASD
would be monitored closely during project implementation to ensure that ASD is able to service its
debt to TDA.
Table: 12
Abu Soana Day Develpoment Co.
Resul* of SaiSiNZ1 Angoir
BaSS    W        Rai Hdsl2o_             215 000
.'                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m2 sod
Occpancy L                 ,wk      ease   Bsue   s      .10%   -10%       Sas
Hotel Room RatP (UWnW):l
"-star            $100.00  90.00  00.00 100.00 100.00    100.00
4-star              60.00  70.00  70.00  80.00  60.00      60.00
Pb"nr "AEKMh)                       0.40   0.40   0.68   0.40   0.68       0.40
Water (LiS)                        11.00  11.00  18.28  11.00  19.00      11.00
Recyded Water LE3)                  5.00   6.00   5.00   5.00   5.00       S.00
Swvio Few LAn2)                     4.50   4.50   4.50   4.50   4.60       4.50
ASD- lMlDSbtSewvi.C RoveRbo (DSO    1.00   0.79   1.00   0.80   1.00       1.29
ASO - Nbnr d yess DCFk1A.0             0      4      0      4      0         0
ASD - Rswnona Eqiy(FRR              6.2%   8.2%   6.5%   3.2%   6.7%      10.0%
ASD-EoMlo9xlRR                     22.6%   19.2%  22.9%  19.8%  23.1%     29.1%
Fasb*- Mhdmu nDSCR                  1.57   1.37   1.26   1.41   1.30       1.57
Hotl -Nwmwbe dtysmOSCRd1.0             0      0      0      0      0         0
Hotek-AvermaeGOP                   44.9%   44.1%  41.0%  44.7%  41.7%     44.9%
Fk*s - PRbtun an Equity (MM        15.7%   11.9%  10.0%  12.7%  10.8%     15.7%
Hotsib-EonomnbIRR                  18.0%   15.4%  14.0%  15.9%  14.6%     18.0%
Annual atycoss %   ht  gss revenues  5.9%    6.7%   9.7%   6.0%   9.0%     5.9%
5.12         Revenu, There are three main sources of revenue for SHBD: (i) Udlitv Revenues:
Utility revenues for Phase 1A are based on the sales to three hotels, villas and chalets, and manrnas. In
addition, there would also be comrmnity charges for maintenance of about 882,500 m2 of shared
public areas. Utility charges similar to those of ASD are also assumed for SHBD; (ii) Devedped
Llnu Annex 5 provides a detailed outline of the land sales plan and prices as envisaged by SHBD,
resulting from the development of the initial 2 million m2. Developed land is estimated to be
contibuted to the four-star resort at a conservative rate of LE 90/m2. and LE 100/M2 to the five-star
hotels. Land sold for the development of other superstructure such as villas, chalets, etc. would be
sold at a market price based on a price of LE 230/m2 for 1993. The plan assumes that the price of
land would appreciate,by 5% annually in constant terms, starting from 1993, although the
apprciation of comparable land in nearby areas has been higher, and (iii) Dividends: SHBD would



-33-
have an aggregate participation of about 50% in the equity of the three hotels of Phase Ia. SHBD
would contribute the full value of land in the five-star hotels, and 50% of the value of land for the
four-star resort, as equity-in-kind. A dividend payout ratio of 95% is assumed for the analysis.
5.13         Annual Onerating Costs.    SHEBD's annual operating costs are for the production
and distribution of electricity, water desalination and distribution, waste water drainage and treatment,
and the operations and maintenance of 882,500 m2 of shared facilities as communication network,
roads, public grounds, and irrigation network. The unit cost of producing power and potable and
recycled water, considering labor, fuel, lubricants, maintenance, and depi;ciation of fixed assets
would amount to LE 0.28/kwh for power, LE 8.11/r3 for potable water, and LE 3.52/m3 for
recycled water. Furthermore, SHBD would incur an annual expense of about US$0.71 million (LE
2.3 milion), associated with the operations and maintenance of the shared facilities.
5.14         SLhLEiacial ECCaMMce. Tables 13 summarize SHBD's projected financial
performance for the first 10 years of operation. The table demonstrates, that at the proposed utility
rates which compare favorably to those observed in the area, and under the assumption of land sales
as indicated above, SHBD would be able to fuly cover its debt service obligations. The utility cost to
the hotels represents about 8.6% of the hotel's gross annual revenues, compared with the industry's
average of about 5%. The proposed udlity rates are assumed to remain constant over the life of the
sub-project. In reality, however, SHBD may very well be able to charge higher utility rates and
capture a higher maret value for its developed land. SHBD would have an after tax loss during the
fit year of operation, but would earn substantial profits dunng the later years.
Tabk: 13
Sai  Hakheesu  Day  Developmeat Co.
Phai Ia. hrasIcbau  (2.000.000 m2)
Pm cmofinacd  Perform4nce (ose Case)
Sale  Ul"ts               0.73  2.90 3.22 3.42 3.58 3.58 3.58  3.58 3.58 3.58 3.58
O*Dhendn oome f rom Hotb¢d  0.00  3.09 2.71 3.57 4.10 3.53 3.61  4.21 6.54 8.16 8.25
al diDeveloped Landw I    &Aa  4.9S  5Ln 85 Z    L " 18   OMi1  OSS ILl  oun  ooo
Tot.JRev.nues-$mIOn  3.61 10.92 11.79 11.56 9.53 7.60 7.70  8.14 10.21 11.74 11.88
-Operaing &P91eM  2       1     AZ 4.8 L0    Li  L2 L5-20    £21Am £2   1 £21 A2M
Not lnome                 0.68  4.87 5.79 5.63 3.74 1.99 3.20  3.87 6.20 8.07 8.63
T*tW  . Se.vo Oblgaftlms  1.28  2.80 .3.06 2.01 1.61 1.23 1.23  1.31 2.06 2.43 2.46
DeomSWeAN oewRaft         1.28  3.43 3.78 3.80 3.28 2.74 3.08  3.75 5.77 8.26 10.95
1 famee SHBD O  ase to . 100% of the delopd bnd area, In addmon to the land used by hotels, and ta MOT would rtain
60% of h proft from Such _aes.
/2 Inoudhng depratifon & uotalon.
5.15         Table 14 below  summarizes financial and economic performance for both
infiucwture and superstrucure conmonents. Based on the above assumptions, the development of
Phase la would be economicaUy viable, with a rate of return of about 22%. The real rate of return to
SHBD equity shareholders is 10%, excluding potential capital gains from its share in the hotels.
However, the upside potential for higher retuns on equity is robust, as the assumptions used for the
analysis are based on conservative estmates of utility rates and land sales in the Red Sea area today.
If SHBD is successful in mobilizng resources for a fourth club resort in Phase Ia, the real rate of
return to SHBD would improve to about 13%. Retum to hotel shareholders is about 17% compared
to the 12-15% range customarily observed for many hotels in Egypt.



-34-
Table: 14
Phase la (2,000O00 m2)
Financial  and  Economle  Re.Ults
Prooge mUgiqty Ratfn
Power (LEIKWh)                        0.40
Po"ab Water ( $nS)                   11.00
Recyded Water (LI-.i)                 6.00
Seevl Fees (LEI)                      4.50
8D0- A. DeW Seu  Cor Raio (0SCR)      1.23
8HBD - Reum aon equIty (IRR)         10.4%
*H30 EmoMteIIRR/I                    27.7%
Hotob - Avere GIOP                   44.4%
Hoelb - Rom on equlty (IRR)          17.1%
Hatels - rEm   IRR                   19.0%
MtWd P          IRR                  22.0%
/1 Al cot md befit stas in Emic hR cauaions
wme adjusted to elnae tes duties, and pixce contences.
5.16    Sen d Analvss. Similar sensitivity analysis is conducted for SHBD (ie., lower hotel and
occupancy rates), and the results are summarzed in Table 15 below. The results show that while the
economic IRR at both infastructure and s       rstuctue level is acceptable (above 12%), however, the
debt service coverage mio on the TDA debt would be at a low level of 1.0 during one or two years of
project operations. As mentioned above, however, SHBD could charge higher utiy rate, or
altematively, add another 4-Star club resort. Financial performance of SHBD would be closely
monitored during implementation.
ha&e I1 (200.14 n2)
Resaf of Se&tbb Ax4lvsk
) ,,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~JU                                 Hb  Ram   H
omp _sc 8oaas$                                  on        -10%
Hoel Room Rat (UStht):
S-star              $100.00       90.00    100.00
4-star                80.00       70.00     80.00
5
Power Q.EKh)                           ∞*0.40     0.40       0.40
Water OEMn)                           11.00      11.00      11.00
Recyepd Water LERnO)                   5.00       5.00       S.00
Sevice Few   ima)                      4.50       4.50       4.50
8HBODMhMLDWS S. Com rPalo(DSCF         1 .23       1.01      1.01
OHM -Numberof yam0CR1.0                   a          0         0
SHOD - P_man Equity (MM               10.4%       7.2%       7.1%
SI0-r-* I,M                           27.7%      25.3%      25.2%
Hoes - Mltum OSOR                     1.57        1.37      1.41
Hes - Nwnbew o yeen DSCk1.0               0          0          0
Hoabus-AvwageOP                       44.4%      43.3%      44.1%
Hstb - ARm an Eqly (I)                17.1%      13.6%      14.2%
Hie-BeonoIrdoIRR                      19.0%      16.5%      16.9%
Aual utl  onts as % d hotelsM  woren   6.6%       9.6%       8.8%



-35-
Red Se Cogs Infrastrugbl S
5.17        This component would consist of the water supply and waste water collection and
treatment system to serve the South Hurghada area, and the solid waste collection and disposal
facilities to serve the area from Hurghada to Safaga, including the developments at Ras Abu Soma
and Sahl Hasheesh. IThe construction of these systems is expected to start in 1994 and completed by
end 1996. Due to the existing shortage of water in the South Hurghada area, the full capacity of the
water supply system being installed under this project is expected to be utilized within the first three
years. Additional water production facility would have to be constructed thereafter. The sewerage
treatment facility is also intended to be constructed in stages so that capacity can be extended as the
need arises. The solid waste facilty will be sufficient to serve the need for the next twenty five years.
Provision has been made for renewal costs for both water and sewerage components at 2% of initial
cost every five years, and at 5% for the solid waste component.
5.18        The tariff for combined water supply and sewerage has been assumed at LE12/m3 of
water consumption. This is less than the cost incurred by present hotel owners in the South
Hurghada area for water supply alone and is also comparable to the tariff proposed to be charged by
both the ASD and SHBD in their respective developments. For solid waste, the tariff assumed is
LE1 10/ton of collected waste. This would be an acceptable charge based on discussions with hotel
owners in the area. Based on these assunmptions, the economic rate of retun for the above investment
will be about 11% (Annex 11), which is the nunimum measure of the benefits accruing from tzie
Project. Given the scarcity of water in the project area and the very poor condition of the sewage and
solid waste collection systems, there is little or no possibility of the facilities not being used.
Sensitivity tes  were, however, carried out in case the implementation of the project is delayed by up
to 2 yeas. The rate of return fals to about 8%. This, however, does not account for the various other
benefits associated with the project which are difficult to quantify. The tourist facilities would have
adequate quantities of clean water which would be health wise beneficial for both the tourists and the
workers in these establishments. The costs of producing water at individual hotels which is rather
expensive, and transportng water from distant places would be avoided. The provision of sewerage
would allow tourist establishments to avoid expensive investments in septic tank maintenance and
construction of additional facilites. The solid waste investments would contribute to the overall
improvement in the environmental conditions and the general appearance of the area which is so
essential for tourism.
Ifile Beathng Facilities
5.19        A total of 73 additional cruise ship berths will be constructed at two major sites
(Aswan and Luxor) and four minor sites (Dandara, Esna, Edfu and Kom Ombo). These berths will
be provided with facilities which will enable then to supply the cruise ships with water supply,
sewerage, power supply and solid waste disposal facilities. The berthing areas will also have
restarnts and small shops to catr to the tourists. For demonstatig te economic viability of this
component, the facilides at Aswan has been seleced. There will be fourteen berths and it is assumed
that the berths will be occupied at least 300 nights a year. This is a conservative estimate given the
presently serious overcrowding at all of the berthing facilides on the Nile River, with 5 or 6 cruise
ships having to parlr in parallel at each of the exsting berths at the peak of the tourist season. It is
assumed that the cLArge for berthing at these sites will be LE700/day. There will be an additional
income of LEIOO/day from each ship for the provision of water supply, sewerage, power and solid
waste disposal services and an income of LE 125/day per ship from the restaurants and shops. The
berthing chages assumed are about 25 perent higher dan the present charges. However the services
provided would be much better than available at present and the ship owners are willing to pay them.
Based on these assumptions the economic rate of return of this component is estimated at 21%
-49 -                                     A  _ A



-36-
(Annex 11). The period of construction has been assumed at three years based on engineering
estimates. Even if construction were to be delayed by up to two years, the ERR would still be over
16 percent. These ERRs are also based on only the quantifiable benefits of the Project. There will be
many other benefits, e.g. the reduction in the pollution of the Nile river, fewer incidence of water
borne diseases, employment creation, and increased convenience and comfort for the tourists, which
are unquantifiable.
C. Project Risks
5.20        The implementation of the proposed Project would be complex, with a need to
coordinate the actions of a broad range of parties: ministries, agencies, governorates, conunercial
banks, private investors, and contractors. Given the dispersed nature of the work, there are some
risks of delays in implementation. The areas to be developed under the Project are environmentally
sensitive and must therefore be protected against any possibilities of environmental degradation.
There is also a longer term risk associated with the volatile tourism sector where a political crisis in
the region could affect tounst traffic to Egypt, and an econonmc crisis could discourage private sector
investments in the sector.
5.21        The strengthening and expansion of TDA being undertaken under the Project would
ensure an integrated approach to the development of the tourism sector as a whole and would
particularly focus on achieving coordination among the various parties involved In the Project Steps
are being taken to ensure that TDA is staffed with suitably qualified professionals in critical areas and
arrangements have been made so that the Project, at least in the initial stages, would be closely
superised by the Bank. The private sector would be impl.menting major parts of the Project, and
since it is within their interest to complete the construction of infrastructure and superstucture on
time, this should minimize delays in project inplemention. Fnally, historical data has shown that
Egypt's tourism sector has shown strong recovery in the aftemath of political crisis that affect
tourism  As Egypt continues to mainin macroeconomic stability and pursues reforms to deregulate
the economy, it is expected that private sector investments would continue to grow, partcularly mn the
touinsm sector.
5.22        Until recently the Government has shown a limited understanding and support for
integrted decision making which is required to plan and manage vulnerable coastal resources.
Consequently, it is essential that TDA, EEAA and the Governorate of Red Sea staff retain
eerienced and qualified staff to work in these remote areas. Environmental regulations which exist
have not been enforced properly. Tbese risks would be reduced under the Project by the preparation
of a CZM Plan, and by developing a plan for cooperation and joint action among the various
concerned agencies to protect the coastal resources of the Red Sea. The Project will contribute funds
to assist in creang a core team with the adequate expertise and experience to fulfill the objectves of
the Project and to train alarge number of local staff in various aspects of CZ:M Studies would be
carred out under the Project to develop sources of recurrent funding to support CZM actvities in a
sustinable manner.
D. Environmental Impact
5.23        The coastal zones of the Egyptian Red Sea are known for their extensive coral reefs,
mangrove swamps and extremely diverse marine life. These unique and highly fragile coastal
ecosystems are a valuable resource and the very reason why tourists are attracted to coastal Egypt.
The Nile Valley, with its abundance of antiquities, and cruising along the Nile have been traditional
attactions for tours. The developments on the Red Sea coast and on the Nile River to be carried
out under the Project were classified as Category A environmental projects and detailed EIAs were



-37-
carried out for all of them. Mitigatory measures to be undertaken, both during construction and
operation, were proposed. A summary of the EIAs and the proposed mitigatory measures are in
Annex 12. The studies indicated that the Project would be an enhancement to the environment and
would not have any signifh;ant harmful effects. Furst, the approach pursued in attracting private sector
investments in the area under the Project is aimed at long-term development of the area in an
environmentally sound manner. Second, TDA has developed environmental guidelines consistent
with the Bank guidelines to be used for approving private sector proposals which would be further
refined under the GEF component of the Project. With GEF support, capacity would be built up
within TDA and EEAA in its environmental assessment capacity and in monitoring the
environmental situation along the entire Red Sea coast on a regular and continuous basis. In addition,
through a CZM plan, the Project would help establish protected areas and practical regulations for
managing marine recreation resources. Third, the construction of additional berlhing facilities along
the Nile River with adequate water supply, liquid and solid waste disposal facilities, and power supply
would reduce the pollution created by the cruise ships which is a hazard to public health.
Improvements in navigational aids would promote safety standards and procedures.
VI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01        Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Loan would be:
(a)   the issue of a Ministerial decree to liberalize all prices affecting tourist services (para
3.04); and
(b)  the effectiveness of the GEF Grant Agreements (para 3.21); and
6.02        Conditions of disbusement for the two private sector area development sub-projects
woud be the effectiveness of the Loan Agreements between TDA and ASD and SHBD, respectively
and the fulfillment of conditions specified under the secity arangeents (para 3.35).
6.03        The following additional agreements have also been reached:
(a)   TDA would undertake a study on land allocation policy by June 30, 1993. Based on
the recommendations of the study, TDA would implement a new land allocation policy by
December 31, 1993 after consultation with the Bank (para 3.05);
(b)   MOTITDA would prepare a plan for improving safety regulations for Nile cruises by
December 31, 1993, and implement measures recommended by the study to enforce such
regulations after consultation with the Bank (para. 3.07);
(c)   TDA would furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1993, proposals for the
*             assignment to private sector sponsors for the construction, operation and management of the
Red Sea infrastrucure and Nile berthing facilities. TDA may execute this component with
public resources if the private sector fails to conclude its financing. However, TDA would
arrange for operation and maintenance of the facilities by the private sector (paa 3.19);
(d)   a mid-term implementation review would take place for each of the private sector area
development sub-projects based on their updated feasibility study for the second phase, and
disbursement would take place for contua  under this phase only when the Bank approves
the updated feasibility study (para 3.37);
(e)   reporting rquits for TDA (para 3.52); and



-38-
(f)   stwting in its fiscal year 1992-93: (i) TDA woud maintain its overall accounts in an
approprat format acceptable to the Bank; (ii) that these accounts would be audited annually
by independent and experienced auditors acceptable to the Bank; (iii) that the auditors would,
in addition to the overall audit report for the TDA, prepare and submit a separate opinion on
the accuracy and appropriateness of the project accounts (including Special Account) to be
maintained by the TDA., and (iv) that the annual audit report and the report on the project
accounts would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year
(para 4.07).
i r*
AC 
_   , .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.                                                        .~~~~~~~~~



0~~~~~~~~~~4
I        I   ., '1''L I     ' 
* ~II            iii X ** *      
g g g . t ¢[t tt   g    g I g .  |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X~~~~i [It  X^KX   
lbW    lii                    III Wgt   8
,                  s        E  , ~~~~~~
.,         t                      |  , I  I 
_ _ _,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _i ,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  



- 40 -                           A_C"
Page 1 of 3
EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LAND ALLOCATION POLICY
TERM OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANCY SERVICES
1.         Under Law 7 of 1991, the Government of Egypt (GOE) has granted the Tourism
Development Authoity (IDA) with the authoity to develop land in the touist zone, including the
nght to allocate and sell undeveloped land to private sector for toursm development TDA policy
has been to allocate undeveloped land to private developers for a nominal price with a condition
that the area would be developed according to the master plan acceptable to MOT. The actual
transfer of tide does not tak place undl the area is developed. At that time, TDA would have a
claim to 50% of the sale proceeds after deducting the cost of providing inrasuc. This policy
is aimed at encoragig private sector pardicpation in the remote areas, and at the same tme,
protects pubLc intet and the  one     Given this objective, MOT would need to strike a
balance between public polcy and procedures which may result in lockdng away tract of land
which could be gainfully and ima vely developed by the private sector and those which may
lead to land speculadon and accusatons of giving away public land. Ihus, TDA has decided to
launch a study, with the as6sn of dte World Bank, to review the existg policy and pracdtes,
and with redts based o inional experece, to recommend to the Boad of Dhectors a
modMe policy.
2.          The study would have the following objectives:
(a)   Define a long-term stmegy for TDA for an tecien land development polcy in the
remote tourist zones.
(b) Articulate land allocation options taking into account experiences from other
counis with similar problems (e.g. Mexico, Spain, Turty).
(c)   Detail pnciples and procedures for a land allocation policy for Egpt that would
attract foreign and local pnvate capital, genrat appropriat revenues for the
Govermen, and promote envimally sound developmen
(d)   Prepare pro-foma contacts t  would be used in land transaction negotiations
between IDA and private sector.
The study would be undertak  in two phases: Phase I would analyze the curent situation in
Egypt and inteao eperiences to arrive a long-tem strategy for land development and land
aLon for TDA. On te basis of the agreement between the Bank, TDA, and consultants on
the results of Phase I, work would condnue in Phase II to outline the principles and procedur to
be established, and the drfting of proforma contracts.



-41-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
ScoLI of 
3.          Phase I - Atilation of a lonL-temi s grate,v and allocation options:
(a)   review of curnent laws, policies, practices, and contacts that affect land
development in the remote zones.
(b)   interview concemed public and private sector on the pros and cons of current
policies and ptices.
(c)   analyze internatonal experiences (e.g. Mexico, Spain, and Turkey) including the
following aspect:
(i)   objectives of their respective land development policy,
(ii)  the role of public and privat sector in developing remote areas for tousm;
(jii) regulatory framework and the nature of regulation (price, environment,
development and implement- donal stndards, etc.);
(iv)  pocedue for tafering land ownehip from the public to prvate sector
and its impLcation on atmctig pnvate capital; and
(v)   basis of pcig land, particulady publc land in remote areas, cost recovery
for iasre, and fiscal aspects of to;urim and land development.
(d)   on the basis of the above analysis, recommend options for land development policy
in the remote tourist zones in Egypt, and analyze the pros and cons of each
(e)   define an appropriate long-term land development stategy for TDA and its
implicationon the current policy, organization and procedurs.
4.          PhaseII -- Definition of grinciples and procedus for recommended land
AUallcao ogficv ai nd ofs.
(a)   Define principles to be used in allocatng land to private sector icluding
*                    (i)  enate of land allocation (e.g. lease, conditional sale, or outright transfer of
ownersip);
(ii)   mtd  to be used (e.g. auction, negodation, etc.);
(iO)  price detenn   (e.g. cost plus, market price minus cost, auctioning
price);
(IV)    ment of capital.gains (taxation, lump sum tranfer to TDA, royalty,
etc.; and



42                                Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
(v)   tansfer of tide of ownership to private sector.
(b) Prepare a policy statement for IDA outlining the govenmment policy and proc&dures
to be followed dth could be used in atacting private capital into the remote tourist
areas based on results in Phase I and Phase 1;
(c)   Draft pro-forma contracts that would be used by TDA in land transaction
negotations with the prvate sector, and
(d)   Prepare a brochure outlining land development guidelines, standards and criteria
latve to each recoended developmet piop .
5.          The study would be conducted by a reputable consulting finn with extensive
experience in land and real ate development, particularly for tourism. The finm is expected to
associate with local consuants, partcularly in the legal areas to help define a policy that would be
aceptable under the existg legislation, or if theme is a need for its modificatin, to help establish
the proces for its impltao  The following experse would be require&
(a)   Financial economist
(b)   Real esd e development ewert with exerience in developing countries
(c)   Lal epert
. . 



-43 -
Page I of 2
EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
NILE CRUISE SHIP OPEATIONS
STUY FOR TAIC CONTROL, NAVIGATIONAL AI AND SAFETY SYSMS
TERMS OP O
1.          Tourim is the most rapidly frowing sector of fte Egyptian economy. One of the
most atractive featres of ourism in Egypt s the opon ofalmost 200 cruise ships on the Nile
River. Rapid growth im te number of wnise ships i the upper Nile is accompanied by certain
problems wbich endanger the health, safety, and convenience f touists and ship's crews, and if
left unmsolved, could become an impedinient to te grwth of touism. These problems are:
(a)   lack ofprper affc regulations and traffic control systems which cause severe
c    n  at cin imes at berts and locks;
(b)   absence of proper navigational aids for caise ship opeations;
(c)   lack of proper fire safety systems on cruiseships and at berths, and weak
efrcementosafeyr ations;
(d)   lack of enforcement of regulations related to solid and liquid waste disposal from
the crue ships.
2.          TIe Tourism Development Authoity (IDA) is the pincpal agency responsible for
pianning and pmoing tourism in Egypt  DA has, with the assistance of consultants, prepared a
Priority Actdon Plan for developing infrastructure wbich will support the growth of tourism in
Egyp. InI addition to prposals for mrsuctural investments, the Action Plan has also idenffied
the need to develop a management plan for taffic regulation on the Nile river, installation of
navigational aids, and pollu control and safety measures Consulta have prepared technical
proposals to address these issues. TDA now wishes to iitiate a study which wil result in the
formuladon of an insttutonal framework for the implementaton of the taffic regulation,
navigaional aid, and fire hazard systems, and for the    ent of fire and health regulatons
and pollution control regulations.
*~SA    gf Work
3.          The wodc would consist of the following:
(a)   review the tncal proposals prepared by consltants with rspect to taffic control
system, naviptdonal aid system, and tho fre hazad system and propose any
alteratin or mproements deemed necessqr,
(b)   eamine the jurisdiction and peomance o sting gover  ant institutions with
either direct or indirect responsibilites wihh respect to raic management and
enf m    of safety and pollution standars



- 44 -
Page (2 of 2)
(c)   evaluate the adequacy of the legal framework within which these institutions
operMe; and
(d)   propose an institutional framework to implement and opeme a proper system of
utac control and navigadon aids, and enforce safety and pollution standards,
taking into account delineatng role for public and pivate sectr
4.          After consultaons with TDA and the World Bank on the recommended istutional
framework. the consultants will proceed with the prepaaon Of the deiled proposal wbich should
consist of.
(a)   organizational structure including representations of related or concerned
institutions;
(b)   changes in any existing legislation or any new legislation required;
(c)   staffing requrements (both the kind of staff and numbers); and)
(d)   identify the costs associated with the opeaions of these systems and propose
methods for recoverng them either dectdy or indirectly.
5.          The following staffing is expected to be   uiked to cazy out the above mentioned
tasks. One of die experts will be the Team LTader (prefeably the Orgnization Expert). Tbe.
consultant is encouraged to propose alternatives both in tea  compodon and the dme for which
they ar required.
Expert in marine taffic control and commniaos    -  4 weeks
E     in navigational aid systems                -  4 weeks
L gaexper                                        -  5weeks
Organizational expert                            -  5 weeks
Financia expert                                 -  4 weeks
5e*m3LBn A(artment
6.          The consulting team is expected to submit a draft report ne month after the start of
work to cover the scope of work specified under para 3. Afer approval of the report, consulLnts
will proceed with the remaining wor sted under para 4.



-45-
Page 1 of 27
EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Abu Soma Bay Development (ASD)
Ptoject Desciron & Land Use Mas Plan:
1.    The resort would be centrally located in the Hurghada-Saft region, some 40 kn south of
Hurghada The project is being developed by the Abu Soma Bay Development Company (ASD),
incorporated under Investment Law No 230 of 1989 with an authorized capital of LE 300 million
and issued capital of LE 25 million. The majority shareholding of the company is with the Egyptan
Finance Company, a well lnown and established company in Egypt ASD is the master developer
for the Abu Soma Bay site and has executed an agreement with the MOT whereby it has purchased
1 million m2 of land and has leased another 9 million m2 (with the right of purchase) on the Ras
Abu Sona peninsula. ASD has developed a comprehensive development plan approved by TDA.
Advanced discussions have been initiated with a view to finalize hotel management agreements for
the first two hotels with Robinson Club of Gemany and the Sheraton Hotel Group. ASI) would
pardcip  in the equity of hotels of around 29% mainly through contibution of developed land.
2.    The project would be implemented in stages, with the first stage consisting of the
development of 10 million m2. This stage is furt  sub-divided into two phases. Pha= I the
subject of this analysis, would consist of the development of 1.5 ndllion m2 of land and would
comprise all the basic infiastr-cture facilties, comprsing of a 300-room club resort, hee 5-star
botels (300 rooms each), 250 housing units, a boat marina, a retail and    ent town cent, a
9-hole golf course, and employee housing for 1500 staff. The constucon of this stage is envisaged
to begin in early 1993 for a period of about 3 years for the infastucte component and 4-5 years
for the four hotels. At the end of construction, ASD expects to seU about 165,000 m2 of developed
land, for the subsequent construction of 75 private vilas and 80 condominiums. In accordance with
the agreement between TDA and ASD, MOT would receive 50% of the profit from the sale of
developed land to third parties, with the exception of land sold to the hotel companies. Out of the 1.5
million m2, Phase I would have a total sellable area of about 690,000 m2 (including the 525,000
za2 for the 4 hotels) and the remaining 810,000 m2 in the form of public area (utlity center, beaches.
greens, golf course, roads and pavements), of which about 42,000 M2 would be rentable (marina
and employce housing). PA=   covering the remaiing 8.5 nillion m2 would be developed once
Phase I is at an advanced stage of operations, and would constitute six additional 5-star hotels, 125
villas, 120 condominiums, a second boat marina and housing for another 3500 employees. Out of
the 8.5 million m2, Phase II would have a total sellable arei of about 1,235,000 m2 and the
reanining 7,265,000 m2 in the form of public areas.
3.    ASD commissioned the frm of Aronson and Associates as architects and to prepare the
conceptual plans for the project. The local firm of Sabbour & Associates were retained, in
consultation with SKANSKA Inteonal (Sweden), as engineering and technical consultants to
produce the detailed drawings and cost estimates for the infrastructure facilities supporting the
proposed 10 hotels of Phases I and IL
Co" nia  vesmfnt & Proosd Fnancing Plan:
4.    The total cost of Phases I & 11 (10.0 million m2) is estmated at US$460 million (LE 1,532
million) and would consist of the development of infructure faciLities and ten prmary hotels. All



-46 -                                             Ar 4
Page 2 0f 27
hotel cost esdmates are based on sinilar projects with the same characteristics and located in the Red
Sea area. The investment costs of the hotels shown in the table below include the value of land
contributed by ASD as master developer, all pre-operadonal development costs. conununication and
alarm, air conditioning and service equipment, furniture, contingencies, Interest During Construction
(IDC) and related financing costs. Under Phase I, the average cost per room comes out to about
US$113,000 for a 5-star hotel and US$100,000 for a 4.star resort club. Approximately 48% of the
cost of infrastructure for the entire 10 million m2 envisaged to be completed during Phase I. As
master infrastucture developer, ASD would have a total capital requiremnnt of US$43 million for
Phase L Of this, about US$26 million is in fo pgn curency, while US$17 equivalent is in local
currency. The large local currency component is typical of such projects with significat locally
incurred expenses such as land, civil works, and localy sources equipment The foreign currency
costs are expected to be those of imported equipment for water de      on, waste water tatment,
power geneation and distibution, and commnicaton/tlephone systems
TAIME A-,
ABU SOMA DEVELOtPM    COMPANY
. PEASESI&U1
CAPITAL STRUCTURE & PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
Ptimei   ∂ .50o.o  ma              FWSUU   8.500.000 m12
CoglgudinPelok           1993-9-                            1996.
.oreign   Load     Tod                        Loa      Tdd
SsuPese|          -- ~11LMtlsm  LE       s I nflStm      uS          OW L  m
awe cad                      35.39   230.27   104.53             53.08   345.40   158.80
gWaddhg C4p2                  3.84    15.10      8.21             5.51    25.62    12.42
g Phydod Cbnonps"             1.15     5.18      2.83             1.73     8.28     4.25
RPke Can*Wpe                  4.11    49.20    18.8"             14.60   129.18    53.39
100 & Olh Fkwtdh C"_1I."  1JU                    La              LU       Ji6       LUf
Tod.  St 5plemttu0  45.87   307.15   138.11             77.S6   517.29   232.91
Faebn     Lood     Totd           -FLW tc              Tot
U9S~~~~~~~JLmmE LlJE E    Lstnffl                       LSSmflk   LJE miflli USSMO
LandFnxnG8E                            5.00      1.50                     28.31     8.60
CXphSoed Fw  pwJs Costs                8.00      2.40
wZe P""angkn & UnUMb 12      1= F #"    23L62    U4 8            1= 30    ±LU      29.Z4
84e CoaS    17.61    36.62    28.57             10.60    42.11    29.24
wnung C8vts /3                0.88     0.94      1.1t             0.63     0.69     1.04
PbydcZ CcMngslpy /4    ~      1.76     1.88      2.33             1.66     1.38     2.07
P*oe Co0nrpeny                1.34     7.83      3.69             4.7      S.S5     6.44
lOC&<etRe_c ~     ~       ~       ~ ~ Li LZ  Q  s    ,     s    U
ToldFlseqmedPhaencn  26.28    56.07    43.12             29.06    59.11    46.81
=JOE= LSSn     M EtmMona* -         tm U9im LEALm  imMm  Ta
EqPAY is                      0.11    40.60    12.30 28.53%      11.02    23.64    18.72 40.00%
Land Mot"" is                 0.00     4.46      1.34  3.10%
BRS0VDA Loan /7             226.17     5.46    27.81 64.80%      13.80    28.04    22.23 47.50%
Ftoww   Dom                                                       3.63              3.63  7.76%
Tdd Fbinmea    26.28    56.07    43.12100.00%      29.06    59.11    46.81 100.00%
/1  woses ar expoed to be fnan edby 50% equy and 0% debt.
2  ibliudes 8% duas on hupoited *qupnesL
13  Taken as S% of st peparain 6 utils nwesrmna  ed
/4  Taken as 10% of sit preperaton & ueWs lawsmeos osd
/5  AualhareddkonW eqt*y In toe ntrowe wod anmaw to about 50% Of the td otaltsbn ot ASO. hcdig AGOs
eqd y In do htodw     oop-aZ. in dof  et bnn d NW andcah hebeonMt 
A  80% d #h puretasve _     nd wouid be finaed In the fowm of deb Oand dead papmntWs) frm GWE
17 3RDM'A toeks _w 1h Io qon up to abnu 31* f ASVe >to capW  k ooo   heoso at *A vam of AS   o*y "in de hood compunhe



-47 -
Anne% 4
Page 3 of 27
5.    While about US$28 million of EBRDfrDA funds would be disbursed to ASD towards the
infrastructure component of Phase I during 1993-95, the remaining US$22 million would be
committed by MDA in favor of ASD subject to the successful implementation of Phase I and the
appraisal of Phase I. Of the US$28 million IBRDrTDA loan for Phase 1. about US$26 miLUion is
expected to be disbursed against foreign currency expenditures. The shareholders of ASD would
contribute direct equity funds of about US$12 million to cover capitalized pre-operational
development expenses, a 20% down payment for the purchased land from MOT, site
prepaaon/utilities costs, and non-lDC fincial costs. An additional US$34 million in the forn of
developed land and cash invesment would be contributed by ASD as equity in the proposed hotels.
bringing total equity to roughly 50% of ASDs capiton.
6.    Debt financing from local commercial sources was assumed to be repayed in foreign
curency and have an interest rate of 10%, a 3-year grace period effective from each drawdown, and
repayment over 6 years. The IBRDrrDA loan, in the case of ASD, would have a variable interest
rate of 10.5%, a 5-year grace period effcive from the date of loan commtment, and 20 semi-annual
repayments. Since the [BRD/TDA loan is expected to act as a catalyst to enable ASD to borrow
addidional funds from lkcal commercial banks, it would carry the subordinated feature and its interest
rate would reflect a subordination premium of 100 basis points. The IBRD/TDA loan to ASD
would bear no front-end fee but would have an annual coUitlent fee of 0.25% on the undisbursed
loan amount. 80% of the pizchase value of land acquired from MOT would be financed through a
5% GOE mortgage insumnt, having a grace period of 3 years with equal annual repayments over
a 7-year period.
7.    Te financial projections and analyses were made on phase I of development of 1.5 million
m2, with the aim of ascining the ability of ASD to generate sufficient income to: (i) cover their
operading and financing costs; and (i) sevice their debt obligations to TDA. As such, the cashflow
aralysis does not accommodate the investment requirements, operating expenses or revenues
associated with any development subsequent to the first phase, namely the 8.5 million m2 under
Phase 1I. The cashflow projections are conducted in 1992 constant terms and cover a period of 20
years. Expenditures under the financing plan were escalated using appropriate price contngencies.
Under Egypt's Investnent Law 230 of 1989, both superstructure and infrastructure components
would be exempt from income taxes for the first ten years of opemtions, and are taxed at a rate of
40% thereafter. Fixed assets were depreciated using a simple staight line depreciadon over 30 years
for hotel buildings and civil works, 15 years for ASD's utilidtes stations, and 10 years for furnture,
A/C and otr equipment in hotels. Capitalized pre-operdng development costs, IDC, and financing
cost were amortized over 5 yea  The exchange rate of LE 3.33/US$ was used.
8.    Hotel reven.es are generated from different operated departments such as rooms, food and
beverages, sales and rental from shops, spos facilities, minor charges such as telephone/telex/fax,
and laundry. Average room rates for 1996 onwards used for the S-star hotels and 4-star resorts of
Phase I, are US$100 and US$80 per night, respectively. These rates are in line with current rates in
the Red Sea area (see next page). Higher amtes may be achievable due to the much higher quality
hotels planned for this project, and to reflect the fact that price controls on hotel tariffs were recently
removed (April 1992). The average occupancy rates were taken as:



-48 -
Page 4 of 27
}Hotdl Occuannnv Rates / ASD
Double Occupancy
ResHotel           9.    2fi   22    9      2299        E
Club Ras Soma      70%   75%   75%   80%   80%           2.00
Soma Bay Sheraton    50%   60%   65%   70%   70%          1.80
Hotel 3 - Club reson     70%   75%   75%   80%           2.00
Hotel 4                  50%   60%   65%   70%            1.80
9.    The Double Occupancy Factor is a measure of the average number of guests per room. See
the attached tables for further details on the assumptions used to calculate the revenues from each
hotel departnent. The follownng tables give an indication of recent room rates and occupancy rates in
Egypt and the Red Sea areau
Hotel Room Rates (1990-199).
Range (US$)
Resr/HtelCatror             MmX   Max
S-star                                70    150
4-sar.                                42    70
3-star                                27    45
Red Sew
Sonesta                  5.Star       70    100
Sheraton                 4-star       69    80
Magawish                 4-tar        54    68
Ambia                    4-sta        58    81
Gifta                    3-star       51    72
Hgtel Oc v Rates in the Red Sea (1986.19i91
Sheraon            91%   81%   82%   83%
Magawish           83%   55%   63%   n/a
-Gifto             74%   94%   83%   79%
10.   Hotel annual operating expenses are typically divided into departmental costs and
overhesd. Deparmnental costs are wages, salaies, and cost of goods directly related to the operations
of a hotels various departments and are taken as a percentage of each department's revenues,
estimated from  similar hotels in the Red Sea area The departmental costs used in this study are 18%
for rooms, 40% for food and beverages (35% in the case of a 5-star hotel), and 60% for other minor
operations.
11.   Annual oehdm  expenses relate to the overall operations of the facility und are not allocated
to specific departments, such as: (i) administrative and general expenses: are estimated at 3% of a
hoters total revenues to cover license fees, travel expenses, printing and stationary, credit card
commissions, etc.; (ii) maredng and sales: are esdmated at 2% of a hotel's total revenues to cover
agency fees, advertising, enteainmnent, etc.; (iii) property operations (repair, replacement and
maintenance) ar estmated at 5% of a hotel's total revenues for the overall upkeep of the property,
funishings, equipment spare parts; and (iv) insuance: an annual premium equivalent to 1% of the
fixed assets. Other expenses are: (i) funitue replacement an annual cost equivalent to 4% of
Gross Operating Profit (GOP); (ii) management fees: for the hotel operator company and is equal to
3% of total annual revenues and 10% of Gross Operating Profit (GOP); and (iii) udWties: charged
by the master developer (ASD) for the hotels cnpton of electric power, potable water, recycled



-49-                                     6LM4
Page S of 27
water for irrigation, and service/communuity charges. With the exception of utility rates. which are the
subject of analysis here, hotel cost estimates are in Line with actual costs currently experienced in
similar hotels in the Red Sea area.
12.   ASD's revenues would be derived primarily from:
(i)   dividends received from ASDs share in the hotels. ASD would have an aggregate
participation of about 50% in the equity of the four hotels of Phase 1. The analysis assumes that the
hotels would adopt a dividend payout ratio of 95%.
(ii)  revenues from the sale of any piece of developed land would be collected in the form of a
.40% down-payment, followed by two ammual installments of 30% each. MOT would receive 50% of
the profit from the sale of land other than that which is sold to the hotels. A detailed outline of the
land sales plan and prices as envisaged by ASD, resulting from the development of the initial 1.5
mion m2, can be found in the attached tables. A recent investigation revealed that the current
market price of land in Hurghada and Sharm El Sheikh ranges from LE 150 to LE 350 per square
meter. ASD assumes that, in order to attract hotel investments to their area, developed land would be
sold to the hotels at a low rme of LE 100/m2. Land sold for the development of other superstuctre
such as villas, chalets, etc would be sold at the prevailing market rate. In this analysis it is assumed
that the price of land would be around LE 230/m2 in 1993 and would appre by 5% annally in
constnt term  thereafter. ASD's cost of developing one square meter of land comes to about LE
92.5/m2, including the purchase price of US$1/m2 from MOT. Though revenue projections from
the sale of land are purely academic at this early stage of the project's development and prior to the
actual completion of the infase constuction, the analysis would nevertheless attempt to
mcase dthe itpact of this revnue, partially and wholly, on the project's economics in tems of the
level of utility rates that ASD would need to charge the three hotel companies in order to fully
service its debt to TDA.
(m)  utility revenues are based on the consumption of the four hotel that are to be built and
commissioned under Phase L as well as the expected consumption by villas and condos sold under
this pbiase. Unit utility rates charged to these hotels are based on an analysis of the unit cost of
production of each type of utility, given the total volume being consumed by all four hotel, as well as
by the shared public areas such as street lighting, water desalinaton and water treatment plants, and
water consumed for common greens. The projeces total annual consumption of electrical power was
estimated at about 26,235 MWh, potable water 867,185 m3, and recycled water 421,020 m3. Te
high consumption of potable water (at 96% of nominal desalination capacity) is due primarly to its
use in irrigating the golf course. Electricity consumption levels roughly represent 32% of the
nominal production capacity of the installed utility equipment. Furthermore, ASD would incur
additional labor costs, maintenance and asset depreciation associated with about 768,000 m2 of
public areas and services shared by the hotels and future supersuure. Iuitially, the four hotels and
future owners of residential units would be charged an additional annual service fee to cover the cost
of running and maintaning these public facilities represented by the communications systems,
irngation network, site upkeep and landscaping, and roads/pavements/walkways.
13.   ASD's annual operating cost are those attributed to the production and distribution of
dectriciy, water desalination and distribution, waste water drainage and teautmet, and the operatons
and maintenance of 768,000 m2 of shared facilities. Preliminary engineering estimates and design
specifications indicate dtat the electdc power consumption rate by the entire project under Phase I



50- Ao                                        4
Page 6 of 27
would be 8.0 KWh/m3 for the water desalination plant, 1.5 KWh/m3 for the water treatment plant.
and 2.0 KWh/room for each hotel.
14. The consumption rate of potable water by the entire project under Phase la is estimated at
0.90 m3/room/day (450 liters per guest) for hotels, 0.70 m3/roos/day (350 liters per guest) for
housing units, and 0.25 m3/employee/day (250 liters per employee). The consumption rate of
recycled waer by the entire project under Phase Ia is estmated at 80% of the rate of consumption of
potable water, or 0.72 m3/room/day for hotels, 0.56 m3/room/day for housing units, and 0.20
m3/employee/day. Based on this, the unit cost of producing each KWh of power and each cubic
meter of potable and recycled water, considering labor, fuel, lubricants, maintenance, and
deprecation of fixed assets would amount to LB 0.28/KWh for power, LE 5.7/m3 for potable
water, and LE l.9/m3 for recycled water. Furthermore, ASD would incur an annual expense of
about US$0.64 illion (LE 2.11 milion) associated with the operations and maintenance of the
768,000 m2 of shared facilities.
ASD's Ekqg&ancaPdrbmne:
15.   As mentioned earlier, the objective of the analysis was to measure the impact of revenues
from the enviaged sale of developed land, partially and wholly, as well as projected hotl dividends
on the projet's economics in terms of the level of uwility rates and sevice fees that ASD would need
to charge the four hotel companies and other users in order to fully sevice its debt to TDA. A profit
margin would be added to the unit cost of production of each type of uility in order to come up with
the final price. This marginv would be varied to the point where ASD, as borrower of the IBRDIMDA
loan, would have a numniun debt serce cover ratio of 1.0. The following table gives a summary
of project pedom     under phase I, in tems of the r     on equity (IRR) and the economc IRR,
of both the hotels and ASD. It was asiued th the resutng ulty rates would remain constant in
real terms for the life of the project. 'h basea  performance shown in tablt 4.2 assumes that (i)
ASD would acually be able to sell 100% of the sellable area of developed land: (ii) equity at both the
infrastuctue and supeucre levels would not faU below 50% of total financing; and (iii) ASD
would retain a minimum of 50% shareholding in the hotel companies in order to maimie its share
of hotel dividends. MOrs share of the profit on such land sales would amount to about US$4.2
miLlion (LE 14 million) during the period 1995-97.
TAM 4_
ABU SOMA BAY DEVELOPMENT CO.
PHASE I (1,500,00 =2)
SBA CASE RESULTS
PWRO (LEW*Vh)                  0.40
watw ozhm         ~~~~11.00
Pbqded Wabt txd)      t5.00
swvEoe Fees asto      4.50
I A0-Mi0  SeM   CoeR aod(08CR)  1.00
ASO-RdmaEqt*(lR"              6.2%
Aso-Ewu I-MRnI               22.6%
Hebb - Av rGOP                44.9%
d MM- - PAtom an 13dy tR)    15.7%
Houl -EcamolI       18.0%
!~~~~-i  wfgm .  ,kggW     _Rk 
IlM   n    ~.~nPmn~30e3m..e 



- 51 -
Page 7 of 27
16.   The above table clearly demonstrates that at the utility rates shown. ASD would be able to
fully cover its debt service obligations to TDA. While the economic returms of the hotel companies
and ASD) are strong, ASLYs shareholders, however, would realize a marginal return on their equity
investment, which at this stage does not take into consideration the future appreciation in the value
ASD's shares in the hotel companies. A measurement of a hotel's operating profitability is typically
the Gross Operating Profit margin (GOP), which is often found to be around 40-50% for many
hotel projects in Egypt Asumiag that hotels would repa their local debt in foreign cu Encv
10% interest per a=m. instead of the 20% on local currency repayment return on equity at the
hotel level is also found to be very acceptable and within the 12-15% range customarily observed in
many hotels in Egypt. It is evident from Table 4.3 below that the hotels would be expected to have a
robust performance even at the reasonable room rates assumed in tdis analysis.
ABU SOMA DVOELPMENT
PHASE I - SUPERSTRUCwURE (4 Hotels)
PROJECTIONS OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (Base Case)
ROW.                    11.61 24.75 26.63 28.36 29.35 29.35 29.35 29.35
foo.d a .vags            9.88 21.10 22.92 24.26 26.10 25.10 25.10 25.10
cowsL 51= JLJ± Jij                         jj am  Ja Izz iLl
ropuia  mRsvsnu  26.68$ 56.76 1.33 64.73 66.97 66.07 66.97 86.97
.6U   ExpsNs n          15.28 31.58 33.91 36.67 36.85 36.85 36.85 36.65
arm 0pe   p .m twm      42O  af ZLO 2Z2 l ZL 2 1U=2 aOl
Not tnene/2             4.43 13.73 7.62 9.57 11.34 12.35 19.47 12.88
Tdi OdX SoMos ObIgnds    4.60 7.08 12.08 16.05 15.25 14.73  2.05  0.00
OD S8rnk* owRabft       1.96 2.89 1.85 1.67 1.61 1.6B 11.00 0.00
/1 nesassdsmtNsWd andeitfd OWLe
2 iwidig depmoaemn & a nrtafntI t tse I an Ioatus and nnagwmnst f_
17. lbe base cae assumes that ASD would actualy be able to seU 100% of the seUable area of
developed and. It was also assmed that the resulting utility rates would remain constant in real
tms  for the life of the project. The udlity cost to the hotels under the base case represents about
5.9% of the hotel's gross annual revenues, compared to the industry's average of about 5%,
considering the fact that these rates would need to be set at an adequate level to cover SHBD's
investment in new infrastuctue. The most recent and current levels of utility rates paid by hotes in
Hurghada have experienced sharp increases over the past few years. 1992 rates were found to be
LE 6-16/m3 for potable water, subject to an average escaladon of 15% annually over the previous
three years, and LE 0.26/KWh, escalating at 25% annually over the previous three years. A
summary of ASD's performance is shown below in Table 4.4.
18.   The performance of ASD is based on conservative assumptionf about the selling potential
of land once the proper infrastucture was established. GOE has firm plans in the near future to
begin a rmgular ferry service across the Red Sea between Safaga and Saudi Arabia. This would
most definitely serve to boost tourism demand in the Red Sea area, and provide an upward pressue
on land prices, potentially leading to the sale of ASD's developed land in a much shorter period than
anticipated by ASD and at potentiy higher value. Furthermore, hotel rates are expected to
continuously increase with the industry's deregulaton to permit ASD's hotel companies to charge
higher rates than used in tis analysis. The hotel rates used in the analysis were in line with existing
4-5 star hotels in Hurghada, which are considered by many intenaional hotel and tour opemors to
be well below the standard of their classication.



-52 -                                               Anmu4
Page 8 of 27
TAIIS4A     -
ABU SOMA DEVELOPMENT CO.
PHASE I - INFRAtAU CTURE (500.000 .2)
PROJECTIONS OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (Rae Case)
~~U £UA LLLWJA ~~±ULLU ZWQJ LiU JL2.2A
SaW$ of litiX                1.86   3.46  3.67  3.84  3.94  3.94  3.94  3.94 3.94  3.94 3.94
OMddtweoemptromllab          1.21   5.72  4.97  4.19  4.48  4.78  5.15   S.61  8.78 10.62 11.01
Sdleat DOWuiped Laid /1u LU Li2ua. =Z  ±.U  =2  LQf   L2f  LQf  LU   LD
TraA P   e.mI -  Wo    3.24  10.76 11.55 10.73  9.81  8.73  9.10  9.64 12.73 14.56 14.95
Opeain Jenee 12              2d  LU LU L10 7=  Z* L   LU  U2 LU LU
NMlosro                      2.39   2.01  2.90  2.25  1.65  0.92  3.66  4.52 7.95 10.15 10.87
Tote$Gda ol Olggbmm          0.00   2.08  1.92  1.27  1.14  1.00  1.03   1.17 2.02  2.89 2.97
DOW sweCev erRaft            0.00  2.30  2.53 2.44 2.42  2.38 2.87  3.60 6.21 9.07 1 2.1
/I Assume AGO mwain  to se 100% d th enD laid   in addkiUon to the id use by hUMtiea  tha  MOT wou
ndel 50% d Ih poft fom uu Seim
n2 kwluinI posin s8amouU
19.    The following table provides a summary of the results fron the sensivity analysis in order
to assess ASD's projectod pfornance under less favorable conditions at the hotel leveL Two
cases wer exa      ed Case 'A' udlises lower hotel averg rooom rates, and Case 'B' assumes that
hotd occupancy would drop by 10% from the base case levels throughout the project's Ife. Under
Cas  'A' and 'B' separatey, the utility rates chaged by ASD for power and potable waer wer
adjusted to improve ASD's perfance and debt sevice capabiliq.
ABU SOMA DEVELOPMENT CO.
PHASE I (1500,000 .I)
RESULTS OF SENSITfVrrY ANALYSIS
, lleae H=LD_ a..si8                                          *dtfeal o1
OcaUPss Levels                         Base   sa      Bm.   -10%   -10%           _m.
HOW Room Rae UM     :
6-5tar             0100.00   90.00  90.00 100.00 100.00        100.00
4- W                  60.00   70.00  70.00  80.00  80.00        80.00
Po         )                           0.40    0.40    0.65   0.40    0.68       0.40
Watew (.)                             11.00   11.00   18.28  11.00   19.00      11.00
RAd WOr (Lam)                          5.00    5.00    5.00    5.00    6.00      5.00
8wieFew (1.12)                         4.50    4.50   4.60   4.50   4.50         4.50
AO-MIL Dn.   8.wCow Rat(0OACF          1.00    0.79    1.00   0.80    1.00       1.29
ASO - Nu_mb d yam 0ScD.O                  0       4       0      4       0          0
AGO -Adm an quly (MM                   6.2%    3.2%    6.5%    3.2%    6.7%     10.0%
ASMD*-Unm 'FM                         22.6%   19.2%   22.9%   19.3%   23.1%     29.1%
HatuI- MbdhmDuOR                       1.57    1.37    1.26    1.41    1.30      1.57
Helsd   - Nud   rofyam 0sCR1.0            0       0       0      0       0          0
Hsfebs-AwragsOP                       44.9%   44.1%   41.0%   44.7%   41.7%     44.9%
HsIPAU= * equiy(IFR"                  15.7%   11.9%   10.0%   12.7%   10.8%     15.7%
Nsfeb-SmEIRR                          13.0%   15.4%   14.0%   15.9%   14.6%     18.0%
AnmuA utWty os as % d A,Dil" 9re  _vemma  5.9%    6.7%    9.7%    6.0%    9.0%   S.9%
20.    Under both cases, SHBD would suffer a severe setback in performance, sufficient to
compromise its debt serice capabity to TDA. In order to fully semrice its debt to TDA, ASD



- 53 -
Amm 4
Pag 9 of 27
would have to increase its utility rates by upto 60% should occupancy and/or room rates drop as
shown. In all cases, the performance of hotels remains fairly strong as long as utility rates remain
somewhat around the industry's standard measure of 5% of the hotels' gross revenues. Since
income from the sale of developed land does not represent a large component of ASD's overall
revenues, ASD's performance would be rnuch more sensitive to income generated from utility
sales and hotel dividends than it is from land sales. ASD's performance could be improved furher
if more sellable land was developed. Under their current master development plan. ASD's total
sellable land (other than land for hotels) is only 165,000 m2 or 11% of the total purchased land of
1,500,000 m2, compared to 27% in the case of SHBD, of which about 500,000 m2 has been
allocated to a 9-hole golf course and green areas. consuming large quantities of non-revenue
generating water. If an additional 215,000 m2 (in the form of 100 8-room vilas and 80 4-room
condos) of these green areas were to be sold, for example, ASD's base case pefon   and debt
service capability would be dstically improved.



44
tl
.IE                                                   Abu SomR   DeveloRment ComDRnV (ASDI
Inlrastructure & S%neystwucturelLand Use Schedule
Phase I                           Phase 11                        South Sector
Amea              :auadtt          AIRac AIla                                      CaadLtu
Jm2)   UolU        InRomsi        Im21      !      IRoomsI        jmZ    gah        IRooms
Hotetlesons                 525.000      4    30IONotd        90o.000      6   300hotdi      1.300.000    10   300Wotel
Villas                      1sO.000     75   S8Ib             312.600   125   Oblu             462.500   200   SivIa
Condos                         ,80    4kond                    Z22J      120  4kondo            37,00   200   4kondo
690.000                         1.235.000                       1.800.000
Retble At
Maunallown Center             2.000     20    IAS*              4.000    40   1hnit              3.000    60   lAint
Employee Housing               OO     1500    800iA"*          M1       3500   80m2hnit        Il      5000   wOmnzAI
42,000                           104.000                         143.000
AoadslP ven       _         170,000                            30.000                         2ao.000
Beadces                      60.000                            90.000                          150.000
Gisen Areas                 500.000                            750.000                       1,250.000
Uwit Center                   5.000                             S.000                           10.000
Otlher                       33000                           n.z2a.                            5.I
Total Public Areas          768.                             ?al.o                           LM2Q.Qo
Total Development          1.500.000                         8.500,000                      10.250,000



hAm 4
55                                 Pa8eI T of 27
.~~                          S .
_ ha..                                               I!~~~~!c
M                   @101   b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
Li  an    aIuiI ii~~~~~~~I
01010~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



*    ~-   ---                                                 -        -       - 
o0        0        0                    0                   0                    0                   0 *
*6  84        "We         4       0    0                         0         0         0          4         6         44        0 0440
fit303                 oil0                                     a*04                              03     Os                  Os
8O     O* .   O0            0       0                    a                   0           _0                  O_                  __            40mD
r 80 .            09      0         0                    0         o              4                 *w                          *
ec   ***       g        o** oVI  owt                   o         O a                  a                   tw                  an'ss                     ptwo
8      41000    "all    06l14       0         0         a          0                   a0  0      G0           '0       I4       0
6      664.4       6       0"0  0e         0 o            0         0         0          a         4e0       066          6      08            I6h
£4  0*       no'        M0*      0          0'        0         0          0         0         80ri       Ni's      46        in6            4                  AK6SZ
tw04 66.0    040004   606*       0          0         a         0          ow        0a44 6               014  14t 4   068  '04-a I SNd6466O  P401
owl 088        0.4WV     64    0                 0                         0         0         0at8s     60*44       40      040
.-                                                                     0 t  a  a   ta-u         -   9`9 -ir-                  "
.6    400  *6    0                                         0 ~~~a    0 --      S        -                      so--r--   on-~---
406.8    8604s      88-"g    0*0      *0 *5o                          0 i0 t456                                                              5   &qiq ffs09                W pU*
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         7            T       O_          S_       a                  _ru.-_.  
so        so s0                so 0c               0o        i r E                          *44       f @                             Pon*
too's         s*             61         -         0         .e so    so                               40o  So   5s 8C                           & d              -g afot vompi-
00.8     &W11    4(e         0s 06G0             %0                   s0o                 s0o                   w 5*e               6        1                     SI U"Aamm Us"
0t910    ne's      "Al                         !L!   *                            8                             W                                       soft""  _ VOWOUL MOM 11 1up 01
0r.l,  M:e____~~~~~~ ,",T0_   _- a0 6-                                                                                              S_s
t . .__   [            _-D    asß r         Ws _. o, 70_ NjoE*d ai_ 
0018   8*8 "O8               i0                  5 ss                 so                  50so         0e                          %a htC  Stt  H
0  a        el  ~ 0                                  0         0         0
00       00        0'                                                 ow                   aw
t8      400         .8t    0                           ,_                                 _       _ 000oe                                                    A_-.    pu4t4
8   0           8     0                                                      '4                                                                                 Oeme&3 -,   IP
0        a         0         0         00  0                                               0                                                         1S19633 "Ws_1 _bd
_. t^_,. ..............  r    . s   _.....  .....    .....  ........................ 4s
o00      00.31    004.1    00.3          0.         0.      000.                 0.0                                     000.0
btO't~~~~~~~~4 pk*                       ties                 !a e61                                   test'               less.
M__1~~~~~~~4
SC tM$$-|    03ca    e   e   e   ß   SC-U eV3                                                                    s 4" "eValp 
e  e  e    e                    e  ~~~~~~~~~WOM MLmevo                                        o I                                 __q
N$-t    ees-  Cff't  e   O             e                    e                    n *N                tc C                                       309J_PZ



P%
44
0
EGYPr
ABU SOMAF DELOPMENlr COMIPANY
CAPITAL COSTS & FINANCING STRUCTURE (Phase I - m rstrucure)
(US$mllIlon)
TOTAL     1993      11994      1995      1996      199
BaseCost    57.       16A      40.12       1.20      0.00      0.0
ASDs Financng o Hotels   24.25    5.23     11.82      7.21      0.00       0.0
Interest During Conht, (IDC)  6.63  0.51     2.24      3.88       0.00      0.0
Financial Costs  0.74     0.23      0.51      0.00      0.00       0.0
Total Proloect Cost   89.08  22.11    54.69     12.28      0.00       0.0
ASD's Land to Hotels   21.71   4.50     17.21      0.00      0.00      0.0
ASD's Direct Equity In Hotels   12.01  3.00   6.01      3.00       0.00      0.0
Direct Equity in ASO    12.98  4.16     7.78      1.05      0.00      0.0
Total - Equity   46.71   11.66     30.99      4.05      0.00      0.00
Land Loan    1.34      0.82      0.45      0.07      0.00      0.00
WS/TDA Loan - Local  1.64      0.09      1.24      0.30      0.00       0.0
WBTDA Loan- Foreign    26.17     7.32    16.25       2.60      0.00      0.0
Other Debt   0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.0
Local Debt    13.23    2.21      5.76      5.26      0.00       0.0
Total * Debt   42.38    10.45     23.71      8.23      0.00      0.0
*     .                                                               .     I



Annex 4
Page  14 of. 27
AWIOMAOIVULOPUUNFcoUPM4
PNS I * NPRAST CMN (18oo0   na
19n3      1094      1los       1198      1t97        1tn8       1lot
LAWOFRe .. _.                                                                e .   ... .... --e.                         ee
MM        m2                   t,000,000    t00.000
LVm2                     3.33      3.33
co d _ofPu"W sd  (LamIln)                   3.33     1.685          0          0         0          0          0
LZ m2                          0
LEWm2                      3.3
Lem al   s.(LInE miuk)                   0          0         0          0          0          0          0
1913= 1  tl28  t114  1161       1156      1II       1116       1116
PASS*                          mt           sO      .OOo o.ooo    00.000
LVIm2    j,j    J I   100.00      t00.00     105.00     110.25     115.76     121.55    127.63
Rin      (La dmo)         6.00      6.00       0.00       0.00       0.00 0-00            0.00
_Sam_e laym2                                *50.000    75.000    7r.000
LhaI      j-I           120.00    120.00     126.00     13S2.30    138.2      145.88    113.15
_sAmum   (LE _m)          9.00      *.0        0.0        0.0        0.00      0.00       0.00
HOW-3                                                       0 a    120.000       0
LE* I    jfls           110.00    150.00     117.10     165.8      173.4      162.33    191.44
FeWeM   (LI _mUo)         0.00      18.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
HOW d  4                       mt           135s000         0    135.000         0           0         0          0          0
LImz     r              160.00     160.00    186.00     108.45     208.37    218.70     229.73
Rawam   (LE  No,          0.00     24.30       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
m2 m50.000                                   50.000     50.000     50.000         0          0
LE/mg    F    #         230.00    241.50     253.58     266.25     270.57    293.54     308.22
R=wm     (LI aim          0.00      0.00      12.68      13.31      13.18      0.00       0.00
CWaa                           mg             "I,                             5.000      5.000      5.000         0          0
LEz*     L  .A..        230.00    241.50     213.58     266.25     279.57     293.54    308.22
Rswui    (LE fdIeM)       0.00       0.O0      1.27       1.33       1.40      0.00       0.00
Total  I   1S t_I W'd ReWWIS (Pha la)                    15.00      17.30     13.95      14.64      15.38       0.00      0.00
Los- PatuuwC_Huutud as Squiy in NHO                      11.00     57.30       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Nellp   Law RsWV_m (0          No                         0.0o      0.00      13.95      14.14      15.38      0.00       0.00
MOwaps 4usasF  I        0.00      0.00       5.88       5.86       6.15      0.00       0.00
I_almtm  I   30%           0.00      0.00       0.00       4.18       4.30      4.61       0.00
-tdauma U     3    J0%     0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       4.18       4.39      4.61
Tom cGt Ifow               00        0.00   5 .18        10.04      14.3S       9.01      4.61
Can delmin rmws           0.00       0.00      8.37      12.97      13.62       4.t1      0.00



Annex 4
- 59-                                                     Papg 15 of 27
PNA   I - _es_VMW    VSU,  OX
1Os      too.       loto tsos             tooo.?    loto       t         t0s0       2001      2002
rt      Pa                      0.4b0        0    d     0         t.lv      ∂           5        1 _    ,                        108
Ik*8 3Is                                         0         0         0.eo  3.8.200M  3,.00."0  3.42.000  4.204.o00  4.204.0   4.204.e00  4.204.00
ui~            0.00      0.00       0.00      1.01       1.28       1.38      1.         1.?       1.47       1.4? t I
T _ 4t   UL_            e.ee      o.oo      2 sX       s.         urE       *.S        4.t       ts.29      .Xo       X.29~~~5-  I  OS I  11
TOWRewsaa.s.Pwiw                  0.00      0.0~~~~~~~          ~~~~~     ~~0 20.12  31.38 46 1.7  8.08.2  8.29W   36.928  3.67 1X    3 8.200
*  _wm         0.00      0.00       0.78      1.81       1.73       1.68                 1.19      1.8        1.8
VUleuOestismIds.muR.e ouv. KgIy                         90.700  1.91.06.0  2.148,18312.210.213  2318.000  2.116.000  2.1.0   2.318.000tooo
0_o.00    0.00      0.38       0.7?      Q0.        0.110      0.93      8.93       0.93  03.9
L ads          0.00      0.00       0.11      .0.2       0.l8       0.2?      0.48       0.38      0.28       0.20
02b"8o                         a3ye              0         0     88.9       73,81     73.913    JO.84      78.80    76.840      78.640    7a.80e
^s                n ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ O--O    O-*  -S   -n   -h  -ras O-as4  -s  7sa e
u_now          0.0o      0.00       0.1?      0.82       0.61       0."       0.8U       0.68      0.88       0 .8
lt.*v8h aa                                       8         0 e-9.7 o  e     .*10      84.0S8   -8.901S    66.000    8aes0.       6.3 88    68.98s
LuA_b          0.o0      0.00       0.38       0.66      a." 1      0.1       0.n3       0.on      0.n?       0.77
$--            o0.00     0.00      0.00       0.7.       0.81      0.6        0         83         0.8      O..  0
lOsmse*4                         154                       0          086    9.271    639.130    8S4,00    66."31    88,965     63,8       896.98
Ialls.         0.00      0.00       0         0          0          0.                             0.77       0.77
CutuS~~~~~~~~~L WAW                      e         o11   CsX1       szts      so$o       Uzon                  a.o7       a."2     aso
$kW-39-                                       ∞∞        a.v        0-0    S6iU        750,i5    ss1.kiso    a$zot    ?SS.Ot      ?S."*    os.o72
u_~swspms.PtmbWw.  LIi0.06  0. 00  1."         2.88      3.03       O3. 1                0.19  .228           3.'t2
H. .-                     O  O                             a     S   ao *     .0--.24S* n        ii         ","   ta-s.tU-5,t-o  "."S      4. Uss
8ASa           0.00      0.00       0.40      0.84       0.                   0.00       0.08      0.90       0.C.
s WA_          e.eo      o.oo       o.44      O."t       o.9        0.96      C"$        O."       o."        O."
-_   -.  -  L  I'   C Io UM   3"      oW       0         0    113.84     S1.1 88   1 17.6 1   1 17.8S 117 81       1 57.5 8   1W .S      157.te2
tg WAm         0.00      0.00       1.2.?      1.13      1.78       1.78      1.78       1.78       1.78      1.70
smom 1         00 6       .0.00     o0th      4.tt       Qt         C.t       04t        CSS       O.1 3M
S.11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01
0hlssSsm               al~~~~~~RPee      0         0     95.1648    191L        5.30 WIO  3.072    83.072    63.072      63.071    43.072
_ _a_0.0                 00         01         .0         .0       01 0.2               01         02         0.42
bsame,Shmssa   inlays.,          0         0     31.4*8~~~~~~~I  4738  1.248    55.18      51.68      58        5M16       55.148
OU158eW  US_   00.00     0.00       0.20      0.24       0.28      0.2        0.2       0.28       0.26       0.14
14.51.3    aw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e,  0  0      0    55.166      59.130    58.138     63.072    63.071     63.072    63,072~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$,0  O13  1-9    602  3i  3
0.00     0.00       0.00 e     0.2        0.0       0.30      0.32       0.54       0.32       0.32
r4554  4                                         o0        0                39o.oo    4730       SAN4    55.18         Miss    55.104    5.188
La WAlIS"      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.20      0.24       0.8       0.28       0.260      0.28     0.
?e5AbWAS.-Rowdel i-_.          LEAs          0.oo      0.oo       0.        10           1        17         1.21      1.21 4.15            1.s2
S aibe         0.00      0.00       0.11      0.31       0.33       0.35      0.36       0.38      0.38       0.38
VlbuOsdsabemufO'  OWAL   L    ally.*             0         0     00.913    1s0.9    4t0.100   128.100   12.100    126.100    128.100    128.1S
LB *AIM        0.00      0.oo       C."       0.55       0."        0.84      0.84       0.84      0.64       0.84
c  aONs        0.00      0.00       0.14       0.17      0.19       0.19      0.19       0.0        0.10      0.18
*                                   1515498.amm    0.00      C.0"       0.54       0.54      0."4       0.4        0.14      0.54       0.54      0.54
so"onaSsyIlwmm                 LKIswim        0.00      0.00       0.87       0.87      0.8?       0.67       0.67      0.6?       0.87      0.8?
146513                         LEmils         0.00      0.00       0.00       0."4      0.14       0.14       0.14      0.34       0.14      0.14
14sW *4                        LEMON1         0.00      0.00       0.00       0.66      0.80       0.00       0.80      0.00       0.80      0.60
Chow $         oes IS    o.eo 0o.o               1.80      2.34       2.54       2.4       2.34      7.34       2.34       2.3
* inlls        0.00      0.00       0.38       0.70      0.70       0.70      8.70       0.70      0.70       0.70
?h5d OhoiWsf 054.565 bY NuMb   LI alIb        0.00       0.00      8.81      Ss."4     33.76      26.48      30.47     32.50      35.80     38.6?
TOMPws.mg.Owidmodbmsm          LEr42ba        0.00       0.00      4.02      19.03      MO.O      13.98      14.13     15.92      17.18      16.95
$mbue          0.00      0.00       1.21       5.72      4.87       4.18      4.48       4.78       5.15      S.69
e.h '"'  '" l      _                          0.00       0.00 o.24            S.38      9.67       8.01       4.8t      0.00       0.00      0.00
II"%           000       0.         1.24       5..o      9.57       8.01      4.81       0.00       0.00      0.00
Tailsamuu.L&a51                15.98.M        0.00       0.00      1.24       1.S8       9.87      8.01       4.81      0.00       0.00       0.00
$mbum          0.00      0.00       0.37       1.81      2.0        2.70       1.38      0.00       0.00      0.00



-60-                                                              Annex 4
Page 16 of 27
AM-
44mb          ~~~~0%      0%       toIl      7'%         7%        410%      40%        60'       60          0
0         0             3.7330    .02."   3.642.00  c.304.40   4.M0.66   s.20460  #6.M04.600  404.0
0% 0%               40%        0%        60   76%       70%             70?%       70%        70%
Amid1h0 00a                                          0  3.63,00   4.462.600  3-4440-06  4.41.40   3.616*6   U.732    3.0711.200  $.41.36
0%        Q%        0%        70%        74%       74%        "A%        0%        60%       60%
Oi w           num660                                a         0  COMM.10 .643.66   3.04.06   4.n40466   d34.400AG   4.404,4    4.20441
0%        0%        0%        6%         401%      411%      7644.74                          n
Wm *WA~r                         0         0          0  3.46".6, 3464.00  S.4640U0    U*460.70*6034AM4*01  3.T16*
TOW6 P-  CO~MPOk  VW WWAb      W                 0          0  60'7*013.40A6.6-0 44.444.0  40.343.406" 16166*616.1- .06 10.7ft O  3.000101430
0~~~~ ~~~~*  m~~~~~~ ~0                        0    64.4612   464.,74    643.4      461.001   6407.166   60.1661  061P10    647.146
Oudm..in 44. *~~~~~~~~~            0~          0  6,16644AU  6,410.641  6.14016   6.66,.660  0.WA.46   3.631.46   6.607.4110  O.667.460
T*ww    w-*3                               0         0    31114J4     MS336     M6.Sl0    414.1410  '01t60    441.440   421.0121   441.43
Ttm   i     ** w0                                    0    S43.06    56344      601*6      41S.704   M4.610    WAS64       MASS0  "34.646
14-    4dm. 0W60                  0.                        0    63.06     164.0001  17.00      I1000      26. 27    273.600"  273.00     376.0
malw4loem            ~        L..is..            0         0       4.6606    6.060      0.60      0.66       6.0060    6.060      .060      SA66
~~~mg~~~~  ~~~                   0         6    447~~~~~~~~9.160    161,1  ejs100 4 7.11  01.40  107.1*    10,1060   l47.40  11T.160
0         0     63.660   40.66       430                 sums0 320   363.66    31.66     30%06
law                                      0 ~~~~~~kb0 133641   641.72.64006.60    6.3.1  26*60,010 40*66*40 26*4m.0
~~  ~ ~~         (18            0.40       3.~~~~~~~~006  2.6   4.40       4.4       Lii        4.26      4.16       4*0       0.1
0         0       .410.5  42.3       6314       S7.4010   07.661   67.60       47666      67.4000
Aftd as commi0                      0     63.66      73.606    ?*A  74*4   646      13.4       Ms.04     its64      74.64
ft 00   %0                      0"0J317                    00m0       64.000    "46.6      63.00     66.60    l46S1I   66.001
111m"a ."                     0         0          0     70.640     MISO6   S&I.III   67.001    67*6    47.000          67.066
*AMa  08  0wn                                0         0    S6.$"6    73*13s    1204         73.46      7.4401MS  10*6       ?0*00
3660 *        R~~~mmawy4m                    0KM 6.6                              0076       71.413    16.66      76.080    1006       76.660
6ld00mG                         0         6          0     46*10     63.40      46.066    63.46      63.466    6360        6.6
7r.0d Wa  OCinm  60 36b         33a    0                         lt.O 234.1           271*14    245.70     400.06    16.460    "63."6    26.406
~~04m..0MW        II 4           0         0  ~~~~~~~~~~~443.610    413.610    413,6    443.000   443.046    413.040   413.346    4131.00
(dka 0040                                            0     3.46      43.66      64.44.    64.0        44601    64.40      64.4661    04.400
mu"6  mad .u4   O&O            L..JL             0          0      1.00      2.460      3.100     0.J00      3.IS0     2."6       30        2.160
466uiin60mW44v                      ~~        ~~ ~~~~~0  0  34.I3S    04j43  04.136  64.1*6    of. 4.0    04.42     04.44      64j
7.M106 1W 0alosl                al                          0   446.62   004.74s   64.4    6740    0.6                661.460 601.-0   607-464
R44hhIsIiMYdin~~~~~T   0      0      MS"66     S&I3       MISS0    60.6"    67.400    67.660    67.400        47.A
6od 0 OmAm.6   0=                         0     $6.I"      Mfg.4    - -60.401    64.61    03.07      f3.67     04.076         n
3666.       as          ah"             .                 86.70       6.7060   nJh"        WM*       6144..    SLIS    70.00        "J
4460 * 4~~~~~~~~~~0                                               S*  L2  LI   T"OU"   .*  70
RM1101"m    ~         o                    6     04.796     06.106     71.1      16.460     16,66     76.660     MOSS*
imbi as  Wmi0*                                                 40.44    47606      04*0    53444        0S6466    05.46      05.146
7.40 wo  0U00"  IN Hau         a                 0                .014.6    364.046    216461   223.63    236.32    3361*    23302         23603
a             0     20*6       00.40     46.466    60.4604    34.46      03.466    33.466     6.460
44mm~~4Idm.06604..u6Jpmu             0        ~~ ~ 0  47,40S    34,44      84*26     VAN02      61,62     S1.530    44*40      61
We6Am660.a~~~~~~~  ~~ULJ        0         0        640~~~~s  I.66"     446        I.660     1.660      4.636     I.666      .660
4.60 600inin06 60 ~~~~~~~03ms     0 ~        0     13'606     Mod66     72.666     12.66     72.60,   72,640      72.60      72.66
td  NW  onw-                                   a         a1m    ao,            -         -7       al:     -2:        -l    -s-
~~                  (18             6.60      0.an  40   0.1       047        0          .47       6.41                 GM1 .4     0.17
~~~                    44.3~~~~~a      0.0         .6       0.41       0.64      0.06       3.64      6.6        046P      3.00       0.04
-  am.U~~~~u           (4.0~a                               * .6  0 06  6."6     0.6        O.60       .60       6.66      0.6        a.0
-   00bm.6I~~~~~    01                 0.63       6.66M     0.66       0.4       0.6        6.6       0          64        6.6        0.6"



lslt   so's   ore9  ii';  ossl   ciiit  *9**   #9`    ogle   osi   see0   sro'    sos   Do's   sat   as's   sWOs   oreD  SQNH 03mvm33AWvIIW13
(91) (a's  (sro)  (Siw)  (so's)  St's  sts o's gr            'st   so's   80,s  sows   so's  (call  (is';)  se  e's owe         's  iwwaivG3uvA
si'9   99's   Go's   go's  isell   arle  sill    Wt   Bell   "Ies           l     r$'s          els s; iua It o   Its  so's   as   O's 000   SF1MAI  'si
maes  asse asn   mueum. Mses             semno  Massen. asecas esass Mesons. see0Mosse ssss meems aSomasssumse sasas  sass
Cel 'p'   itlt   IL'5   As'si  is;lo  iS'solt                      sil  9ri60 Sl    ga's   call   to's   SC's   ore0   oreO  3nQ.J4m
as's    We'  Oa's   Iola   Lt't   00'S   SO's  SO'S   OS'S   00'S   00'S   GO'S   OweS  00'S   00'S   solo   OS'S   00's                                    oU
90'S 55'    sosl  soA   asls;  isl'st  Osin$  sell   9t    is's   as's   us';   o'a   05'i  tos'   sell   os's   ore0                     sag DoJ"  - (not) IUO'd
se's so'    ess    os's ilo   gill   Solt   Solt'       al    81'Ssalt ii'    55SWIs'    tilt   sS't   oDe    WO OD ms'    5S5           u  s@1 mSa(edlBS0m
san-e. asea-MM season seasone WM ensues  s mu asess s.Meseass assu eSamoa Masson Mousse Mueusm Mseamm assen  susan. sasse  asaWs
(5:';) Ia;';)  (Si';)  4ue'e)  leg's) (hi'o) (US's  tat's)  (ssrs) isas)  lra)  (osral (go's) (go's) br;a)  Seos   sWos   se's  (ssq  no43aoAjW&V3dg'NoenV1
no's   so's   sold   es's   se's                       no  A.nb3
so's so'    on's   os's   se's   so's   owe'   se's   oe 0s  n owse'   os's   os's   ess   so's  toe's)  so'e   os'e                                89~ tOM
i'41 (to's)  Usl';tU,) (wt   si'i  tss')  (Sis), (is';)  USi'   (si;)1 UigS)  (sird   U's) US,'s)  iSo'c)  swo'   on'e  so'e             Ueopwsowv   uapolbe0*a
Stwo   9515   505a   OSS   Sao'   Solt   bo't  La's   Oi'i   tll'  9it'   5i'i   ii's  osi'   to's   OS'    ow'S   GO'S                              AX p
b*M    munsa  aseosumeouaaasses. U ae,sese Mousse Mousse masse. sasass .ea-- man"a. annosa Maneas Moness mommum e s  sm-oes
sale  is'so  solo  as's   si'a;  0DB             Wa ir s SB'S   5I'5   t9l'S   LB'S   SS'S   IC's   si'S   SO's   so'g  -os'   so's  (fsO)AIsOUdVrnv3s0sos
it'esit's   st's   iOPt'sit's   Sit's   it's   st'es it's    i't'   itp's   it's   st's   It's   os's   tt'z   so's   se's  S3tSNcietausw3dDvso
oile   orea   eu's   os' silo 's    o;'    us's    l si's   o; o its   los's    st's   sis eo   eu's  it's   swo'   so's                    BLOWeSPU91 sboM 01,S
it'S   io'    Io'a   IS'O   Is'    tn's   is's   tn's   is's   is's   10'S   is'S   is's   ts's   Is's   is's   os's   so's                  uspsamam
is's   its'   is's   is's  is's   is's   as's   so's  is's  is's   is'9sis's   is's  is'se   i's   Is's   so's    W sesa                   ' vitau   eue  am
Wt'    It'i   to';   Wt'    so'i  it',   it's   i,'i   ;o'i   it;   it'   itl    so';  as'll   ci's  as'so   oes'    se's              uossem 9UIo,.*sohMio.
t  B5ol'as  O0'I  tS'B    L8'iI  s6'55  ii'it  BL'S   55'5I  65'Oi  CL'S    Me't  g't5  BS'I5  t0'it  SO'S   GWO'   Os's  6(3S3f*GM4XVW3403SC
aOs'   50'S   is's   si's   is'ss   ;s'st  is'lo   0s's   es's   i's   ss'o   000   5Ai'   clOt   i9'S   ;a';o  so's   as's               spsfun odgewoua apgG
so's  so's   s'   00'it  Go's   Oa's   001t   OS' S   55'    00't  0511  -Dol    Seo'   solo   so'o   55's   OD's   as's                 mq)J.sooGI "s.no ea
OS'S   5S'O   OS'S   OS'S    10    t.    DI'S OS'     55'     OS'   55'S   OS'S   OS'SO 'S os e  s's01    ol    01 9t's os'    os's   so'   .0   oboeB siman smgu
ia'0soare    os's   68'S   68'S    6'O   "OS'   66'0   OS'    M' 66 'sGW         SB'    sB'S  IS'S   SO'S   00's  SO'S  so's             two"CI Bi JiBM 410#4  P tS
So't    S'lt   "I't  aSo'   aS'lt   as'    Ss'$  aS'$  as'    So'$   as's  as'll   cs'i   tri    ;s'i   ss's  so's   GO'S               $O    iO,d OMSOR3 POeIS
eiso    goal  see:   tosat  #otseat5  tes    coos:  seat  isoa    man   Seat  0666    £601   sos   esas    test  coost                                  in*AJu
INIUIVL30ISMIAdOud
MKVdKOOAJNdO13AUSVUOSAV



tr9   99-9   09-9   6S-S   Sgt-   tt-0    11-I  ts't  st-Z   O9-Zt  Os-*    WV-    M&   ct't   it- .9    9-l  00-0   00 0              Ivin
_nsaa  _a       a -     .   aN... AS. a...-. ONe          a. _N     N ._SM  -NS _        a*_  .. ._.-_. eSNIS _.ae. _._- _
WVo  iss   so-  tar-     ) 9 tics)  is-i  s9oa   isa z aao) toroi) lao) 's       o oS 9o   #-0   99'5   5,-s   Oro   00'oa  ARO4SVms3
madmenMeO   as.. O_Na SISS. ass... aSMNa  NNI-ss sNO  a...  Sat.                                    SISS _  _ O_a...      ONNO Oa --5O. *  _#
s99 9 ore   os-9   sold  o0is  06c61  eSii lZE Ot  OS-s   6604 0 t9'    956-   16'6                 at'8 2t-5   90Ui  699S   IU   S:3Z W1L
Ct-o  s9 09os9         s'-s   s6-L    Z-    11-   is-w  Be's   092s  i2s'   sI   St'a   gilt   i-s   00s0   owe o          0 0ow
0owe   00-0 s  0-0   SGV   955    959-        959 59-   Si'i 91   l    Iii i-    i   till  8as'   i9t1   005    - 00-0   00r 0  s3Wt-s
00we   00-0   00-0 s  it   9Sm-   ",-s  S1-s   se-6   s-t   "'s   as't  0art    s-T   te-l   9 er    00-0   00o-    00o-0                          a4udju oa
00'0   000   000   960 l     ilo  Its's   sri   talk   all             SZ6    -C ArS s0at   t89    59   sos   000    00-0                      Omi3d Pam"
two    IWO 2  Owe 0-  si)  00-0   Z0-0  ugs    es-0   ce-s   as-s  (190-01 (90o-0  (s0-0)  tw-o   a-r  Gsi   so-0  sO-c
00-0   o-000   eaas  S9o-9  irt'  poft4
00os-   so-s   owe   two    We-              sa5uac mompal om
Co-0   00'0  0o-s   w-    K's               "PPa4SWO &qM ssup
00-@   00-0   814  1t1   $9 680               e5 -    IPu  $a
Ow.   00'a  00-0    ? s'0t  9131t         0 PaUIdsa    w3 2I4I0
0>t9  so9 s      i   to0'    Co-li  169s1 ,0 9 Be   1 t'5t 0 09S   es-S uo-e   t0-0s lo        01  sal    1'9i  691S   it'" *3w
os-s   co-s   Ow-    sc-s   so-   Colo  Co-o   are  os-   se-s   s-    so    0se-              00s -    os-s @ si-'s s    2155  P-1q91 s
-    0o0-s0  00'a   00o0   so-s 0WO   00-0   s-    so-   00-0   00'    co-             o    00'0   00'0   00- 0 - 0  00'o  0co                 &qaong RSp'a
00'0  00  0 98'2   Or l't   01P    |0
Os-s   Ga-s   Owes  sW*   si-a                           Mao p$o
00s-0    s-s    s-ss   see    s1 -s                      iVa
o0-s   se-s   t'so   itr    U-O                          lIpua
00-0   00-0   $WV   a       99-39 Pt-qt
00-0  Do-s   os-    f'i   og-st                   WV al A. e
-s 00'0  oO 'st   i0"    sa-l              O" qsp*Paw 
solo   000   000   li-zt  OS'*                   Wma P"SA
sw-s   o1    sV-a   role   es-os  ia-n  ac-ws  9w-st  ac-a   se-s   go's  sc   t l10-a1             61 as     a   "ss-0 ac-0   os-s   no-  6 t'Z 0'0P  00'0
o0o    we   tti   at-I    s-it  gsit   Ut   8e-i   Qe-s   g@   6i-   6st0   Sg-0   00s c0 o    so    GO-a    W- p00-0   0               MR 000  SSVp
5to    W9    t9       -     ow-P   9-s  so-sit  09o-s  si-6   i-9 s   s9 -s   ai  t-i  sc-s Ot-i  is-9  aS-'   co-s   o0-s               0-0 00-0q s       O
-''  ---'---          ---- ----      ---' -''    ---'---  ----   ----    ----    - ---  ---- -- -- ''''   ----      ----' -' - -'-'              D DS3
SIt  95       3 .     i t        S  i      5 *           A *           0      9       5 t           5      0      S.    a-      AMA 261w
iOg   soot   soo   loss   "Oasesg  woos  soo              o o00t   i00s  s00os    sa6s   9ass   sa 9ss sss  i$si   9466  gilt    A Su                                old
.--____.__. -  1III
113 V29-40                                                                                            O.*
0~               O       IW)   I O6m
AldlO:I LOWMANt 11^a
AdA0



ADUSOMAIUMQMAEKCOMPANY
O                                                                    PHASEI.E.U-. CtE
PIOJECCAPWALEUMRBMS
1993            1994           1998             Me             1991           TOtWI by Cwn       PrOd Tobl
1 k PAS b mm Rz 8                          $s000          LS$000  LEoO  L000 MO E00   LE0                   '000  LEOOI 8'000  LE000   V000  LEooo
___- 0_-  I__---  -   ._-_ __. _    __ -----  ---_         _____     ----.   ___-          .....     ....._--
it    SibPnWdS                                     ?z~                                                 0               O       0 12.00    3.604  12.000
8ulAW & CbilYoft                                   7.685    2.,;S   9,926 2.705  13.575   7,983  26.566
SI  1.26      0               0               0       ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~0 1.6  40   1.6
Commugalm        152     50    1.1      .                                                      1.6    4.0   2.6    6.4
El* .JAC        305   2.000   2,121   8,000                                                    2,4286 23 ,3 2  5,429   S.6079
Tod  DWoPU.5 Co4a"t   70  1771 690    26                    0                                   0a766   50.7  2277   755
SuCToC7l 305  15.65    4.629  23.925         0       0       0       0       0       0    7731  39.56   17.015  S6.865
wenqon iedGoodsh                     *%                I           ,1.9               O                O               O       O   1,3S     410   ,.307
F_e*t                                        t52    500   1.212   3                                                        1.t364   4,000   2,U1   6,U2
Po*d  omoomdmomd"303   1.000    SO$ Xjr ,                                                                                     Er  2.,@r   1,7X   s.ns
Pw4"*  cam                                           Soo    303   2,0                                                        303   2.500   1,0S4   3.509
losm - Oounb_d a COaWL   T60  17r,n    0.909  32."1          O       O       O       O       O       O   7.669  S0.317  22,n79  7S.6S5
Phkldalokwmy  I~                    I         is%   116 7    SO$T a91 s 2S     O         O     O       O               0     767   3,832   1919   CUS
Woeq Cqpl2                 1        587   1.379                                                                             257   1.370    671   2."2
Pde coCong                                    33   1.934     625   7.763           0       0       0           0       0    657   9.699   3.570  1 1.60
ToW.* PuseI Bsa Cost   669  20,64    6,451  44.3        0       0       0       O        O      0   9,350  6,224  2.937  96.361
tS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w"=                                                    -I _nom   as*" =*_" Noun _w, #
9,00           CO"1                ol              O               O         O         6. l405  18.0@0
Bd_pC"wol                                          S,oaM    2.72n   9,00    SOO   2,0                                      S,22 7,C ITU     .437  t.094
C_UAdmo & Ak                                                                                            0       0         
tEICAbA         455   t.000   2.121   0.00                                                     2,ß70  10.000   5.5J9  tO,T7
S*itobl    455  t8,850   4,US48.0           500   2,SOI       O       O       O       O   S,OOJ 45,S   19,422  e4,8t4
an Woftd Goods                                     it ICZ                          13293             O               O       O   ,.54     464   1.544
hmbst                                        1C2    soa   1.364   4,01        S Ise    I"                                  lles    S 00       0  10,594
uu_ 03    oaum   $30   1JSu      152    SOI                                      .      . S    t 39 t    ,sU
Pn34        COM                                    t,a       303   10                  0               00    ,016.                         5.20    4.010
TS g 5. CDbS Wp     Cc55t 910  19,421   2.047  34.04       5 1,107J                                                       6.33  3   2 6 0   99062  6J,14   26,23  0.32Z
qhytsmCen   nc St                            91   t,o4       70S   2,S04    II    363         O       O       O        0                      0oS   3,91    2,0a    ,93
Wog CaphS                   1          1                                     290   ,.30                                      290   1.30    701   0.334
PfFe ConinpSwl                                39   1.62    464   26.98       5J   1.J          0       0       0       0   539 50   45.4   3,984   42867
utoh- pro"              152 Co5t t,40   22.24    $.36   43.50  152 2              O1.t09J  52.    3U.170 109,554
P#ajsct  303   1.  630   1.7     15w    5s                                       95   3w       =61   63 0aso
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.00  303   1.  303                                       606   2.      1.107   4.016~~~~~0  - 
Totat -OmIopehut 5.Canal.   10  19.71   7.05  34.0  1.107"  3,633   =00,  0                   .0    871s6.=6..



0
sI O  Ebud-3 3
Lmd 6  t0                                                          1.0                  0               0               0        0  16.000   5.405  l."00
indihg ct  cm W ult                                                 5.6     2.727   9.0        00   2.500                    3.227  17.350   8.437  2s.096
Et*nml & Mae i*is:                                                                                                               0       0       0       0
Cc ~munIUobn I Alm                                     265   1.03o                                      265   1.035    5      1.017
E8t9C.4chJAC                     455   2.00    2,121   8.000                                    2.578  10.000   6.570  1t.576
Senke EqumsWss                                                                                       0        0      0       0
Sub-ToNl      0       0     455  25.65    5.13  18.035    500   2.50          0       0   6.068  46.368  19,997  66.591
Dutyon an qtdGw$ Gooq                                  0              121            1.36             133                0       0    ,61      4865   1.617
Futh                                                          152    60    1.364   4.000      152    G0                      1.,68   5.000   3,170  10.564
Pvlsc Ubrwg    CnsufthgIcnooUn                                3003   1,00     530   1.75      152    50                        965   S.25    1.961   6.530
Pm-pepngh Cosas                                                     1.001     303   1,000    303                               605   2.000   1.207   4.016
Toal. D  hun opmnt s& CoAst   0       0     910  20,471   7,310  26.147   1.107   3.63         0       0   9.327  s6.252  26.820  69.310
Phydcdowinsftncy                .      %       0       0       91   1.04      731   2.615    t11      36        a       0      933   4.025   2.141   7.131
woe6kh cnpId               5t1                                                                303   1.41                       303   1 419    730   2.430
Pdb CoulnogoY                                  0       0       t0   2.9       975   9.45      252   2.14        0       0   1.309  14.514   5,663  16,674
Told - Prt On.B6 Cost     0            1.081  32.43    9.019  38.21    1."3   7.55         0           t 1.072  76.2t   35,359 117,745
I~~~~~~~~~~3~                              U"U      UUWU   UaUU  _~U    UUU3   *a    w w   _0    *"    *Wx   w3                      *n      U a
0   Noal - 4
Lsnd                                                   0           24.30                0               0               0        0  24.300   7.207  24.300
dkgsa  Cklvi Wials                                                  5.6     2.727   9.00      500   2.5c                     3,227  17.350   8.437  26.004
Eqv4mo a Maenor.                                                                                                                 0       0       0.     0
Comua*dea, a Alum                                      255   1,03                                       265   1.035     576   1.17
UIe0M,9chJAC                     455   2.00t   2.121   8.000                                     2.676  10.00    5.579   8s.578
Sewtc Equms                                                                                           0       0      0       0
Sub-Totls     0       0     455  32.1S    5.113  1t.035    500   2.50          0       0   6,066  52.665  21,ti9  72,B91
Ol on olmpauod Goods         [0                                       121            1,36             1s                0        0   1.51      465   1.,17
Fwulue                                                        152     50    1.364   4,00t     152    60                      1.68 66,000  3j.O  10.554
Potct MmsmomewdxoCsulgPomdom                                  303   1.00    530   1.70       1s2    5                         095   3.250   1.961   6.539
PM.aWbi Costs                                  _._                   O        303   ,oot      303                              606   2.000   1,207   4.016
Totd - Ondopnt a Conrt        0       0     9tO  34.771   7,310  26.147   1OT 0    3.63        0       0   9.327  64.552  25.712  95.60
Plysc Cokl u                         1:0g%i     0       0      91   1.047     731   2.61       it    363        0        0     833   4.025   2.141   7.131
WVdng C                     1l 5L1                                                            S03   t.41                       303   1.419    7SO   1.430
Pdce Congc                                      0       0      50   2.920    9t7   9.454      252   2.140        0       0   1.309  14.514   5.666  18.874
Toal - Ptet Ban Cool      0       O   1,06t  38,73    9.019  33.21    1.t73   7.55,        0       0  11.672  84.51   37,251 124.045
*sfl3  =_2U   aUUU   _2  J_U    -    _ @                wU3U   #Uwi    UU    n_          UUU    Ws       *3



'4
0
o~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~op
P4~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~GP
ABU SODAA DEVELOPMENr COMPANY
CAPffAL COSTS & FINANCNG STRUCTURE (Phase I - eupersktucttie)
(USSmIIlon)
TOTAL   1993    1994    1995   1996    1997
BaseCost    134.536  14.847  66.783  44.822   8.083   0.000
Interest During Const (IDC)  2.506   0.278   2.228   0.000   0.000   0.000
Financial Coss   1.068   0.324   0.744   0.000   0.000   0.000
Tot Project Cost   138.110  15.450  69.755  44.822   8.083   0.000
ASD-D Dveopdt.and   21.712   4.505  17.207   0.000   0.000   0.000
ASD - Addflonal Equty  12.012   3.003   6.006   3.003   0.000   0.000
Other Equty    35.103   2.521  13.362  15.817   3.404   0.000
Total - Equity    68.826  10.028  36.575  18.620   3.404   0.000
Foreign Debt   45.467   2.008  20.205  19.729   3.545   0.000
ASD's Debt    12.241   2.223   5.814   4.204   0.000   0.000
Local Debt   11.555   1.191   7.161   2,069   1.135   0.000
Ttl-D  024 542 3.1-    2-0-     -.--8  0.0
Total . Debt   69.284   5.422  33.180  26.002   4.680   0.000
4     .                                                               .   



"                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~EGM
ABU SOMA DEVELOPMENT OOMPANT
PoomS:                                       1993    1v04    1996    1996.  1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Guestsperfloomn                      2.00       2       2       2       2       2<       2       2       2        2       2
Daly Rate (Snight)          I      $80.0  $80.00  $60.00  $80.00  $80.00  $80.00  $80.00  $80.00  $80.00  $80.00  $80.00
Occupancy Rae.                                0%       0%     70%     75%     75%     80%      80%     80%     80%      80%
Hod Capacy - Rooms                    300     300     300     300    300       300     300     300     300      300     300
tA,phd Rooms. Day                               0       0     210     225      226     240     240     240      240    240
Occupied Roams$ Annuldy                         0       0  76,50  82.125  82.125  87.600  87.600  87.600  87.600  67,600
Annu? Numbe o Guestb                            0       0 1S3,300 164,250 164.250 176,200 115,200 175.200 175.200 17S.200
, ~   ~     - 0..- -                              -       ...          -
Reenes -Rooms ($ mnl)    0.00    0.00    6.13    6.S7    6.57    i.01    7.01    7.01    T.01    7.01
Food & Beverages:
Revemnu  - FIB ( milan)    0.00    0.00    4.99    5.35    5.35    S.7O    5.70    5.70    5.70    5.70
Other Revenes:
Revens - Othe   a nmn)    0.00    0.00    3.91    4.19    4.19    4.47    4.47    4.47    4.47    4.47
Toed Revnwnes (t eon)    0.00    0.00   15.03   16.10   16.19   17.18   17.18   17.18   17.18   17.18
'0
'0
*      IsSorm ef Sheraton
Pboms:                                       1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1996    1999    2000    2001    2002
Guest per Ro n                       1I 18.6 1          .8     1.8     1.8     1.8     1.8      1.8     1.8     1.8     1.8
Daly Rate  "niht                           $100.001     $100.00 $10.OO $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00
ccupwany Rale                 ...was.n.       0%       0%     50%     60%     65%     70%      70%     70%     70%     70%
Hotel CapacIy- Rooms                  300     300     300     300     300      300    300      300     300     300      300
OccupedRfoms.-Dly                               0       0     150      10      195     210     210     210     210      210
OCuped Rooms- Annualy                           a       0  54,50  65,700  71.175  76,8S0  76.650  76,650  76.650  78,650
Annul Number of Guests                          0       0  98.650 118.260 128.115 137,970 137,970 137,970 137,970 137,970
Reenues - Roosr(S m0an)    0.00    0.00    5.48    6.57    7.12    7.67    7.67    7.67    7.67    7.67
-W .. a  =aWw-a   ====Wm  an===  wa==wst ===a=u  ="w====numane  a===ne  =am==
Food A Beverages:
Revenues - FIB (S milin)    0.00    0.00    4.89    5.87    6.36    6.85    6.85    6.85    6.86    6.8S
Other Reyenues.
Revenues - Otr$ S mndon)    0.00    0.00    1.26    1.S4    1.67    1.79    1.79    1.79    1.79    1.79
TotWRevenues - nIS  lon)    0.00    0.00   11.65   13.98   15.14   16.31   16.31   16.31   16.31   16.31
mannX  mU....  annumn  maccam  c.n.nw  .n.aa"  nfal..  gsann.  c.n.    n.m.."



C..
o 
Roams:                                       1993    1994    1996    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
sGuets per Room                      2.001      2       2       2       2       2        2       2       2       2       2
Daily Rate ($nlght)                $80.0  $80.00  $60.00  $80.00  $80.00  $90.00  $80.00  $00.00  $80.00  $80.00  $80.00
Occuopacy Rate                ==O=- ===>      0%       0%      0%     70%     76%     75%     80%      80%     80%     80%
Hotel Capaty - Rooms                 300      300     300     300    300      300      300     300     300     300     300
Occupied Roms - Daly                            0       0       0     210     226      225     240     240     240     240
Occupied Roms - Annually                        0       0       0  76.650  82,126  62,125  67,600  67,600  87,600  87.600
Annued Number of Guess                          0       0       0 153,300 164.250 164,250 175.200 175.200 175,200 176.200
Fevenus - Rooms ($ mUln)    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.13    6.57    6.67    7.01    7.01    7.01    7.01
Food &f BwflfMs
Revrens - FUB (S nmUkon)    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.99    6.36    6.35    5.70    6.70    6.70    6.70
Revnues - Ote S minilon)    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.91    4.19    4.19    4.47    4.47    4.47    4.47
Tot Revenues (Smillnw)    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.03   16.10   16.10   17.18   17.18   17.18   17.16
I     1HOel - 41
Roows:                                       1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Geutsper Roomn                                1.6      1 1.6   1.6     1.8     1.8     1.8     1.8      1.6     1.6     1.6
Daly Rate ($Ing)                  $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00
Occupancy Ratse                Mo=ww=w>       0%       0%      0%     60%     60%     65%     70%      70%     70%     70%
Hotel Capacity - Rooms             - 300o   300               300     300     300     300      300     300     300     300
Occupied Roms- Daly                             0       0       0     150     180      195     210     210     210     210
Ocpid Rooms - Annudly                           0       0       0  54,750  65.700  71,175  76,650  76,650  70,650  76,650
Annut Number  Guests                            0       0       0  96.5SS  119.260 128.115 137,970 137,970 137,970 137,970
Revenus - Rooms (l mIlon)    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.4  6.57    ?.12    7.67    7.67    7.67    7.67
ummufi  Umams.  m"ann   mnu D-a"  macsan  msauc  *D---  assume   aueeu   .,555
Food & Revefaoou:
Revenus - F.B l$ mUon)    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.89    5.87    6.36    6.86    6.86    6.85    6.66
Olho Revenues:
Rsvenus - Other($ mUhon)    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.28    1.54    1.67    1.79    1.79    1.79    1.79
Total Revnues -* ndmon)    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.65   13.98   1£.14   16.31   16.31   16.31   16.31
*amas   mu" =="=  Monos  ma.sue  =b.m. -an. e5S   -m--- ..=.Wm   ===.



EOYpr
AU SOMA DEVELOPMENTCOMPANY
0
o                                                    n W El-w~~~~~~~~~F* l
OPEA WMCOM8
Iclkb Res SmAa
1993    1994    1995    1998    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Ovetheads:                                   ----  ----   ----          ---- ---  -- --    ----           ----    - ---  - 
_______                       % Tol Rev.
Gneal & Adminhistralve               a      0.00    0.00    1.20    1.29    1.29    1.37    1.37    1.37    1.37    1.37
Marketng b Sales                      2%     0.00    0.00    0.30    0.32    0.32    0.34    0.34    0.34    0.34    0.34
PRope Mantennance  Opeatins                  0.00    0.00    0.75    0.81    0.81    0.86    0.66    0.86    0.86    0.8S
Insurance (lIed assets)               i      0.00    0.00    0.16    0.16    0. 1     0.16   O.S    0.16    0.16    0.16
Subtotl - Ovwheads    0.00    0.00    2.42    2.59    2.58    2.74    2.74    2.74    2.74    2.74
Departmenta:
__________                    % DOM ~
Roams               .toS                     0.00    0.00    1.10    1.18    1.18    1.26    1.26    1.26    1.26    1.26
Food b Beveages                      40N4    0.00    0.00    2.00    2.14    2.14    2.28    2.26    2.28    2.26    2.28
Other                                so      0.00    0.00    2.34    2.51    2.51    2.68    2.68    2.68    2.68    2.68
Suboad - Deparmentad   0.00    0.00    5.44    5.83    5.83    6.22    6.22    6.22    6.22    6.22
co                                         Towald0      0.00    0.00    7.86    8.41    8.41    8.96    6.96    8.96    8.96    8.96
lSoma Bay Sherabn
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
OveChads:                                    -- - -    -----         - ----   ----    ----    ----    ----    ----    ----
% TOWa Fbv.
Gewal & Adnlnldhalve                  i      0.00    0.00    0.93    1.12    1.21    1.80    1.30    1.30    1.30    1.30
Maretng & Sales                 2            0.00    0.00    0.23    0.28    0.30    0.33    0.33    0.33    0.33    0.33
Pfr4mW Mainteance & Opera"o 86%              0.00    0.00    0.68    0.70    0.76    0.82    0.82    0.82    0.62    0.62
smzame (%  xed ass)                   I%    0.00    0.00    O.16    0.16    0.18    0.16    0.18    0.18    0.16    0.11
Subttal - Ovheada   0.00    0.00    1.62    2.27    2.45    2.62    2.62    2.62    2.62    2.62
Departmenbt:
__________                    % Dm  Payev.
Rooms                         -      1Is     0.00    0.00    0.99    1.16    1.28    1.38    1.38    1.38    1.38   11.3J
Foodl Beverages                      35%     0.00    0.00    1.71    2.05    2.23    2.40    2.40    2.40    2.40    2.40
Other                                60      0.00    0.00    0.77    0.92    1.00    1.06    1.08    1.06    1.08    1.08
Subtotal - Depatmenta    0.00    0.00    3.47    4.16    4.51    4.65    4.85    4.65    4.85    4.65
mamma. a..m.=  w=mam   wamama  ..naan  maumma.  *--ua  maman  Canaa=  Ca=naa
Tota 0UUJ    0.00    0.00    6.39    6.43    6.965    7.46    7.48    7.48    7.48    7.48
*-mam  nuaman  wamama   amunm-  n---ma  ammantaw anma     aCama  maCman  ammwam



44
a
Fte1l - 3
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997   1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
----%-                         ToW Rev.
GOsend8Adninzbatlve                   8%     0.00    0.00    0.00    1.20    1.29    1.29    1.37    1.37    1.37    1.37
Mabtodng &Sales                       2%     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.92    0.32    0.34    0.34    0.34    0.34
Prop" Mihnutert & CperaNx             5e     ∞.0 ∞∞   0 ∞ ∞∞ ∞0      0.75    0.81    0.81    0.86    0.86    0.86    0.86
Insurance Yfixedats)                  I      ∞∞∞    ∞∞∞    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.1B    O.l    0.1        0.18
9u5bi - oveheads    0.00    0.00    0.18    2.44    2.60    2.60    2.76    2.76    2.76    2.76
Departmental:
----------                    9;.% Rev.
Rboms                       [a               0.00    0.00    0.00    1.10    1.18    1.18    1.26    1.26    1.26    1.26
Food& Beveages                       401     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    2.14    2.14    2.28    2.28    2.26    2.28
Other                                soe     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.34    2.51    2.51    2.66    2.66    2.68    2.68
Suboal - Departmenta   0.00    0.00    0;00    5.44    5.63    5.893    6.22    6.22    6.22    6.22
:=w=a=  =_===t   =====   ====an  e#-_=  =-===n  =ws====   =====   -F1=   ==*==
Tota O&M    0.00    0.00    0.18    7.88    8.43    8.43    8.98    8.98    8.98    8.98
rHot-el- 4
1993    1994    1905    1996    1997    1906    1999    2000    2001    2002
COverheads:                             % Tobt Rev.    ----   ----    ----   ----    ----    ----    ----   ----    ----   ----
Gener a  Adinlnlsrati                 8      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.93    1.12    1.21    1.30    1.30    1.30    1.30
Mardetng & Sales               22               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23    0.28    0.30    0.33    0.33    0.33    0.33
Property Maiwnen    & Operatins       5      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.58    0.70    0.76    0.82    0.62    0.62    0.82
Iswnce (% fed assets)                 1      0.00    0.00    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.16    0.18    0.16    0.18    0.18
Subtota - Overheads    0.00    0.00    0.16    1.93    2.28    2.45    2.63    2.63    2.63    2.63
Departmental:
------_ - __                  SDea Rev.
Pooms                               1%      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.99    1.18    1.26    1.38    1.38    1.38    1.38
Food & Beveages                      35      0.00    0.00    0.00    1.71    2.05    2.23    2.40    2.40    2.40    2.40
Other                                60      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.77    0.92    1.00    1.08    1.08    1.08    1.06
Subtot - Depabmental   0.00    0.00    0.00    f.47    4.16    4.51    4.85    4.85    4.85    4.85
a*u#   B""ums  "wum s             u1.U *   *-m--  3U2=  uUuu  m-  uisin
Totl O&M    0.00    0.00    0.16    5.40    6.44    6.96    7.48    7.48    7.48    7.48
mum"  mumam"  .umai   Uws.UU    U2wa  ""UUn  anuuin  WU-W   *---   UwUw



Oro    ice   e9s    ICsl    ats   faie   OOSI  oti    Se91   0oto   WtI    at   usa   Sr-i  toe    WI   tOO    000   S-14wmOwi3u 3mlVWem)
(col)  itle)  (tCol)  (gt) (18)  (cOOC) fess)   ISO   see    so's   ESa    68 eZ ZOII)  lot   go4 I               Oo    ODo   sdwao3a m
WOS$   As ZZS   t   att @*I  ls-ZZ   ton    9U9  call  to911  lsI SO           s U4    C16   9S@  es 5911   t    000   000   -w @]OM   S3
F.u. ...... .......... . ......   ..........    . .-.* ..60.... .... -. .         .......... -... ... -  - ..  ....... ..  .... 0 -
wes    9821   Us   9        Z31 asOt  iOsl  @Z61  to5      i elet   sell             *60    ee      et COt                      600    000   3' t00 Q
6 so@         tse   I ee   ODo    COO -O          ODO   000    000 c o o 0   cow    coo   coo   cO    coo   coo    coo
ite a Is e t'IZ   el astZ  took  It       @Zes  eC88   GAs1  Oel CI      t S   etZ     AS&   sZ9-  Uel $ ee    Goo    000 coM                          -
000   900    6g0    AgO    *0   60    NO    Ott   tea   sIt e           e     I    at e t90    695   69*   000    000 699a DO tO             Satd_WO4
Lla     t las    tel  8SO e8  91eat   tlO2   eto    eas   ea81 1e1   ties1  Ies   So St ZtO OsD4 C        O CO     o    coo    (L1ew,snts,ew" GapauPM3
Ws-C)  (s9-d  1o's) (esC)  (96s-)  (N9-I)   6s-) (as 6)  (oe)   seta) (we-Cs) (itta) (ce-ta   s (Oes (sit)    a)  tOo    cOO 
Gas   000   COO    000   000   owe   t40    gOO   tOO    COO   GOO    WCOO   00   coo   coo   coo   coo    coo                              s     m& 4aow
tOO    WODO   GOV    aoo   tOO                       sm 463
Wo    o       to  000   000 Coo    sto    000   Goo   000   cooo   oDO         oo c0   o   coo   (o olo  (Oa)  coo    000                          s.juamo
Itoe)  flat) l(  c) tlso )  (atb61) 166e)  toe)  (at 14  tote)  (to )  (ai)  itsi)  (1s1) 0  as11 t0) eoo   oo    SO0   coo t      OO s   wayvIaapapedoo
o0o) d  e O)  o09s) 109e- 01 109(co   (0c) ls) 0  os9) 109 tog 0) (ceo)  (ceo)  (coo)  (ego) (ceo)  g000)  (cItZ)  Geo    coo seco hjeU00"
Io-C) 1sot)  (tot)  (10Co  (so) (tot)  (s|Ot)  (tot)  (toe6)  |10Co  (tot)  GOtt)  |it)  bA c)  IZSZ)  eta)d  ODO    Goo             mull4 au odw.e
(s0o81  IIOeI  (aI (tO   l(ol) (soIOZI)  aoIZ)  toe) I gtoe)  (lao)  (goa)  Iso-) (ct)f  (oo )0 lot1) (1eo)  0oo    eoo                       uagjaambampg
MO    too    500    000   coo    9bL       OLO   too    toO   tOO    aOe    ace   tOO too    t00   coo    000    000                "on qUO     _PUM3 loIo
Qu-scm seses Oisoe-e   seeso  u-se. uso*e  ms      s             es      s      s     ee    tote.....0 ..."S  .  .  0.S  ...  .    ...0. s.atse-a, coowa  .... cu~w o
Zss    alOOtUOt   aO    ZlOt  aO-    cIOt   aot ZcIot   ea a             Otot   clOt  son   all   eat   Sea    Coo    eoo
S@8C  Its8    98@6  it96  9896   99et  98t6  se9t  seet  o_C    S8St  Se#t   at   lOts   @e1_c    I               0S ce    ODO   ,mV3  sesa 
Ot'sl  0*t tZ* -  1ot  Ol OP  at's'  811#1 OfG UIP n  tt  aZ                                                                            UUK0eo 
Ui    Uea    setV   eAl    U4-   eu-s   tea    eta    ft  it           etsa W  eta0   sea   se-a   4t a    too    coo    cwoou,S&as
015      t   st-amt  Ogg    ct-    SIN     si   Pte    tag    Sail  4e         s     eOse   gtes   (MCI           Go6 000    0OO
oso    See   SCC       o se-C   s          see    NC #C   se e 9CC      e C    em    ast    Ate     "ae  see    coo   eo-
SIe      S    IIu     I-  #V$ t     ia   Is   is- I      e Og   tIe   Is       t s-   OsIc    Sat   sI     ust oo        coo                w
wC    969    us   es-s   ws         -es   eS-    OtS  Oct   SC$c    S-   9ess   aSs   u-st           t e     0 is   goo   GOO 
olZZ   s      it'"   sI'n   SelZ   StlZ    Ss'"   cSeZ  Sitn   SeZ   Sees  SalZ    Zl c tC O            04i1   awa  0e   c oo ooo 
IVA    ICI   Ilt    I@'    tell SU    ICA    we So IS' 19' *C' UZ                           SO      Sß     lC      OO
Ks   9t0    99'    et's  8C         we   otO  at'  9t 06  99@ 1    we          w      o      O    $          t   004      o                    et- I0 pw
cI    gas     W      as      as      '    as i9           as   Gal    a's   as       01a      aO   SO'   a'    QO`    is                      _o
ION 1099  Z069  4t89t  ASS  AGS A90          0"     O zn9   n 0 X99  IC"t9       '    ett    gsats    es    wo   Co                oC 6S  ""  COO "0
t9t1   "'St  ZCZI  ZS'I  asl$  al ZG    C         "'StCZI  U ZS I  S'S$  ZSZ   nil   tli  "'it  1601  ass   00O    000SNAS MO
otS  et aO     t StCe   eot    ee      OscZ  aoo'   tCos   OasZ OICZ  aoe o O         eas iIZ#      aUls  SOI s    teoo a Os     .wsuseo
CC6Z   St"   St,"   St'"   ccz   seaZ  eta   St'" S eat  Sea   SC' Z              aC  sea   t@U   etIt  $9g1   GOo   Go000MU
..-      ...  ....     ...  ...      ....  ...      ....  ....    ---..-       ...   * ....  ....     .. . - - -       ..  ---- - DW
I       I   a ICI *1   a1 IW      *      0      A      t      0       0      C      a      I      a      I      Z-    t-      JA0
DIOZ   sOOZ   *0"   IOUZ     00    son 0" a tOZ          Boos Za   "aO OOOZ      l  0601   1"1   066    *666  #61   ctOO         1APP
..  _.__._ .................... 
06
; O



Annex 4
- 11 -                      Page 27 of 27
AU SOMA BAY OEVELOPMAET
PHASE I & U (MO000O 0M2
GM"     Sale of   Consrn & Opeaing & Changes in   Net
Hotel   Oweloped  Oevelop't Maintenance  Wordng  Economic
BAY                         Q LOWacamX  9ams 0808nits
1993      0.00     0.00   (19.15)    0.00    (0.38)  (19.54)
1994      0.00     0.00   (59.02)    0.00    (1.45)  (60.47)
1995     26.68     1.68   (35.82)  (18.22)   (3.31)  (29.00)
1996     56.76     3.02    (4.76)  (36.03)   (3.07)   15.92
1997     61.33     4.42   (42.85)  (38.69)   (1.08)  (16.88)
1998     64.73     2.70  (132.04)  (40.06)   (3.33)  (108.59)
1999    106.99    10.88   (80.13)  (68.15)   (7.45)  (37.86)
2000     152.11    17.09   (10.64)  (94.50)   (6.81)   57.25
2001     158.96    25.06     0.00   (98.43)   (0.52)   85.07
2002     164.07    15.33     0.00  (101.35)   (0.22)   77.83
2003     167.42     7.85     0.00  (103.30)   (0.26)   71.72
2004     167.42     0.00     0.00  (103.30)    0.03    64.16
2005     167.42     0.00     0.00  (103.30)   (0.07)   64.06
2006     167.42     0.00     O.CO  (103.30)   (0.07)   64.06
2007     167.42     0.00     0.00  (103.30)   (0.17)   63.95
2008     167.42     0.00     0.00  (103.30)   (0.24)   63.89
2009     167.42     0.00     0.00  (103.30)   (0.07)   64.05
2010     167.42     0.00     0.00  (103.30)   (0.02)   64.11
2011     167.42     0.00     0.00  (103.30)    0.59    64.72
2012     167.42     0.00     0.00  (103.30)    4.61    68.74
AS'sE-IRRI   15.1%|



- 72 -
Page 1 of 23
EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT :ROJECT
Sabi Hasbeesb Bay Development (SHID)
PreM   Deption & Land Use Mase Plan:
1.    The resort would be cenraly located in the Hurghada-Safaga region, some 20 Km south of
Hurghada. The project is being developed by SHBD, incorporated under Investment Law No 230
of 1989 with an authorized capital of LB 700 mion and issued capital of LE 46 million. The total
area of the proposed project is nearly 12 million m2, of which 6 million m2 has been bought and the
rest has been leased from the MOT with the option to purchase. SHBD has developed a
comprehensive development plan approved by TDA. The development plan provides for the
construction and adminstration of the key infrastructure facilities for the project including potable
water, power generation, sewage ament, internal roads and communication which would suppot
a luxury tourist esort consisting of hotels, villas, chalets mainas and recreational centers. SHBD
would participate in the equity of hotels up to 40% mainly through contribution of developed land.
2.    The project would be implemented in phases, with Phase I consistng of the development of
6 nmllion m2. Phase L is further sub-divided into two stages. Sta&C (a1, the subject of this analysis,
would consist of the development of 2 million m2 of land and would comprise all the basic
nfastructure facilities, set up in modular units to fit the needs of this stage, as well as two 5-star
hotels and one 4-star club rsot Each 5-star hotel would have 300 rooms and constructed on a
200Q000 m2 plot. The 4-star resort would have about 165 rooms in the form of chalets and
bungalows, and constructed on a 177,000 m2 plot. The construction of this stage is envisaged to
begin in early 1993 for a period of about 3 years. At the end of construction, the sponsors expect to
sell about 540,500 m2 of developed land for the subsequent construction of private villas, chalets,
palaces, and marina housing units. In accordance with the agreement between TDA and SHBD,
MOT would receive 50% of the profit from the sale of developed land to third parties, with the
exception of land sold to the hotel companies. Out of the 2 million m2, stage Ia would have a total
seUlable area of about 1,117,500 m2 (or 56% of total area) and the remaining 882.500 m2 would be
in the form of public area (beaches, greens, roads and pavements). Negodadons with international
hotel chains and is e  opemors are underway. Stage (b) covering the remaining 4 million
m2 of phas I would be developed in the second and third years of operation and would constitute
two 4-star resorts (450 rooms), palaces, vilas, chalets, a town center (with a 300-room 5-star hotel
and casino), and retail center. Out of the 4 million m2, stage lb would have a total sellable area of
about 2,706,500 m2 (68% of total area) and the remaining 1,293,500 m2 in the form of public areas.
3.    SHBD commissioned the US firms of Anderson, Cooper, Georgelas and EDAW to prepare
the conceptual plans for the entire site, and the detailed plan for Phase 1 (6,000,000 m2). The local
firm of Sabbour & Associates were retained as the engineering and architectural consultants to
produce the deiled drawings and cost estimates for the Phase I infastructe facilities.
Gaital kMa=en & Prosed Flpaacig Plan:
4.    The total cost of Phase 1 (6 millioti m2) is esdmat  at US$258 million (LE 860 million) and
would consist of the development of infrastructue facilities and six prnmary hotels and club resorts.
The investment costs of the hotels shown in the table below include the value of land contributed by



- 73 -
Page 2 of 23
SHBD as master developer, all pre-oprational development costS, commuunication and alarm, air
conditioning and service equipment, furniture, contingencies, Interest During Constuction (MDC)
and related financing costs. Under Phase la, the average cost per room for a 4-star resort comes out
to about US$100,000, while the 5-star hotel is about US$1 15,000. Approximately 46% of the cost
of in uctue for the entire 6 million m2 of Phase I is envisaged to be completed duing Phase Ia.
As master infrastrucure developer, SHBD would have a total capital requiment of US$43 million
for Phase Ia Of this, about US$22 million is in foreign currency, while US$21 equivalent is in local
curency. The large local currency component is typical of such projects with significant locally
incued expenses such as land, civil works, and locally sources equipment. The foreign currency
costs are expected to be those of imported equipment for water dn, waste water treatmet
power genemtion and distribution, and communicaton/elephone systems.
TABL R A.
SABL RASEME    lAY DVELOPMEN COMPANY
PEASE I * a, b
CAITAL SMUCTUnE & POPOSED PIANCING PLAN
X'Mk    MM   I                    W b   4.000.0 mg
Cor_bogla Peiled        1993-95                           1107.00
__________ ________   Fi  Lad.   Tom           f          I       T
_E 1 ~~LEa   11I1  ,us 
cm_0"1                  10.10   170.02    63.20            74.2   141.19    50.31
lVddag - b pN¢0.27                    4.12     1.61            0.16     3.19     1.14
Pi    OW*VftW                1.02     0.99     4.02            0.79    14.12     5.0$
I o_q OMO1.10    32.37    10.82                                1.62    50.63 r 10.79
Toed . & _UtnauM   14,.14   237.90    15.02           11.85   222.77    76.75
FoSp~~~~~~~~~f LW ToW.
LLm ~ ~ ~ ~ nnao   LLO
hw mQO£m                             19.98     6.00
Oapmbw  So"wadq co"t                  8.00     2.40
Of Pnqsaft & US"bsf A2               2dt9     2uA             25.Z     esU      3 2
OMs CO      16.04    54.91    33.13           25.72    26.55    34.29
h#Whg Capd /3                0.63     1.12     1.17            2.57     2.66    3.43
PipdcS CANkRpnzy 14          1.55     9.68     4.46            5.14     9.99     8.14
Prb Ccn*tprq                 1.60    2.25     2.34            1.29     1.43     1.71
10 &OU   M         CM        1=   17                           Lu
TRequheduFbanonw    21.80    71.30    43.27            36.68    44.93    80.17
un  Un  ILEmIb USMLMg   s         US2Jan  U       SMMM         2i
eqphy s                      0.05    35.40    10.70 24.74%   14.67    17.97    20.07 40.00%A
Ldnd iXwWpg is               0.00    17.23     5.17 11.96%     0.00     0.00     0.00  0.00%
NLOMnA Loamn /Y21.61    18.61    27.39 63.31%                 16.51    20.22    22.S 45.00%
FW*" omb  O0.00                       0.00     0.00  0.00%     5.50     0.00     5.50 10.97%
Laml Dow                      UR       o       Lo QU  Q        LQQ      LQ       LQA   L2 3
Tod fbelasg    21.86    71.30    43.27100.00%    36.68    44.93    50.17 100.00%
f2 Mc  am apemd to be fiad WM 50% OxY and 50% deft
4  InWds 0% d As an I mpa aleId .qumMIt
aS  Talme as 0% of dul Prepa*Mn  idlas hw eshnet am
14  Teln a 10% d oft pespeato & uAlUm. e etmt cou         _ _ _
A5 Axtud uhawNhoWId mp*y wd amults t abeS 5% ol fthe toa p capbuetof 8HB0, hidi the vaue o 9t1sequ*y ln
the hdd ooCp_es in b0 tam od  ai d oWit ceetWon
/8 80%S  d the pud o    value of and WOd be inad hI fo ftm  det (lnd dcwred paaemnt tem GOE
/7 1TA lan for phae la coes up to awn 4$% at SHBW capia ibMdm when emNd   SMOD. equy hi the hold
S.     T     ponmos have indicatd t   two loc  bank, CIB and Suez Canal Bank, have expressed
wllgness to ange the fiancing for the hotels if the the inras            fncing was secured.



- 74 -
Page 3 of 23
While about US$27 mrullion of IBRD/TDA funds would be disbursed to SHBD towards the
infrastructure component of Phase la during 1993-95. the remaining USS23 million would be
conunitted by TDA in favor of SHBD subject to the successful implementation of Phase Ia and the
appraisal of Phase lb. Most of the US$27 million IBRD/1DA loan for Phase la is expected to be
disbursed towards foreign currency expenditures. Under Phase la. the shareholders of SHBD would
contribute direct equity funds of about US$11 million to cover capitalized pre-operational
development expenses, a 20% down payment for the purchased land from MOT. site
preparation/utilWes costs, and non-IDC financial costs. An additional US$20 million in the form of
developed land and cash investment would be contributed by SHBD as equity in the proposed
hotels, bringing total equity to roughly 57% of SHBDYs capitaliztion.
6.    Debt financing from local conunercial sources was assumed to be repayed in foreign
currency and have an interest rate of 10%, a 3-year gace period effective from each drawdown, and
repayment over 6 years. The IBRD/TDA loan. in the case of SHBD, would carry a variable interest
rate of 9.5%, a 5-year grace period effective from the date of loan commiumnt, and 20 equal seni-
annual payments. Since the IBRDrrDA loan is expected to be the only loan to SHBD, it would not
carry the subordinated feature and its interest rate would not reflect the subordination prenuum of
100 basis points. The IBRDITDA loan to SHBD would bear no front-end fee but would have an
annual commitment fee of 0.25% on the undisbursed loan amount. 80% of the purchase value of
land acquired from MOT would be financed through a 5% GOE mortgage instrument, having a
grace period of 3 years with equal annual repayments over a 7-year period.
AssumSgfns fo iEmancial Anlsis:
7.    The financial projections and analyses were made on the first stage of development of 2
nmllion m2, with the aim of ascertaining the ability of SHBD under this phase to generate sufficient
income to: (i) cover their operating and financing costs; and (i) service their debt obligations to TDA.
As such, the cashflow analysis does not accommodate the investment requirements, operating
expenses or revenues associated with akiy development subsequent to the first phase, namely the 4
mdllion m2 under Phase lb. The cashflow projections are carried out in 1992 constant terms and
cover a period of 20 years, inclusive of the 3-year construction period required by Phase Ia.
Expenditures under the financing plan were escalated using appropriate price contingencies. Under
Egypt's investment Law-230 of 1989, both supers=rcture and inrs   components would be
exempt from income taxes for the first ten years of operations, and are taxed at a rate of 40%
teeafter. Fixed assets were depreciated using a simple straight line depreciation over 30 years for
buildings and civil works, 15 years for SHBD's utilities stations. and 10 years for furniture, a/c and
other equipment in hotels. Capitalizd pre-operating development costs, IDC, and financing costs
were amordzed over 5 yeas. The exchange rate of LE 3.33/US$ was used.
8.    Hotel revenues are generated from different operated departments such as rooms, food and
beverages, sales and rental from shops, spos facilities, minor charges such as telephone/telex/fax,
and laundry. Average room rates for 1996 onwards used for the two 5-star hotels and one 4-star
resort of Phase Ia, are US$100 and US$80 per night. respectively. The average occupancy rate for
the 5-star hotels would start at 50% for the first year of operadon and increase to 60% in the second
years, 65% the third year. and 70% thereafter. The 4-star resort would operate at 70% in the first
year, 75% in the second and third years, and 80% thereafter. The Double Occupancy Factor, a
measure of the average expected number of guests per room, is taken as 2.00 for the 165-room club
resort and 1.80 for the 300-room hotels. While the resort is assumed to commence operations in
1995, afoer a 2-year constuction period, the other hotels would begin operations in 1996.



-75 -                                    Am  5
Page 4 of 23
9.    Hotel annual operating expenses. QgarnSj costs used in this study, expressed as a
percentage of departnental revenues, are 18% for rooms, 40% for food and beverages (35% in the
case of a S-star hotel), and 60% for other minor operations.
10.   Annual gvejhead expenses relate to the overal operations of the facility and are not allocated
to specific depatments, such as: (i) admsve and general expenses: are estimated at 8% of a
hotel's total revenues to cover license fees, travel expenses, printing and stationary, credit card
commissions, etc.; (ii) marketing and sales: are estimated at 2% of a hotel's total revenues to cover
agenc fees, advertising, eninment, etc.; (iii) property operations (repair, replacement and
maintenance) are estmated at 5% of a hotel's total revenues for the overall upkeep of the property,
fmnishings, equipment spare parts; and (iv) insrance: an annual premium equivalent to 1% of the
fixed assets Other expenses ae: (i) funiture replacesmnt an annal cost equivalent to 4% of
Gross Opeting Profit (GOP); (ii) management fees: for the hotd operator company and is equl to
3% of total annual revenues; and (iii) utilities: charged by the maste developer (SHBD) for the
hote's consumption of electric power, potable water, recycled water for irrigation, and
senrice/community charges. With the exception of uility ratmes, which are the subject of analysis
heme, hotel cost estimates ara in line with actal costs currently experienced in similar hotels in the
Red Sea area
11.   SHBD's revenues would be derived primadly from-
(t)    dividends received from SHBD's share in the hotels. SHBD would have an
agegate participation of about 50% in the equity of the three hotels of Phase Ia. SHBD
would contibe  fiull  alue of land as equity in the S-star hotels, and 50% of e value of
land for the 4-sta resrt, as equity-in-kind. The analysis assumes the hotels would adopt a
dvidend payout rtio of 95%.
(i)  revenues from the sale of any piece of developed land would be collected in the
form of a 40% down-payment, followed by two annual installments of 30% each. MOT
would receive 50% of the profit from the sale of land other than that which is sold to the
hotes. A detW   ouline of the land sales plan and prices as envisaged by SHBD, resulting
from the development of the initial 2 nillion m2, is found in the attached tables. A recent
invesgadton revealed that th cure market price of land in Hurghada and Sharm El Sheikh
ranges from LE 150 to LE 350 per square meter. SHBD asmes that, in order to attract
hotel investents to their area, developed land would be sold to a 4-star club resort at a low
rate of LE 90/m2, and LE 100/m2 to a 5-star hoteL This analysis assumes that land sold for
the development of other superstcr such as villas, chaleat, etc. would be sold at a market
rate stardng with a price of LE 230/M2 in 1993. The plan assumes dta the price of land
would appreciate by 5% annually in real terms, starting from 1993. SHBD's cost of
developing one square meter of land comes to about LE 62/m2, including the purchase price
of US$1/m2 from MOT.
(iii) utility revenues are based on the consumption of the three hotel that are to be built
and comuissioned under Phase la, as well as the expected consumion by villas. chalets,
etc. Unit uility rates charged are based on an analysis of the unit cost of production of each
pe ofuiy, given the total volume beng consumed by all su tructure units under Phase
Ia, as well as by the shared publik areas such as street lighing, water desainaion and water
treaument plants, and water consumed for common greens. The project's toul annual
conslmpton of eleccl power was esdmated at about 26,673 MWh, potable watw 364,900



- 76 -                                      nn 
Page 5 of 23
m3. and recycled water 292,160 m3. Those consumption levels roughly represent 35-50% of
the nominal production capacity of the installed utility capacity. Furthermore, SHBD would
incur additional labor costs, maintenance and asset depreciation associated with about
882,500 m2 of public areas and services shared by the hotels and future superstructures.
Initially, the three hotels and future owners of residential units would be charged an
additional annual service fee to cover the cost of running and maintaining these public
facilites represented by the comununications systems. irrigation network, site up-keep and
landscaping, and roads/pavements/walkways.
12.   SHBD's annual operating cost are those attributed to the production and distribution of
electicity, waw desalination and distribution, waste water drage and treatment, and the operations
and maintenance of the 882,500 m2 of shared facilities. Prelinmnary engineering estimates and
design specifications indicate that the electric power consumption rate by the entire project under
Phase la would be:
Water desalination plant       8.0 KWhIM3
Waste wat treaunent plant      2.0 KWbh
5-star hoed                   3.9 KWhoo,n
4-star resort                  2.6 KW/ooom
H using: Villas. chalets. palaces. etc   2.0 IW/occupan:
The consumption rate of potable water by the entire project under Phase Ia is estimated at 0.90
m3/room/day (450 liters per guest) for hotels, 0.70 m3/room/day (350 liters per guest) for housing
units, and 0.25 m3/employee/day (250 liters per employee). The conswnption rate of recycled water
by the enire project under Phase Ia is esimated at 80% of the rate of consumption of potable water,
or 0.72 m3/room/day for hotels, 0.56 m3froom/day for housing units, and 0.20 m3/employee/day.
Based on this, the unit cost of producing each KWh of power and each cubic meter of potable and
recycled water, considering labor, fuel, lubricants, maintenance, and depreciation of fixed assets
would amount to LE 0.28/KWh for power, LE 8.1 l/m3 for potable water, and LE 3.52/M3 for
recycled water. Furthermore, SHBD would incur an annual expense of about US$0.71 million (LE
2.3 million) associated with the operations and maintenance of the 882,M)0 m2 of shared facilides.
SHBDg Financial BXformance:
13.   The following table gives a summary of project performance in terms of the Retun on
Equity (IRR) and the economic IRR, of the hotels and SHBD. Though revenue projections from the
sale of land are conjectural at this early stage of the project's development and prior to the actual
completion of the infrastrucure construction, the analysis would nevertheless attempt to measure the
impact of this revenue, as weil as dividend proceeds from SHBD's shares in the hotels, on the
project's econonucs in terms of the level of utility rates that SHBD would need to charge the three
hotel companies in order to fully service its debt to TDA. It was also assumed that the resulting
utilty rates would remain constant in real trms for the life of the projec The base case perfaomance
shown in table 5.2 assumes that (i) SHBD would acually be able to sell 100% of the sellable area of
developed land; (ii) equity at both the infastructure and superstucture levels would not fall below
50% of total financing; and (iii) SHBD would remin a ninimum of 50% shareholding in the hotel
companies in order to maximize its share of hotel dividends. MOr's share of the profit on such land
sales woud amount to about US$12 million (LE 40 million) during the period 1996-2003.



- 77 -
AnrL 5
Page 6 of 23
TAtRL S-t
SAHL NASHESN DAY DEVELOPMENT CO.
PHASE To. f2ONO .2)
BASS CASE RESULTS
Poeed Ufiltbr Rate
Powr (LEIKWh)                     0.40
poabe Wate (LU/M3)               11.00
Recobd Waer (LUim3)               5.00
SrAwleFe"s (LEhu2)                4.50
8M8- ml. DW SerAv Covam Raio (08R)  1.22
SHD - Rotm on eqt*y (IRW)        10.4%
S90- Eemi IRM f/                 27.7%
Mmalsis.Avecuq GO                4.4%
HotsR-Rwmnaequty(IRRw            17.1%
"leftei -u l, MR                 19,0%
adje' olimd as dwa   .ad prui ondadouiu.
14.   The above table clearly demonsaes h  at the udlity rates shown above, SHBD would be
ale to flly cover its debt service obligations to TDA. While the econonic retus of the hotl
comies and SHBD are strong, SHBD's s         olders at th infrastructur level, however, would
realze a marnal return on their equity mvestment, which at this stage does not take into
cons~dcMion the future appreciation in the value SHBD's shares in the hotel companies. A&uminz
gho hotels =Wol repayv their loca debt in foreign curnyat 10% intes pramnjum. instead of the
20% on local curecy repayment, return on hotel equity is found to be better than the    cted 12-
15% range customarily observed in many hotels in Egypt. The hotel's aveage Gross Opamting
Profit (GOP) is also wel within the 40-50% range expeienced i Egypt
SAHL HASHEESH BAY DEVELOPMENT
PHASE la - SUPE sRUCTR (3 H.sts)
PROJECTIONS OF FINANCIAL PERFOMNCE (DBm CM)
LW  LW  LW  1        3 l L  19 W  LW  2L
Roams                     3.37 14.86 16.76 16.09 19.18 19.18 19.18 19.18
Food& &sveag              2.71 12.69 14.65 15.52 16.80 16.60 16.80 16.80
Cthwo                     WL1A  4    LU L5    LU   LU   La   LU
Gars OFp     PAvewnues  8.23 32.11 36.77 39.69 42.02 42.02 42.02 42.02
OPKA4 E*W" /        A.2  ±LJA 2=J  2=2 ZIJA  ZLM  2J   2A
ow COpeFst ngPhica(GM     3.20 13.03 16.11 17.57 10.69 18.60 18.69 18.69
Nio   m 12                2.01  3.34  5.50  7.23  8.61  9.43 14.46  9.60
TotdS DoeM Sen  Obgtis    0.00  4.97  8.02 10.08  9.86  9.61  0.00  0.00
OftewviosOoC  Raft        0.00  2.53  1.82  '1.57  4.70  1.74  0.00  0.00
/1 Inckdes depastmeel and overhead coil.
Q2 hbInn depreaotn & amcllain. n   en om    , and manageme fos
15.   The udlity cost to the hotels under the base case represents about 8.6% of the hotd's gross
annual revenues, not too far from the industry's average of about 5%, considering the fact that these
rates woud need to be set at an adequate level to cover SHBD's invesment in new inatt
The most recent and curent levels of uility rates paid by hotels in Hurghada have experenced shap
incramses over the past few years. A summary of SHBD's pedformalce under the base case is
shown below. Tables 5.2 and 5.3 above provide a summary of combined perfonrmace of the 3
hom lw esorts under Phase la, highlighting their financial viability under conservative leves of room
rateL Even under lower room rats, the hotels are expected to mnain the required debt service
.~c~y



- 78 -
Pnge 7 of 23
SAHL HASHEESH BAY DEVELOPMENT CO.
PHASE I18 INFRASTRUCTURE (2,00000 =aI)
PROJECTIONS OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (Ban Coo
Sbde at UtWiies          0.73  2.00 3.22 3.42 3.58 3.66 3.58  3.56 3.68 3.68 3.58
Owvidncdlninane tt  Fdm4otI  0.00  3.09 2.71 3.57 4.10 3.53 3.6i  4.21 6.54 8.1, 8.25
Sale of Obewaped Land1  2Ll   JAm  La, Am St s fLU    LUi9  Lu Lma =La    LAS
Tot rPvntaumgS-mIIw   3.81 10.92 11.79 11.66 9.53 7.60 7.70  8.14 10.21 11.74 11.83
Opifn  nees a       LS gJ8               5JA    =  L28  Lj  L2    gU  Jgf  Lf   L
Not nmme                 0.68  4.87 5.79 5.63 3.74 1.99 3.20  3.87 6.20 8.07 8.63
T.WODeIe   10.,i1Ogaima  1.28  2.80 3.06 2.01 1.61 1.23 1.23  1.31 2.06 2.43 2.46
Debt 8SCamrFall          1.26  3.43 3.78 3.80 3.26 2.74 3.08  3.76 5.77 8.26 10.95
/1 Maiin SHOD mw*Mes to ad 100% at goe dewslspa WMd we. in adiflim to Oe WMi usd by IwUk& WMd gm MOT' wowa
htd 50% d Fe pO b f mm sje sai.
/2 Incld* dapti & a,w_zsla.
16.   The prformance of SHBD is based on consevative assunptions about the selling potential
Of land once the prope infrastructure was established. GOE has fim plns in the near future to
beg  a regular fely service across the Red Sea between Safaga and Saudi Arabia. This would most
definitely serve to boost tourism demand in the Red Sea area, and provide an upward pressure on
iand prices, potenially leading to the sale of SHBD's developed land in a much shorter period than
the 5 years. anticipated by SHBD and at potentially higher value. Furthermore, hotel rates are
expected to continuoudy increase with the industry's dereguladon to pemit SHBD's hotel
companies to charge higher rates than used in this anaysis. The hotel rates used in the analysis were
in line with existing 4-S star hotels in Hurghada which are consiered by many interaional hotel
and tour operators to be well below the standard of their clsifion.
17.   Table 5.5 below provides a summary of the results from the sensitivity analysis in order to
assess SHBD's projected performance under less favorable conditions at the hotel leveL Two cases
were examined; the first case uilizes lower hotel average room rates, while the second assumes that
hotel occupancy would drop by 10% from the base case levels throughout the project's life. Under
both cases, SHBD would suffer a severe setback in performance, though not sufficient to
compronise its debt service capability to TDA. The drop in DSCR to the 1.0 level would seem to
occur after a few years of operdon and once there are no more revenues from land sales. SHBD
would be able to accumulate sufficient cash reserves during the early years of operation to
accommodate such an eventuaity. Since SHBD's development plans under phase la involve the sale
of larger areas of developed land (non-hotel area sold represents 27% of developed land under phase
[a), while receiving smaLler dividend proceeds from hotel investmets than contemplated by ASD, it
follows that SHBD's performance would therefore be more sensitive to fluctuations in land sale
volume and prces than to income from hotel dividends or uility consumption. To alleviate this
vulnerability and improve SHBD's performanc under less favorable hotel operadons, an additonal
200-room club resort may need to be added to the Phase la development plan.



- 79 -
AmLS
Page 8 of 23
SAIL HASHEEH DEVELOPMENT CO.
PHASE la l2 0.00 M3)
RESULTS OF SENS1trVrTY ANALYSIS
O_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Sl                     3m       -10%
Noed Room Rates (USMghtk
$-st               $100.00      90.00    100.00
4-sta                60.00      70.00     80.00
P_W "XEt)                            0.40       0.40      0.40
11.00      11.00     11.00
Pt_Wod wow ".Mm                      5.00       6.00      5.00
Swwm Few Wm2)o                      *4.50       4.60      4.60
8D0.Mhi 0sbtSm8ssCowrRde(0S0R)      1.23       1.01      1.01
D  - Nums d yv09Cfk1.0                   0         0         0
SM-Romeaftftom                      10.4%       7.2%      7.1%
a0-_Uwsomon                         t27.7%     23.5%     252%
IWA-AIi_D8umCR                        1.5?      1.37       1.41
1  e- Nugw d Yo  0CFk1.0                 0         0         0
H     _.^b-AvsmpGCP                 44.4%      43.3%     44.1%
HfilmmR_obMQ"&8*w<M                 t17.1%     13.5%     14.2%
19.0%      16.5%     16.0%
_ _ _-AuadWU s % t w  1    avow"um    6.6% _    9.6% 



Annex S
-80 -                                              Page 9 of 23
EGr
SAH14SHEESH 8Y OEVEWPMUNT CO.
~6N~Pl1AL  A*TE fnVLOmNN   LN  ba  fM
IK4SE.k  2.000.000 m2    PHASEIb  4.000.000 m2    PHASu       .000.    12
GIEMC~~TI0N                     Ams (m2)1 Ur*  I$ f       At" Lm2ig    Uis I Ro    Afea (nm2)  Urle   _H
- Norh WatoVh          -i                               _m 
st $-4g  hotl          200,000f   3001    300
2nd 5-l hisl           200,0001   3001    300            f                                t
chwm                    i00,000f    11      24           !       f        
O~m                    100.0001     1       30 i
SXoatmelna               *0,000J   Is8     iso
_-f~~ ~~~~~~ 1    I I, i
VUiqa     Qial         177.000      27     125                             261.000      48    20
ewwim  20    40                 4                  s    300   so
Vft"  Chmk%                          244.000       411   194   242,0001     4      193
obmgi                                               3      60                3;     s0
VUg¢      CEdm                                   193,000      3      147  19S,OOOj    2t   12
Vft"      CW"@Sc                                                           234.000!     40    18
_ai0                                                      2                  25    s5
VU90O     C@"b                                                             214.000      37    i75
sbnaJb                                                                       23      46
|hU V   n C()200                                                           224,000      40 01 8
hoUsing imim 0              1                   42500                                        so
is   VUb@@  CtubZs                                           284*000i    4t   221~~~~~~~~~~~~~9  5
j~~~owm      ca"d8"                                       iso         260    2q                         6
" T J                                f~~ ~~~ .                                           S
housiRl ut  (a                                  120,000t    4401   880           i
~~ bß4djsk  unh (b                                         45,000i    4401   SOOS 
M  Gom*o"nt                                    85,000i                         i       s
PaIm,sAri,am                      150.000        l    Iso 1,o.o0,0'    ioof  *os
L. vuilAn.                        100,500j    071    335   169.5001    1131   560  1.290,000i   129a@    SitO
XL2MWin.SA                                                  700,0001    1sO   6B4
Vlllil   -.                                           I            K }                  f,
3id 541w hot1                        1i60,000!    3001   300
4th 5-#a  hote                        i                                    150,000!    300!   300
Chokft                                                                     100.000      sol   I0O
'TOTAL. 6LS  AREA (mg)           1.117,500    93d   1.484 2,706.5001  1,637   4,668 3,429.000   2.4751 7.661
PWUO  REAS                        882,soo !. 1.0t !t'∞∞.t
__sxltCArtoaW   $82e000,00                 !        4,1,293.500!     J        2.571,000,
TOTALARIEA                                      4,OO,000                  6,0io00
Pt*o emum AMI as fand tued tot oads, pmmesfts walwmay. beands. grows, amd .undevloped lan.



Annex 5
Page 10 of 23
SAM HASHES         UVDVLOPHET Co.
eNETAL MAsTFR       o nPLAN fab 20tf2)
MlWDEdCPl_                        P{ASEIa 2,000.000 m2       PHASEb 4.000.000 m2-  PHASEU 6,000.000 m2
J_~~~~~~~~9l4    nbmfofte amp _ m1                           navmnts ,ara i9            amnt ma m
Naot Enuance toad         5.400, 132.300                                       30   .
Sou  Erance }.                                                                3.800i 93r100
MhnRMMoad                   3001  8,100              3.4001 91,800             3.9001105.300
Read of Perdisa Ana       2,000i 49.000                   .
ColsaorA.ao                 5401  7,060             11.1201135,280
COsn Sem  RoadM                                      2.0001 34,000
bWSma1 Servc Road         2.2001 22.000              6.0001  55.000            1.9001 338.350
'1Q Water Dannilnuien & Suanv N.nwIk
Deednadan PUN &We*b  2000 m31day                4000 m3/day               7500 mSlday
awd St"oP Td.    2000 m3                        4000 m3                    7500 m3
w:w PYr               2 x 3S   lim              4 x 25  Oves¢e             4 x 65  Iftreseec
Eb_ed Water Tank                                1000 m3
PIpeN  netwrk         150300 mm 0       7Km    150400 mm 0         22 Km  200-400 mm 0       5.2 Km
II rleaie & tr  wti
Rre PUm4.             2 x 60  Otssec            2 x 60  tessec             2 x 60  Ihtrsec
FiS PIne Nawark       200.250 mm 0      4.75 Km  150-250 mm 0      6.5 Km  150-250 mm 0      4.0 Km
on Pum"
IngloO P   Network  M15000 mm 0         10Km i150 A 20 mm D    6.5 Km  .50 - 300 mm D        11.6 Km
Iv Wae Tmtmn A0 Omis.
GavtY Seers (27 kbn)  200400 mm 0       7.1 Km   200-500 mm 0      23.9 Km 200-500 mm 0      5.5 Km
Fte Main (8.1 km)    150-2  mm 0        11.3 Km 200.300 mm 0       8.5 Km  160300 mm D       16 Km
Sew Pup  Stions               4                          2                         2
Sitrw _ TnrM   PlIn  1500 m3/day                3500 m3idty                6000 m3/day
Y Pna tafatIA fllinti
GOerlof Urdb          2x52MW                    2X5S2MW                    n/a
VI  TMaAhOflaIiI∂a1 140                                           920                       290
n/l  detls nota &alalde at thi8 time



.     ....     ...        ....       .....                 .....e.                                    .......ae
00I      oapo'    9vIII    10013         a         a          0          o          66'a       015       5300       6685       tBee       cisa    Aat-* "-"I plobtU
0                    0                     0a                                                    S80W
Car SI            aS      0                                0         0          0          0so                             Gii       a0.  -
Ca  at          s         pe         0          0          0         0                                i 0s                 VP         St         *00A j11
se       19s.      tie's       WIt      0          0          00                    0         0          P5p8 I       o        casp       sat       £201) U4og8"f003 Ot"S51u r-OW314
oat    loveS    000.8         0         0                     0                     0                    000sIs                00.0,                           6320 tq &m**m.aqs Apte ~puoimp
srea.      M110         got   a... 9..                e aa...a             *aa        a...      a....      911.9      I&Sst    *tieae      to's      Po...*4   pa
U's~     Oigpp     egg's      0119       0          0                     0         cisg       its        Pe         Ott's     *15        Its                                  A-Op3uea2
55  Ogg's      3i*ti      "16        a          0          0         0          Ise        01           *O      See        etg        "I os
Set01    0065,10   1*6.301    119.05    a          0          0          0          4911'0I    8*'s      $111 18.5   6,115     16001     C I's.    Wamo 9 "n"udot.a.g  gwto
0         661                    I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  ....  ....bdwl
t  M1  gt'r       a          o                     a                   0 Öet                    ti't,    eo         *sÖ-ood
LOSPI   JItS.       603.       *683l       0                   a -0  0    110         O         all' 110?     4      1069s       9 06      tit's    10041018 qmda
Be  Its  tee      0          %a        %O~~11      0a        11006                sat           6       106         05t       sa0t       I18 6suqd.o                stowdi *s  I    0OP
a         a"         0          0          stC       Fl           I        518        0i        04                    --
.1  0o        GC9        IP          0         110                  110        %00        119         00 P     11"                   11         4%JA.541mdASum-%nuAm
9g9 5     4GVp,6    )55.5      fOP'S      %0        110                   110                   108                  1100       %03       1105        4118 &N-0q   Uc"8r  I -Ih0Ils0 *OO,d
0         a          0          0         000        05-s         13       P-- -    06-- -
0                               0          055                                                  Fit -6-30  - - - - - --
1551s    *g9'p       sn't      102'P        4-       Too10                 %110        0 01        1          0       1106        O          a 01  1108  E118u4s6Ih    U0f9I  41AdOS `0W"A
a  to$  OGG's  4                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~0"'        0                     0                               t8s
a         0          0          0                     0                    a                     0                    0                                    P Su4ezve£pdis$s..u&d..PAs o
06II    0009       066.68    0a                               0                    0                     0                    06665                             .           3OI*0p&" v
.I    000.$         I3    000.S        0031       000.6         31     0.0         0.3       00..31               9OOt       00.31      000.0
8180120110*d                        *661~~~~~~~~~~~fe    061668 C6I66
£1d mm m a3OdMsfIt MLOAISMI q1W     ftVd alVrO
A-10                                                                                         0



f~~~~~~~1~U
SAIL.ASHEESH AYDEVELOPMETCO.
TOTAL     1993      1994      1995     1996      1997
BaseCost  5$.505    14.090    33.075    8.339     0.000     0.000
Addiional Equiy In Hotel    6.607  1.802  4.805     0.000    0.000     0.000
Interest Durg Const (IDC)    1.677  0.255  1.422     0.000    0.000     0.000
Fianal Costs    0.495   0.184     0.311     0.000    0.000     0.000
Tota Proet Cost  64.24    10.331    39.613     6.339    0.000     0.000
a
Tota - EqUity  31.715    8.561    20.130   3.003     0.000    0.000
Land Loan    5.174   4.922     0.252     0.000    0.000     0.000
WBITDA Loan - Local    5.536  0.104    3.724     1.761    0.000     0.000
WB/TOA Loan - Foregn   21.606  2.724    15.506    3.576     0.000    0.000
Foreign Debt    0.000  0.000     0.000    0.000     0.000     0.000
Local Debt    0.000   0.000    0.000     0.000     0.000    0.000
Told - Debt   32.569   7.750    19.483    5.336     0.000    0.000
S     .                                           



000      6*0      e s I      t       Sit      A' s      St8      opt03 9re   "      *3       60       68*  $ia IMq'11as
"'o ee               o      to aC O& se  Ite s          tO sC        9e  e    es 6   t's     Goo o    Go o     pasc       W    I"
ooo      "'0                se0 60O e060      of a      I6       0*6        6 "          0s3  0S0     000      i A    1G S                                   106 
0oo      Oo00     oo        *00o a    00     $60.    soS           6      0es    0tos    atI          e00c     r%06  1JIAsW&I00
cooO     oOs a     e        el ae goI Mt a              n        G et     St'#t     #  t      oi      tol IO  e59  --iO PO~ n   pft3S  p
0O'      OO       000       00        ODO      o         oo      oeo 0    o o o     00oo     0000    6o IA 80" %I 4*3 ...WI  Ad8-
000      00o0     00o0 o     o I      6e      3ts       "3       "As    S*3         O        0083 t   CS       I- -                    l---  1t        Wi 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
000S     000  0   00        000      000      00 0      00 0     00,0     0010      000      00008    *6*                     qqOq* 3PEa 0306W.s.1
000 I sM          esM       S 000  000  301   63  **8   008s       'at 91 a0*sit36G6O6Set1  600t                   its        SW"           pt903~pes-
000  000  000  000  000  000    000      000       We       000      0013      000~~~~~owo   0I"'IUU    goF"#dAet ""
o0oo     oo0      Soo      o0        ooo set  011       to       t40 o6e- 0         8        o 00o S  00001          1      WA-AM
Cl      WMn    sells    t4s M       99Ca        Gon    "'408       z      >s izs Os Sol" es00 its GOOc                      801n      
0001  ows    *Ws  owo  DW#4   OW"    G          06OD0U             00000           so                       "WA"*MS 
o00   0 00o       000a     G0o       $63      O3       03        16,6     30        w0s    00 0       co0      (iUWIUI S   o e  W
ess St z"  WMc StoC OSns so "       et CaS   f$ OSlot    C      isu       wonOa  Ig    "'lo  1    Du
oeo-c    0000     oeoe     000o       oon0000  0wn    006                          000e0oo  e*
000      0O0      000       000      00o0     00*0     0o0       0e6      to6co    0'O       00 0     00 a  ooo    3 1 -
et40    SS tc    99en       to ons    to ag   as       n C       Ist SUs      sSu   "-cSU    Ogot   ceoOct   t  vs I   "
000-N   eooW00000    000'"                    0000            go                         MA
o0 G0     o 0     0o 0      00 0       e      000o      0 0o     0 0e0 o    6      008       0 00     000 o e    _  311    Wm
SSUS01    nSOIC    z"ß5 to ns   1 s    t9eGas   Ase     ncS is   sv," et "  "I"    OS to 00.0  0s              0000 CO3                                                   S A
eoow~~       ~        ~~ eoo     7     -        *"                        MC
00o      0oo      0o0       00 ooo00          00        000      000   eoo0         000      00o      00e0      oeo  O        olloft I
0s0o     306es8   *63St i    003$      Oct   0s 0t0S0a    68 U0            a0       000      000 0  et o  000 "    r%ft #3W1C
ooeeoo1   ∞∞-'a                    f              Poo AMs PUG"S
000 o    oeoo000   "a       NO00  00          00 0      000      00 0     000      OoO 00    00       00 0       _U@U3 3-0   id
603089    61191   0*508s    1*01     84006    5*1 to    61S3gt1    its8    WM08    00008S   S000t   00 001   j   1            w*3
00 0     0010     000a      00 0     000      000       00 0     co a 000    1      000      0003     00       t 1U86 To    IW- 
6030$    619589    to 08    to00 "   8009*    *90*8a8     "      as8$  "I,   "'0Ss    00s0   00008    00001        1S        &U131
ooo008            000003 oW oooa- oeO
000      000      00 0      000      000      000a      00 0     000      000e      00 0     00 0     co5 a   ~     g       eIuW 3I00Nkd-
00 0.*    000*l          3
0003l    6003G    3003l    $003      000*     0$        0601     *60      000       6008     0068     0008         #    I     b
e00      000 a     oo0      0        000 00 a c0        sa0     0o        00 0      000      000      00                 1.31  iWSi*,dU3.o
000                    9m,31
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ne
elooe          e        e PAaPeAU
"00      se0s      00       $003 0    008     0.0 t60  *tel 00                      0$       006      6o$6
0V *0MUMAWUMSM VW
bO>_DA#8



SCID     1s-o     O'So    SS, s&st            -Si      "r     t      w0ot 59-' 
sri       rO      go, t    sis       33'6 *et               9wet  'SP     u's      esi
0i.      Sri      to,i     0is       wIt    sVsII    ftlt        a's      OS         r:     I T'I _____________
ot'     ouz       n tto    e's      nt        "lt               a'                                       "-Is P. -g  -wa -O-m i%e
sri      os'      sri      oe        ogi       no      90t1      si'      m'-      or           os_                w
t3      int'       6't     St'*      S'ot   oI         o Soo oo   _
to,*     3oi      Bl    V9'i    Ore-i    to's         So'S      ole      ooo      Coo        MM       __o   A
go,s: "   o'.:    tee:    sO*LI    55t*    itSei    C9503        o0o      oo0    0o'S         _B j "M" AS p 4msswmajpML
.        .  .                                      .                          . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
tos      to's     to's      ts      it's      so's     Ws       a' ooos           S' oOW _S
Colo     'oS                106     iS'S      iS       O0o      SC,*      SO'@ os *g in o   -_o_                          Ow
Colo    SO'S      "OS'     .rC       SO'S     CSol     Colo      0010     5550    Colo         usw in                      905We  
bt  wtt  ttz  ttz  tta     zew      *t       tz        ooo ~~~~~0*0   owa                 WAGP-  _m
oe's     oo0o      ooo      o        A' ' ooS  ooo     sio       ooo      ooo@      ooo        mu  in             05w  v_-mu'
oe       oooi oo sil       ot    oe           oro o'             ooo     Colo      oo'o        _81                      _
oo i'O   to        oS'S   oSIo'       o5o     SI        oo Sooo SoSOt 
uo       o                           0 0      auo                                  0           i*oo 
vS o       s o3      '     wov' o*3is    PS'* o3                 aS    0  5                                       PM o     " o   eo o -  _  a
r-*  -wr --S '-S             i       S--m0--- 3. --- B        ---Orr - -wo - --         ----  ew
litT ---                       --- 0    -  - -- rt T---OF--- FO5  - -  Wor - - 00-0 -Wi
-s3w  e -e    009-t    o@tl   ee-I        MI usa   zt    tatOo       0                                     
r .0.,
',    oroW    6u00 oS u5 o           u5o      53105    5 o       eS o     5o       eo 0             $                      s
Wr~~~~~~ot             all   . nt       *c   '    ne eee0            soloo n-
*s,o     0,5      bo        -      WCs W      i         -        K-e      e-e'     io
co∞'     oooll    Mlo~Xo  O'ol $o     g t-o  mb-   onß-@--st       ilt¢  -;--∞                 nt-
-:. ---7∞e-  i%nr-- - l--  En   --- hv lT~- 44.r --- sk    ---∞ ke-Il -        0wi
n   mM   .z-P   wß__gn__s0Til-   a-r- -:Fe--- srr-ws---  ---- evef
- -r --- .ord -     W.F o-  W1;-C@_ ---  ?       ;£_  _ss.s     _0 __    _    __%        .0    -M                    is A"    a
@wet-~~~~~~~~~r 6gt f c   9t                                 ns "or   so   "s Or   O ,  - w>
et's    tI'S      LiS     *31'S        0       i'      *it       U-'O     OS'S     00S0        M"    5
rn-      or:      Os:       is'S     w-       1*       *i'3      si'      sO'   eoooo _.S'S __
We       it's     rts      at'       nW       Wt S      v        VBI|-    00'0     Colo        _Jjn
00 *O5 t 0        0ov  5* o                   0ot Xn o eo**  -  n0  0  0      0               -
err' --- -N-1zr-f-    rw---g-- af--- ar--or'- ---is-.-
30*505'S  35'sweo'  ftP'O' oos 0' bn oe  woos ogoos'i'  ogrois'  seotss  o         o           qs  Sg
--P  -9 owavev   -.po  I                          
V.         _        .         7 - - - &I---C          r  T--Isr -Wc-                  -
sos toot      so ees            toot    toot       oee               toote   toe
S xwuu



- 86-                                                               Annex 5
Page iS of 23
-a
Aeo KM CqovIll                      tlt       Is S    iSis          it5.U    SOWUS    ti4s          20004    S zuot  S.OftAS
01   I
o....                                                    60LL~  %  % 7% 7%  76%  60%     "Ob        60%       M0        ft%
Adam kV^ CorAw0                       0  3.00.2   3.56.30L  S615,20  SAW6.43   6.06.402  3*06.40072   CM0.?"413 .06S.4
0XA..  PA%W0                             0%         0%        50%       0          0%          0        70%        ,
ellA  0~~~~~~     0         0          0 ~~~~~4.603.80  0.540,004  0."6.17   0.700.73   0?.?M076   k.760.0   6.74L.71
0  0         0         ~~         ~~        ~     ~~0  a    0     0          0         0
A00166'  0       o    sties    IIIGOS    166.000   '20600    131.30    103~S.060   134.600   164.00
Ad663M  0.emaN                       0          a  101,03760  6.60.50   0."00.d0   SASLOW6  0.26.60   GA2.20   0.410.40  0.410.40
* ?omP.wo30,- N                                  0          0  9100.03 11.60.17  *&040.1*7S 21.740.10 43.4.    S.04.0.01;u 20.010.66
Ou..s 9gm.                           0    ~ ~~~~~~~~ 0    I00.040    314.040    3100*  10.140   36Q.04     W0.620   346.SW    386.20
0.sgbma Am- K~~~~~~sv ~0                        0  l.060.0   0.610.604, 2.717.000, *.62611 00.1.6141 0.010.010  0.661606  .021.600
foodw_  Pt"    Os             rr                        a   n .s    as.06 SIn                      oss     M S        ."     "&oe  SS.
Toone"  of".                                                0    100.O0   261.660   27.As4    260.012    "a.m6     001.600   S00.0   300.16
oftm   * a6 KW   12 is   0                     0         0   107107.1       .10WA   197.100   107.100   191.100   107.100   157.100   101.140
c          _n6064me.30   at *me   0.00      0.00       1."        4.03      4.61        .         1.0?      0.10       6.11      6.11
Rum*Ysw                         0         0    42.180    4S.13$       48.100    444160    40.10       "6.10     "A.6      4".1"
Afdd$CetMuW                     0          0    37.640    40.06       40.466     43.S6    43.866    43.3400    4"An        43.30
PAMSOwIm                        o         0          0     14M0       60.70     71.110    7Ms6"       76.00     70.06      70.06
A 46 O0                          0          0o         0     40.27      80.160    04.460    SU.60      60.60      00.66      60.6
ftpwvw~-                        0         0          0     14.700    62.100     71.118     mm60       10.4600    7000      7006
AM   ad 0.tims                      0          0         0       0.0       0.0       04.00     66a6n      00.60     00.0N      00.
A~Pwlw = -0 0                                        0                    0                     0         00                   0
A    4 60     0                     0                     o 0  0    0          0         0          0          0                    0
em18wy4N                                 0    01.260    Ill."*0  120.60        166.200 11.04   133,00          134.600    1:4.400
AG"  M6 0at                              0    0       1.6     "1060       4403       44*10      AM0       40.406    47'.186    47.160
746  WW04f           681465OW      as          0          0    S0.Sft   110.26    200.04       210.400    U7;6 7.1026*2   226.812
m46vd   IoaWq m__                  _  _
W-cue saw   o ser        Io -a-, er
AWN    0  66e9N             0"a                              0 e  ss.6 1o 6.66         13006      130.620    133       10.0       13" 0S6.66    13066
too6 tmt 0iwmm             as                     0    160.04    S14,.4    330.469    362140   SO3.04       3*64.066     30426      00.0
a608Gaft.         0 .4          0.00      .0.0       0.00       1.0"       I.0        1.711     1.70       I.1"      I."1       1.7
RuiPwlaw                        0         0     40.140    46.100      40.100    42.13      48,160    40.160    42.160    406100
Amt 46  0wm=                        a          0     30.003    Sam         Mm86      34.600    04.600    34.00       34.06     34.66
Pa*wvww                        0          0          0     KM76      04.100    71 .110     Mae.0   00    76.06   000       7mm6
8A   A Amd    .Ono                                                     04        4,G         i"        W*        SSS,       fi$       $I
R3W6U     S.                                                4.76      WM76       M1.17      mm66      76.060    76.660    76.660
AM 46W@aam                          0                    a     30.466     47,304    01.646       WS$16     W0.1S    001S4   8$.1s
R~Om7w                         0          00                              0          0          0         0          00
Aw4604tm06                                               0          0          a          0         00                              0
~~W,W               0         0    6~~~~~~~~S1.200    111.000   1216041    13.000    111.3  131.000    104.060    134.3
as 46 @AMm4                      0MISS16                     31.24      38.24    38.660    310.736    37.462    3?.704    31,74
0  _          ~                      -          e          -         -            e        -         -          -           e
T46 wa   00"MP    or Home          MS                    0     417.40    142.810    102104"   173.166    161.60     162.16     160.18    100.61
Aa460~~~~k~~246q6s.                 0~*A      0.0    16.600    1.30           0.06      IL"30    S0."4     10.06    10636    C06A6
__~                                            -         ----a
7.66 t'                4           0          0   160.66     01.66    271.70 oe      .81    201.1 ee     01.666   202.10    260.1
66630                                o          e  Le 0at  s."e   *.eug4ee  e.r.0  0.00  0m262  6.03 0.      0.2       0.2        G
O.   u  .00      0.00       L.3        O.0"      0.02       6.03       0.0t      0.62       0.60      0.02
tm0030.0%5.46                    0.00      0.60~~~~~OA  0.00     0.0       0.62       0.06       0.6"      0.00       0.60      0c6



owes   wit  tw-it  was  055   twit  ti1.   fro   Fro   oset    mgs    we5   914    we-  ccc   cs-a   si-.   twe   sinusg 5wm.a                   Lvwvwe-
gao)  *5o)-  see   co-    cs-s   we-    ec   eo-s   ss   set  tone   Iwoe   awe    wte   ems  (tioe)   Ws   coe   su3eek3G3
SS't   N t   DeC      0 OD'    K   *too   So   atos   Ols    us1   WaC    at    IC's  OCi    WC    at-  Goo    see a                UMgs  - Coal
si-c    'ts   at,    we   pte   coo   i0e    no.  AG$ Og Awss                          o "          # es-'s as co sg  s  c  WSe  co   gi1Uamo
eta    It's   Otm    ce   eci   sos   coo    No   coo   ceo    ceo   ceo    see    e-a   wo  oe 4W                ee0   ceo                          "=
ice    gao   599    Wee   se    Ciro   asso   ate  ass   sac    At   VAc   serg   Sa's   Act*   Gee    soa   too                         MW5OmieUlWid
see   co      co      mswe    acea  G    o  Ga's   CS's  gas   leg    Wsi    WI   u's    Wsu    Usi   p          ceo   sos            "qsuo .mi.du.u
Its   We*   usO        9   proe   Degs    we   ta-a   Moo   as    IC't   We    we    se-c   ctia    st           asicQ sea   Iceo                 am"ImIM
Iwo) itse   (se-si,6  IV-el Ice-el(e) (w   geew) ties)  tie-a) use)  Les.)  teais  tea's)  Ita-si fe-si  Os,*   teo    Goo      mmscsuawo
ee   coo   see    Goe    see    s-    Wse        sea  coe    we   co-o    weo         o     se-s   ore    ore   scl    oweNo
see   Goo   see   co-4   see40
weo  Goo   se-    se-s   see    ces oe           c-     c-      sso         coowo w  o  e w  coo   owe-    "a e   co ,e  se-s                   in*di
sil l ii ii (tits)  (isit   W,i  (is-si  (at it  Ws'd  flst)  Os'-s) (Boil (co-a     O teea  (ea) (seal  see   wee   goo            whsuh,aowv Iuasnpmd.o
twe   Ltie     -s   As'e   Aas    wes-    es-    co's  es-   ta-s   sue   Are    as   es-s    weo  ties   too   seeWNO1301M3101
t   WAs-    sat  iara    WA    waes  ff01   i*'  co-s   wes   c.*   Are    goes4  torS   47 SECOV    ee's   e5 V*w e
As-s   as-s   a6s-   as-s   Ats-   AS-S   As's  iAs'   ats-   as-c   a-c   Ns-    tw-c    Ws    "'a-   gas   cs-    we   ginmaaRainuivio
cs-s   se      e'     c'e Os. SO se c-    0cs@    crc   cs-e    we   cs-s   cs-    creo     G c-s se      eo'    co-   see   63mvmw mwt0
too   cwo-   coo   Coo   co-s   coo   cwo-   coo   coo   cwo    coo   co-   co-    co-s   coo   coo   coo    weo                             s-Wmaw *qsr4a
too    Iwo    too    soo    so-s    os   tss   toe    tee    soe    swo-   so-    weo  swo    too   see   owe   coo                     SI6Ps iUopwnwiUO
iso    too   too  'i        00 AGO IW     taro   tss   iso    tss   tswo   ass   isG   iso    tee    ist oo cw oo                    oh MSWflrnUgW
as;   las   a9s:   ast   Aas   Al'a   ass   Ios   as's   lae   Its    sa   ia-a   Gse   Sits a             ct   co-s   see .s5U00WiOIu
MD-  to-o   to-a   ova   noo        ee    "Go   so-   sare  twe    to-   tee    MGo  woo    ne    to-   co-e   c`s                     is,yPeqUO4wumg
We-    ciaO   evea  -o sic   ev    ss-c   0o   ese    ese   es-s   es-c   es-    ege    ess   ti-    co-  co-s 00 coo    fhwt,dsarpa O~P,own
tos    co-'s esco  to5I   es5    cogt   got   Co-s   co-s   got   cos6  ag-   sW-    as-s   sins           ts    W we    co-a   c1osO  aP8 OOwuesaOtaOD    d
icos  ft as  ices  sKes   oses   o-cs   Wes  cell  see   go's   seel  sass   sas    wet   o ats  eat*  SO'S   too               s~sga~S
MG-  co-s    o-    o-s   se-   cO-c  cO-e   co-   gee   soe   oes-    os   atw   erg    set   go-i  W0a                  os CDPA" PedqMeANoG  0
us    co-i   cos   st's   osi   o's-   91se   tOe    se           e     i got        as-cV 4  si-as ec   orG      e oo a  w"CH rsS=a "0coafPsAo
ia-s a Is   mi    si-s   usI         ' si-s    u   Ii   sa    si-'s   si-s   co-s   let   ce-s   ge-s   go-s   co-s   se-          sSqAM qIO086011mfls.u
CCgas    a I gc gao  a ga    ca-a   GI's   cia   els te     gas   ga-s   O  "ac Dasega    ga-s   set   tas'   see,  coo                q4 eU&riO -Ms
noe    noe  tee    asc   u-    no   no    sc    se-c   es   sec    see    seq4   sic0  is- sic                   seeO   coo       "mssopupMso#9.aomps
0us    coo    coo   coo    ace   se-s   coo    coo   see    e9s    se    cos   Ags   ceo    Ste    ces-    coo   Goe               $PM 0o.wgosquaod P ep
so t   se I us    ems   B    W             6     sos Io-acot   so 05as0 Ie  ofse-iU' a              s'ssataso   55 0 co Goo        cSi"as 4eswd o'p6s3 o
stem   oco;  se0s   acs 05 001 c0oo00    S00    6055   aces  seem   Goes  oeoi  coos   i66s  cmos   ossi  tees   Co%s  SmAUpIipa
O  .....UAl L..   5IISW  WOW
*tuuwmosissu
Is.sece-a mu~Aawuu qUSst
o4



ut      atV   atre   Os-t    rc   We       -V   Oc   US-    "t          ;    WV 1 e Ws in         Wsc    as   aS-a   two    oUA1vw
ees   ci.   asa  (sc-a  I (ta-uW  orc    Wst    act  (ta0o  loVs) (set)l (&W)  (S0-0)  U'S   cc;g  (opal  601   Zi0    M MOn3
n-t   OS*       t   WV    WA   U'    two6 at   ow                1    904    r      wa   Sto    W        wa  0g WS& t999   S WI
two   St    OSe   Ws    Ws-    "s   nsu          Os'   se-s    Ws   u's   art    I$   on    arc   est   Ws    wCe   sw000
I s    oat   aGs    ets    WV   WV    "          W-s   etl    el art   as eU  at tet   0a                       ass   Wos
o     oo  wo Ws,   at    Ws    Wt   at   sts   Isg   Avg   sn    at    At                         a-    st     0or     Ws 
se    owe   0ee   (os)  ia-si  ore   as    u&   es    oe  (an    "atsi )  erg   9                        W      MG c  ass    ore   oooe
ore   ooe   wc-    tea   are   p           ai-ass
I                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~owe    oo    VCV    90e9  o-wr  $O  _  we"9 0--
oirip   WV   c't   a"    as    swa    St'"    wes 611V    we   too               on  wol  WAg SC6         S    Ol'     Seeore ass   ore    ass    sat
coo   000   0010   aOD   000   000   000    we00                 000    D    eoo    00oo    o oso   oweo o      stc    el' u    w1>4109a>
weo    w  ooo eo   ioo    ooo   oo   ooo   owo    owe   owo   owe    oo   ooo   owe   ooo   ooo    o   too  ooowds  &%*o e k*
.  ,                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wo   eoo   Goo   eoo   ooo  ∞lIP30
as-s   00as    see   Oee    cta        w      i5Q         U4"
Owe    we       o  ooo    w             t        3_4.uIM
i                                                  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ow  owo owe e_e go' POAV
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                   we0   solo 000    000                          AI3  MV4c
0Wß    W 0 00 OO      4$'09   WO   10wMM        AVIUSW
o-s  as       et   wt   was        trot  wat  a-    s-  ore   are   on              Wet  asa   as-    as-   sWts  Iwo    OR"Wi0                                      t
WS    sl- t se 's  si-l    or    as-s    WS    as-s   as-s   as-s   as-s  oa    asa   or   oa   aso-               o    -          uuop mo u
all  I've   U's   '        @Wsw lt   09's  tel    M t  we    as   le't   a's    Ws@ t1    CA'    el's   00a    9`0aass   ass   as-s  oa-    a
...  ....  .... ...  ...    ...    ...    ...   ...    ....  .....  * ^ ...  ...    ....  ...    ...   ....   ..-.                -**-**-**-*-**-^ *-* **S3ts
ecog  oog    og  Aoot  so" g ou   Vaa$  coo   gaoo   9009  o0    say   $66   J oel  ft1   269   Mg   so*s  IMa 0~
_~~~~~s   as   e   cs   i
i                                as-s   ass   as-s are
o oasae                                              s
A                   ore   ore   as-s   ass   as-s
0
as-s   ore   see   casa  see   oo ZsWdOUAUGAVSI633HSm*S~~~ut



Annex 5
-89-                                                                 Page 18 of 23
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o rr                                                             I D              p  U
IS              1t14             16.              1161             111 r_                                     yw _   r4
*.f.   .n       fi.   *.n        ....   .....  .....               ...... .n        ns. ._.
_^el*, ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 1.4                       1.a s741             e                                         e  II.o      1446  ltt.41
a 464                                                                              1 67    1i17
~~~~~                              2.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                              Us.11 3    41.1211
1.6qt              261      U4        1 _    t _                                                            70   ,., t    I    3,061e
_ 1         7J .            ue1    *           O41  0   0       0                         e 0  0  62411         06 e 33.11
p  ON                                                                   ga Zs                                                                        no      ?,4  r42za  
isS'GGOOe15                                                    s      is.                                                         32     .7111.62    1,4"1
ftwot htC8                                            13.1 _    t44  1.G           0                0       0        0       0      Ise _1_ 1t.416   11.47r
_ C __4 w                    r4                         7t       11 1e os                            0. 2ee          0       0 eIT OI    God  to    7n7    2,111
4C_B ~ ~  ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 3                71 Ii                                                       31      71      11ws *   641
a "                                             le Chor _s3    .                           e 3.e                                      a 0  0  00 3    47A4    1.01  11.164
slaw *bew04a         61m1.          1.016   17.4     .01      01.4                        0            1JO41  4AN.  181411  4.406
OdWrft       e         a    tZI  46Z 0  30.              0 o        O       e     o        0     7t 0   ..      se71     ee. o
a  u~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                    0       0        0~~~~~~a  ISuI  04
34 .0144   S.                                                   746   314211
_6u~                               1.017   I.       1.01i   1.                                        1.1_ S,01   41.610
~~~40WSS~~~~~~~~~~0                   0             271                                                  0        0~~~~~~~~~~~~U  "  4  3  311   SAS4
a___a__                                                          I."3f .44                                                      6.4  1.=      1.417    1.416
OWN                                                                        it7                                              1.11?    .401   1.7      L.o"6
~~~~~~~~~~~USSS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 141                                                141 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MM 44341  16.436
Tow       o GM            0       a0   e1      3. 2a          s2.           0        0       0         '    41s4.          1.244  1.410
,_@4        0       0    t171  4.           3    0. 0en                0       0        e     4tm   18.6     4.621t  16.4
_~ ~ ~~~o   *t Siew  Ow                   0t 0   2.10   64              3.4   3,n00 6136.                                                  3.6 
-umme                                                            -e                                                - n.                               -
0o          10.                  0                0_               0        0 t1M _  -_   _t|0.  1.1141  0.100
-a6wgw                                                                                                              0  26.   __t *  _ e e $ 7n  4   7.e7   211.1654
Is ou68   ramI~                        ZO"A       e       *                                                                           0 e  e                   0SA
1.017    I  1.017   I.                                         1.011   2.40    2.00    0.011
?411P..        0       0   1.0?44.11         1.411                                0 ;      0   .1706.1         1.64372.0
~~~~'.a~~~~~~~~~~6mS  I                                                 0                0        0              160~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S    034M
3.                               0  ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~3.1201   M.79   3.6160
*  419w  m6s0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~~~m                        716~~~~~n  8411    710    83                                       1.1117   1.M7    2.000   61.421
FIs4p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~~~~~~~                 141                                                141~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U  334  348   1.136
od    wrs         36. 4  s     0             1.7    4AT3   1.341  1.Z4            0      -0        0        a   4. sr?  70.    t1.0   8.16e
ftVNid  .  g NI                                   a       0     17 1I."           M361.4            0        a       0        a     414  4.43       1.6241.SAN
e_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 e               s .41t   _                                 Jo e" e                           S    Anst  S.@4es
=l  _    _       _        _        _       _       _        _        _       _~~32   as.  _ a  __
we.Ta _g
_ ^ _-                                                         -                                                           e       e        e   -



4~~~~~~~            
I1t
'0
AN HASHEE9H BAY DEVELOPMENT CO.
CAPITAL Om8t & RHNO    EMUM                 b - 2tdo )
(MmlMon)
TOTAL   1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
~-  - ;          - ---*---        - - -  - -f -
Bas Cost     79.9    8.501  42.218  28.890   0.000   0.000
Interest Duing Conot (1C)  0.oo0   0.199   1.432   3.378   0.000   0.000
Finnca Costs      1.004   0.108   0.536   0.360   0.000   0.000
l                             Totl Proo  Cost    85.821   6.606  44.186  32.627   0.000   0.000
o
SAHLHASHEESHBAYDEVELOPMEWcO.     21.011   4.194  16.817   0.000   0.000   0.000
Other Equiy    21.570   0.590   6.486  14.494   0.000   0.000
Total. Equdty    42.560   4.703  23.303  14.494   0.000   0.000
Foreign Debt   14.031   1.011   5.888   7.132   0.000   0.000
Local Dobt    29.010   3.014  14.994  11.001   0.000   0.000
Total - Debt   43.041   4.025  20.863  18.134   0.000   0.000



Annex 5
91 -                                             Page 20 of 23
E~~~~~~~~~~~~
SAM NSIH4       BAY IDA OPMWI  CO.
IC,b R_                                                     PKA   S.IA
8a;                                           1993    1994    1998    1996    199?    1998    1929    2000    2001
GessperRoem                           2.0C       2       2       2       2        2       2        2       2       2
Odly Rate (S/night)                $80.00           $80.00  $80.00  Sao.oo  $80.00  880.00  880.00  $80.00  $80.00
_=41MW Rat.                    _umma="         0%       0%     70%     76%     75%      80%     60%      80%     80%
.HatolCopadtyRoeom                    166      165     168     165      168     165     165      165     165     168
OumpedR -oanw.Oajy                               0       0   115.5  123.75  123.76      132      132     132     132
OaWiedRems.AMumy                                 0       O  42.158  45,169  45.109  48,180  48,180  48,180  48.180
! Ann" Nmberd of g                                  0       0  84.315  90,338  90,338  96,360  98.360  96.360  90,360
Z-o   7           a-,  -    -  . -
Revuigas- Rogue (s mum)    0.00    0.0     3.37    3.61    3.61     3.88    3.88    3.85    3.68
= ~ wooo -         -m   mmm  wommo   mNm            -                -m
Rmnhum-FIB(Smllien)    0.00    0.00    2.71    2.91    2.91    3.10    3.10    3.10    3.10
Rtwo. Corm (S muln)    0.00    0.00    2.14    2.29    2.29    2.44    2.44    2.44    ^.4
Told Renues. (s mun)    0.oo    0.oo    8.23    a.81    6.61       90    9.940    9.40    9.40
. ~- mm- _ _m - 
PIFI  8-SW Hawe
so=                                           1093    19i"    195    19        1997    1894    1990    2000    2001
Od  Raw WeM;M                         1.        .S      1.8     1.8     I.s     i.8      1.8     1.8      I.8     1 .a
P100$00 $10100.00          $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00
0042MsRats                                     0%       0%      0%     50%     60%      45%     70%      70%     70%
Had Cpa*._.r                          30A      300     300     300     300      300     300      300     300     300
OOSWlpsedRAnAsO   u                              0       0       0      1IO     180     19S      210     210     210
OWm*d Raems.AuMly                                0       0       0  54,730  65,706  71.175  76,680  76,8s0  76,OS0
AauwdMbwat Goes                                  0       0       0  90,580  118.260  126,115 137.970 137,970 137.970
Rewns.- RoOM  (8 mia)    o.0o    0.00    0.00    5.48    6.57    7.12    7.67    7.67    7.67
POWASOMMM                        MMU   Atomm, urnwaa   Saon                 mmo  -mm   nam mo
Raumig. F&B 1( mlon)    o.oo    0.00    0.00    4.89    5.87    6.36    6.88    6.68    6.66
R-wwes.Odmtw$(S mU )    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.26    1.54    1.67    1.79    1.79    1.79
TOW  sVau-e(S mm"        0.0000    0.0    0.00   11.68   13.98   16.14   16.31   16.31   16.31
Second 54t  moe
ROOM                                          1993    1994    1995    1996    199?    1998    1999    2000    2001
Guam pe Ream                                   1.8      1.      1               1.8      1.6     1.8      1.8     1.8
Daly Rate ($lg)              I       00.0  $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00 $100.00
ouiiw Rats                                     0%       0%      0%     50%     60%      65%     70%      70%     70%
HOlW ap         - P_iRoom                      300     300     300      300     300     300      300     300     300
OmpletlRoam Oal                                  0       0        0     1SO     180      196     210     210      210
OCCUpndRooms.AnJ -- oA y-                            0-     - -   0-* 54.-150- 68,700 - 71,175  76,650  76.650-76,850
AMahNuM   atGae-s                                0       0        0  98,560 118,260 128.115 137,970 137,970 137,970
Rewnu * RoOms (S mUon)    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.48    6.57    7.12    7.67    7.67    7.67
Rwn_    - FUa (S mian)    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.69    5.87    6.36    6.85    .8S   6.85
RaSWe - Oe0 Iw (mUn)    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.26    1.54    1.67    1.79    1.79    1.79
TOW R _wua- e( no")    ∞0-∞       0-.0    0.00   11.68   13.96   18.14   16.31    6.31   16.31



Annex 5
-92 -                                         Page 21 of 2;
saw
SARLM AsKeH  AY  C EM          CO
PtM4U.SUP8bSlRLWI
WI'..-l                        .
CbA Rse~n
1993    1994    1996   1996    1997    1996   1999   2000   2001
0 glS~:              ___._-____ _* __.* ____
Guel & Adoi"WAda                            0.00    0.00    0.66    0.71    0.71    0.75    0.75    0.75    0.76
Mwkn&Se                                     0.00    0.00    0.16    0.16    0.16    0.19    0.19    0.19    0.19
Pmpsny ?4aMng  a cOpsuO 5m                   0.00    0.00    0.41    0.44    0.     0.47    0.47    0.47    0.47
RmW (%                                      0-)  -  t.00    0.00    0.00    0.68    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.6    0.06
OWdVtii  jt        0.00    0.00    12      1.37    1.38    1.47    1.47    1.47    1.47
_____                ~~~~~~% OZ0L Rev.
RPM                                 is      0.00    0.00    O.6t    0.68    0.40    0.89    0.69    0.8ß    0.0ß
Food & ftaw0.00    0.00 t1.09  t  .18  t   .1  1.24    1.24    i.24    1 .24
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0o .oo    o oo    1.28    1.37    1.37    1.47    t.47    i.47    i.47
S.hteai. Opmoepwa     0.00    0.00    2.96    3.19    3.19    3.40    3.40    3.40    3.40
sams   ama   tmma   msm   aeo   am    am00   mum            m
TOta O      0.00    0.00    4.2    4.57    4.57    4.87    4.67    4.67    4.67
1993'  1994   1995   196    1997    1998   1999   2000   2001
-_____                       i rTom Rev.
Wa  &Aduk*Ui a*rats                  8      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.93    1.12    1.21    1.30    1.30    1.30
Misbgq&Sawe                                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23    0.2S    0.30    0.33    0.33    0.33
Prpsiwty Mhkwioas & up9nsWIS                0.00    0.00    0.00    O.58    0.70    0.76    0.82    0.82    0.62
I         XS%bd a5         LI               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.14    0.14    0.14    0.14    0.14    0.14
Stood t  Ovadwods    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.89    2.24    2.41    2.66    2.6S    2.58
marna  sommn  eamn   -omm  aomuma,          emmm         n
_________~~~~~ s CoL Rev.
Rem                                 I t8%    0.00    0.00    0.00    0."    1.16    1.26  . 1.38    1.38    1.31
Foed&Sev &Ww                I3gnI    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.71    2.05    2.23    2.40    2.40    2.40
Others                              eos....a~    o0.00    0.00    0.00    o.7    0.92    1.00    1.08    1.06    1.06
SubW4- Oep            0,0tu  0.00  0    0.00    3.47    4.16    4.51    4.85    4.5    4.85
assm"a mmmma -           mam    sama            am~ searn  gomeai
TotW OCU    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.36    6.40    6.92    7.44    7.44    7.44
mammasamaxmrasmeaomininmo   am Mamma                      - "      m'
1993    1994   1995   1998    197    1998   1999   2000   2001
0VId                                        .e       _       _      .e   .  ___      _      ___      _      __
-______                      % Tota Rev.
Gno A& AdMkn*isvv                    8%     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.93    1.12    1.21    1.30    1.30    1.30
mulufln & Sabe                       2*    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23    0.26    0.30    0.33    0.33    0.33
Ptvesy Malawsau  & Opsules5%    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.56    0.70    0.76    0.82    0.62    0.82
bIsurwo (% fd aus  )               .%       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.14    0.14    0.14    0.14    0.14    0.14
submw . Oveeud"S    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.69    2.24    2.41    2.SS    2.S    2.5S
maaing mamamano, ammas                     m rma a            sr
__________          % O ot ~~Rev.
Rsme                              tI8       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.99    1.1S    1.28    1.38    1.38    1.36
Foed & Sewuaws             3t#    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.71    2.06    2.23    2.40    2.40    2.40
C_s                   ~60%                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0."7    0.92    1.00    1.08    1.08    1.09
SL*WSI O4pwtnnw       0.0O    0.00    0.00    3.47    4.1t    4.51    4.65    4.65    4.5
rna   ,,ama 0am                 am    am    am    am    am
TOWd OWM    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.36    6.40    6.92    7.44    7.44    7.44



V1
o                                                                        .    I.    HEM    18BAYW OVEUPMICQ O
PHhAb-FUISINWUR
Cd14_sw   t993   1994   1995   t996   "99         1999   1999   2090   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006  '2007   2006   2009   201
PsdsY.W       42     -1      0       1      2       9      4       5      6       7      6       9     1o      It   ' 12      13      14     1
alNIIE ~~~~~~~~~~~-- ----    ----    -~- ---    ----..                   ..    .. ..    ----;  ----    ----   .. ... ----    ---- '--'--- -
OOM ReVene                      00 oo   00 3O37   14.56  tS76   t9.09   t9.9   16.16   1919   19tll  19.18  It.1s           8 118   19.1    0.168   Sa.    19.t   19.16
Food a Bemages                 0.00    O.     2.71   12.6   I4.65  It.2    6.60   16.0e  16.0 ogo   16.80   WOO   16.0   166o   $6.60   16.WO    16.6    1O
a       hi Reveus               0.09    0.0    2.14    4.65    S7    5.76   6.0    6.03    6.03   6.03    6.03    6.0    6.03    6.06    6.03    6.09    6.023   60
0      WssaMUU      Esp     0.uo   o00o   6.23  12.11   2s77 830.66   420    42.02   42.2   42.02   42.02   42.02   42.02   4.02   42.02   42.02   42.2   4.02
t00    0.00   0.91     62   1s92.  1.26   Ia        2.45    3.4     As.. 1A       2.4 35 1.4    71.46    145    .45    1.45    1.45
Food a &ovwwsL0.                    0.00 Q.OO   4.59    6.27     6 9 4    6.04    6.04    6.04    6.04    6.04    6.04    6.04    GM         6.04    .04    604
0.00    .O0    1.28    "1    9.l2   8.47    SA2    162    3.62    3.2    162    162    862    16    .3.62       .2    1.62     .2
WMOPA_ ENA    00           an Qoo       2ss    10.12    StAll   Mill   WI.     WaWl     S.1 *.x x.3.11 WI t.t MS.   I&I1    WS.1   13.11    WS.  WXS
tw ^l &Az0oo    0.0    0.6                            2i   2.94    8.16   3J.    8s.8    2S8    316    as6    3.36    a.86    3.a0    3.86    16    3.26   SA8
merito" a nswe                 0.00    0.oo    0.16   0.64    0.4    0.79    0.4    0.64   0.64    0.64    0.64   0.64    0.64    0.64    0.64    0.64    0.34    0.4
Pmeb M1_ir.wace                0.00   0OA    0.41    1.61    1.4    1.      21    z2o    2.10    2.lO       1o   t2O    t10    2.O    Li1d    2.10   z2o    2.1o
I_s                            too0    OO    0.7S    28o   S.22    9.42    1.56    1.68   1.5s       6.59         1e     8 a e.56    8.56    8.5    856    1.56    3.56
hiswmnce                        0.00    O.0    0.00    0.o4    0.14   0.4    08   .0.A4  0.34    0.14    0.14    0.34    0.14    034    0.34    0.4    0.14    0.4
OTAL u WAvS   000    0.00    1.96    6.06    .0    9.71   10210     .0-.2-2-- -0.22   10.22   10.22   10.22  10.22   10.22   10.22   10.22   10.29   10.22
IOtaLm?k      U6ES       00.--00oo     Q 4O94.14 11s   20.56   22.12 - 323   28.33  293.a8   23.33   23.ss   28.3   2a.3   23.33   23.33   23.33   2228   23M3
0JSSAEMTFt IN PIW         0 .t00    0OO    8.29   1.93   1t69   17.57   16.8  116.69   16.8   69  116.6   18.69   16.6   16.69       9   16.56   16.6l9  16.69
tmws.ene se.so. sees... sees.. 0.00sees  sue.... 0000000 =0eseee esasft.tf CeoUfen  ease.. 0000seeiee 0000000 0 ss.S.s mfse...  n.. 000 es.
tsml EWned  n u   usa           0.00    0.00    0.00   0.15   0.11    0.17    0.10    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    003    0.04    0.04    0.03    0.03   0.3    003
MIt_nhs   Feus                 0.00    0OO   (0.25)  (0.96)  (1.10)  11.19)  (1.26)  (1.26)  (1.26)  (1.26)  (1.26)  (1.26)  (1.261 (1.26)  (1.26)  (1.26)  (1.26)  11.26)
ManimmntPioll cen"es           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.0    0.00    0.00    0.00    000    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00 .0    .0.00    to0   0.0    0.00
Rejacemen cosls                0.00    0.00  (0.13)  (0.656  (0.651  (0.70)  (0.75 f (0.76)  (0.75)  (0.75)  (0.75)   (0.76)   (.7 05) 7)  (0.7)  (0.75)  (0.75)  (0.75
ODedalon A Amxtall,n           0.00    OJOO    0.00  (4.93)  (4.92)  (4.9S)  (4.98)  (4.92)  (2.26)  (2.26)  (2.26)  (2.26)  (2.26)  (0.71)  (0.71)  (0.711  (0.71)  (0.71
0e" F                          0.00   o00      0.00    0.00   0QOO    0.00    0.0    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.o0  0      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
Equiy Fee$                     0.00    0.0    0.00   0.00   O00
(mm F chg Few                  o.00    on0    00      0.00    0.00   o0o    o0o    0        0.00    0.00    O.0    0      0.00 t  .00    0.0    0.0 0.00 OO    C0
TotALUC014PERAT01091WCtbMJ   0.00    QO0   (0.381  (6.01  (5.65)  (6.65)  (8.64)  (6.91)  (4.25) (4.25) (4.25)  (4.24)  (4.-2  22.6) io)1  i-(2.69)  (2.69) (t.63
t. en.... . .5 50 _s.ss w.eSs.._  n....__   _e..... _._e  *e*5 ..es__. se            _. ..._  -------    --- sumeee          ..ss    a.._
Eand_ Before lt{od & Tom  QEBIT)0.00    0.00    2.91    7.61   O.4   10.92   11.65   1t.76   14.44   14.44   14.44   14.45   14.46  t8.O0    16.00   16.o   16.00  N1O
kuests Pa,nsnh on Lot          0.00    0.00    0.00    4.29    4.14   S.66    3M   235   1.61    0M    0.2    0.00   0.0    0.O   Q0.OO    0.00    QOO    0.00
PMoti (Loss) - before taxes       0.00   o0o    2.91   3234    6.0    7.23    661    9.43   12683   13.56    4.t2   14.45   14.46   16.02   160    1.00  1WO.  16.00
Taxes                          0.00    0.00    0.00    00    0.0    00    0.0    0.00    0.00    0.0    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.41    6.40    6.40    6,40    6.40
NETNXH IE   0.00    O0     2.91    3.34    6.O    7.21   86.1    9.41   12.69   12.5   14.22   14.45   14.46   9.61    9.60 0 .tO    9.60    6.10
tees..._. _.-_-_. 553055 .oss__ss _eses. eSseese sees..    .... emen._ asses.._ ww-"s_e   sOmn  ss. 000555 asese. Possese  __- _- 
LESS -   aDuids   0.00    0.00   o00    S."    S.SO    7.23   93.0    7.16S   7.S    8.52 11.25   16.56   16.72   104   10.38   10.1   10.11   101
PETANDENNOW        0OO   O.00        12.        0.0 0 M  0.0    0.1    2      6.St    5.07    0.90  (2.09)  (2.2)  (1.01) t0.73)  (0.71)  (0.71)  (0.71
CtAATnE RE1D1NDEA1 O1D    0.00    0.00    29        00    00    00    0.1    278    6.29 _All8  14.81   12.24    0.6    6.95    .22    7.51    6 9.          6.03



Anex 5
Page 23 of 23
- 94 -
ESM
SAHL HASHEESH BAY DEVELOPMENT
PHASE to & lb (6,000,000 m2)
GMss    Sale of   Consrn & Operaing & Changes in   Net
Hotel   Developed  Develop't Maintenance  Working  Economic
lRaxmnues    LAW   Caos      Co      Caolw   Iensfl
1993       0.00     0.96   (14.13)    0.00    (0.19)  (13.36)
1994       0.00     3.24   (36.33)    0.00    (0.99)  (34.08)
1995       8.23     6.36   (27.43)   (6.34)   (2.38)  (21.57)
1996      32.11     8.64     0.00   (19.54)   (2.00)   19.20
1997      36.77     9.82   (21.93)  (22.07)   (0.37)    2.23
1998      39.69    11.36   (56.37)  (23.66)   (0.83)  (29.82)
1999      50.24    14.90   (42.56)  (30.37)   (1.74)   (9.54)
2000      74.13    18.11     0.00   (41.12)   (1.37)   49.74
2001      78.79    16.45     0.00   (43.19)   (0.17)   51.88
2002      81.71    10.11     0.00   (44.48)   (0.10)   47.24
2003      84.04     4.46     0.00   (45.49)   (0.10)   42.90
2004      84.04     1.68     0.00   (45.50)   (0.01)   40.20
2005      84.04     1.27     0.00   (45.50)   (0.01)   39.79
2006      84.04     0.71     0.00   (45.50)    0.16    39.40
2007      84.04     0.18     0.00   (45.50)   (0.08)   38.63
2008      84.04     0.00     0.00   (45.50)   - (0.07)   38.47
2009      84.04     0.00     0.00   (45.50)    0.00    38.53
2010      84.04     0.00     0.00   (45.50)    0.13    38.66
2011      84.04     0.00     0.00   (45.50)    0.01    38.54
2012      84.04     0.00     0.00   (45.50)    3.13    41.66
SHBD'sE4RR    21.8% |



95 -
Page 1 of S
EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Infrastructure Devdopment In the Red Sea CAst and For Nile Cruises
A.   Bogru2d
1.          r
1.1 aWteDag
1.1.1 These are tee different sources of water supply in the Red Sea coasal region between Hada
and Safaga: (i) Nile water from Qena to Safaga and Hurgada (ii) a cental desalination plant at
Hurghada and (Iii) smalL local dealiaton units usig either sea water or brackish water fiom
underground wells. None of these sources is s y.
1.1.2  he old Qena-Safaga water supply line had a capacty of 70 Us and was poorly constructed. It is
being replaced by a new system (financed by US-AID) with a dsign capacity of 200 V/s (about
17,000 m3 per day) which has been completed but requires some   itaton (the asbestos
cemet pipes have developed leaks and the joints are being replaced). It is expected to be
operatonal by April, 1993. It will provide  mainy to Saaga and Hurghada twnshps, and
does not have the excess capacity needed to ly  wat to the tist resrts.
1.1.3 The Al-Yusr Desaination plan in Hurghada has a capacity of 4,800 m3 per day. However, of
four units. only thee are opeatonal; the fourth unit requires replacement. The plant was built
with the          g that it would supply water to the Red Sea Govemorate in bulk, with a
miimum guaranted daily produion of 2,400 m3. The sale price was agreed at LE.450 per m3,
with an annual increase of I0% for inflation. While the cost of production has risen more steeply
(chemicals have doubled in prie), the C}overnorate insists t  the pla  abides by the tems of the
original contract. As a result, the owners have let the plant deteriorate; production is less than
2,000 m3 per day and the water quality is sub-standard. (There we large traces of ion m the
water. The Govemorate claims that this is a result of low pH in the treated w,er, causing
corrosion in the pipes. The owners of the desalination plant claim dth the corrosion is taking place
in the open-air wat reseoi buit by the Glovernomte with many farous metalLic parts)
1.1.4 Some resorts (ike the Cord Beach) have built dteir own desalinaton plas but have had problems
with nmanaining the quality. They have had to tank the water from Hurghada (either from the
Qena pipeline or the Al-Yusr Plant) at a cost of about LE 14.00 per m3.
1.2   W as
1.2.1 Thre a  no central sewea  systems in thc proect ar   All developments, both existing and
plamnd, rely on packe on-site Ireatment plants. In all cases, the effluent is used for irrigado
While the quaty of opin  and min          is adequate in some cases, it is very poor in odtr
However, m al cases, the degree of p uificaon is inadequate because of the short retention
period, which is inufficient to eliminate most of the pathogens. Tnus, the effluent used for
iigation is below the pemissible sndards    dered qua   can only be attained in a cental
Plat



-96 -                                     sne6
Pag 2 of S
1.3   Solid Wafte
1.3.1 There is no common waste collctdon or disposal system. The solid waste is dpped haphazardly
and incinered in the open air by individu resorts.
2.    Nile Cruises
2.1       i      5gE l
2.1.1 With the increase in the number of cruise ships plying the waters of the Nite between Aswan and
Luxor, the number of bering facilidtes has become totally iaduate. Durig the high season,
cruise ships pak four or five abreast, resulting in nuisance for the tourists and maldng it difficult
for the land crews to provide service to the ships. Parallel berthing of four-five ships at a dme also
increases the risk of fi  Furtmore, pae    paring makes it easier for operaor to dump
refise and unteated wastewater into the ziver.
2.1.2 In addition to the loading and off-loading of passengers, the berthing facilites are used for the
provision of sevies such as water supply, power supply, and waste disposal to the cruise hs.
Most of the existing berths lack the facilities for the provision of dtese services. Some berthing
facilities ae privatey owned by lae cruis opeators who give priority tO dteir own crunise ships
when it comes to berthing and servicing, and the smaller operats are left to their own devces
which ane not always s  r.
2.2   Tf
2.2.1 Ther are no failities for ship-to-shor or ship-o-ship mmuicaton among the cruise ships.
C,nsequeitlj' there ate no faciliti for emergency 
2.2.2 There is no superviopof pasenger bokings or =uise timetables during the season. Ship
owners have tohandhe ndpendentpromotion of ;heir services. Furthmo  tere are no firm
and timetables are modified to suit demand.   w re is a sumg need to relate,g
and coordinate the flow of taffic.
2.2.3 Cruise ships are licnsed at their initial launch but there is no regua inspection of operaions.
Some of the older ships may no more be seaworthy. Also, the older ships are not equipped wiffi
proper cold stg facilit for food, nor are they equipped with adequate waste  atment
equipment. It is common for passengers to complain of intestnal diorder
2.3 A=
2.3.1 At many of the major touist ceners, the antquities are located at a consideable distance frm dte
River. Access roads to the antiquities ae often narrow, unpaved roads that pass through
congsted settlements Tour buses have to maneuver through these roads and evenuay end up at
simiarly inadequate paking lots near the antiquities. Both the antiquities and settlements could
beneft from improvements to the access roads and the areas aond the temples.
B.   Th    P 11S
t1.n of lbr, QZMM=



- 97 -
Page 3 of 5
1.1.1 The public sector implemented project component will consist of two major sub-components: (i)
provision of infrastr.ure servces to the Red Sea coast between the municipal boundaries of
Hurghada and Safaga, comprsing the thee developments at Sout Hu     Sahel El-Hasheesh,
and Ras Abu Soma; and (ii) improvements to cruise ship operations at the sites of andquides on the
Nile, between Aswan and Luxor.
2.   Dzaild BjILDuciDdg
2.1   RedSea
The infastuctue facilities to be provided along the Red Sea coast will comprise (i) water supply
to South Hrhada; (fi) sewage collection and tatment for South Hughada; and (iii) solid waste
collection and diWsal for South Hrghada, Sahel El-Hasheesh and Ras Abu Soma.
2.1.1 Water Suiwly
Although underground war sources have been idendfied in the Hurghada area, their development
will be left to a future phase. The source of water will be sea water from the Red Sea at South
Hurghada. The project will finnce a reverse-osmosis desalination plant, with a capacity of 6,000
m3 per day. Te water will be stored in a eservoir of 6,000 m3 capacity and will be distibuted
through a water man of about 7.5 kmn lengt. A pumg stiAon of 7,500 m3 per day will pump
the water to the various reso; power for the desalination plant and pumping staion will be
generated on site. In the initial phases of developmet, the system coufd have sufficient excess
caacity to serve the soutmost resorbs within the Hurghada municipal bounarie
2.1.2
The Mistry of Housing and Public Udtlies has already commissioned a public sector conuacng
company to build a sewerage network for the city of Hurghada However, provision has not been
made to serve the southenmoresorts witi municipal boundaries. On the other hand, the
prvate devkelopes of Sahel El-Hash_sh and Ras Abu Soma plan to build separate stabiizaon
ponds to the wes of dte Hughada-Safga road, to te the sewage from their own reorts. The
sed  sewa  lectonand         ment system will serve South Hurghada only. Again, it could
proide service to the resots at the southem limits of Hurghada undl the city network is extended
their area
The proposed sewerage system would compnse a series of stabilizadon ponds with an initial
capacity of 3,000 m3 per day, about 1.0 km to the west of the Hurghada-Safaga road. Two
pumping statons would be buik with capaes of 70 I/s and 140 lls,    vely. Sewage would
be colected td gh a gravity system of about 7.5km length ana would be pumped through two
fce mains with a total length of about 5.5 km. A 7.0 km long gravity system of uPVC pipes
would cazy the effluent from the teaunnt plam to the rst
For environmental reasons, al existing rso  would be required to gradually phase out the
individual sewage trament units on their sites and to connect to the main treament plant.
Furthermore, the locato of the teament plant would be convenient for the connection of the first
stage of deelpment in the nore  sec  of        El-Hasheesh. The opeadon and mai nce
of£the system woud be entrustedato th pivate sector.
2.1.3 SoidWaft
The solid waste collection and disposal system would serve the whole coastal ara from South
Hurgbada in the North to Rs abu Soma in the South. The volume of waste is esdmated to reach
21 tonnes and 189 toumes in 1995 and 2020, respecdvely. Resorts would be provided with 1.1



- 98 -
Pag 4 of 5
cubic meter capacity containers. Four compactor trucks (reaching 32 by the year 2020) would
collect the waste daIly from the resorts and car it to a sanitary landfil about mid-point between
Hurghada and Safaga. The landfil site would have a total area of 80 hectares and will be
developed in modules of 5 hectares
2.2  'Me NDJ e QWss
This component would comprise the (i) construction of additiona berthing faities at the tourist
centers; (ii) construction of a ship repair facility at Qena; (iii) establishment of a Control Center to
regule crise sWip operations and provide emergency sevices; and (iii) upgrading of the tourist
centers and their envron
2.2.1 Bering Failiies
The project would comprise the constuction of addidonal betig facilities at two major centes of
Aswan and Luxor, and four smaller centers of Kom Ombo, Edfu, Esna and Dandaa, to reduce
congestion and avoid parallel berthing. Each center would be provided with fresh water to
replenish the water supply on the cruise ships. A power connection would be prvided to opert
the on-board systems duning bertiing. Furthermore, facilities would be provided to discharge the
effluent from the sewage tatment plants of the ships to the city networks, wher avalable, and
provision would be made for te collection and dsposal of sold waste frm the ships.
The number of new berths is a function of demand and exisdng facilities. Under the present
project it is proposed to construct the following number of new berihs:
Luxor       :28
Aswan       :  14
Dandam      :  11
Edfu        :  8
KomOnbo  :  8
Ena         :4
2.2.2 Coantrl.Q r
A Control Center would be established under TDA in Upper Egypt to (i) regulae cnruse ship
schedulig, i   ies and operations; (Hi) establish ship-to-shore and ship-to-ship communicatins
systems; and (iii) provide emergency fire fighting and medical services. It would also provide
cruise ships wih such essential infmaon as weath   ecasts, congestons, the flow of taffic at
te lock, acdnts, etc.
In additon to the provision of service to the cruise ships, the Control Center would cany the
authoity ofamamtddme regulatory body which would (i) rete rivert spotof ain mpes in fte
Nile; (ii) caiy out safety and sea-wortine ins    on me cruise ships; (iii) inspet food and
health facilities on the cuie ships; and (iv) issue annual operation licenses to cruise ships, crews
and operatcrs. In the initial stage8 it is proposed to place Me Conrl Center under the joint
drection of TDA, the Riveine Transpo Authority, and the Association of cruise ship operatr.
As things get established and developed, Iesponsibilit for the Control Center could be sffed
entirely to the Association of Cruise Sip  eratos r an indepdent maritime oizato
Duing negodations as nddn a peiod of 36 months annual
inspecton and licensing of cruise ships and cews would be impleme



-99 -
PageS of S
2.2.3 Upgadingg of uis Areas
Access from the River to the sites of aniquides at Kom Ombo, Edfu, Esna and Dandara would be
cleaned up and improveda Where necessary, and possible, access roads would be widened to
facilitate the passage of tow buses. At the antiquties themselves, parking facilities would be
provid  for the tour buseo  Rest areas would be built for the tourists, with toilet facilities and
food and beveage srvices.



- 100-                                     ZAM=
Page 1 of 4
EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT. PROJECT
Core Invement Pwn                                             Annal Review
Pricing policy                                               ApBl 1993
Issue of a new land location policj by TDA                   December 1993
Intaing public offering of Shemon Package                    Marh 1993
Initiating publc offei  of Obei Packae                       Sepmber 1993
Ftin of sa rsmicurn plan for BOaOT                           Septeber 1993
Peation of a di   a plan for the remaning components         September 1993
Of EGOTH
Im      ato of plan for sdety regulaon on the Nlle            December 1993
SignedAreement of ASD and SHBD                                Apil 1993
Signed Lou Agment wth commeci bank leng to ASD and  April 1993
SHBD
Signed couion  contacts for al relevan infatucture fal       April 1993
Siged O&M conuw/ SaSffmng aaemn    whee appicae              Aprl 1993
Compledon and opation of infstructure facl                    Dcember 1996
Sharhold    Agreement for the fist two hotels                 April 1993
Loan Ageeme  with commercial banks lending to the fist two    Aprl 1993
hotels
Signed O&M Concts widt hotel operatos for the fir two         Apdl 1993
hotel
. Sigped Utility Cont     with te fist two hotels              Aprl 1993



-101-                                      Annex7
Page 2 of 4
EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Agements on sale Ibase of land to fit two hoels              Apil 1993
Signed cnsruction contact for e fis wo htels                  Ap  1993
Schedule for fancial closre, corucon, completion and qeon  Apil 1993
of te remaining Phase I hotels
Competion of constru n and co ement of opratn of hols  December 1996
Updated feasibility study for Phase U                        June 1996
Mid-Tam Review of impl        n of inufmrcue and
suprsuct  compOnents                                         Dember 1996
Updated feasibity study for Phase II                          Dember 1995
MidTermReview of im npt -le o of infrastructure and
_sue tu        components                                    Jume 199S
Selection of PS sponsors by TDA for all facilies              December 1993
WaIALSMud1                                                   Jul 1994
Compkdon of watr supply                                       December 1996
Yas=  watad SoLid waste
Start consuctio                                              July 1994
Complein  of sewage and soLid wate                           June 1996
Ntre B tb- .g
Start constucton                                              Apri 1994
*                Compleon of berthing facilities                               December 1999
iaxgaganall and Co Lmml S3sa1
Sat consucon                                                  Apl 99
Complton of navigadonal and control sysms                     Deceaber 1998
Set up Project Magemet GWP                                    April 1993
Appoint a Pjea Co-ordinaor and Opert    Mager                 Apil 1993
Emablish a Cairo Office                                       Apil 1993
Prume a draft work plan for Ist e of the PIoct                Auril 1993



- 102 -
Page 3 of 4
EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TDA Enviromental Unit staffed                                 ApOl 1993
EEAA staffs units for Waer and Cos  Zone Management           Apil 1993
Depranaent and Park and Protected Areas Depa_tm
Appoitment of three Poject Advises for the Proect            Api 1993
Appoirntent of Pmected Arem  Manager and a Recreation        September 1993
Areas Manager to the Project core team
Appoitment of Chief Poludon Control Ofricer to the core      December 1993
Project Team
GOE Apoa of the CZM Pan and appl of boundaries and            Mach 1994
legal stoas of partcted aeas
Bstab nt o£Pro ected Areas office Estblsment of              Mach 1994
Rerpatn Areas M      e        Unit                            Mmb 1994
Establishmentof Environmental Moiring and Enforcement        March 1994
CoordintionUnit
GOE approval of final report of the CZM Pgam  Review and      Mach 1996
commitment to actions to be taken
Prvision of Progress Reports on Project activies             Quaty
Provision of Deied Mid Term Pgess Report for the Project      December 1995
Mid Tetm Rtview of the  oject                                Febry 1996
Annual Audit Repom on the Project Accounts                   Annul
Draft Prolct Comleo Rtmetne00



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENVIROWMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
j  4                                           Year      1993        1994          1995         1996          1997          1998       1999          2000
0  Item_                                           _     _     _    _     _     _     _     _     _     _     _     _    _     _     _     __
4      No.   Descriptton                Quarter   1 2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1 2 3  4   1 2 3  4   1234    1 2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1 2 3  4
w      1.       Ras Abu Soma Oeveloument
To
Roads                               -- -
Water Supply                        ----
Wastewater                          ----
Power Supply                        ------xxxxx m x"^tsann---"-a---
Telecommunications                  -----------xxxxxxxxonannu===0unummunn               ===a=*=
Landscaping                         ----
2.      Sahl Hfasheesh Bay Develounent
Roads                               -----XXXXXXUUS^ U0 =S3-UUnl3 Wnar-
Water Supply                        -----x       _ *g-2R=00
Wastewater                          -----xxxxxxaUs=--           -
Power Supply                        -----XXXXXXU'.*U583         b
Telecoaunications                   ----- xx          x au33----. n.-.m. r .
landscaping                         -----xxxxxxmafuf u    mm--nouu-
∞3.          South Hurohada                       
Water Supply                        --------XXXXXXX'-n
Wastewater                          -----------
Solid Vaste                         --xx       - ma  -w =^a_=nu==
4.      Wile Cruises
Berthing Facilities                 -----------
Rag Natfon 6 Control Center                --------
5.      GEf CoLoDot
--- - -----m*3*w~M23m=
6.      Tecdmical Assistance
------- Engineering Design
xxxxxxx Tendering and Mobilization
=-==  Constructionllmplementation
* 



- 104 -
A=nnL&
EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR TOItRISM INFRASTRUCTURE
A-ND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan Dibursement Schedule
(in USS wll)
Bank Fiscal Year              Quartery        Cumulive       Disbursement
BRAU                                         as % ofa mnw  p Totalw
M4uch 31, 1993             - 0.0              0.0             0.0
June30,1993                  Q09              09              0.7
FT J994
September 30, 1993            5.0             59              4.5
December 31 1993              2.0             79              6.0
March 31, 1994                2.0             9.9             7.6
June 30. 1994                 2.0             11.9            9.0
I; 1995S
September 30, 1994            4.5             16.4            12.6
Deenber 31. 1994             445             209              16.0
Miatch 31. 1995               4A.            255              19.6
June 30. 199S                 4.6            30.1             23.1
PY1996
September 30. 1995.           5.8            35                7.5
rkxxnaber 31, 1995            5.8          '                  32.0
M4arcb 31. 1996               5.8            475              36.5
June 30, 1996                 5.8             533 .           41.0
i   71997-.
September 30. 1996           8.1            61.4             472
Dw £xxxnber 31, 1997          8.2            69.6             535
MS biatch 31. 1997            82             77.8             59.8
J m ,n30, 1997                &I8.1           859             66.0
September 30. 1997            5.8            91.7             705
lkxxnnber 31, 1997            S.8            975              75.0
Mlatch 31,1998                5.6            103.1            79.3
June 30, 1998                 55             108.6            83.4
PrY1999
Septembe 30, 1998             55             114.1            87.8
Decemnber 31, 1998             .5            119.6            92.0
hSlrh 31, 1999                2.6            122.2            94.0
June 30. 1999                 2.6            124.8            96.0
lNr2000
September 30, 1999             13            126.1            97.0
December 31, 1999              13            127.4            98.0
March 31, 2000                 13            128.7            99.0
June 30.2000                   13            130.0           100.0
Note: Beaed on the didabsement pmfb   for Egypt. modified to take into account a 75
year impemeta- onperio instea of 8 due to the fact that the bulk of the loan
wdli be disbrsd on privat sector invesmen pmject&



- 105 -
Am2
EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
. P"oect Supervidon Forecast
Projec implemenion would tae place over seven and a half yeam - staig in the second half of
FY 1993 and complet,in FY 2000. The Bank would supervise the project te tmes a year in the fit
t   Years  an a    ge of twice a year in the     five md a  lf yeas. Ihe table below gives the
staffweeks etimaed for the supervision effort and consists of sconuat inputs both in the field and
atheadquartrs.
Staf  JLeks n  i&
MunEnc inpar   4          4     4     4      4     4     4       4    32
4     4     4     4      4     4     4       4    32
4     4     4     4      4     4     4       4    32
IUi  E         16    18    16 14  4  4  3  3    2     2       -   22
I Toudsm  M g  -   ~2      -     -     -     -      --            2
I=AL      ~~16    18    16    iS    1S    14    14      12   120



- 106 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Tourism Development Authority: Orgadzation and Function
Figure 1
| f.~
..I         CHIEF
DEV TLO                                    PEPRSO.NE
1"IMANNING~~FNANIA
~ .~. ~ ENCONTROLLE
DEPARTMENTATIONEELP DP.   
-    Provide  I -     and legal supprt; and
- Identify traiing needs, design and prepare training plans, and organiz tramnig sessions and
programs.



- 107 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
Fincial ContmJje
-     Prepare budgets, including identifying sources and application of funds, and making
recommendations for filling any projected financial gaps;
-     Handling all fund transactions on behalf of TDA including payments to contractors, and
submitting withdrawal applcations to World Bank and other donor agencies;
-     Keep proper financial and accounting records;
-     Prepare accounts for interim and annual audits;
-     Negoiate and follow-up with donors and lending agencies; and
-     Negotiate and follow-up with service vendors.
a&wmamn Mawgmw   Unit
-     Design and development of a comprehensive and specialized database for project planning,
prepartion, and implementation, including environmental data. This would include identification
of objectives, scope and implementation schedules, data collection and processing, development of
management and analytical systems, and updating procedures; and
-     Design and implementation of programs for the exchange and dessemination of information to
support and complement developmental efforts in the tounism sector. This would include
publication of periodicals or status reports, and srranging specialized seminars
Business Deedon       D    s
This department will be responsible for communicating TDA activities to the sector as a whole, as
well as providing assistance in promoting and marketing tourism development projects both domesdcally
and interationally. Activities will also include formulating programs for promoting small scale enterprise
development at local levels in a manner responsive to the needs of the tourism sector.
TechtnicalDarmn
This department will be responsible for the guidance and supervision of activities in the areas of
urban planning, arhitectur, infrastucture development, environmental protection, and construction. The
department will also be responsible for preparation and technical assessment of projects and feasibility
studies; development of procedures and techniques for management and implementation of projects; and
analysis of costs, prices, bids, proposals, contract documents, including the preparation of procurement
guidelines. The department is organized in three units:
o     Planning and Project Preparation
O     Environment
o     Project Implmentation
The functions and responsibilities of the ftfree units are as follows:
Planning and Ej:ctriaEwradoan Unit
-     Policy analysis and formulation of physical development objectives and plans to ensure
that the development process proceeds as effectively as possible;
-     Project identification, preparation and appraisal including establishment of related
guidelines and procedures;



- 108 -
Annex lO
Page 3 of 3
-     Review and provision of guidance in the preparation of projects and studies;
-     Survey and documentation of existing conditions at the level of detail required for planning
and project implementation, including natural characteristics, physical development
conditions, and status of current projects and panned developments;
-     Development of procurement guidelines, procedures and standard documents, provision of
guidance and advise and preparation of tems of reference and work schedules; and
-     Carrying out special studies to deal with pardcular issues affecting physical development
Environment Unit
The primary function of this unit is to ensure that natural and cultural resource factors are
integrated into the planning process for tourism development. Its responsibilities, which will be
camried out in close coordination with the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA),
include defining environmental goals and policies, developing suitable standards and procedures
that help protect and/or improve the environmental quality of tourist areas, and monitoring the
environmental impact of growth and development. The specific actvities will include:
-     Survey of exising conditions and updating of properly documented baseline data;
-     Development of environmental pnning standards, regulaions, and guidelines;
-     Development of review procedures and monitoring plan;
-     Provision of nessary inputs and guidance relaive to the preparation of private sector
proposais and
-     Provision of advice on envi  nal management and training.
-     Carying out specdal studies dealing with touism-related environmental issues: r
&aiject1nwlemem~anonUnit
-     Development of planning, design and construction standards and specifications and
appropriate implementation mechanisms;
-     Formulation of project assessment and follow-up procedures;
-     Assessmt of projects and project proposals;
-     Supervision and monitoring of various phases of project implementation, including
assistance in issuing invitations to bid, evaluating bids, and in coordination with the
Fnancial ControUef s department approve conTraors' payment certificates; and
-     Development of operation and maintenance standards, guidelines, and procedures for
development projects and for quality controL
Investment DefefDmen  earn
This departnent will be generally responsible for investment, financial, and economic functions
related to tourism development Mke specific responsibilities are to:
Coordinate institutional actions by TDA, financial institutions and other institutions regarding
resource mobilization;
Carry out economic and financial appraisal of market conditions to identify investment
opporunities;
Make recommendations on investnent and credit decisions;
Supervise the financial aspects of TDA loans to the private sector,
Analyse feasibility sudies and proposals prepared by the private sector to check their viability and
assist in structuring the transactions, and
Provide fmancial and economic advise on development projects



EGYPT
0                                                PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRATRUCTURE
K                                                   & ENVPRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF RED SEA INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT
Year    Water             Seoweg       Soad Wate    Total    Wale    Volum   Averaoe So.waste           Toal     TOtl       Toal        Not
Capita)   O&M  Capit  0&    Capita  O&M    Codt    Cons. Sol.wse WatAww.   Chwge Watisew.    .wwate    Revenue    Benefts
Costs   Coa    Cos   Cost   Cosse  Costs                 .000             Ch"roe            Rewenue  Rvenue
--LE'000                          CIyr  tonsW.   LEICM          LEAton                        LE'000
1992       0      ,0        0      0       0      0      0         0         0         0         0                   0          0              0
1993       0        0       0      0       0      0      0          0        0         0         0         0         0          0              0
1994    3977      591   327    99          0      0  7904           0        0         0         0         0         0          0          -7S04
1995   1s58s    2365   6474   394   3272          0  2413          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         -26413
1ow    1988 5    2a57   6474   403   3272   123  33204            1s0     2555         t2      110      2364       281       2645         -30550
l907       0    297         0   493        0   137   3567        7s       247          12      110      s456       313       0769           0183
1098       0    2957        0   493        0   151   3601        06       3139         12      110    11632        345      12177           8577
1999       0    2957        0   493        0   165   3615        0se      3431         12      110    11632        377      12209           n5o5
2000        0    29s5      ,0   403        0   170    3629        06      3723         12       110    11632       410       12242          8613
1           2001      795    2057    324   403    327   103   50860           go      4015         12       110    11632       442       12274           7t65
2002        0    295        0   403        0   203  .3653         9806    4234         12       110    11832       468       12296          6645
0           2003        0    2957        0   493        0   214   3664         9s6     4453         12      110    11632        490      12322           8S58
-4          2004        0    2957        0   493        0   224   3674        666      4672        12       110    11832        514      12340           6072
1           2005        0    2957       0   493        0   235   3685 6s6             4691         12       110    11632       536      12370            6665
2006      795    2957    324   403    327   245   5141            666      5110        12       110    11632 n     52        12394,          7253
2007        0    2057       0   403        0   256   3706         Sm  5320             12       110    11632       56s      12418            8712
2008        0    2957       0   493        0   26   3716         6es6     554          12       110    11632       61o       12442          6726
2009        0    2957       0   493        0   277   3727         966     5767         12       110    11632       634       12406          6740
2010        0    2957       0   403        0   264   3734        s06      6613         12       110    11632       650       12402           6749
2011      795    2957    324   493    327   294   5190            S88      6132        12       110    1163w       675       12507           T316
2012        0    2057       0   493        0301    3751           066      6276        12       110    1132        091       12523           87m
2013        0    2067       0   493        0   308   3756         mo      6424         12       110    11632       707       12539           g760
20t4        0    2057       0   493        0   315   3765         as       657         12       110    11632       73        12565           a760
2015        0    2957       0   493        0   322   37          01         76 ale     12       110    11632       730       12571           6790
2016      795    2057    324   493    327   a2s   8225            sso     6662         12       110    time         75       12567           7302
2017        0    2957       0   493        0   335   3765         sss     671         12       110    lien        767       12600           8814
2016        0    2957       0   493        0   340   37S9         986     7061         12       110    11832       779       12911          6621
2019        0    2957       0   493        0   345   s795         966      7190        12       1to    1iim        791       1262s           8626
2020        0    2057       0   403        0   350   3600         666      73C0        12       110    ilea        603       12635           sas
IRR (Oase Case                10.45
|IRA (SensitIvIty  .           6.4 
Note: The IRR Is senste to Irnplmotston delay. In case of a dely of upto two
yeas. the IRR faIls to .4%.



c',
EGYPT 
∞~ o                                              PPIVATE SECTOR TOURSMW INFRASTRUPRE
C4                                                AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGMENT PROJECT
to                                      ECONOMIC ANlLYSIS OF ASWAN BERTHING FACIlTIES
Year     Capital O             TOd   Behino         Uility    MIc.       Toa         Net
Cod       Cod       Cod  Chal.    Charge  Choes  Rvwenue  Revenues
1003     2100          0     2100         0           0        0          0      -2100
1964     4200          0      4200        0           0        0          0      -4200
1ls5     4200       1200     5400      1470         210      263       1043     -3456
69o         0       1250      1250     2940         420       526      3885       263
t60         0       1300      1300     2940         420      526       3685      2585
19S11       0       1300      1300     2640         420       2S       3885      2665
169o        0       1300      1300     2040         420      52S       3865      2658
2000      5         1300      1600     2640         420       525      368t       2065
∞200        0       1300      1300     2940         420       526      3665       2585
2002        0       1300      1300     2940         420       526      38S       268S
1                                 m200       0       1300      1300     2940         420       526      385S       2685
2004        0       1300      1800     2040         420       525      368       g2a5
2005      S00       1300      1600     2940         420       626      3685       2586
200g        0       1300      1300     2040         420       526      385        2666
2007        0       1300      1300     2940         420       525      3685       2658
2008        0       1300      1800     2640         420       525      3685       2665
2006        0       1300      1300     2940         420       525      3685       2685
2010      500       1300      1600     2940         420       56e      3885       2085
2011        0       1300      1300    2940          420       525      38S       2565
2012        0       1300      1300     2940         420       525      386S       256
1IRRf(la)          -    20.6
IRR (eealo 1)            17,5
IR(Smeae)               t0
Note:
ScenarI 1: One yea delay In condtrudon; prIe InemW by 58 In   l rnm;
benite delayed by one yea.
ScenrIo 2: Two ye  dey In cometructlon; pfim Ineae by 10% In ree Iotam
benmits delWd by wo year.



- 111. -                               Annex 12
Page 1 of 6
EGYPT
PRIVATE SECTOR TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENTS
1.          Both the developments on the Red Sea coast and the Nile River were classified as
Category A environmental projects and detailed environmental impact assessments (EIAs) were
caried out for all of them  The studies indicated that the project would be an enhancement to the
environment and would not have any hannful effects. The following is a summary of the findings
of the EIAs.
Red Sea Coas
2.          The primary project area extends for about 40 Ens. along the edge of the Red Sea
coast between the towns of Hurghada in the north and Safaga in the south. However, the GEF
component attached to this project will also address tourism and conservation opportunies in the
Ras Banas and Gebel Elba coastal areas. TMis whole zone is known for its extensive coral reefs,
mangrove swamps and extremely diverse nmine life. However, the land area is of an arid desert
nature and uninhabited. There are no traces of animal life and few signs of birds, mostly on some
offshore islands. Also, there are no taces of any cultur resources or archeological findings.
3.          Due to the lack of infrasructure and the high cost of extending national systems,
existing resorts have had to depend on their own resources for water, wastewater, electricity and
solid waste disposal. Generally, water supply is through a series of small, resort-based
desalination plants with submarine seawater intakes and discharges of potentially harmful waste
brine (concentrate) to the sea. The locations of desalination plants and submarine pipelines have
been selected haphazardly with no consideration for marine life or the environment. Efforts to
bring Nile river water to the coast hlave so far proved unsuccessful because of problems witi the
pipe mateial and pumping equipment Resort operators have to tank the water from disteat
sources at a high cost and water supply is often rationed because of price and scarcity.
4.          Wastvater is treated in small, packaged, extended aeration treatment plants and the
treated effluent is used for irrigation. These units are often poorly maintained; they smell very
badly and the quality of the effluent is far below Egyptian and international standards. Yet,
unscrupulous operators divert the excess effluent towards the sea, causing eutrophication and
damage to the coral.
5.          The existing resorts do not have a solid waste collection system. Refuse is dumped
into remote areas of the desert and incinerated. In addition to being an eyesore, the result is air
pollution, an increase in flies and insects and the possibility of transfer of disease.
6.          Despite the efforts made by the Ministry of Electricity, the national power grid has
not reached the touristic zones of the Red Sea. Resorts have to generate their own power, using
small diesel generators. The noise from these generators is unpleasant and creates noise pollution.
Furthermore, improper maintenance leads to the leakage of fuel and lubricants into the ground and,
evenually to the sea.



- 112 -                               Annex 12
Page 2 of 6
The Nile River Cruises
7.          The Nile Valley, with its abundance of antiquities, attracts thousands of tourists
who take the 4-5 day Nile River cruiscs from Aswan in the south to Luxor in the North. Between
1989 and 1992, the number of cruise ships increased from 104 to 183. Cruise ships operate
independently, with little regulation, leading to congestion at the landing stages. where ships are
berthed six or seven abreast, creating a hazard for the tourists. Parallel parldng also affects the
river currents and can lead to scouring in the vicinity of the berthing facilities. Although the
Ministry of Tourism (MOT) has temporarily stopped issuing new licenses for cruise ships, it is
expected that their number will reach 350 by the year 2,000.
8.          Crise ships are expected to operate under strict sanitary conditions. However, in
low seasons when competition is high and revenues are low, cruise operators fail to maintain their
ships properly to cut costs. Cruise ships have to carry enough drinking water for the duration of
the cruise, but due to lack of cleaning, the water in the tanks becomes stale and polluted. Many
tourists have complained from abdominal ailments caused by the drinking water. Cruise ships are
equipped with packaged sewage treatment plants that are required to treat the effluent before
discharging it into the river. Recent tests have shown that these ults are ineffective and the quality
of the effluent is not acceptable. Cruise ships are required to store solid wastes on board ship and
empty their containers at the landing stages. However, cruise operators have been caught in the act
of dumping the waste into the river at night Drainage water from the bathrooms, laundries and
kitchens, with high concentrations of detergents are drained into the river without reaument, with
deleterious effects on marine life. These problems are further exacerbated by the discharge of fuel
and oil from the engines during brief mai c acies.
mraGA,iOX MEASURES
9.          Inpacts on the environment are of two genera tpes: (i) short-term impact, during
construction; and (ii) long-term impact as a result of the development itself. Under the project,
measures will be taken both to prevent further degradation of the environment and to avoid the
creation of new hazards. During construction, contractors' working plans will'be checked and
reviewed to ascertin that they comiply with the following:
(a)   all construction waste and debris, and waste from the contractor's camps will be
disposed to designated sites only;
(b)   all camps and offices are provided with approved sanitary facilities;
(c)   contrctors and their personnel comply with regulations regarding access to and use
of the sea, especially in the areas conaining coral reefs;
(d)   contracts will include appropriate pressure testing procedures for pipelines to
prevent future lakage,
(e)   all excavatiops will be backfllled and reinstated to their original condition - excess
matrial will be hauled to approved dumps in the desert;
(f)   submrine pipes will be laid in such a manner that damage to any existing reef flat
comnmunities is limited to as narrow a region as possible;



- 113 -                                 Anex 2
Page 3 of 6
(g)   temporary service roads will be watered whilst in use to reduce the production of
dust;
(h)   limitations will be set on the noise and exhausts generated by construction plant;
and
(i)   upon completion of construction, all temporary works and equipment will be
removed and the site cleared of all remains.
10.         With the assistance of grant funds from the GEF a dual action plan will be
implemented aiming at the creation of a coastal management zone and the strengthening of the
TDA and the EEAA in monitoring and enforcement of tourism and pollution. It is also worth
mentioning here that all water, wastewater, solid waste and other services will either be owned,
operated and maintained, or at the very least operated and maintained, by the private sector.
Red Sea Coast
ii.         Water Supnfi: In the initial stages of development, the demand for water will be
relatively low. This is expected to increase sufficiently by 1997 to start the implementation of a
water supply system from the Nile river (not part of this project). However, to avoid the
proliferadon of small desalination plants along the coast, three central plants will be established,
one each for South Hurghada, Ras Abu Soma and Sahl Hasheesh. The siting of these plants will
be selected for wminun damage to the environment Intake and outfall pipelines will be located
at an ample distance from the coral reefs to nmnimize their effects on the coral. Submarine
pipelines will be laid through existing gaps in the coral reef or at locations where damage to the
reef may be limited. They will be raised about 0.5 m above the level of the reef flat on a series of
concrete supports to ensure that water flow is not impeded. Thus, the effects of laying the
pipelines will not be felt beyond a 5.0 m wide strip which will fully recover and regenerate itself
within a few years following construction.
12.         The installation of larger, centralized plants has the further advantages of reducing
maintenance costs and ensuring better quality control. The existing, small desalination units,
which are already operating at a loss, will be closed down and resorts will be supplied from the
new system. A survey of resort opeators indicated that they are willing to purchase water from a
cental plant, provided the quality of the water is in conformity with national and international
standards.
13.         Wastewa: Three central sewage treatment plants will be constructed, for South
Hurghada, Ras Abu Soma and Sahl Hasheesh. They wil consist of a series of stabilization ponds,
with tertiary treatment using sand filters, to ensure a safe effluent quality. The treatment plants will
be located at a minimum distance of 1.0 km west of the Hurghada-Safaga road and will be sited
downwind of the resort developments to avoid unpleasant odors. The effluent from the treatment
plants will be safe for irrigation. However, no effluent will be discharged into the sea, even after
teray treatment.
14.         All existing package treatment plants at the resorts will be demolished and existing
resorts will be forced to connect their sewers to the central systems. The developers of Ras Abu



- 114 -                                  A 2
Page 4 of 6
Soma and Sahl Hasheesh have already agreed to build stabilization ponds acceptable to TDA, and
plan to use the effluent f r their own irrigation needs.
15.         SoIid Wa.st: Under the project. a suitable site has been selected for a sanitary
landfill. Refuse containers, with sufficient storage capacity for the periodicity of collection, will be
placed at suitable collection areas within the resorts. Compactor trucks will pass by the resorts
regularly, collect the refuse and transport it to the landfill. Trucks will be weighed at the entrance
and an equitable system for collecting user charges will be installed.
16.         The landfill will be fenced to prevent encroachment (by the goats of roaming
nomadic shepherds). It will be equipped with adequate earth-moving equipment to cover the
refuse with earth and compact it to prevent the breeding of flies and rodents. A parking and
maintenance garage will be built within the compound for the maintenance and parking of the
compactor trucks. All existing resorts will be required to participate in the system; it will even be
possible to serve the cities of Hurghada and Safaga with the landfill, especially as the populations
of these cities will increase in direct proportion to the number of resorts.
17.         ElwatiQi   : TDA realizes the nuisance caused by the noise from small power
generators and the unseemly sight of a multiplicity of small generating sets billowing smoke into
the air. Every effort is being made to expedite the extension of the National Grid to the tourism
zones of the Red Sea. As the supply from the grid becomes available, resorts will be required to
eliminate the use of their generators (except for emergencies). In the meantime, generator sets will
be properly housed to minim   the noise. Special filters will be installed on the exhaust pipes for
smoke attenuation.
18.         One of the principal elements of the Nile Cruise component is the establishment of
a traffic and navigational control center. Its objectives are (i) the regulation and control of
navigation in the River to ensure safety; (ii) the inspection and licensing of cruise ships for
seaworthiness, hygiene, and compliance with environmental regulations; and (iii) monitong and
control of cruise operations and berthing facilities for cleanliness, sightliness, and prevention of
pollution and environmental degradation.
Berthing Fal&iSes
19.         The construction of additional berthing facilities along the Nile River with adequate
water supply, liquid and solid waste disposal facilities, and power connections will reduce the
pollution created by the cruise ships. The berthing of cruise ships single file will reduce the
turbulence along the river banks and prevent scouring of the river bed. This will also reduce the
risk of a catastrophic fire that could prevent passengers from the outer ships from reaching safety
on the shore. Furthermore, the allocation of a separate berth per cruise ship will facilitate the
connection of the ship's service lines to those on shore. Berth operators will be required to clean
up the berths every two weeks to prevent the build up of algae. Berths will be located at a
reasonable distance from major water intkes to prevent contamination of the water.
20.          Berthing ficilities will be of three types: (i) short-stops of four to five hours'
duration where tourists would disembark, visit the antiquities, and return on board to go to the next
stop. These berths will not have any service facilities except for emergency; (ii) overnight stops



- 115 -
Page 5 of 6
where water supply, wastewater, solid waste and power supply would be available; and (iii)
terniinal berths where a cruise ship would spend longer time and where laundry services would
also be provided. The charge for the utilization of these services will be included in the rate for
berthing.
21.         Wa er 5 : Drinking water will be stored on board ships in adequate quantities
to meet the needs of the tourists between service stations. To prevent recontamination of the water
in the storage tanks, ships would be provided with ultmaviolet treatment units at the outlets from the
tanks into the distribution system. Regular health inspections of the water supply and food
handling systems will be carried out to ensure the safety of passengers.
22.         Wastewater: The existing sewage treatment plants on board cruise ships have
proven to be entirely inadequate. Apart from the frequent breakdowns of the system, these units
are inefficient and go no further than primary treatment. It is proposed to store the wastewater on
board ship in watertight tanks and discharge the wastewater into urban sewerage networks at the
service stations. While on board ship, the wastewater would be disinfected to prevent the
spreading of unpleasant odors. All newly constructed cruise ships will be required to comply with
these standards; existing ships will be refurbished to be in full conformity.
23.          ajjiL     : Solid waste will be collected in plastic bags and then stored in
special, airtight containers on board ship, for disposal at the nearest service sation. Shipboard
containers will be disinfected with rodenticides and insecticides. Heavy penalties will be iposed
on any cruise ship seen dumping its wastes into the river.
24.         Drainag.: Several measures will be taken to prevent the discharge of high
concentrations of detergent into the river. Laundry services will not be provided on board ship;
they will be available only at the terminal berthing stations. Soft, biodegradable detergents only
will be used for the bathrooms. Kitchen wastes will be treated before being discharged to prevent
the addition of nutrients to the receiving water. Fmally, the water from the swiming pools will
be tested daily and disinfected before discharge into the nver.
25.         Power SUlV: To minimize pollution from the ships' engines during berthing,
ships' engines will be stopped and they will be provided with full power at the berthing facilities.
National standards for diesel engines are very stringent and vast sums have been spent adapting or
converting ships' engines to make them pollution free. Ships are well insulated to reduce the load
on the power systems for air conditioning. Maintenance requirements also are very strict to
prevent air pollution as well as oil and fuel spills.
26.         There is no issue of resettlement under the project. The Red Sea coast forming part
of the project is a barren desert without habitation, except for the two towns of Hurghada and
Safaga. On the contrary, the project will provide job opportunities directly within the resorts and
indirecdy in the provision of services. Thus the project will act as a pole of attraction for the
densely populated regions of the Nile Valley and the Delta. On the other hand, the berthing
facilities along the Nile river will be constructed on vacant Government owned land within the
right of way of the river.



- 116 -
Page 6 of 6
Consultation with NLQ's
27.         The NGO's in the Red Sea coast are the owners and operators of the existing
resorts arid a few voluntary nature conseivation organizations. They are supportive of the project
because it will provide them with guaranteed sanitary services which will make their own resorts
more attractive and lead to higher occupancy and profitability. Similarly, the NGO's in the Nile
Cruise component are the owners and operators of the cruise ships. They also are supportive of
the project as it wil lead to a safer health and navigational environment within the project zone and
provide better services for the cruise ships. Several of them have formed an association that is
considering to finance the construction, operation and maintenance of berthing facilities to improve
cruise ship operations.
28.         Existing resorts along the Red Sea coast and cruise ship operations in the Nile have
proved to be harnful to the environment: they will continue to be so without intervention, which is
one of the main objectives of this project. The project contains mitigatory measures to prevent
problems from new developments and to clean up the old resorts; it will enhance the environment
in the Red Sea and Nile Valley as it will help arrest further degradation of the environment and
establish the institutional set up that would monitor the development of tourism and enforce
environment related controls and regulations. The project will make a significant contribution to
protecting coral reefs, endemic island wild life, riverine life, and diverse marine environment. It
aitrms to assist interagency coordination and joint management of a plan between different public
and private sector entities. The project will allocate resources and promote policies for susainable
economic development and income generation from tourism, oil and gas, fishing and nature
conservation. The lessons learnt in the Red Sea coast und Upper Nile Valley, and the
strengthening of the TDA and EEAA, will eventually be used to improve the environment along
the Sinai coast he Meditanean coast and the Lower Nle Valley.



ItDe 24046
l t  MoRaOhtbMWTRAAN
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~- .. ,  
HURNGJAD                                                                                 A A8AE
MAPA
ARAII       .d
LIBYA          WU
R  E  D    S  E  A                   .                         U4D  SU6AN
Jasmine Village
7               ARA REPUBLC OF EGYPT
South    ~ ~    RNVATE SECTOR TOURISM
cowl Bech  illage     Hurghaod Center    INFRASTRUCTURE AND ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
\& K\h,  -   Red Sea Coast Development
\  \k24SS'%   .                         -              =s  t- atyuw
Sahel Hasheesh                       De$4nfM MMS
Center                            Wh JRASM3_
EM o                  !.
N WVAUWCMA1Q(nMI
\__0   1 2 3 4 5 6 2    9 10.
-~~ins
==="I-.d*-d.W T*A=   =t. -
- UV.        zn=
SAFAGA ~  ~     ~          2345        090
Tbow* ~ ~   ~     ~     ~       II     



i It i                                                              SINAI NA',  _   S A U 0 1
WESTERN                                                      oARh                                                A aI A
fit*&  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~@4.I
DESERT               t^t 
/   ^',,   e A S -U
* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~n
Km     OASIS
-a,*~~    Labt\  
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
PIUATE SEaTOR TOUJRISM INFRA -
,-STRUCTURE AND ENVIRONMENA 
MANAGEMENT PROJ
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I , 
*    TRAFIC CONTRtOL CM  
-  ROJECT LOYCAONi                                                             -
OM   RADS AND DOW estR
-   HARD   - SURACE  TROADS                                                                  byro /h 
44  ILOAVS - SINGL TRACK                                                                    .   ood.  isd e fre.
womw go of The Www &v*
-9 4- NEPAMLOADS  PROPOSE                                  9         0         5                   I Thoeeo  s
t                                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   a'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d   *..    -o   do   sot mv .  a'  do.
-.-iNRF4AIIONAL SOUNDAR                          0l      25                       0              of no. W. id S"o Gvorw
MLIw ma' o.ruo of
tD~~~~~~~~~- bem ...
S       U      0       A      N
3p                            ~~~~~~~~33.           4 
.' 1991



