a                                   S
Egypt
Red Sea Coastal & Marine Resource Management
Project Document
November 1992
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters.
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Prograrmme. the United Nations Environment Programme.
and the World Bank.
GEF Working Papers - identified by the burgundy-band on their covers - provide
general information on the Facility's work and more specific information on methodological
approaches, scientific and technical issues. and policy ancd strategic matters.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the docmnient.
Reports by the Chairman - identified by a blue band - are prepared by the Office of
the GEF Administrator in collaboration with the three GEF imrplementing agencies for the
biannual Participants' Meetings.
The GEF Administrator
1818 H Street, NW
Washington. DC 20433 USA
Telephone: (202) 473-1053
Fax: (202) 477-0551



DoCiemt of
The World Bank
FOR OMaCL USE ONLY
Rqort No. 11131-EGT
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
NI(ORANDUM AND REC      AlON
OF THE DIRECTOR
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA COUNTRY DEPARTMENT II
OF TH
INTERNATIONAL BEAN FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPIT
TO THE
REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A PROPOSED GRNT
TM  THE GUOBAL ENVIRONIT TRUST FUND
IN THE ADMINT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 3.4  MILLION
TO
THE ARA REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
NTIUI RD SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE NANAfEENT PROJECT
NOVDEBER 20, 1992
lufrautructure Operations Division
Coutry Departmnt II
Middle ast. and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of July 1, 1992)
Currency Unit - Egyptian Pound (LE) = 100 Piasters = 1000 Milliemes
LE 1.0 = US$0.3
US$1.0 = LE 3.33
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CZM                -     Coastal Zone Management
EEAA               -     Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency
EAP                -     Environmental Action Plan
ZEZ                -     Exclusive Economic Zone
ZGPC               -     Egyptian General Petroleum Company
ZIA                -     Environmental Impact Assessment
GEF                -     Global Environment Facility
GET                -     Global Environment Trust Fund
GIS                -     Geographical Information Systems
aoz                -     Government of Egypt
IOC(F)             -     Institute of Oceanography and Fisheries
IUCN              -      World Conservation Union
MAB                -     Man and Biosphere
MARPOL             -     International Convention for the
Prevention of Pollution from Ships
NOT                -     Ministry of Tourism
NGO                -     Non-Government Organization
ON                 -     Operations Manager
PC                 -     Project Coordinator
PMG                -     Project Management Group
RMG                -     Regional Management Group
SAC                -     Scientific Advisory Committee
TDA                -     Tourism Development Authority
UNDP               -     United Nations Development Program
UNEP               -     United Nations Environment Program
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
ReciDient:         Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiaries:    Tourism Development Authority,
Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency,
and the Red Sea Governorate
Amount:            SDR3.4 million (US$4.75 million equivalent)
Terms:             Grant
Onlendina Terms:  Not applicable
Financino Plan:   GET Grant   - $4.75 million (foreign exchange)
Government - SO.98 million (local currency)
Total       - S5.73 million
Economic Rate
of Return:        Not applicable
Maw                IBRD No. 24065R



I



EGYPT
READ SEA COASTAL & MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Backaround
1.          The Red Sea is a body of water like no other, in that it is a semi-
enclosed sea communicating only with the Mediterranean Sea through the man-made Suez
canal and with the Indian Ocean through the Bab el Mandab strait, making it the most
saline body of water in direct connection with the world's oceans. This unusual
physiography has created a marine environment that supports flourishing coral reefs
and endemic wetland communities in latitudes far north of their limits elsewhere.
Ironically, the very same features that make the Red Sea so valuable ecologically
and economically are leading to its demise from the demands of oil exploration,
shipping and tourism. The resulting loss of biodiversity and marine pollution is
not only affecting the quality of the Red Sea itself, but also the well-being of the
seven nations that claim shores on the Red Sea.
2.          Like the other Red Sea nations, Egypt is in a state of rapid economic
development and population growth that is placing intense pressures on its limited
natural resource base. This situation is coupled with a number of socio-economic,
institutional and ecological realities that provide both constraints and
opportunities for the short- and long-term exploitation of resources. There is
increasing pressure to shift population centers from the fertile Nile Valley to the
coastal areas due to anticipated opportunities for infrastructure development and
income associated with leisure tourism and oil development. The Ministries of both
Tourism and Petroleum recognize the need for sustainable development, as well as the
interdependence of these two industries. For example, impacts from chronic and
accidental oil spills can destroy the tourism industry.
3.          All parties who depend on the productivity of the Red Sea realize that
the fragile coral reef and marine environments of this globally unique coast cannot
withstand continued unregulated, unmanaged development. Environmental units and
regulations are being developed in various government agencies, and private sector
developers increasingly realize the negative impact of unplanned development on
coastal areas. However, there is still severely limited institutional capacity, at
both national and regional levels, to handle the complexity of competing interests
for this resource-rich sea. The global significance of the entire Red Sea region,
from ecological, oceanographic, political, economic and cultural perspectives,
requires that a combination of cooperative and complementary regional and site-
specific approaches to biodiversity protection and marine pollution reduction in the
Red Sea be urgently undertaken.
4.          In recognizing the need for ecologically sustainable development of
these resources by all of the Red Sea nations, the Government of Egypt (GOE) has
requested funds from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) to develop a coastal zone
management (CZM) program that would focus on the management of the competing tourism
and oil interests in a way that would be productive for both the concerned agencies,
the Egyptian people and the other littoral states. Concurrent with the request for
the World Bank's GEF project, there are ongoing projects that will have reciprocally
supportive impact for promoting the sustainable use of the Red Sea resources
throughout the region. The Egypt GEF project is associated with the World Bank
Private Sector Tourism Infrastructure and Environmental Management Project (loan of
US$130 million). Along with other donors, the World Bank is also assisting in the



implementation of an environmental action plan through the EEAA. The Government of
Yemen is developing a GEF project to address oil pollution issues on the Yemen Red
Sea coast. The United Nations Development Program (UNDP), the United Nations
Environmental Program (UNEP) and the World Bank are collectively developing a Red
Sea Regional Framework Plan to coordinate and revitalize regional activities through
the implementation of the Egypt and the Yemen GEF projects.
5.          Proiect Obiectives.  To meet the overall goals of biodiversity
protection and pollution prevention in the Red Sea, the objectives of the project
are to: (i) develop and implement policies, plans and regulations that ensure that
development is consistent with sound environmental management to protect the shared
marine resources of the Red sea coastal zone; (ii) strengthen the capacity of
government institutions to carry out integrated multi-sectoral coastal zone
management activities; (iii) develop and implement public-private partnerships to
assure that economic development is consistent with sustainable environmental
management and common marine resources; (iv) develop and implement practical
solutions for the establishment, management and recurrent funding of marine
protected areas and marine recreation resources; and (v) develop a data base and
inventory of the coastal and marine ecosystems and resource uses that would be
available to governments, universities and private sector interests for the purpose
of expanding the knowledge base of the Red Sea.
6.          Proiect Description.  The project would develop and implement an
integrated CZM program in the Egyptian portion of the Red Sea between Ras Shukeir in
the north and the Sudanese border in the south. The program would have the
following components: (i) the development of a CZM plan; (ii) the development of the
environmental assessment capability of the TDA and the EEAA to evaluate, regulate
and monitor the impacts of coastal development, including tourism and oil and gas
exploration; (iii) the development of the capacity to monitor and enforce marine
pollution control rules and regulations developed under the CZM plan among TDA,
EEAA, and Red Sea Governorate staff; (iv) the management of recreational activities
to protect the valuable and fragile coral reef habitats and promote training, public
awareness and sustainable visitor use and enjoyment; (v) the establishment of marine
protected areas, the preparation of operational plans for the management of these
areas and the training of necessary staff; and (vi) the reviewing, monitoring and
evaluation of the CZM project to ensure that biodiversity and pollution prevention
goals are being achieved and that the project is sustainable.
7.          Proiect Cost and Financina.  The total cost of the project is estimated
at US$5.73 million, of which about US$4.75 million would be in foreign exchange.
The entire foreign exchange cost would be covered by the GET grant. The local
currency costs of US$0.98 million would be mostly for personnel, office
accommodations, and the operation and maintenance of equipment and vehicles. These
would be covered by TDA, EEAA and the Red Sea Governorate.
8.          Proiect Imolementation.   The project would be managed from a project
office within TDA in Cairo and an office to be established in Hurghada during the
first year of project implementation. A Project Coordinator (PC), located in the
Cairo office, would have the overall responsibility for the project. An Operational
Manager (OM) would be responsible for the Hurghada office and would coordinate the
pollution control, protected areas, and recreation management aspects of the
project. A Project Management Group (PMG) would be established consisting of the



heads of TDA and EEAA, and the Red Sea Governor (or their representatives). The PC
and the OM would also be members of the PMG and the group could invite
representatives of other concerned agencies. The PMG would meet at least once every
three months. Project activities would be supported by a CZM Technical Advisory
Committee consisting of 6-7 distinguished national scientists with knowledge of
coastal and marine ecology, the use and protection of coastal resources, including
environmental monitoring and control. This committee would meet once every three
months, or more frequently if necessary. A core project team would be formed among
the staff of TDA, EEAA, Red Sea Governorate and other concerned agencies to work
either in the Cairo or the Hurghada office. This team would consist of the Chief
Planner, Chief Scientist, Data-base Manager, Financial Manager, Public Relations and
Education Manager, Training Officer, Chief Pollution Control Officer, Protected
Areas Manager and Recreation Areas Manager. The core project team would be
supported by technical and operational staff, drawn from TDA, EEAA and other
agencies, to carry out project components. Each project component and subcomponent
would be led by a member of the core project team. The team would also be supported
by a number of international advisors who would be available on an intermittent
basis throughout the life of the project.
9.          Proiect Sustainability.   The livelihood of all coastal people sharing
the common resources of the Red Sea, and ultimately the long-term viability of the
tourist industry itself, depends upon maintaining biological diversity and
implementing an integrated conservation program. The protection of the Red Sea
coral and marine habitats requires the creation of institutions with a clear
mandate; personnel who have the appropriate skills; implementing agencies with
equipment and space; and adequate financial resources for maintaining activities
after they have been initiated. The proposed project has been designed to address
these issues and, particularly, the rational allocation of coastal resources through
a CZM plan; the establishment of an ongoing data base; and the establishment of
protected areas and multiple-use policies with realistic and workable regulations
and procedures for their enforcement. The project emphasizes the need to develop
recurrent cost mechanisms through protected areas, pollution controls, nature-based
tourism activities and staff training that will, together, ensure that the actions
developed in the project can be sustained.
10.         Rationale for GEF Funding.    Global Environment Benefit:  The marine
biodiversity values of the Red Sea are high and include the coral reefs, endemic
island wildlife and a diverse marine environment. The protection of the Egyptian Red
Sea is not just a matter for Egypt alone. This project would make a significant
contribution to the protection of biodiversity, which is at risk as a result of
international resource exploitation. The sustainable development of the
agricultural, tourist and industrial potentials of undeveloped areas in Egypt and
other Red Sea nations presents a plausible mechanism for overcoming the economic
difficulties facing the region. While tourism focusing on the promotion of natural
assets, such as coral reefs, may well incorporate environmental considerations into
the planning and development processes, it is rare that actual protected areas, in
the form of parks and/or reserves are incorporated into tourism development schemes.
Given the regional and global benefits of preserving biodiversity in the Red Sea,
the intense development pressures, the single-sector nature of government agencies,
the tensions between the public and private sectors and the resource constraints of
GOE, the GEF is the only funding means for implementing an effective coastal and
marine protected area and resource management plan.



- 4 -
11.         Form of Innovation:   The project is innovative in two important ways.
First, it promotes interagency coordination and the joint management of a plan that
involves both public and private sector parties. Second, it emphasizes coastal zone
activities that support both biodiversity protection and the international waters
pollution mitigation goals of the GEF.
12.         Demonstration Value and Replicability:  The CZM program would develop
approaches that would be adaptable in other Red Sea countries. This project is the
first in the region to attempt an environmental assessment of some scale, to set up
an environmental monitoring program and to implement specific protection measures.
It would be applicable to other countries and regions that are facing similar
coastal development pressures. The project emphasizes communication with other Red
Sea countries through the regional framework being developed by UNEP.
13.         Proiect Supervision.  The project is large and complex, requiring
interagency cooperation and joint management through the Project Management Group.
During the preparation of the CZM plan in the first year, Bank staff would need to
keep in close touch with the development of detailed work plans and the appointment
of staff, local consultants and international experts by TDA and EEAA. Supervision
teams would visit every four months (three times a year) and would include
specialists in biodiversity, environmental planning and tourism. In the second and
third years when the CZM plan is being implemented, supervisory visits would be
reduced to every six months. Annual work plans and quarterly progress reports would
be prepared prior to supervision visits and reviewed during the missions.
14.         Agreed Actions.  Agreement was reached during negotiations on the
following actions: (a) by April 30, 1993 TDA and EEAA would (i) set up a Project
Management Group; (ii) appointed a Project Coordinator and Operations Manager; (iii)
established the Cairo office; (iv) appointed an advisory committee of distinguished
scientists; (b) by June 30, 1993 TDA and EEAA would (i) ensure that the Project
Management Group prepared an inception report including a draft work plan for the
first year of the project; (ii) appointed the three project advisers for the
duration of the project; and (iii) appointed suitable staff to its Environmental
Unit and Water and Coastal Zone Management Department, respectively; (c) TDA and
EEAA would appoint a Protected Areas Manager and a Recreations Area Manager by
September 30, 1993 and a Pollution Control Officer by December 31, 1993; (d) GOE
would approve the CZM Plan and approve the boundaries and legal status of the
Protected Areas by March 31, 1994; and (e) reporting requirements. There would be
cross-effectiveness required between the grant and the associated Bank project.
15.         Environmental Aspects and Prolect Benefits.   The extensive Red Sea
coral reefs are the most complex and valuable habitat in the Red Sea in terms of
species richness, endemism, diversity and ecological functioning. They are not only
invaluable on a site-specific, local scale, but are also critical to the overall
functioning and health of the entire Red Sea, representing a truly unique global
resource. Protecting the Egyptian reefs and other coastal habitats and mitigating
pollution of the semi-enclosed Red Sea waters would not only benefit the people of
Egypt, but also the littoral states, and would provide an example of the integrated
management that is needed on coastal areas worldwide. The project would make a
significant contribution to global achievements in protecting coral reefs, endemic
island wildlife and diverse marine environments. The project aims to assist



interagency coordination and the joint management of a plan by public and private
sector parties. This plan would allocate resources and promote polices that support
sustainable economic development and income generation from tourism, oil, fishing
and nature conservation. Organizational and practical skills in the management of
marine and coastal resources, protected areas and visitor access and enjoyment would
be learned in the implementation of programs. The project is the first of its scale
in the region, and the CZM program would help develop approaches adaptable to other
Red Sea countries through the Regional Framework being developed by UNDP and the
parallel GEF project in Yemen.
16.         Risks.  The project faces a number of risks.  Until recently, the
Government showed limited understanding and support for the integrated decision-
making that is required to plan and manage vulnerable coastal resources.
Consequently, a limited number of TDA, EEAA governorate staff have been involved
with environmental matters in the coastal areas. Funds have been scarce, and it has
been difficult to recruit and retain experienced and qualified staff to work in
these remote areas. The environmental regulations that do exist have not been
enforced properly. These risks would be reduced under the project by the
preparation of a CZM Plan, as well as a plan to protect the coastal resources of the
Red Sea through the cooperation and joint action of concerned agencies. The project
would contribute funds to assist in creating a core team with the adequate expertise
and experience to fulfill the objectives of the project and in training a large
number of local staff in various aspects of CZM. Studies would be carried out under
the project to develop sources of recurrent funding to support CZM activities in a
sustainable manner.
Attachments



-6-
Schedule A
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Proiect Cost and Financing Plan
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign     Total
…------(US$ '000)-------
Cairo Office                         390          414         804
Red Sea Office                       248          364         612
CZM Plan                              94          628         722
Environmental Impact Assessment       21          193         214
Pollution Control                     48          545         593
Recreation Area Management            58          975       1,033
Protected Area                       108        1,238       1,346
CZM Program Review                    14          138         152
Scientific Advisory Committee          -           60          60
Network & Reg. Seas Framework          -           70          70
Contingencies                          -          125         125
Total Project Cost                   981        4.750       5.731
Financina Plan:
Local     Foreign     Total
---    (US$ '000) …
GET Grant                              -       4,750      4,750
TDA                                  490           -        490
EEAA                                 440           _        440
Red Sea Governorate                   51         _           51
Total                                981       4.750      5.731



7-
Schedule B
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Salaries, training, public awareness and operating costs account for 44
percent of total costs. No individual contract for the supply of equipment and
civil works would be more than $250,000. Civil works would be mostly small-scale
activities requiring local knowledge and expertise. Therefore, all goods,
equipment, and civil works contracts over $50,000 would be procured through local
Competitive bidding. Smaller contracts would be awarded on the basis of a
comparison of price quotations from at least three suppliers. The selection of
consultants and technical advisors would follow the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants.
Disbursement Categories and Amounts
Catecorv No.       Description              Amount       Percent Expenditure
USS million    To be Financed
1           Goods                    0.95            100
2           Works                     1.80           100
3           Technical Aest.          2.00            100
Total             4.75
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of GET Grant
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year
1993        1994         1995
Annual                         1.61         1.56         1.58
Cumulative                     1.61         3.17         4.75



Schedule C
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a)   Time Taken to Prepare:               5 months
(b)   Staff Preparing the Project:         The World Bank, with assistance from
the TDA, the EEAA and the Red Sea
Governorate
(C)   First Identification Mission:        December 1991
(d)   Appraisal Mission Departure:         May 1992
(e)   Negotiations:                        November 1992
(f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:       April 1993
(g)   Relevant PCRs or PPARs:              Not applicable



I
I
I
I I~
~~I



I



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RBSOURCE MANAGEMNTN PROJECT
Table of Contents
I. INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            1
II.  THE RED SEA CONTEXT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
A. Red Sea Biogeography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
B. Red Sea Ecology  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
C. Economic Pressures and Impacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
D. Institutional Status and Opportunities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
E. Rationale for GEF Funding  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
III.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
A. Project Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
B. Project Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
C. Project Management Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
D. Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
E. Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
F. Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
IV.   PROJECT IMPLE1ENTATION  .......... ...............  19
A. Preparation of Inception Report  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
B. Project Phasing  ..........................    19
C. Reporting Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
D. Project Supervision  .......................... 20
V.    PROJECT IMPACTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
A.   Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  21
B.  Risks  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  21
C. Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
VI.   AGRBED ACTIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
ATTACHMENTS
ATTACHMENT 1.  Summary Outline of Project Components/Activities
ATTACHMENT 2.  Component I: COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT PLAN
ATTACHMENT 3.  Component II: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT CAPABILITY
ATTACHMENT 4.  Component III: MARINE POLLUTION CONTROL
ATTACHMENT S.  Component IV: CORAL REEF RECREATION MANAGEMENT
ATTACHMENT 6.  Component V: MARINE PROTECTED AREA ESTABLISHMENT
ATTACHMENT 7.  Component VI: CZM MONITORING AND EVALUATION



TABLES
TABLE 1. Summary Time Table
TABLE 2. CZM Plan - Time Table
TABLE 3. CZM Plan - Staff and Consultants Man Months by Discipline
TABLE 4. Core Team - Man Months to Components
TABLE 5. Core Team Man-Months/Office Location
TABLE 6. Core Team Salary Costs
TABLE 7.  International Consultant Man Months/Costs Components
TABLE S. Foreign Cost Summary
TABLE 9. Local Cost Summary
TABLE 10. Proposed Project Disbursement
MAP: Project Areas (IBRD Map No. 24065)



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL APPENDIX
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        The Red Sea is a body of water like no other, in that it is a semi-
enclosed sea communicating only with the Mediterranean through the man-made Suez
canal and with the Indian Ocean through the shallow Bab el Mandab strait.
Therefore, it is the most saline body of water in direct connection with the world's
oceans. This unusual physiography has created a marine environment that supports
flourishing coral reefs and endemic wetland communities in latitudes far north of
their limits elsewhere. Ironically, the features which make the Red Sea so valuable
ecologically and economically are also leading to its demise through the demands of
oil exploration, shipping and tourism. The resulting loss of biodiversity and
marine pollution is not only affecting the quality of the Red Sea itself, but also
the well-being of the people in the seven nations who claim shores on the Red Sea.
1.02        Like the other Red Sea nations, Egypt is in a state of rapid economic
development and population growth that is placing intense pressures on its limited
natural resource base. This situation is coupled with a number of socio-economic,
institutional and ecological realities that provide both constraints and
opportunities for how Egypt manages the short- and long-term exploitation of these
resources. There is increasing pressure to shift population centers from the
fertile Nile valley to the coastal areas due to anticipated opportunities for
infrastructure development and income associated with leisure tourism and oil
development. The Ministries of both Tourism and Petroleum recognize the need for
sustainable development, as well as the relationship between these two industries
for the Red Sea. For example, impacts from chronic and accidental oil spills can
destroy the tourism industry.
1.03        All parties who depend on the productivity of the Red Sea realize that
the fragile coral reef and marine environments of this globally unique coast cannot
withstand continued unregulated, unmanaged development. Throughout the Red Sea
environmental units and regulations are being developed in various government
agencies, and private sector developers increasingly realize the negative impact of
unplanned development on coastal areas. Yet, there is still severely limited
institutional capacity, at both national and regional levels, to handle the
complexity of competing interests for this resource rich sea. The global
significance of the entire Red Sea region from ecological, oceanographic, political,
economic and cultural perspectives, requires that a combination of cooperative and
complementary regional and site-specific approaches to biodiversity protection and
reduction of marine pollution in the Red Sea are urgently needed.
1.04        In recognizing the need for ecologically sustainable development of
these resources by all of the Red Sea nations, the Government of Egypt (GOE) has
requested funds from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) to develop a coastal zone
management program that will focus on the management of the competing tourism and
oil interests in a way that would be productive for all concerned agencies, the
Egyptian people, and the other riparian nations. Concurrent with the request for
the World Bank's GEF project, there are ongoing projects which will have
reciprocally supportive impacts for promoting sustainable use of the Red Sea
resources throughout the region. The Egypt GEF project is attached to a World Bank
project, entitled "Private Sector Tourism Infrastructure and Environmental



Management". The World Bank is also assisting in implementing an environmental
action plan through the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA). The
Government of Yemen is developing a GEF project to address oil pollution issues on
Yev.in Red Sea coast, and finally, the World Bank (WB), United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) and United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP) are
collectively developing a Red Sea Regional Framework Plan to coordinate and
revitalize regional activities through the implementation of the Egypt and the Yemen
GEF projects.
II. THE RED SBA CONTEXT
A. RED SEA BIOGEOGRAPHY
Oceanoaraphic Processes
2.01        The Red Sea is a rift valley formed about 70 million years ago when
Africa and Arabia separated, resulting in what is today a young ocean. The Red Sea
has a north-south orientation between 40°N and 120N, with a total surface area of
440,000 km2 and depth range from 3039 m near Port Sudan in Saudi Arabia to a shallow
sill of only 100 m at the Bab el Mandab strait, where the sea connects with the
Indian Ocean at the Gulf of Aden. The northern part of the Red Sea branches into two
gulfs, Suez and Aqaba, with average bottom depths of 60 m and 1800 m respectively.
The Gulf of Suez provides the only northern outlet for the sea into the
Mediterranean, through the man-made Suez Canal.
2.02        The physiogeographic combination of a shallow sill at the southern end
and a narrow, artificial opening at the tip of the Gulf of Suez, makes the Red Sea a
nearly enclosed body of water with limited circulation, which has a determining
influence on the oceanographic characteristics of the Red Sea. Because the Red Sea
is surrounded by desert environments, it receives virtually no rainfall or runoff,
has a high evaporation, and is therefore the most saline sea in direct connection
with the world oceans.
Coral Reef Structure
2.03        The unique geological, climatic and hydrological characteristics of the
Red Sea provide optimal conditions for coral growth, with most of the species of
Indo-Pacific origin. While there are many endemic species due to the isolated
nature of the Red Sea, the dominant coral genera are Acropora, Pocillopora, Pavona,
Porites. Pavona. Favia and Steriatolora, exhibited in the following representative
reef types: fringing reefs, barrier reefs, lagoons, coral banks, emerged reefs, bays
and wadi mouths.
2.04        The fringing reefs are formed directly adjacent to the coast, or in some
cases separated by a channel. A typical structure is a sandy beach followed by an
old reef platform, usually covered with coral detritus, extending into seaweed,
leading into a steep, fore-reef slope, usually covered with 30-70% live coral cover
down to a depth of 30 - 50 meters minimum. The barrier reef areas are separated
from the shore by a lagoon and are not connected to a coral reef platform. These
lagoons are shallow, and rarely exceed one kilometer in width. They are protected



- 3 -
from the sea by the barrier reef or sand bank, and often exhibit small patches of
coral, seagrass banks and some mangal or salt marsh vegetation along the shore.
Coral banks can be emerged or submerged fossil coral reefs and are usually found in
the open ocean, away from the shore.
2.05        Many bays are closel, sandy areas which are usually formed by mountain
scarps and can be partially surrounded by corals at the perimeter, but free of
corals in the center due to limited circulation and high turbidity. Open bays have
well developed coral life with numerous patch reefs and small islands. Wadi mouths
are also a typical feature of the Red Sea coast, with the old river extension
exhibiting a sandy bottom, devoid of coral growth. Usually these are associated
with sheltered coves with salt marsh and mangrove vegetation. Occasionally they are
closed in by reefs, creating large sheltered lagoons.
Coastal Plains
2.06        Most of the coastal desert areas of the Red Sea are flat lands,
approximately 3-20 km wide, with high mountain ranges behind these lands. The soil
of the coastal plain is made of successive layers of different hard and porous sand
types. Some clay is found along the wadi beds. Coastal vegetation is restricted to
limited areas of mangroves, reed swamp vegetation in the wadis and sparse salt marsh
vegetation all along the coastal plains.
B. RED SEA ECOLOGY
The Coral Reef Community
2.07        Coral reefs are one of the most biologically productive and diverse of
all the world's ecosystems, although found in nutrient poor tropical seas between
30° N and 300 S. The high productivity of coral reefs is based upon efficient
biological recycling, resulting in a high retention and exchange of nutrients within
the organisms that make up the coral reef community. Coral reefs are considered to
be one of the world's most essential life-support systems with direct contributions
of food production (fishes and other marine organisms), valuable medicinal
properties, coastal protection and erosion prevention, creation of sandy beaches and
harbors, and indirect contributions to sustainable development through tourism.
Although coral reefs are energetically robust and productive, they are extremely
susceptible to biochemical and physical alteration because of their intricate and
complex recycling mechanisms.
2.08        The extensive coral reefs which fringe most of the Red Sea coast are the
most extensive and conspicuous shallow water marine habitat in the Red Sea. The
highest scleractinian (hard, reef-building) coral diversity has been recorded for
reefs of the Gulf of Aqaba with about 129 species of scleractinian corals and 120
species of soft corals.   Fringing reefs in the Gulf of Suez are less well developed
than the Gulf of Aqaba because the Gulf of Suez is shallow and the sea bed is
predominately calcareous sand. The mainland fringing reefs of the Hurgada area
consist of an extensive series of shallow reefs bordered by a gently sloping sandy
seabed within 5 km of the coast. Extensive reefs are found around the islands of
this area. The reefs off Giftun and Abu Ramada islands are exposed to heavy seaward
wave action, while Umm Agawish island is a low-lying sandy island with extensive



seagrass beds and coral knolls which have coastal cliffs up to 1 m high. The
coastline from Kosseir to the southern border of Egypt has fringing reefs with
inlets, bays offshore patch reefs and island reefs, and in some areas reef flats are
submerged giving rise to shallow lagoons. From South Safaga to Ras Banas there is
continuous, well-developed fringing reefs but the continental shelf is narrow and
drops steeply, preventing the formation of offshore reefs. There are small islands
north of Ras Banas with extensive and faunistically rich coral reefs, as well as
dense stands of mangroves, migratory and resident birds and seagrasses beds which
are likely feeding grounds for dugong and turtles. South of Ras Banas is the Gebel
Elba region, which has been defined by the World Conservation Strategy as one of the
highest priority biogeographical provinces in the world, with a combination of high
mountain ranges, wadis, sandy plains, mangroves, salt marshes, extensive fringing
reefs and islands which are nesting grounds for hawksbill, green, and leatherback
turtles.
Seaarass Communities
2.09        Seagrasses are the only group of higher plants that have adapted to life
submerged in sea water. In the Red Sea they are found on shores receiving regular
tides in areas that have soft-bottom habitats. They are complex systems whose
physical structure is dominated by their leaves, roots and detritus, and provide a
valuable role in substrate consolidation and nutrient recycling. Therefore, they
are highly productive and support turtles, dugongs, fish and invertebrates, as well
as substrate, shelter and food for epiphytic organisms, burrowers and motile
animals. Echinoderms and sea cucumbers are often associated with sea grass beds.
Wetlands and Manarove Communities
2.10        The Red Sea coast provide wetlands of considerable importance to
wildlife, including the extensive coastal plains with mangroves and other shoreside
vegetation, intertidal sand and/or mudflate, and other shallow water, enclosed,
soft-bottomed habitats. Enclosed shallow water soft-habitats usually occur in areas
where water circulation is restricted, and tend to exhibit higher levels of
temperature, salinity and oxygen than open water soft-bottom habitats. These are
represented in the Red Sea by bays, sharms and mersas with an average width of .2 to
1 km across. They may extend for up to 10 km inland and remain narrow and winding
or expand into wetland lakes several km across, yet most sharms and mersas are
shallow bays mostly closed off by a fringing coral reef. These enclosed soft-bottom
habitats are usually backed by extensive flats and during the very limited wet
season support micro-algae blooms that contribute to the primary production of the
coastal zone. They are generally restricted in number and distribution, but fine
examples are found in the bay areas of south Sinai, Hurgada, Safaga, and Kosseir.
These communities usually support crabs, stomatopods, mollusks, anemones, worms,
bivalves, gastropods and urchins as well as breeding migrant and visiting birds.
2.11        Mangrove forests or mangal are tropical inshore communities dominated by
trees and shrubs that can grow in salt water. The Red Sea mangrove communities have
received relatively little scientific attention, although they are notably different
from most mangroves in that they are euhaline-metahaline and found on substrates of
thin sediment over sub-fossil or raised coral rock in areas with high salinity and
limited freshwater. This differs from most of the world's dominant mangrove
ecosystems which occur in deep, muddy, brackish substrates with considerable



-5 -
freshwater inflow.  The Red Sea is at the geographical limits for mangrove growth.
In Egypt mangroves are found in sheltered waters with the enclosed soft-bottom
habitats described above. The stands are usually protected by headlands, islands or
intertidal sand spits, as well as in shallow bays protected by a fringing coral
reef.
2.12        Most of the Red Sea mangroves occur in the southern areas where the tide
range is higher than in the central portions and where there is a wider continental
shelf, protected areas and freshwater. Avicenia marina, is the dominant species and
is found starting with the area north of Hurgada and continuing south. A number of
islands have dense thickets of mangroves, including Abu Mingar, Qiusoum, Safaga,
Wadi el Gemal. Many of these are important bird nesting sites for Sooty Gulls,
Sooty Falcons and Ospreys. Other characteristic birds include the Brown Booby, Reef
Heron, Spoonbill, White-eyed Gull, Caspian Tern and White Cheeked Tern.
C. ECONOMIC PRESSURES AND IMPACTS
Tourism
2.13        The development of the tourist industry in Egypt has been actively
encouraged by GOE over the last two decades. Tourists are attracted to visit the
historic and cultural monuments which are concentrated in Cairo and along the Nile.
Coastal tourism first developed on the Mediterranean coast for the domestic market.
Twenty years ago the Red Sea coast began to attract international attention among
SCUBA divers due to the quality of the coral reefs and under water life. The
pleasant summer and winter climate, the rich marine environment and the proximity to
the tourism markets of Europe have provided an incentive to develop the Red Sea
coast to mass tourism. This has led to rapid and loosely controlled development
around the town of Hurgada. With minimal land use planning, land was allocated for
development in an almost continuous belt along the coast. Public beaches and parks
are lacking and basic infrastructure followed years behind development. The high
density of development, ignorance of coastal and coral reef ecological systems and
lack of forward planning and enforcement procedures has led to rapid deterioration
and destruction of the coral reefs and loss of natural tourist attractions in and
around Hurgada.
2.14        There is a major program of new resort developments on the coast between
Hurgada and Safaga at Sahl Hasheesh, and Abu Soma to be carried out by large-scale
developers. Using a lead development company enables greatly improved control over
the implementation of individual developments to protect the environment. But there
is a lack of knowledge of coastal environments and experience of managing visitor
pressure on the marine and coastal environment available to government and private
sector development interests.
Oil and Natural Gas
2.15        Egypt's oil industry is concentrated in the Gulf of Suez. Exploration of
oil is now moving out of the Gulf into the Red Sea. The geology of the Red Sea is
such that reserves of gas are more probable than oil. The Egypt General Petroleum
Company (EGPC) is in process of leasing major blocks of the sea bed for oil and gas
exploration. If the search is successful, new risks affecting the marine environment



- 6 -
and new demands for development sites will arise along the coast. The potentially
disastrous impact of oil spills on the tourism industry from a major leak and more
particularly from the accumulation of small leaks during operations, is a threat to
both the investment in tourism and marine ecosystems. This has led the Tourism
Development Authority (TDA) and the EGPC to negotiate an agreement to allocate the
coastline between the two organizations and to establish rigorous requirements for
environmental assessment of all projects.
D. INSTITUTIONAL STATUS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Ministry of Tourism - Tourism Develoiment Authority
2.16        The Ministry of Tourism (MOT) is the main authority dealing with tourism
in Egypt. MOT is organized into four functional parts dealing with planning and
development; regulation of touristic services; administration; and financial and
legal affairs. Like most other ministries, MOT suffers from over staffing, low
staff motivation and inadequate technical capability. MOT operates in an ad hoc and
bureaucratic manner. The decision making process is highly centralized, not only
because of the system, but also because of the lack of technical capability in
various layers of management.
2.17        In cognizance of these deficiencies, MOT is being streamlined to
strengthen its technical expertise in support of a private sector led tourism
development strategy, to be competitive with neighboring countries and to protect
the unique cultural and natural resources in Egypt from environmental degradation.
The first step has been the creation of the TDA in September 1991. The TDA draws
principally on private sector and academic expertise to assist MOT in planning for
the development of Egypt's touristic resources and guiding and promoting increased
private sector investments in the sector. These changes are expected to provide the
sector with a stronger institutional framework for coherent, private sector oriented
and environmentally sound tourism development.
2.18        TDA has been established with a Board of Directors chaired by MOT and 16
other members representing the public and private sectors and the Managing Director
of TDA. The Board of Directors is the supreme authority for setting policies
concerning TDA's activities, for approval of TDA's work program and annual operating
and capital budgets, for making decisions on allocating land and giving development
rights to private sector developers in areas designated as tourism zones, for
approving cost recovery policies for tourism related services, and for contracting
loans for TDA. The initial by-laws of TDA have been approved. As TDA activities
grow, it is expected that these by-laws would be suitably amended and enlarged to
reflect growing environmental concerns and experience gained in the implementation
of its policies.
2.19        The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of TDA is appointed by Presidential
decree. At this initial stage of TDA's operations the CEO is assisted by an Adviser
with broad based experience in tourism and a Financial Adviser. The TDA is
organized into a number of functional departments. The Technical Department has
three units: Planning and Project Preparation, Environmental, and Project
Implementation. The Environmental Unit consists of two well qualified university
based consultants. TDA is a small organization and intends to remain so with a



small number of high calibre staff on a permanent basis and will contract out
specific tasks to outside consultants as much as possible.
Bovktian Environmental Affairs Aaency
2.20        At present, responsibilities for environmental protection in Egypt are
widely dispersed between a large number of Ministries and governmental agencies.
The only central focus is represented by the EEAA. The EEAA's responsibilities
include: to prepare a national plan for environmental studies and priorities for
implementation; to review and draft environmental legislation; to propose standards,
specifications and conditions for control of environmental pollution; to approve
projects for funding for the Environmental and Tourism Fund; and to disseminate
environmental information and promote environmental awareness amongst the public.
The EEAA has formed a number of units, and of particular relevance to this project
is the Water and Coastal Areas Protection Unit (with 3 staff at present) and a Parks
and Protected Areas Unit. The GEF project would strengthen both of these units.
2.21        The new Environmental Protection Law currently before the Peoples
Assembly will give the EEAA increased powers and duties. The act includes rules for
establishing and running environmental monitoring networks, and covers the handling
and disposal of hazardous wastes. In particular, the EEAA would:
* Have power to inspect; and to enforce the law.
* Be responsible for the EIA's that will be required for all future investment
projects; and for ensuring that requirements laid down are respected.
2.22        This represents a significant strengthening for EEAA and reflects the
Government's determination to give environmental protection much more serious
attention than in the past. The law establishes an environmental branch in each
Governorate for which EEAA will provide technical supervision. Recruitment of
significant numbers of additional staff is intended for EEAA, and by the
establishment of the International Cooperation Unit to assist EEAA in negotiations
with donors on the proposed Environmental Action Plan (EAP) and on related policy
and project implications.
2.23        In order to effectively implement the EAP, further strengthening of
EEAA's role is needed, and should focus on the following: effective powers to
coordinate environmental activities of government agencies; development of an
integrated monitoring and information system; key role in EIA's; expansion of the
protected areas system including management capability; and enforcement of
environmental standards and requirements. To ensure that the above transpires, the
GOE intends to provide strong political backing and increased human and financial
resources.
Red Sea Governorate
2.24        Although responsibilities and powers are centralized in sectoral
ministries, the Red Sea Governorate has a budget for administration and social and
economic development at the provincial level. The Governor controls the local
administrations in the Municipalities of Hurgada, Safaga and Kosseir and has the
responsibility for coordinating activities of different ministries within the
governorate. However, the Governorate lacks technical staff and is therefore weak



- 8 -
on implementation and particularly enforcing regulations. It is necessary to
strengthen the capacity of the Governorate in the management and planning of
development of areas along the coast. An environmental unit is being established in
each Governorate to work under the guidance of EEAA as a branch office of the
Agency. This local level of environmental monitoring and control and enforcement
must be made effective if the coastal zone management goals are to be realized.
Professional and technical staff must be attracted to work in the governorate by
defining increased responsibilities and clear procedures for the work of the local
environmental offices.
EQvytian General Petroleum CorPoration CEGPC)
2.25        The EGPC is the government agency responsible for oil and gas
exploration and controls the activities of international oil companies. New
exploration licenses for a large number of off shore blocks are due to be issued
soon. It is anticipated that gas is more likely to be found than oil. The EGPC has
developed an oil spill response capability in Ras Ghareb on the Gulf of Suez,
approximately 100 km north of Hurgada, and is also considering establishing another
oil spill response station in Hurgada. Petroleum exploration and operation
companies operating in the Gulf of Suez are required to have oil combating
capability. But contingency planning, decisional hierarchy and communication
networks are inadequate to provide a rapid and integrated response capability.  The
available equipment is only suitable for tackling small spills in relatively good
weather.
2.26        TDA and the EGPC have reached an agreement on allocating parts of the
Red Sea coast for the primary development of oil or tourism and some areas for mixed
use. The agreement places requirements on oil exploration companies to carry out
EIAs and respect the environment. Although not involved in the agreement, EEAA
supports the arrangements and has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that oil and
gas exploration and exploitation have no adverse impacts on the marine environment.
other Agencies and Institutions
2.27        A number of other government agencies are responsible for the protection
of the marine environment. In addition to the EEAA, the following are identified in
the new Environmental Law as being involved in the management of the Red Sea and
Egypt's coast line: Port and Light House Authority, Suez Canal Authority, Suez Port
Authority, and the General Organization for Coastal Protection.
2.28        Other agencies may be identified by Ministerial decree as having powers
and responsibilities for marine environmental matters. Concerned agencies are
responsible for carrying out enforcement under their own jurisdictions. No
structure currently exists to bring the concerned agencies together to deal with
problems of the Red Sea. Laws and regulations are overlapping, unclear, lacking
detail, or absent. Fines are too low and resources for monitoring and enforcement
are inadequate to provide an effective deterrent against pollution by ships, or
activities of other public and private interests which cause damage or destruction
to marine ecosystems. Each agency has their own priorities, determined within the
organization, but not yet according to an integrated strategy for the conservation
of Red Sea natural resources.



2.29        The Institute of Oceanography and Fisheries (IOC) has a major research
center in Suez and a small station at Hurgada. It belongs to the Ministry of
Scientific Research and has been investigating fish and corals around Hurgada for
more than 70 years. A number of university centers also have teaching and research
interests in the marine and coastal environment. The University Campus at Assiut
has plans to establish a marine research center at Kosseir on the coast. Such
centers are a potential resource for undertaking survey and monitoring work during
the implementation of this project.
E. RATIONALE FOR GEF FUNDING
2.30        The marine biodiversity values of the Red Sea are high and include the
coral reefs, endemic island wildlife and a diverse marine environment. These
habitats are valuable to the overall ecosystem functioning of the entire Red Sea as
well as the livelihood of all of the riparian nations; therefore, the protection of
the Egyptian Red Sea is not just a matter for the country alone.
2.31        Sustainable development of agricultural, tourist and industrial
potentials of undeveloped areas in Egypt and other Red Sea nations present plausible
mechanisms to overcome economic difficulties facing the region. While tourism
focusing on the promotion of natural assets, such as coral reefs may well
incorporate environmental considerations into the planning and development
processes, it is rare that actual protected areas in the form of parks and or
reserves are incorporated into tourism development schemes. Given the resource
constraints of the GOE, the intense development pressures, the single-sector nature
of government agencies, the tensions between the public and the private sectors, GEF
is the only funding means to meet the incremental costs to the Egyptian economy of
implementing an effective coastal and marine management project that adequately
address biodiversity and pollution mitigation goals in the integrated manner so
critical to the Red Sea as a whole.
Form of Innovation
2.32        This project has two primary innovations: (a) the interagency
coordination and joint management of a plan between different public and private
sector parties; and (b) demonstration of coastal zone management activities that
support both the biodiversity protection and the international waters pollution
mitigation goals of the GEF. Since both this GEF and the associated Bank project
have the objective of maintaining the integrity of the coastal and marine
environment through economic development, incentives need to be structured which do
so while preserving biodiversity, including tourism development, oil exploration and
nature conservation.
Demonstration Value and Revlicabilitv
2.33        The Coastal Zone Management Plan will develop approaches that will be
adaptable in the rest of the Red Sea countries. This project is the first in the
region to attempt an environmental assessment of some scale, to set up an
environmental monitoring program and to implement specific protection measures. It
will be applicable to many other countries and regions which are facing similar
development pressures. A strong emphasis of the project is in communication with



- 10 -
other Red Sea countries and the provision of some funds for further regional co-
operation. The regional framework being developed by UNEP is thought to be an
appropriate vehicle to facilitate protection of the Red Sea marine ecosystems into
practice among riparian countries.
III. THB PROJECT
A. PROJECT OVEZRVIEW
Project Goals and Obiectives
3.01        The project has three primary goals.  The first is to prevent further
loss of marine and coastal biodiversity of the Red Sea, focusing on the coral reefs
of the Egyptian portion. The Red Sea will no longer be able to provide the natural
resource base affecting all of the riparian nations, which has traditionally
supported inhabitants through fisheries, and more recently through tourism, oil and
natural gas exploration if the ecological conditions continue to degrade and the
natural oceanographic regimes are further altered. The second goal is to prevent
continued pollution of the Red Sea, through targeting the point sources in Egypt.
Pollution, caused by unregulated exploitation of oil and gas resources and unplanned
tourism and urbanization activities will quickly lead to a demise of the marine and
coastal environments which will in turn lead to a decline in the quality of life
both for the Egyptian people as well as inhabitants of the other Red Sea riparian
nations. The third goal of this project is to demonstrate institutional,
legislative, scientific and management solutions that mitigate pollution and protect
the coral reefs in Egypt's coastal areas which can be adopted by both other Red Sea
countries and coastal nations worldwide, and support environmentally sound economic
development throughout the entire region.
3.02        The project is designed to realize the following objectives, in order to
support the goals described above:
(a) development and implementation of policies, plans and regulations to ensure
that development is consistent with sound environmental management to protect the
shared marine resources of the Red sea coastal zone;
(b) strengthening of government institutions to have a capacity to carry out
integrated multi-sectoral CZM activities;
(c) development and implementation of public-private partnerships to assure that
economic development is consistent with sustainable environmental management and
common marine resources;
(d) development and implementation of practical solutions for the establishment,
management and recurrent funding of marine protected areas and marine recreation
resources; and
(e) development of a data base and inventories of the coastal and marine
ecosystems and resource uses that will be available to governments, universities
and private sector-interests for the purpose of expanding the knowledge base of
the Red Sea.



Proiect Description
3.03        The project is to develop and implement an integrated coastal zone
management program based on the development of a CZM plan during the first year and
implementation of the plan during the next two years, for a total project life of
three years. The overall project area is the Egyptian portion of the Red Sea
between RaB Shukeir in the north and the Sudanese border to the south. For purposes
of site-specific project implementation the project area excludes the Gulf of Suez
and Aqaba, yet some of the results of the project will be contributing to the
overall health of these two extensions of the Red Sea. The implementation of CZM
program is proposed for two different areas, the first being the 40 km stretch of
coast between and including the towns of Hurgada and Safaga, and the other the
undeveloped coastal area between Marsa Alam and the Sudanese border.
3.04        The Hurgada-Safaga area is currently experiencing rapid development
pressure from tourism, oil and other urbanization pressures. Most of the
development activities are concentrated in and around the towns of Hurgada and
Safaga with some undeveloped areas between the towns. Yet, the informal boundary of
Hurgada township continually moves south as more and more tourism resorts (locally
called "holiday villages") are being developed. A World Bank project (Private
Sector Tourism Infrastructure and Environmental Management) is intended to fund two
major tourism developments, including hotels, condominiums and employee villages, in
this area to provide examples of tourism that is based on large-scale, comprehensive
and environmentally sound master planning in an effort to reduce the current trend
of haphazard development.  The GEF project will not only provide an environmental
component to this Bank project, but also provide opportunities to implement
environmentally-based monitoring, tourism planning, pollution control and recreation
management activities for the area beyond the Bank project.
3.05        The second area, Marsa Alam south to the Sudanese border, is currently
undeveloped and contains a high diversity of coastal and marine habitats that are
both rich in species diversity and endemism. Areas of particular ecological
interest include the Ras Banas area and further south the Gebel Elba area, which has
been defined as one of the highest priority biogeographical provinces in the world
in the World Conservation Strategy designated by the World Conservation Union
(IUCN). Both areas have nearby islands, rich coral reefs, mangroves, seagrasses,
turtles and numerous migratory birds, and Gebel Elba has high coastal mountain
ranges with unusually dense and diverse forests for this part of the world. Both of
these areas are in need of protection as well as offer nature-based tourism
opportunities, and the project includes components that support the establishment of
this area as a large conservation area, or biosphere reserve with some areas zoned
for pure conservation with others zoned for environmentally sound, low-density
tourism.
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS
3.06        The project is designed around the six components with specific
activities for each component. Detailed descriptions of the components including
the outputs and scope of work are provided in ATTACHMENTS 2-7. A brief summary and
outline of each component is provided below.



- 12 -
COMPONENT I: COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT PLAN
3.07        Development pressures from tourism and oil and gas exploration are
leading to intense development of the Red Sea coast without full consideration of
the integrated nature of coastal and marine ecosystems, especially the coral reef
habitats and the need for the integrated, multi-sectoral planning to prevent further
destruction of these ecosystems and their functioning as biophysical processes
critical to the welfare of the Red Sea region as a whole. Integrated development
between competing sectors, both within the private and public realm will not occur
without intervention such as GEF. This component will develop an integrated CZM
plan to guide a program of inter-sectoral coastal zone management during the project
implementation phase and beyond.
3.08        This component will carry out necessary scientific base-line inventories
analysis of the resources and zone the coast according to the allocation of
significant areas for conservation and development. Resource allocation will
illustrate a spectrum of management practices from pure development to conservation
with an emphasis on interactive roles between the two and the private and public
sectors. Due to the complex, multi-sectoral nature of developing such a plan, a
high degree of background work through inventories and studies are needed to
consider the broad range of concerned agencies and resource uses possible, and make
judgements on what activities can be developed in an environmentally sustainable
manner. This component will establish a data base incorporating existing
information, new surveys, with Geographical Information System (GIS) as an
interactive planning tool. Studies on resource use options and management such as
tourism alternatives, recurrent funding, carrying capacity will build on the data
base information. An initial strategy will be prepared to provide the policy
directions needed for the plan. A final plan with policies for zoning and managing
coastal and marine resources will be developed and approved by all concerned
agencies.
COMPONENT II: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT CAPABILITY
3.09        One of the most potentially effective mechanisms to support
environmentally sound development is the EIA process. Yet, neither the TDA nor the
EEAA currently have the capacity to evaluate and enforce rigorous EIA's. Without
the development of such capacity for the TDA and EEAA, rampant, destructive
development of the coastal and marine areas will continue, resulting in an
irreversible loss of biodiversity and pollution of the Red Sea. An example is the
filling of coral reefs with sand to provide a substrate for building hotels,
restaurants and casinos "closer to the water". This is not only causing direct
destruction of the coral reefs but is radically affecting coastal circulation
patterns, affecting adjacent areas of the Red Sea. This component will develop EIA
practices for tourism and all other development activities impacting the coast. It
will improve TDA's and EEAA's capability to manage EIA requirements and review
tourism and other development-based EIA studies. It will provide EEAA with a model
of EIA guidelines and procedures to develop their capacity to manage EIA's for small
and large-scale private and public sector investments. The TDA's and EEAA's
environmental unit will be staffed and trained in EIA methods and procedures, and
produce a manual on EIA procedures to be used by developers and other agencies.



- 13 -
COMPONENT III: KARINE POLLUTION CONTROL
3.10        As described earlier, the Red Sea is a unique ecosystem whose physio-
geographic configuration is conducive to a rapid concentration of land and water-
based pollutants, affecting many countries. To effectively implement the CZM plan
and EIA's, a capacity to monitor and enforce rules and regulations must be
developed. Rather than establishing an independent regulatory system for CZM, the
project will facilitate the coordination and strengthening of capacities between the
TDA, EEAA and the Red Sea Governorate and other agencies. A Red Sea office will be
established in the Governorate to provide a focus of operations with the
establishment of a monitoring and enforcement unit, which will coordinate these
responsibilities with the environmental units of EEAA with the Red Sea Governorate
and TDA. Additional local staff from other concerned agencies may be attached to
this unit to implement the CZM guidelines, regulations, permitting procedures, and
pollution control in the project area, and receive training in how to carry out
these activities.
COMPONENT IV: REEF RECREATION MANAGKEMNT
3.11        Coral reefs are the primary tourist attraction on the Red Sea.  Yet, the
very people who enjoy them and make their living from promoting them are also
killing them, including local inhabitants and users from around the world.
Uneducated snorkelers and divers can cause considerable damage to reefs through
physical contact. Anchor damage is one of the major causes of direct reef
destruction. To implement actions under the CZM plan there is a need to establish a
capacity to manage recreational facilities to protect the coral reef habitats and
promote sustainable visitor use and enjoyment. Due to the intense economic pressure
and the many different user groups of the reef and the general lack of awareness of
people about the vulnerability of reefs, it is likely that the reefs will continue
to be "loved to death" without immediate action. This component will initially
focus on recreation management activities in the Hurgada-Safaga area which is
attracting intense, high-density, mass-scale tourism, and will manage activities
that provide enjoyment and appreciation of the coral reefs and other coastal marine
habitats in this area, through training activities, recreation facility management,
public awareness efforts, in cooperation with private sector tourism businesses.
The above will be done through the development of a Reef Recreation Management
Action Plan and Program, the establishment of a Reef Recreation Management Unit,
management arrangements between public and private sectors, and other entities.
This component will also incorporate information from the nature-based tourism and
carrying capacity studies developed during the CZM planning process and the
monitoring and enforcement activities from the pollution control component. While
this component focuses on the Hurgada-Safaga area, the activities will also apply to
the establishment of the marine parks and reserves in the following protected areas
component.
COMPONENT V: MARINE PROTECTED AREA ESTABLISHMENT
3.12        The Red Sea coast offers a range of nature conservation opportunities
through the establishment of protected areas to not only protect the biodiversity of
the reefs and ecological integrity of other island and coastal habitats, but also to
potentially support socio-economic benefits through nature-based tourism, local



- 14 -
pride, scientific research and environmental education. Protected areas of intact
ecosystems also offer a control area that can provide valuable information in
comparison with research carried out in areas being restored, e.g. Hurgada. In
spite of documented economic, ecological and social benefits directly associated
with protected areas, adequate funding to establish and manage protected areas,
especially marine areas, is rare. Therefore too many parks are "paper parks" and in
some cases are actually catalyzing in-situ habitat destruction because they do
attract tourists but the management controls are not in place. Given the reality
that funding for protected areas in an ecologically necessary scale through the
Egyptian government and coordination with private-sector initiatives is difficult,
there must be a mechanism such as this component to protect selected sites along the
Red Sea.
3.13        To protect the unique biogeographical character of the Red Sea coast,
the whole area from Mersa Alam to the Sudanese boarder is proposed as a protected
area(s), which would incorporate a range of levels of conservation protection zones.
This area includes the Gebel Elba and Ras Banas region which exhibits high
biodiversity and exceptional scenic value, that is both regionally and globally
significant.
3.14        The CZM plan strategy will identify areas that will support different
management zones, e.g. pure protection of terrestrial and marine environments to
incorporation of low density nature-based tourism. The area is well suited for the
implementation of UNESCO's Man and Biosphere Reserve approach, incorporating core
conservation zones as well as adjacent buffers areas, and requiring a high degree of
involvement by the local communities and different government sectors. The
component will conduct detailed surveys and prepare management plans for areas to be
given legal protection, and support basic facilities to ensure management and
control of sites, provide small scale visitor facilities in partnership with private
interests and the local community, and train a core staff in park management
techniques. The protected areas program will draw on the experience of the Ras
Mohammed Park in South Sinai.
COMPONENT VI: CZM MONITORING AND EVALUATION
3.15        By the end the project should have demonstrated mechanisms for multi-
agency and multi-disciplinary arrangements to plan, conserve and manage coastal
resources and to control and promote sustainable development involving government
agencies, private-sector parties and local communities. Such an approach is new to
Egypt; the achievements and difficulties encountered and lessons learned will be
valuable for CZM activities in the rest of the country and in other countries around
the Red Sea. A review of the CZM plan and arrangements for pollution control and
monitoring, recreation management and protected area management will be undertaken
mid-way through the project and at 30 months into the project. Built into each of
the components are a series of monitoring and evaluation activities, such as
inventories and pollution monitoring. Mid-term and final reviews will concentrate
on ways to improve institutional arrangements and coordination between concerned
agencies, and to ensure that user fees and other sources of funding generated by the
activities of CZM are available to maintain these functions when the project ends.
The agencies involved need to be committed to efficient and effective functioning of
CZM, so that the impetus is maintained when the project ends.



- 15 -
C. PROJECT MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
Overall Manacement Structure
3.16        The GEF project will be managed by a Project Management Group (PMG) from
a project office within TDA in Cairo. A Project office will also be established on
the Red Sea coast by the end of the first year.  Logistic support for the project
will be provided by TDA who will provide project offices in Cairo and on the Red
Sea.  Most of the implementation will be managed from the Red Sea office within the
Red Sea Governorate in association with the Environmental Branch of the EEAA and the
proposed local office of the TDA. A Project Coordinator (PC) will have overall
responsibility for the project. An Operational Manager (OM) will be responsible for
the Red Sea Office and coordinate the Pollution Control, Protected Areas and
Recreation Management Programs.
Proiect Management Group
3.17        The PMG will consist of the Heads of the TDA, the EEAA and the Red Sea
Governor or their representatives. The PC and the OM will be members of the PMG and
the PC will act as Secretary for the PMG. The PMG may coopt representatives of
other concerned agencies and will set up liaison arrangements with other Ministries
involved in development and management of the Red Sea. The PMG will meet at least
once every 3 months. Responsibilities of the PMG include:
(a) provide coordination between the three beneficiaries of the project (TDA,
EEAA and the Red Sea Governorate);
(b) appoint the Project Coordinator(PC) and the Operational Manager(OM);
(c) approve project and component work plans and budgets;
(d) agree on and prepare progress reports for the World Bank;
(e) negotiate approval by GOE of the Inception Report and three year project
work plan, final CZM Plan, Protected Areas designations and the final
report of the CZM Program; and
(f) appoint members of the CZM Technical Advisory Committee and approve members
of the Reef Conservation Network.
Advisory Committee
3.18        Project activities will be supported by a CZM Scientific Advisory
Committee (SAC) consisting of 6-7 distinguished national and/or international
scientists with knowledge of coastal and marine ecology, the use and protection of
Red Sea coastal resources including environmental monitoring and control in Egypt.
The committee will meet every 3 months, and more frequently as required, and also be
involved in the Monitoring and Evaluation review component.



- 16 -
Reef Conservation Network
3.19        Implementation of programs is to be supported by network which will
bring together private sector interests with operational staff to provide a forum
for information exchange and discussion of environmental management issues along the
coast.
Core Team
3.20        A core project team will be formed from among the staff of TDA, EEAA,
the Red Sea Governorate and other concerned agencies to work either in the Cairo or
Red Sea Offices. Tables 4, 5, and 6 indicate the man-months per component, office
location and salary costs respectively for the core team. Appropriate full-time
staff will be recruited where local existing staff are not in post. The core team
will be supported by technical and operational staff to carry out the project
components drawn from the staff of the TDA, EEAA and other concerned agencies or
recruited by these agencies to work on the project.
Proiect Coordination
3.21        The PC will be responsible for day to day administration of the project,
liaison with the concerned agencies, preparation of work plans, budgets and progress
reports, coordination between the project components, lead the preparation of the
CZM Plan, the CZM Program Review and the EIA Component, supervise the core staff in
the Cairo office, advise on the establishment of the Red Sea office, review
arrangements for the establishment of the pollution control unit, the Recreation
Management Areas Unit and the Protected Areas Office.
CZM Operations
3.22        The OM will assist the PC and take responsibility for the establishment
and running of the Red Sea office, including supervision of the core and other staff
based on the office and coordinate the activities of the Pollution Control Officer,
the Protected Areas Manager and the Recreation Areas Manager.
Component Management
3.23        Each project component and sub-component will be lead by a member of the
core project team. International and local experts will be recruited to work with
local staff and assist in carrying out the activities of components and sub-
components.
Training
3.24        Training in CZM, management of protected areas and recreational
resources, and in pollution monitoring and control is an important part of the
project. A Training Officer will be responsible to organize training events in the
country and administer participation in overseas courses and study tours. The
Training Officer will also provide administrative support to the project.



- 17 -
Public Awareness
3.25        A Public Awareness specialist and Education Officer will be appointed to
lead on all aspects of environmental education, distribution of information, and
promotion of the aims and achievements of the project amongst the public. This
person will direct the public relations and public awareness campaigns connected
with the project components.
Finance Officer
3.26        The Finance Officer will work on economic and financial and funding
aspects of components and participate in negotiations with the private sector to set
up management agreements to implement conservation and resource use programs.
He/She will also be responsible for the project funds.
Data-base Manaaer
3.27        The results of surveys and a great deal of other information will be
generated by the project and will form a data-base which will require full time and
expert management. This is the responsibility of the Data-base Manager who will
need to be familiar with GIS systems.
International Advisors
3.28        The project will be supported by a number of international advisors who
will be available on an on-going basis during the life of the project to share
expertise form other experiences as well as add an element of objectivity to the
project. Advisors will be drawn from the following disciplines: CZM Planning and
Management, Marine pollution and Marine Park Management. They will each provide
about 7 man months of service during the project. The first visit will be early in
the project when all three are present with the core team and other staff and
consultants during the preparation of the Inception Report and start of the CZM
Plan. The role of the Advisors is to provide conceptual and technical leadership
for the project. They will also provide teach-ins and lead seminars/workshops for
senior staff of the TDA, EEAA, the Governorate and other agencies involved in the
CZM program. Table 7 shows the man-months and costs per component for the
international advisors.
Uxvert Consultants
3.29        International experts from various disciplines will assist in a number
of components, notably the CZM Plan (18 mm) and EA Capability 6 mm. Experts will be
contracted individually or through a consulting firm. On the job training for local
staff and consultants is required from the experts. Table 7 also shows man-months
and costs for the international experts.
Reaional Links
3.30        Effective links will be developed with the Yemen GEF Project -
Protection of Marine Ecosystems on the Red Sea Coast, and projects in the Gulf of
Aqaba. This suggests the establishment of an Operational and Technical Group. The
group would involve personnel responsible for the actual implementation of the



- 18 -
projects. Strong mechanisms to ensure effective information exchange will be
established. It would be expected to meet relatively frequently and be focussed on
common problems sans solutions. The PC, OM and other senior members of the core
team would take a leading role in organizing the Group.
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.31        The GEF allocation is for US$5 million of which US$250,000 are reserved
for regional collaboration under the UNDP Red Sea Regional Seas Program. GEF
funding for Egypt is $4.75 million; 45 percent is for technical assistance and 55
percent for goods, equipment and civil works. A local cost contribution of about
US$0.98 million will also be made by the TDA, EEAA and the Red Sea Governorate
representing 17 percent of the total cost. This is proposed to be split between the
three beneficiaries in the following proportions: TDA (50 percent), EEAA (40
percent) and Red Sea Governorate (10 percent).
3.32        Expenditure will be incurred by the core team to coordinate project
component activities and give logistic support from the Cairo Office (components I,
II, IV) and Red Sea Office (III, IV, V). The cost break down is by office (common
costs) and by project components (component specific costs). Funds will be made
available for Red Sea Regional Framework cooperation, expenditure on the Scientific
Advisory Committee, and the Reef Conservation Network.
3.33        Common costs include office equipment, vehicles and vehicle maintenance,
boats and boat maintenance, photographic and communications equipment, scuba diving
equipment, project management services (salaries, public relations) and consumables.
Specific component costs are salaries and fees, travel, training, public relations
and awareness, and civil works (components III, IV, V only). Common and component
costs are to be met from GEF and local funds. Local costs include staff and local
consultant salaries, office accommodation, vehicle maintenance, fuel and office
supplies. Foreign costs also include salary supplements to the full-time core team.
3.34        Foreign and local project costs are shown Tables 8 and 9 respectively.
The costs have been calculated on the basis of the detailed description of
activities in each component. The allocation of costs to each heading and component
may change slightly after a detailed work program is prepared during the first 6
weeks of the project. Any revisions will be incorporated into the Inception Report
and reviewed during the first supervision mission 3 months into the project.
E. *PROCWRKENT
3.35        Salaries, training, public awareness and operating costs account for 44
percent of the costs. No individual contract for the supply of equipment and civil
works will be more than US$250,000, (GIS system -US$100,000 and vehicles US$330,000
and boats -US$190,000 will be purchased in two stages, at the commencement of the
project and 6-9 months later). Therefore all goods and equipment over US$50,000
will be procured through local competitive bidding. Furthermore civil works are
mostly small scale activities requiring local knowledge and expertise. Where
individual contracts are under US$50,000, these will use the same procedures. Other
supplies and contracts will be awarded on the basis of comparison of price



- 19 -
quotations solicited from at least three local suppliers. Procurement of
consultants and technical assistance would follow the Bank's Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants. Since the project is working through a number of agencies and the
number of potential suppliers is large, no problems with procurement are foreseen.
F. DISBURSEMENT
3.36        Project requirements over the three years is shown in Table 10.  Funds
will be disbursed through a Special Account which will be opened by TDA on behalf of
the GEF project. The initial sum will be paid when the conditions of effectiveness
have been met at the commencement of the project. The accounts of the project will
be subject to audit. The audit will be carried out as part of the audit
arrangements for the overall Bank Project.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMHNTATION
A. PREPARATION OF INCEPTION REPORT
4.01        An Inception Report for the project, prepared by the core team, is
required to be submitted to the Bank by June 30, 1993 which:
- describes the rationale for the project, sets out the project objectives
and indicates the criteria by which they should be judged;
- presents details of the management structure (PMG) and the working
arrangements agreed between the TDA, EEAA, Red Sea Governorate, Ministries
and other concerned agencies;
- sets out a work plan for the full three years of the project;
- provides detailed work plans for the CZM Plan (Component I) and the
Environmental Impact Assessment Strengthening (Component II);
- summarizes the working arrangements for the International Advisors;
- presents a revised first year budget.
4.02        The Inception Report would be used to inform other branches of GOE about
the project and provide a focus for a seminar on CZM to be attended by
representatives of government, academics, private and NGO interests to introduce the
aims of the project and work program.
B. PROJBCT PHASING
4.03        The timing of the project components is indicated in Table 1.  The core
team will provide leadership and integration between components. The approximate
contribution of core staff to components is shown in Table 4. International
Advisors will make up to 7 visits of one month each during the life of the project
to advise component leaders and assist in the implementation of activities and
programs. The contribution of international consultants to components is given in
Table 7.
4.04        Experienced professional and technical staff should be selected to carry
out the CZM Plan based in the Cairo office. When the Red Sea office has been



- 20 -
established at the end of the first year, skilled technical monitoring and pollution
control staff would be transferred to the project to form a nucleus for pollution
control functions and to strengthen and provide leadership to the existing
monitoring and enforcement activities of the EEAA, Red Sea Governorate and TDA. The
Recreation Management and Protected Area Management units will recruit suitable
people for rangers, with responsibilities in natural resource and visitor management
within their respective areas.
C. REPORTING RRQUIRENKNTS
4.05        Agreement was reached at negotiations that the following steps would be
achieved by the dates proposed (see also the phasing and work plan):
- PMG approves an Inception Report by May 31, 1993.
- Presentation of a Monitoring and Evaluation mid-term progress report by
September 30, 1993
- PMG approves draft of the CZM Plan for approval by affected Ministries and
concerned agencies by December 31, 1993
- PMG approval of the Protected Area Management Plans and Recreation Management
Action Plans by June 30, 1994
- Presentation of progress reports on the Coordination of pollution control,
monitoring and enforcement, Protection Area Program and the Recreation Area
Program by September 30, 1994, March 31, 1995 and September 30, 1995.
- PMG approves work plan for the final CZM Monitoring and Evaluation Component
by March 31, 1994
- Presentation of progress report on the final CZM Monitoring and Evaluation by
December 31, 1995.
- The final report of the CZM Program Review and commitment to actions to be
taken including agreed responsibilities among concerned agencies for CZM
in the Red Sea and distribution of project equipment by March 31, 1996.
D. PROJECT SUPERVISION
4.06        The project is large and complex requiring interagency cooperation and
joint management through the PMG. During the preparation of the CZM Plan in the
first year, Bank staff will need to keep closely in touch with the development of
detailed work planning, appointment of staff and local consultants by the TDA and
EZAA to realize activities and hiring international experts to assist in studies,
the preparation of policies and implementation. Supervision visits will be every 4
months (3 times a year) and include specialists in biodiversity, environmental
planning, and tourism. In the second and third years during the implementation phase
supervisory visits will be reduced to every 6 months and should include the
operations of the Pollution Control Unit, the Protected areas unit and Recreation
Areas Management Unit in the Red Sea office. Annual work plans and 6 monthly
progress should be prepared prior to supervisory visits and reviewed during
missions.



- 21 -
V. PROJECT IMPACTS
A. BENEFITS
5.01        The extensive Red Sea coral reefs are the most complex and valuable habitat
in the Red Sea in terms of species richness, endemism, diversity and ecological
functioning. They are not only invaluable on a site-special local scale but are also
critical to the overall functioning and health of the entire Red Sea, as well as
representing a truly unique global resources. Protection of the Egyptian reefs and
other coastal habitats and actions to mitigate pollution of the semi-enclosed Red Sea
waters will not only benefit the people of Egypt but also the riparian nations as well
as provide an example of integrated management that is needed on coastal areas
worldwide.
5.02        The marine biodiversity values of the Red Sea are high and the project will
make a significant contribution to the global achievements in protecting coral reefs,
endemic island wild life and diverse marine environments. The project aims to assist
interagency coordination and joint management of a plan between different public and
private sector parties.   The plan will allocate resources and promote polices for
sustainable economic development and income generation from tourism, oil, fishing and
nature conservation. Organizational and practical skills in the management of marine
and coastal resources, protected areas and visitor access and enjoyment will be learnt
in the implementation of programs. The project is the first of its scale in the region
and the CZM program will develop approaches which are adaptable in other Red Sea
countries through the Regional Framework being developed by UNDP and with a parallel
GEF project in Yemen.
B. RISKS
5.03        The project faces a number of risks.  Until recently the Government has
shown a limited understanding and support for integrated decision making which is
required to plan and manage vulnerable coastal resources. Consequently, the presence
of TDA, EEAA and the Governorate of Red Sea staff dealing with environmental matters
in the coastal areas has been rather limited. Funds have been scarce to recruit and
retain experienced and qualified staff to work in these remote areas. Environmental
regulations which exist have not been enforced properly. These risks will be reduced
under the project by the preparation of a CZM Plan, and by developing a plan for
cooperation and joint action among the various concerned agencies to protect the
coastal resources of the Red Sea.  The project will contribute funds to assist in
creating a core team with the adequate expertise and experience to fulfill the
objectives of the project and to train a large number of local staff in various aspects
of CZM. Studies will be carried out under the project to develop sources of recurrent
funding to support CZM activities in a sustainable manner.
C. SUSTAINABILITY
5.04         The livelihood of all coastal people sharing the common resources of the
Red Sea, and ultimately the long term viability of the tourism industry itself depends
upon maintaining biological diversity and reducing marine pollution through the
implementation an integrated conservation program. The protection of the Red Sea coral
and marine habitats requires the creation of institutions with clear mandate, personnel
who have the appropriate skills, implementing agencies with equipment and working



- 22 -
space, and adequate financial resources for maintaining the activities after they have
been initiated. The Red Sea Coastal and Marine Resource Management Project has been
designed to address these issues and particularly the rational allocation of coastal
resources through a CZM plan, and establishing Protected Areas and multiple use
policies with realistic and workable regulations and procedures for their enforcement.
An emphasis in the project is on developing recurrent cost mechanisms through the
protected area, pollution controls, tourism development activities and training staff
in monitoring and pollution control, natural resource and visitor management that will
together ensure that the actions developed in this project can be continued.
5.05        The project also establishes a sound information base to inform decision
making concerning development, resource conservation and protected areas management.
Implementation will focus on introducing mechanisms to involve the private sector in
managing and maintaining areas under intense tourist pressure.   Cost recovery and
recurrent funding techniques will be studied in the CZM plan activity and built into
the implementation programs.   The project will promote public awareness campaigns
amongst coastal resource users and managers, tourists, government officials, academics
and NGOs. Through information, education and interpretation activities, visitors will
better understand and appreciate the coral and marine life. Through this project a
wide range of training experiences, institutional arrangements, environmental
regulations, research, monitoring mechanisms will have been both designed and
implemented at local, national, regional and international levels. Sustainability is
built into each component of the project as it is designed as an evolutionary process
facilitating the involvement of a wide-range of private and public sector parties. The
project is considered a seed, a catalyst, from which the respective agencies, private
developers and local communities will continue based on what has been established and
learned in this project.
VI. AGRBED ACTIONS
6.01        Agreement was reached during negotiations on the following actions:  (a)
by April 30, 1993: (i) TDA and EEAA would have set up a Project Management Group; (ii)
appointed a Project Coordinator and Operations Manager; (iii) established the Cairo
office; (iv) appointed an advisory committee of distinguished scientists; (b) by June
30, 1993: (i) prepared an inception report including a draft work plan for the first
year of the project; (ii) appointed the three project advisers for the duration of the
project; and (iii) TDA and EEAA have appointed suitable staff to its Environmental Unit
and Water and Coastal Zone Management Department, respectively; (c) a Protected Areas
Manager and a Recreations Area Manager would be appointed by September 30, 1993, and
a Pollution Control Officer would be appointed by December 31, 1993; (d) GOE would
approve the CZM Plan and approve the boundaries and legal status of the Protected Areas
by March 31, 1994; and (e) reporting requirements according to para 4.05. There will
be cross-effectiveness required between this grant and the associated Bank project.



- 23 -
ATTACHMENT 1
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MJQANUAGENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OUTLINE OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
COMPONENT I: COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT PLAN 111 months)
Sub-Component 1. DATA BASE (9 months, excluding activity 1.8)
1.1   GIS Selection (1-2)
1.2   Remote Sensing (2-4)
1.3   Collecting Existing Information (2-4)
1.4   Ecological Reconnaissance Surveys (2-4)
1.5   Resource-use user Surveys/interviews (3-4)
1.6   Inventory of Environmental Resources and Uses (4-5)
1.7   Atlas of Environmental Resources and Uses (6-8)
1.8   Ongoing Use and Development of the Data Base (6-36)
Sub-Component 2. BASE-LINE STUDIES (5 months)
2.1   Survey and Analysis of Marine Pollution (2-5)
2.2   Analysis of Development Pressures and Impacts (2-5)
2.3   Nature-based Tourism (2-5)
2.4   Carrying Capacity Analysis (5-6)
2.5   Recurrent Funding (5-7)
Sub-Component 3. ENVIRONMENT-BASED CZM STRATEGY (2 months)
3.1   Information Synthesis (4)
3.2   Assess Opportunities and Constraints (4)
3.3   Prepare Initial CZM Strategy (5)
Sub-Component 4. REGULATORY NEEDS ASSESSMENT (5 months)
4.1   Legislative Review (4)
4.2   CZM Plan Maps (5-6)
4.3   Draft CZM guidelines (5-7)
4.4   Draft Rules and Regulations (6-8)
Sub-Component 5. REVIEW INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY FOR CZM (4 months)
5.1   Institutional Capacity Assessment (4-5)
5.2   Propose Institutional Arrangements (6-7)
Sub-Component 6. PREPARE CZM PLAN (4 months)
6.1   Prepare a Draft CZM Plan (7-8)
6.2   Plan Approval Process (9-10)



- 24 -
ATTACHMENT 1
Page 2 of 2
COMPONENT II, ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT CAPABILITY (12 months 
Activities:    II.1  TDA and EEAA Environmental Units (1)
II.2 Tourism Regulations Review (2-3)
II.3 EIA Manual (4-6)
II.4 EIA Applications (3-12)
II.5 Training (2-12)
COMPONENT III, MARINE POLLUTION CONTROL (26 months)
Activities:    III.1 Establish Environmental Monitoring and Enforcement
Coordination Unit and Prepare a Work Plan (10-11)
III.2 Develop Permitting Procedures (12-15)
III.3 Project to combat marine pollution and coastal habitat (14-16)
III.4 Training (10-18)
III.5 Co-ordination of Pollution Control, Monitoring and Enforcement
Services (12-36)
COMPONENT IV. REEF RECREATION MANAGEHENT (26 months)
Activities:    VI.1  Establish Reef Recreation Management  Unit  and prepare work
plan (10-12)
VI.2 Reef Recreation Management Action Plans (10-14)
VI.3 Implement Reef Recreation Management Plans (14-36)
VI.4 Training (10-30)
VI.5 Public Awareness (12-36)
COMPONENT V. MARINE PROTECTED AREAS PROGRAM (30 months)
Activities:    V.1   Detailed Inventories (6-24)
V.2   Selection Criteria and Suitability Matrix (6-7)
V.2   Boundary Establishment (8-9)
V.4   Establish Protected Areas Unit and Prepare Work Program (12-12)
V.5   Management Plans (10-14)
V.6   Facility Construction and Operation (15-36)
V.7   Training (12-36)
V.8   Public Awareness (12-36)
COmPONENT VI.  CZX  MONITORING & EVALUATION (8 months)
Activities:    VI.1  CZM Plan and Mid-term Program Review (18-20)
VI.2 CZM Plan and Program Review (30-32)
VI.3 Implementation Evaluation (30-32)
VI.4 Institutional Roles and Structures (30-36)
VI.5 Achievements (32-36)



- 25 -
ATTACHMENT 2
Page of 1 of 12
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BGYPTIAN RED SBA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJBCT
CONPOKENT I: COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT PLAN
Total time: 10 months, Total foreign costs: $628,100
OVIEM
1. Establishing a data base incorporating existing information, the results of
surveys and the analysis of remote sensing information contained in a GIS.
2. Publishing an atlas of the environmental resources of the Red Sea coast.
3. A preliminary strategy for the allocation of marine and coastal resources
defining areas to be conserved and protected and other areas where development,
compatible with the sustainable use of resources, may be appropriate.
4. A study of the opportunities for nature based tourism on the coast.
5. A study of appropriate mechanisms for recurrent funding to support CZM
activities and encourage public private partnership.
6. A regulatory needs assessment and draft guidelines, rules and regulations for
control of activities on the coast and at sea to achieve the policies of the CZM
plan.
7. A review of the institutional capacity for CZM and recommendations for
improvements.
8. An analysis of development pressures and impacts including assessment of the
environmental costs and benefits of conservation.
9. Detailed ecological studies of the area south of Marsa Alam for the
preparation of a management plan and program for a national park(s) or similar
protected areas and possibly the development of a scientific program under the Man
and the Biosphere (MAB) program for an international biosphere reserve.
10. A CZM plan with policies for zoning and managing coastal and marine resources
to be approved and legally binding on all concerned agencies.



- 26 -
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 2 of 12
sCoPE OF or 
SUB-COHPONPNT 1. DATA BASE (8 months, excluding activity 1.8)
ACTIVITY 1.1. GIS selection and design of information-gathering techniaues (mo. 1-2)
a. Evaluate comprehensive GIS needs based on: project goals, existing GIS and
data base systems with cooperating agencies/ universities, and capability for
compatibility and accessibility with these systems.
b. Select appropriate system(s) to be used throughout all relevant phases of
the project, ensuring that training is part of the acquisition package.
c. Design the computer based inventory so that it can be expanded and updated
through time.
d. Data manager participates in comprehensive resource-management GIS training
course, with an emphasis on coastal zone management. Work with CZM specialist
familiar in GIS to design survey techniques that will achieve maximum
incorporation into the GIS system.
e. Selected technician(s) participate in data specific (e.g. socio-economic,
ecological) training courses to assist in design of applicable data-gathering
(surveys) techniques.
ACTIVITY 1.2. Remote Sensina (mo. 2-41
a. Concurrent with above, purchase remote sensing images for entire project
area and digitize into form appropriate for selected GIS system.
b. Analyze ,images for habitats and human-use settlement areas.
ACTIVITY 1.3. Collecting existing information (mo. 2-4)
a. Identify and collect literature from universities (within and outside of
Egypt), government agencies and private firms on: species/habitat descriptions
for terrestrial coastal flora and fauna, marine organisms, Red Sea
oceanography, resource management, development activities, natural and human-
use disturbances, environmental impact studies and maps (geological,
navigational, historical).
b. Catalog information into archival and retrievable form and store in a secure,
accessible place.



- 27 -
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 3 of 12
ACTIVITY 1.4. Ecological reconnaissance surveys (mo. 2-41
a. Develop methodology appropriate for doing ecologically-based quick
recognizance surveys using rapid data gathering techniques (e.g. diving,
snorkeling, manta tows, hiking). This information is intended to verify and
expand the remote sensing imagery, focusing on demarkation and condition of
terrestrial, coastal and marine habitats.
b. Conduct surveys throughout the project area.
c. Make comparisons with historical data from the literature search (e.g.
information since the 1930's on Hurgada's coral reefs have been recorded) with
regard to natural and human-induced changes.
ACTIVITY 1.5. Resource-use surveys/interviews (mo. 3-4)
a. Conduct interviews with resource users including: fishermen, tourists,
business people regarding trends in yield, recreation/touristic interests, and
visitation, respectively.
b. Document human-use settlement patterns and impacts on the coast in a form that
can be incorporated into an visually-based atlas, written inventory and the CZM
plan.
ACTIVITY 1.6. Inventory of Environmental Resources and Uses (mo. 4-51
a. Record and produce the information from the surveys in a way that can be
published and stored in the computerized data base system that will be used
for the Plan and all other components of the project.
ACTIVITY 1.7. Atlas of Environmental Resources and Uses (mo. 6-8)
a. Produce and publish an atlas (detailed series of maps) incorporating
ecological and resource-use surveys to be used as planning and public
awareness tool through out the project.
b. Design the computer based inventory so that it can be expanded and updated
through time.
c. Make survey information available to be incorporated into environmental and
social impact analysis studies by development interests.
ACTIVITY 1.8 Ongoing use and development of the DATA BASE (mo. 6-36)
a. Data will be from components III, IV and V and will be added to the data base
as an ongoing monitoring and planning tool.



- 28 -
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 4 of 12
SUB-COMPONENT 2: BASE-LINE STUDIES (2-6 months)
ACTIVITY 2.1 Survey and Analysis of Marine Pollution (mo. 2-5)
a. Survey in detail all potential sources of pollution from oil and gas
exploration, production, transport, storage and processing. The survey should
include the installations in the Gulf of Suez as these are a potential source of
pollution in the study area.
b. Analyze historic records of oil pollution incidents, their cause and effects
on the marine environment; and in the perception of government agencies and the
public.
c. Review activities of the EGPC, EEAA and other agencies in controlling
potential oil pollution, including:
- national contingency planning for the Gulf of Suez and the Red Sea;
- oil combatting facilities and the capacity to respond;
- oil reception facilities;
- inspection and monitoring capacity; and
- record of enforcement relating to pollution of: high seas, oil
terminals and production platforms and from land sources.
d. Review plans, programs and projects of these agencies to develop and improve
capacity to effectively avoid oil pollution affecting the marine environment.
e. Prepare a risk assessment of oil pollution in the Red Sea using data from
above elements.
f. Identify gaps and weaknesses in the institutional responsibilities, regulatory
framework, and facilities required to prevent oil pollution; adapting MEDPOL
program in an expanded form for the Red Sea and building links with UNEP Regional
Seas Project and the Yemen GEF project.
ACTIVITY 2.2 Analysis of Development Pressures and Impacts (mo. 2-5)
a. Tourism Markets and Growth Patterns: Review the local, national and
international trends in beach based and ocean tourism and recreation
concentrating on those activities for which Egypt and the Red Sea are
particularly suited. Predict the growth of both leisure tourism and
activity/specialist tourism based on coral reef and desert environments.
Categories and analyze the existing and proposed supply of tourist and recreation
facilities in the Hurgada-Safaga area, assess the physical and socio-cultural
limits to further development.
b. Mining: Review information on the existing phosphate and other mining
operations in the Eastern mountains. Using information from geological and
mineral surveys assess the potential for further mining in the area. Identify the
likely physical requirements eg. for roads, ports, housing and water, and assess



- 29 -
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 5 of 12
the present and possible future impacts from mining operations, processing and
transport.
c. Oil and Gas Exploration and Production: Review the present size, structure,
operational methods and impacts of the oil industry in the Gulf of Suez. Review
information on exploration activities on the coast and under the Red Sea. Predict
the likely methods and technologies to be used in exploration and production,
including transport of oil and gas products and servicing needs of rigs. Predict
the demands for urban and industrial development related to oil and gas
production.
d. Fishing: Review data on inshore and deep sea fishing activities in the
Egyptian Red Sea. Assess the potential for future development of fishing industry
in terms of; markets, international competition, conservation of fish stocks.
Assess the likely demand for shore based facilities. Review the fishing methods
of local artisanal fisherman and propose changes to more sustainable practices.
e. Urban Development: Review growth of urban settlement in the Red Sea
Governorate and the potential and limitations for urban development and economic
activity. Review programs for infrastructure development and new urban housing.
Predict employment opportunities in tourism and other industries and the likely
forms of housing, settlement and urban infrastructure that may be required.
ACTIVITY 2.3 Nature-based Tourism (mo. 2-51
a. Conduct a study evaluating economic and environmental costs analysis
investigating a full spectrum (from camping to high quality/low density
resorts) of tourism approaches/strategies that would be appropriate for
Egypt's Red Sea desert/marine environments, incorporating the following
considerations:
- coral-reef biodiversity and protection;
- maintenance of ecological processes;
- economic leakages;
- foreign and local ownership;
- public/private partnerships;
- proactive marketing/tourism management and polices vs. reactive;
- urban impacts and planning;
- cultural sensitivity and change;
- involvement and equity for local communities;
- carrying capacity (ecological, resource, social);
-  visitor perceptions, expectations;
- nature-based recreational activities;
- integration with public sector parks;
- private sector park/conservation management; and
- protection vs. sacrifice areas.



- 30 -
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 6 of 12
b. Based on the results of the above develop a set of criteria for tourism
development that foster creative, profitable, ecological, culturally
appropriate tourism for the project area.
c. Using this criteria, develop tourism models that are based on protection
and enhancement of the natural environment rather than alteration.
d. Examine the models in light of the CZM Strategy and identify possible areas
which would be suitable to apply the models. Integrate the needs for on
existing or future uses from other coastal resource sectors, e.g. fisheries,
oil into the examination process.
ACTIVITY 2.4   Carryina Capacitv Analysis (mo. 5-6)
a. Conduct an analysis of the carrying capacity of the coastal and marine areas
of the Red Sea coast that address the concept of carrying capacity from the
following perspectives:
- resources use (sustainability, productivity);
- social (crowding, enjoyment); and
-  ecological/physical(environmental alteration, degradation, conservation and
protection needs).
b. As part of (a), identify the different aspects of tourism and conservation
needs applicable to the Red Sea coast that would benefit from carrying capacity
analysis, such as:
- diving related (eg. number of people a dive site can support without
damaging the corals);
- beach density (eg. number of people/unit on a beach that is suitable to the
lifestyles/perception of the primary audience/markets); and
- habitat vulnerability (eg. fragile habitats, including corals, mangroves,
and impacts from people, e.g. trampling, flipper-kicking, anchors).
c. Based on (a) and (b) above, make an estimate of the levels of people,
different areas and activities that can be supported.
d. Develop solutions of ways to accommodate visitors without negative impacts
on the environment, and maintain visitor satisfaction. Examples might
include: siting of roads, pathways, different transportation modes, mooring
bouys, rules, regulations and zoning.
e. Incorporate the information from this activity into the design of the marine
recreation management and the protected areas component.
ACTIVITY 2.5 Recurrent Funding (mo. 5-7)
a. Undertake a study of cost recovery and funding and finance options for
conservation management and regulatory controls.



- 31 -
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 7 of 12
b. Review and assess public and private sector recurrent funding options
drawing on international experience incorporating the following:
Financial concents:
- personal and business motivation;
- self-interest;
- stewardship;
- public-private partnerships;
- voluntary sector;
- income generation from the beneficiaries;
- polluter pays principles; and
- income from charges to pay for resource conservation not recovered as
taxes to the general treasury.
Funding tvDes:
- Public fees, licenses, fines, taxes, lottery, trust funds, endowments;
and
- Private rents, concessions, charges for services, user fees.
Others:
- sponsorship;
- selling advertising space;
- voluntary work;
- management agreements;
- purchasing rights to commercial opportunities;
- taking responsibility for conservation management out of self
interest; and
- revolving funds.
c. Conduct studies of Egyptian examples of recurrent funding and
public/private partnerships with regard to:
- government commitments to support privatization;
- cultural acceptance of user fees;
-  legal and governmental constraints (e.g entrance fees going to the
Minister of Finance); and
- practical difficulties, such as the collection of small sums of
money, and the difficulties of supervising money exchange points.
d. Identify and select appropriate and practical recurrent cost models, and
identify possible opportunities to apply them in the CZM program on the Red
Sea. Examples might include:
- charging fishermen through licenses and taxes on landings to pay for
policing and enforcement, as required for sustainable fish stock
management;
- charging visitors to a park to pay a proportion of supporting and
managing the park;



- 32 -
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 8 of 12
- licensing a private operator/owner to manage to have exclusive rights to
benefit from the use of a resource with conditions on conservation
management (concession), such as exclusive rights to sales outlets, e.g.
restaurants in exchange for providing rights of public access and
protection of the resource; and
- commercially viable conservation projects, e.g. aquarium, management of
dive sites.
e. The above opportunities should cover:
- support public administration and control of user rights (inspection,
enforcement);
- policing of resource management areas (parks, etc.);
- facility development and maintenance (e.g. recreation facilities,
diving, boating);
- research and information gathering; and
- education and public awareness.
SUB-CONPONENT 3: ENVIRONMENT-BASED CZM STRATEGY (2 months)
ACTIVITY 3.1 Information Synthesis (mo. 4l
a. Using the information from sub-component 1. (Data Base) and sub-component
2. (studies) to determine the following for the project area:
- land ownership/development status;
- ecological character (marine, terrestrial);
- coastal geomorphological character;
- oceanographic character;
- land use;
- infrastructure;
- sources of sewage disposal; and
- sources of waste and pollution (e.g. ships, oil loading points, potash,
fish harbors).
ACTIVITY 3.2 Assess the Opportunities and Constraints (mo. 4-5)
a. Review environmental constraints.
b. Review development intentions and proposals of all agencies and authorities
as they effect the coastal zone.
c. Assess the vulnerability of marine ecosystems to damage.
d. Identify potential ecological reserve areas and others for selective
multiple use that will be established through Component V (Protected Areas).



- 33 -
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 9 of 12
ACTIVITY 3.3 Prenare an initial CZM Strateag (mo. 51
a. Prepare a broad zoning strategy of the coast to delineate key areas for
conservation management and other areas where development may be appropriate.
b. Draw up initial policies for CZM which will focus and provide a context for
the studies and later steps in the CZM plan.
c. Produce the initial CZM Strategy in both a written and visually oriented
form.
d. Discuss widely with concerned agencies and public and private interests.
SUB-COHPONKNT 4: REGULATORY NEEDS ASSESSMENT (5 months)
ACTIVITY 4.1 Leaislative Review (mo. 41
a. Review existing laws and decrees relating to the development and use of the
coast and the marine environment and on the responsibilities of authorities to
manage and control activities in these areas:
- coastguards;
- navigation and shipping;
- fishing operations;
- construction, building controls, development control;
- allocation and sale of land;
- plan making, development authorization; procedures including EIAs, by
different jurisdictions;
- control and licensing of marine resources including oil and gas;
- control of pollution;
- protection of fauna and flora and habitats; and
- management of parks.
b. Treaty Obligations Assessment: Review Egypt's obligations under international
conventions relating to the control of pollution, conservation of nature, rights of
navigation and shipping.
ACTIVITY 4.2 CZM Plan Mans (mo. 5-6)
a. Define and delimit on maps, the coastline for management purposes:
- inter-tidal zone;
- 30m/lOOm "no construction/development areas";
- protected areas and marine protection areas;
- oil exploration/production areas;
- restricted areas for fishing; and
- defence restrictions.



- 34 -
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 10 of 12
ACTIVITY 4.3 Draft CZM Guidelines (mo. 5-71
a. Draw up draft coastal zone management guidelines according to type of
development and jurisdictions, including:
Development Guidelines for:
- hotel and tourist developments;
- marinas, dive centers, boat piers, boat moorings;
- land filling, reclamation and beach enfacement;
- mining for coral and sand;
- underground water abstraction;
- irrigation use of treated water; and
- dredging.
Jurisdiction auidelines:
- TDA;
- Governorate/Municipality;
- Ministry of Defence;
- Ministry of Petroleum; and
- Protected Areas.
b. Draft guidelines for the management of marine resources including:
- coral reefs;
- fishing;
- recreation, boating, diving; and
- shipping & navigation.
c. Draft guidelines to control pollution for:
- control of discharges from land based sources eg. domestic sewage and
waste water, industrial and processing effluent including brine from
desalinization plants;
- oily wastes from ships, oil production facilities, shore based
installations;
- dumping of solid wastes on land, at the coast and in the sea;
- littering;
- use of chemicals as fertilizers, pesticides, to control the growth of
marine organisms;
- air pollution from dust;
- noise from plant eg. power generation, port facilities, speed boats;
and
- dumping material including construction materials, on the beach or in
the ocean.
d. Prepare the guidelines for publication and publish in forms that achieve
maximum awareness and provide comprehensive technical advice and instructions.



- 35 -
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 11 of 12
ACTIVITY 4.4  Draft Rules and Regulations (mo. 6-8)
a. Prepare draft regulations using the guidelines.
b. Prepare indicative procedures for authorization of the activities.
c. Develop a booklet or publication outlining the regulations and guidelines to
be used by developers, government agencies and the general public.
SUB-COMPONENT 5.  REVIEW INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY FOR CZM (4 months)
ACTIVITY 5.1  Institutional Capacity Assessment (mo. 4-5)
a. Analyze the present enforcement procedures and capacity of institution.
with responsibilities in these matters including the following;
-  the Governorate;
-  coast guard;
-  police;
-  Municipalities;
-  EEAA;
-  TDA;
-  Min. of Petroleum;
-  Min. of Housing and Development;
-  Min. of Defense;
-  Min. of Marine Affairs;
-  General Organization for Coastal Protection;
-  Port and Lighthouse Authority; and
-  Port Authorities on Red Sea.
b. Identify the weaknesses of the present structures in relation to the needs
for integrated CZM and the proposed guidelines and regulations in sub-
component 4.
ACTIVITY 5.2 Propose Institutional Arrangements (mo. 6-71
a. Propose institutional arrangements for inspection and enforcement in
coastal areas based on the existing jurisdictions.
b. Propose new operational arrangements and procedures to ensure well coordinated
and efficient enforcement and monitoring activities.



- 36 -
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 12 of 12
SUB-COMPONENT 6. PREPARE CZM MANAGEMENT PLAN (no. 7-9)
ACTIVITY 6.1 PreDare a Draft CZM Plan (mo. 7-8)
a. Using the information from the data base (sub-component 3) discussions on
the CZM conservation strategy and studies of nature-based tourism, recurrent
funding, regulatory needs assessment and development pressures and impacts,
prepare a plan which:
- details policies for zones and activities;
- provides guidelines for conservation and development; and
- proposes legal and regulatory frameworks to support CZM.
ACTIVITY 6.2 Plan ADproval Process (mo. 9-10)
a.Discuss the draft CZM Plan with concerned Agencies and obtain legal approval
for the plan.
b. Negotiate revised plan and prepare final plan.
c. Present final plan to GOE and obtain legal approval for the plan.
IMPLEMENTATION
The activities of the CZM Plan component require a large team bringing
together all the resources available to the project from the TDA, the EEAA, Red Sea
Governorate, local Egyptian Consultants, University centers in coastal and marine
studies and/or the Institute of Oceanography and Fisheries and international
specialists. The component would be lead by the Project Coordinator and the
operations Manager. They would be assisted by the Chief scientist and Chief planner.
Core staff members will participate in the CZM plan function prior to taking up
responsibility for implementing programs in the 2nd and 3rd years of the project.
The Data Manager will be responsible for establishing the GIS system and assisting
in setting up the data base. The Financial Manager would undertake financial
analysis of activities relating to nature-based tourism, recurrent funding, economic
analysis of demand and impacts.
The core team will be supported by the local staff and consultants as shown in
Table 3. The list in this table is indicative of the multi-disciplinary
requirements of CZM planning. Team members should be drawn from the full time staff
of the three participating organizations and should be identified and in post before
the project commences. Local consultants may be required for the specialized inputs.
Many activities will be on going at the same time. A detailed work plan would be
produced at the start of the project.



- 37 -
ATTACHMENT 3
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCs MANAGEMENT pRoJECT
COCPONHNT II: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT CAPABILITY
Total time: 12 months; Total foreign costs: $192,900
OUTPUTS
1. TDAs and EEAAs Environmental Units to be fully staffed with competent
professionals from relevant disciplines with knowledge of environmental impacts and
solutions and trained in EIA methods and procedures.
2. A "manual" on EIA for tourism projects in coastal environments for use by TDA
and developers (potentially useful to other authorities eg. Red Sea Governorate and
EEAA).
3. Through the transfer of knowledge and experience from the TDA to the EEAA, the
EEAA will have the capability to coordinate EIA operations for tourism developments
in coastal and marine environments.
SCOPE OF WORK
ACTIVITY II.1: TDA and EEAA Environmental Units (mo. 11
a. Establish a permanent full-time Environmental Unit in TDA and EEAA with
the following staff: planner/EIA coordinators, environmental engineers,
terrestrial ecologists, and marine ecologists.
b. Together they will manage and evaluate EIAs required under the TDAs
regulations with the assistance of an international expert on EIAs for tourism
development.
ACTIVITY I1.2: Tourism Reaulations Review (mo. 2-3)
a. Review in detail TDA's rules and regulations for tourism development and
conservation of nature requirements and procedures. Review recent EIA reports
and agreements reached on mitigation measures.
b. Tourism-related EIA Issues: Review the environmental impacts of recent
developments and activities on the coast and identify the major issues to be
addressed in future EIA studies of proposed tourist developments.
ACTIVITY II.3: EIA Manual (mo. 4-6)
a. Based on activity 2, the environmental unit is to prepare a manual on EIA
requirements for tourism projects in the coastal environment. The audience is the



-38-
ATTACHMENT 3
Page 2 of 2
TDA staff and consultants, developers and consultants preparing EIAs, the EEAA
and other government officials with responsibility for regulatory functions of
related developments. The manual should include: procedures, regulations,
explanatory notes and detailed advice on mitigation of environmental impacts.
ACTIVITY II.4: EIA Aplications (mo. 3-121
a. Gain experience of EIAs in practice by applying the existing TDA rules and
regulations for the conservation of nature in tourism development on the Red
Sea and when available apply the procedures in the manual to all development
proposals. This involves scoping for EIAs, setting terms of reference for EIA
studies, assisting developers/investors commission studies from experienced
consultants, advising on the nature of impacts and mitigation measures, and
reviewing completed EIAs.
ACTIVITY II.5: Training (mo. 2-12)
a. Set up and run a training program on environmental assessment methods and
techniques for staff of the Environmental Unit of TDA, other TDA and EEAA
staff and senior officials from the Red Sea Governorate, EGPC and agencies
with responsibilities for regulating marine and coastal development.
b. The training program is to include:
(i) two x one week in-service residential EIA training courses on EIA
procedures and approaches with applications to touristic projects. The courses
are to be tailor-made for the participants by the EIA international expert
with assistance from international advisors to the project; and
(ii) attendance at one month international courses in EIA for two staff
members of TDA's Environmental Unit and two staff members from the EEAA. The
courses should be appropriate for master level scientists and planners with at
least 5 years work experience in the applied environmental field and designed
to develop skills in the coordination and review of EIA studies.
IMPLEMENTATION
The component will be based in the TDA Environmental Unit and the EEAA
Environmental Unit and managed by the head of each Unit. An international expert on
EIA will join for 6 months (not necessarily continuous). The training component
will be directed by the international EIA expert and organized by the training
manager.



-39-
ATTACHMENT 4
Page 1 of 3
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEKMNT PROJBCT
COMPONENT III: MARINE POLLUTION CONTROL
Total time: 26 months; Total foreign costs: $545,500
OUTPUTS
1. A coordinated monitoring and inspection service to apply and enforce rules and
regulations for CZM in an integrated way.
2. Staff in various concerned agencies skilled in monitoring and enforcement.
3. A technical capacity to protect certain marine habitats from pollution.
SCOPE OF WORK
ACTIVITY 111.1: Establish Environmental MonitorinQ and Enforcement Coordination
Unit (mo. 10-111
a. Set up a unit under the Chief Pollution Control Officer in the Red Sea
office.
b. Prepare a work plan and work schedules identifying responsibilities and
duties of different agencies and their staff.
c. Establish appropriate management and supervision, reporting arrangements,
evaluation review and quality control procedures.
ACTImVTY III.2: Permitting Procedures (mo. 12-151
a. Review present procedures under the CZM plan regulations, (regulations of
concerned agencies adopted or modified and approved in the plan), using data
from the Component I (Sub-component 2: Studies, Sub-component 4: Regulatory
Needs Assessment, and Sub-component 5: Review of Institutional Capacity).
b. Conduct in-depth analysis of how different types of permissions are
granted using case studies, such as:
- to protect the environment during construction and development
(according to governmental agency jurisdiction);
- licenses for resource use, e.g. fishing and oil exploration; and
- licenses for discharges into the marine and coastal environment.
c. Propose improvements to procedures which are transparent, participatory,
short, easy to follow and enforceable.



-40-
ATTACHMENT 4
Page 2 of 3
d.  Prepare manual(s) on agreed procedures to include:
- instructions;
- redesign of application forms;
- notices; and
-  model letters for guiding consultation between government agencies and with
applicants, etc.
ACTIVITY III.3: Proiect to Combat Marine Pollution of Coral Habitats (mo. 14-161
a. Identify priority areas of the coral reef. and other marine ecosystems most
under threat, including ranking based on species richness, diversity and
endemism. Use information from the inventory of resources (Activity I.1.6) and
equipment needs from analysis of marine pollution (Activity I.2.1). Identify the
marine pollution and oil combatting methods most appropriate to reduce or protect
these habitats.
b. Prepare a project specification to tackle the top priority threats considering
both the conservation of marine habitats and the protection of touristic
resources.
c. Implement the project using funds allocated for this purpose in the project
component.
ACTIVITY III.4: Trainina (mo. 10-181
a. An in house training program will be effected for the staff from various
agencies associated with the Unit which should cover the following topics:
- CZM rules and regulations;
- monitoring activities;
- marine pollution control technologies;
- permitting procedures; and
- enforcement procedures.
Initial orientation courses for all staff involved and on-the-job-training
will be the responsibility of the core team staff particularly the Chief
Pollution Control Officer, the International Advisors (when available) and
local experte. The training program would be administered by the training
manager.
b. Select 4 staff to participate in one month foreign workshop/course
including a study tour on marine pollution control.



-41-
ATTACHMENT 4
Page 3 of 3
ACTIVITY III.5:   Co-ordination of oollution control, monitorina and enforcement
service (mo. 12-36):
a. Project staff will implement the work plan through coordinating the
activities of responsible agencies. The project will provide a control pool of
equipment for monitoring purposes (boats, vehicles); disseminate information or
coastal zone management guidelines and regulations and assist in management of
recreation and tourist use of marine resources in the Hurgada-Safaga area.
b. Use of improved permitting procedures, examples of successful enforcement,
publicity for CZM plan aims and policies should all help to clarify good practice
in the minds of developers, government officials and the public generally. The
Unit will promote the merits of CZM and the importance of strict adherence to the
requirements of environmental and pollution controls.
IMPLEMENTATION
The Monitoring and Enforcement Unit in the Red Sea Office will be managed by the
Chief Pollution Control Officer under the direction of the Project Operations
Manager. The work of local staff of the various concerned agencies will be directed
from the Unit. The International Advisor on marine pollution will advise on the
establishment and operation of the Unit. The permitting procedures reform will
require one full-time staff member from each of the TDA, ZEAA, the Governorate and
other permission-granting agencies relating to the coastal and marine environment
supported by local consultants (2 mm each) in public administration and law.
Local staff from concerned agencies (i.e. the Governorate, the municipality, the
EEAA, the TDA and others) will be attached to the office to facilitate in the
implementation of CZM guidelines, regulations, permitting procedures and pollution
control within the project area. The unit will work closely with the staff of the
Marine Recreation Management Program (Component IV) to monitor activities which
effect the protection and management of the marine environment for tourists. The
unit will share support form the pool of office space, administrative support and
equipment available to the Red Sea Office eg. vehicles, boats, video and
photographic equipment etc. It is the function of the Operations Manager to ensure
effective use of logistic support to the Monitoring and Control Unit. The unit
should coordinate pollution monitoring and laboratory testing facilities to the
appropriate local agencies.



-42-
ATTACHMENT 5
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJRCT
COMPONENT IV: CORAL REEF RECREATION MANAGEMENT
Total time: 26 months; Total foreign costs: $974,800
OUTPUTS
1. Effective recreation management of the coastal and marine areas between
Hurgada and Safaga.
2. Staff with experience of marine recreation management.
SCOPE OF WORK
ACTIVITY IV.l: Reef Recreation Management Unit (mo. 10-12)
a. Set up a Unit in the Red Sea Office to coordinate implementation of the above
action plan. Provide the unit with logistical support from the project pool eg.
vehicles, boats, and other equipment necessary to do the work.
b. Establish a pool of staff from the concerned agencies to implement works and
under take management functions.
c. Prepare work plan and budget for project year 2.
d. Revise and prepare work plan and budget for project year 3.
ACTIVITY IV.2: Reef Recreation Management Action Plans and Proaram (mo. 10-14)
a.   Assess  current  recreation  activities  and  facilities  for  impacts  on
environment, visitor experience, safety, involved management entities.
b. Assess the adequacy of facilities in terms of visitor needs and experience,
and define priority needs.
c. Develop detailed recreation management and resource conservation programs
from policies developed in the CZM plan including a range of recreation
facilities and uses that protect the biodiversity of the reef ecosystems.
d.   Prepare a program of works including defining management solutions and
designing facilities, with costing and phasing.



-43-
ATTACHEMENT 5
Page 2 of 2
ACTIVITY IV.3: Implement Reef Recreational Management Action Plans (mo. 14-36)
a. Negotiate management agreements with developers and groups of hotel owners,
groups of dive center operators/owners, oil industry and the local municipalities
to provide comprehensive management of conservation/recreation sites and areas near
the coast.
b.   Adopt methods of cost recovery and user fees on recurrent funding (as
identified in the Component I, Sub-component 2: Activity 2.5) on recurrent
funding both as experiments to test the practicality of methods and as a
potential source of long-term funding.
c. Coordinate with the Monitoring and Enforcement Unit (see Component IV) to
enforce recreation and marine management regulations and guidelines.
ACTIVITY IV.4: Trainina (mo. 10-30)
a. Develop a training program for field staff consisting of short courses in
association with Component V (Protected Areas Establishment) and Component III
(Pollution Control) based on experience at Ras Mohammed NP and else where in:
design and construction, maintenance, visitor management techniques, enforcement
required to implement the program.
b. Participate in a 2 week international study tour for Recreation and Park
Managers to study practical issues in the management of touristic and coastal
recreation areas.
ACTIVITY IV.5: Public Awareness
Develop ongoing public awareness and training materials to educate the public about
environmentally sound recreation management with some natural history and regulatory
information.
IMPLEMZNTATION
The Reef Recreation Management Program will be managed by the Recreation Manager
under the direction of the Project Operations Manager. Advice will be available from
the International Advisors and the Protected Areas Program Manager. The Recreation
Management Action Plan will be prepared by staff who worked on the CZM plan. Staff to
be involved should include: resource managers, land use planners, tourism planners,
marine park planners, recreation planners and designers and civil engineers. The work
will be undertaken by the local staff of concerned agencies (eg. the coast guards),
Governorate, and through the private sector under agreements and licenses.



-44-
ATTACHMENT 6
Page 1 of 4
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
COMPONENT V: MARINE PROTECTED ARRA ESTABLISEMENT
Total time: 30 months; Total foreign costs: $1,237,900
OUTPUTS
1. Detailed inventories of the flora, fauna and resource uses for the proposed
project areas that will be presented both in a written-listing format and an
atlas/planning format.
2. Selection criteria and suitability matrices for ranking proposed protected areas
based on natural resource values, human-use values and administrative considerations.
3. Legal and operational park(s) and reserves.
4. Initial protected area office in Hurgada and a small office near the sites later
in the project.
5. Management plans for each protected area.
6. Operational work plans outlining staffing, timing facilities, equipment and
public awareness needs.
7. Park(s) and or reserve facilities such as visitor centers, warden housing,
camping areas or mooring bouys.
8. Training program for the rangers addressing recreation management, public
awareness, park administration, planning etc., incorporating both on-site training (and
experience from Rae Mohammed) and study tours for example elsewhere.
SCOPE OF WORK
ACTIVITY V.1: Detailed Inventories (mo. 6-241
a.   Based on the proposed protected area sites identified in the CZM Sub-
Component, Activity 2.2 , conduct detailed inventories of sites identifying the
flora and fauna, as well as any exiting resource uses (e.g. fishing) in the
proposed protected areas.
b. Ensure that in designing the inventories that the methodology (ecological
transects and interviews) can be integrated into the project's Data Base
(identified in the CZM sub-component 1) and be incorporated into the GIS
system(s).



-45-
ATTACHMENT 6
Page 2 of 4
c. Coordinate and integrate the inventories with the formal "geological land
survey" processes required for protected area establishment in Egypt.
d.  Prepare a detailed map/atlas and written inventories indicating the key
species and resource uses of the proposed sites.
ACTIVITY V.2: Selection Criteria and Suitability Matrix (mo. 6-7)
a. Develop a site evaluation matrix for the final selection of sites if more
than one area was identified in the CZM plan Sub-Component 2, CZM Strategy), and
delineate probable zones within the protected area(s). Some examples of criteria
include:
-  natural  resource  values  (representation,  biological,   ecosystem
structure, species richness, endemism, diversity, global significance);
-  human-use  values  (nature-based  tourism,   recreational,   commercial,
aesthetic, research, cultural);
-  administrative   considerations   (existing   programs,   management
capability, access, enforcement, politics, economic); and
- potential activity impacts.
Each of these criteria can be ranked in terms of high, medium, or low value,
including exceptional comments, based on biodiversity indices and global
significance.
b. Use the information from the detailed inventories to complete the suitability
matrices and make final site selection, zoning and timing decisions with regard
to establishing the protected area(s).
ACTIVITY V.3: Legal Boundary Establishment (mo. 8-91
a. Based on the information from the inventories and the suitability matrices,
delineate the park boundaries (marine and terrestrial) based on ecological
conditions and resulting management objectives.
b. Have these proposed boundaries cleared with other government agencies.
c. Have the park declared by law and have a Prime-Ministerial decreed issued for
the protected areas.
ACTIVITY V.4: Establish Protected Areas Unit and Work Proaram (mo. 10-121
a.   Initiate the administration and management of the site(s)  and recruit
appropriate staff.
b. Development of an operational work plan outlining staffing, timing, facilities,
equipment purchases, interpretation and enforcement needs.  The work plan is to
cover the 2nd and 3rd year of the project; and to be revised at the end of year 2.



-46-
ATTACHMENT 6
Page 3 of 4
ACTIVITY V.5: Manaaement Plans (mo. 10-141
a. Expanding on the zoning considerations prepared above in activity 2, prepare
a draft management plan outlining park management objectives, which respects and
incorporates other public and private sector interests as appropriate.
Incorporate information from the following related activities also developed
through the project into the plan considerations:
- Nature-Based Tourism Study (CZM sub-component 2. Activity 2.3;
- Recurrent Funding Mechanisms (CZM sub-component 3. Activity 2.5);
- Marine Recreation Area Management (Component IV); and
- Pollution Control (Component III).
ACTIVITY V.6: Facility Construction and Operation (mo. 15-361
a. Initiate the construction of key facilities (visitor center, offices, warden
housing, camping areas, etc.), according to the time tables outlined above.
initial management, interpretation and enforcement needo.
ACTIVITY V.7: Trainina (mo. 12-361
a. Implement a training program, utilizing existing experience from Ras Mohammed
and other marine park areas such as the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park, which is
also zoning oriented to incorporate conservation, tourism, fishing and oil
industry interests. This activity will be ongoing throughout all phases of the
project, according to different training needs and time tables.
b. Participate in a 2 week international study for Park planners and Recreation
Area Managers to study practical issues in the management of marine and terrestrial
parks.
ACTIVITY V.8: Public Awareness (mo. 12-361
a. Develop ongoing public awareness and environmental education activities to
facilitate communication about the evolving park process as the project proceeds,
in terms. of communication with government agencies, interested users, exhibit
design, etc.
IMPLEHMNTATION
The protected areas manager should be appointed by month 6 so as to participate in
the detailed definition of the protected areas and multiple use zones identified in the
CZM strategy (sub component 3 of the CZM plan), and the preparation of documentation
for the establishment of protected areas in law.
A small team of ecologists and marine scientists (48 mm) would be commissioned to
undertake surveys and research   of the ecological  conditions and habitats.  An
administrative office for the Red Sea Protected areas should be established by the end
of the first year in the projects Red Sea office. The staff will consist of the



-47-
ATTACHMENT 6
Page 4 of 4
Protected Areas Manager, the Chief Scientist and Chief Planner (part-time), other core
staff as required and supported by at least 4 warden/rangers. The protected areas team
will prepare a 2 year work program and management plans for the protected areas. The
Unit will need to establish a field office with residential accommodation, in the
protected areas as a base for studies and implementation of civil works, resource
management and visitor programs.



-48-
ATTACHMENT 7
Page 1 of 3
ARAB RBPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONPONKNT VI: CZH MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Total time: 8 months; Total costs: $137,500
1. Papers and reports reviewing the achievements of CZM program.
2. Revised CZM Plan/annex to the plan, approved by the TDA, EEAA, and other
concerned Agencies.
3. Institutional responsibilities clearly defined and arrangements for CZM in the
Red Sea in place.
4. Allocation of equipment from the project to appropriate agencies according to
duties and responsibilities for CZM activities.
5. Participation in conferences and workshops on the experience and lessons of the
project.
SCOPE OF WORK
ACTIVITY VI.1: CZM Plan and Mid-term Program Review (mo. 18-201
a.  Review the CZM plan and experience so far in implementing policies and
management strategies using:
- the project files (for historical perspectives);
- cost data on costs and quantitative data on the number of successful
enforcement prosecutions, dive site bouys laid, leaflets issued etc.;
- qualitative studies including questionnaires, surveys of attitudes and
perceptions of operators and visitor/consumers; and
- discussions with government officials and project operational staff.
b. Identify gaps in information and polices that should be filled and identify
how further CZM planning and research may be funded.
ACTIVITY VI.2: CZM Plan and Final Program Review (mo. 30-32)
a.   Again review the CZM plan and experience in implementing policies and
management strategies using:
- the project files (for historical perspectives);
- cost data on costs and quantitative data on the number of successful
enforcement prosecutions, dive site bouys laid, leaflets issued etc.;



-49-
ATTACHMENT 7
Page 2 of 3
- qualitative studies including questionnaires, surveys of attitudes and
perceptions of operators and visitor/consumers; and
- discussions with government officials and project operational staff.
b. Identify gaps in information and polices that should be filled and identify how
further CZM planning and research may be funded for sustainabilty of the project.
ACTIVITY VI.3:   Implementation Evaluation (mo. 30-32)
a. Evaluate experience of implementing CZM regulations and guidelines.
b. Review the strengths and weaknesses of institutions involved in implementing the
CZM Program.
c. Review the organizational arrangements for CZM.
d.   Evaluate demonstration projects  and models  for nature-based tourism,
recurrent funding, recreation and multi-use management areas and protected area
management.
ACTIVITY VI.4: Institutional Roles and Structures (mo. 30-36)
a. Recommend improvements, where necessary, regarding powers, responsibilities
and the organizational mechanisms for CZM after the end of the project.
b. Set up procedures and administrative arrangements for a coordinated monitoring
and enforcement regime.
c. Prepare and revise guidelines and instruction manuals for staff, and information
handouts for the public on arrangements for CZM regulation and control procedures.
d. Review the future arrangements for recreation management to ensure the Recreation
Management Unit is fully integrated into the Red Sea Governorate, or other suitable
organizations. Also ensure transfer of sources of income generated through the
management of recreation and visitor facilities to support the activities of the
Unit following the project.
e. Review the arrangements for protected areas along the Red Sea to ensure adequate
funding for further development and management of these areas according to the
management plans and work programs prepared under the project.
ACTIVITY VI.5:   Achievements  (mo. 32-36)
a. Record and publicize through manuals and other publications the achievements
and the lessons learned through the project.
b. Integrate project lessons and achievements into the GEF Regional Red Sea
Framework component.



-50-
ATTACHMENT 7
Page 3 of 3
IMPLEMERNTATION
The review will be undertaken by the core team under the direction of the Project
Coordinator. The International Advisors will provide independent review advice.
Negotiations between the agencies and organizations involved may take time to ensure
that post project arrangements are agreed and operating successfully.



ARAM RAPILIC OF  GYPT
EGYPTIAN RED BEA COASTbL AND "MINI RE8BOIRCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 1:  SU(MMARY TIME TABLE
MONTHS                        |12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11  12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 2T 26 29 30 31 32 33 34  35 36 
CZM lan
1.      Dalbae                                    _
2.     Saules
3.      mulegy
4.      R.gakmy A3smnIl
5.     khilllknal Cap"
0.      CZM San
L      Env1onnitdal mnpacl Anals                                                                                                                                _n
N.     PoIUeAm Canl.ol
V.     Pacrenaon Mangen7 n
*      Pmultd au #MAgeaon
C     CZU Proumo FAe4w



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYP
IEGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARtINE RESOURCE MANAGEMEN
TABLE 2: COMPONEKr I (aW PLAN) TIME TABLE
SUB-COAI'OHENrATPWITT1ES                     23  4  567  8        910  11  12 13 14 15 117  1819  2021  22 23 2425 262728  2 93031  3233 3435  36
1.DTA
1.1 GtS                                   __
1.2 IbAud.U Saubi
1.3 E~gk*umneon
1.4 ESaiok0 &Sawy
1.3 ra      We nsawymp
I A bvanso d Smwys
1.7 Mm o____
I.    Cis ngoliv   ef ( am  U n_                    _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  __   _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _
ESTt[
2.1 MIM~1 Pt.Aon &Ewy
2.2 DrwAkxnud +     NS________
2.3 NES R~d & Tuaftun_______
2.4 Cuvybig Qcap* _y___
2.5 FKLaM.t rawlhu
U,
312 OppcUOm/Cnemk
4.1 Laomu. R.ft*w____
4.2 ZIA P UnMa
4.3 C2IA Qu*kIm
4.4 C2  Aigi"om                                  _______
5.2 huUkand Aign~_                                      _    _
L. C      *
&I "      -z  P___n



- 53 -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPltAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 3 COMPONENT I (CZM)-SBCOMPONENTS LOCAL STAFF & CONSUTANTS MN MONTHS BY DISCIRE
Sub-componnht        1      2     3     4     5      6     Total man
Wmm  aL                10    2      3      3           1          10
T    _wnm   Ecog       10     1     3      2                      16
PAMUMMn                3      4     2      2     1     2          14
F1hufs                  1     2            1                      4
Co__ G.mnqhow   4  1  1  2                                     =
OONm1aphy              4      1     1      2     =
lW  PcIUM              2      _            4     1     1          14
Lwdtn.m-vi             2      4     4      4     1     a          21
Ec DIW PAmbtg                 3                        1          4
echinmg                1      2            2           1          6
PRCd Arm  PU.I                4     4      2     1     2          13
SodoL/ hmVW            1      2     1                  1          5
TOIln PhI19             1     4     1      1     1     2          10
To'urt  Make"           1     2                                   3
|R.a_On P"PM                  4            2           2          a
lwu,ufhs               =      1           _9     1     1          12
|nCnuMu   Ecam L       1      4     1      2     1     1          10
| Fhr                       -      =23           1     2          6
PUtIc/hkJ. M~Wi.                           2     a     1          9
CwQMiB TedmL           10                                         10
|mTnOT   S555ig        4                                          4
TCOTAL                 55    so    20    40    15    2S20



- 54 -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 4. CORE TEAM  MAN-MONTH TO COMPONENTS
STAFF - HUMAN                     PROJECT         |I       | 11   |             IV        V        VI      TOTAL
RESOURCES                      MANAGEMEHT                                   
CORE TEAM
Projec Co-ordinator (PC)               14             6       3        3        3         3        4          36
Project Operations Mgr.                3              6       -        8        8         8        3          36
(OM)
-             10       1        6        9        8         2          36
Chief Scientist                                      9        1        8        8         8        2          36
Clief Scienti t              _              9       3        8        6         6         4         36
Data-base Manager                                    9        3 _               6         6        4          36
Financial Manager
4             5        1       2        10        10        4          36
PR & Education Officer
18            3        3        3        4         4        1          36
Traimnng & AdminisL Officer            _              3       3        3        4         4         2         36
-             -        -       25        -        -         2          27
Chief Pollution Control
Officer                                _              1       -        -        -        28         1         30
Proteced Are" Manager                  -              3       -        -        26        -         1         30
Recreation Areas Manager
57            57       12      66        77       78        28         375



- 55 -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 5: CORE TEAM MM/OFFICE LOCATION
STAFF - HUMAN RESOURCES           MAN
MONTHS
CORE TEAM
Project Co-ordinator (PC)          36
Project Operations Mgr. (OM)       36
In Cairo
Chief Pannerl                     36
Chief Scientist'                  36
Data-base Manager                 36
Financial Manager                  36
PR & EdUAtion Officer              36
Training & Admunistrative Oflrcer  36
In Red Sea Ofrice
Cbief Pollution Control OMicer (III)  272
Chief Planner1
CDief Scientist1                   _
Protected Areas Mngr. (V)         3O3
Recreation Areas Mngr. (IV)       33
1/    Same persons moving between Red Sea and Cairo Offices.
2/    Appointed to Red Sea Office 9 months into the project for training and to help establish
Red Sea Office.
3/    Appointed after 6 months to participate in CZM Plan (I) and establish implementation
programs.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGENENT PROJECT
TABLE 6: CORE TEAM SALARY COSTS
STAFF - HUMAN                 MONTHS    LOCAL    TOTAL    LOCAL    SALARY    TOTAL
RESOURCES                    DURING   SALARIES   LOCAL   SALARIES  SUPPLEM.  SALARIES
PROJECT  /MONTH   COSTS   /MONTH  /MONTH   /MONTH
(LE)           (LE)             IN S             (M)             IN $
CORE TEAM
Project Co-ordinator (PC)               36              1500           54,000           455              1000             1455
Project Operations Mgr. (OM)            36              1500           54,000           455              1000             1455
Chief Planncr                           36              1000           36,000            300             750              1050      |
Cr1
Chief Scientist                         36              1000           36,000            300             750              1050                                                      a
Chief Pollution Control Officer         27              1000           27,000            300             750             1050
Protected Areas Manager                 30              1000           30,000            300             750              1050
Recreation Areas Manager                30              1000           30,000            300             750              1050
Data-base Manager                       36              800            28,800            245             500              745
Financial Manager                       36              800            28,800            245             500              745
PR & Education Officer                  36              800            28,800            245             500              745
Training Administrative Officer          36              800           28,800            245             500              745



- 57 -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 7: INTERNATIONAL CONSULTANT MAN-MONTHS/COSTS TO COMPONENTS
INTERNAL ADVISORS           MM/            MM        FEE/        DSA       ST/MM       TOTAL/
COMPONENT    TOTAL           MM       TRAVEL/                 FOREIGN
MM                      MM
CZM Planner/Manager      2 (1), 3 (IV),7             9,000       6.000       15.000     105,000
1 (V), 1 (VI)
Marine Pollution Advisor  2 (1), 4 (II),    7        9,000       6,000       15.000     105,000
1 (Vl), 1 (IV)
Marine Park Advisor
2 (1), 3 (V),    7         9,000      6,000       15,000      105,000
1 (IV), 1 (VI)
INTERNATIONAL EXPERTS           MAN/MONTHS   FEES/ MM              DSA +        TOTAL/    TOTAL
(in the following fields:)          (MM) a                      TRAVEL/MM         MM         IN 000
CZM Plan (I)
GIS Systems                          2 MM            9,000          6,000        15,000       30 K
Marine pollution
(ecology/oceanography)             3 MM            9,000          6,000         15,000      45 K
Oil pollution control                1 MM            9,000          6,000        15,000       15 K
Risk assessment                      1 MM           9,000           6,000        15,000       15 K
Nature-based tourism                 2 MM            9,000          6,000        15,000       30 K
Conservation funding                 2 MM            9,000          6,000        15,000       30 K
Environmental law                    3 MM           9,000           6,000        15,000       45 K
Environmental institutions           2 MM           9,000           6,000        15,000       30 K
Environmental economics              2 MM           9,000           6,000        15,000      30 
Sub-total                          18 MM                                                    270 K
EIA (II)
EIA Expert                           6 MM           9,000           6,000        15,000       90 K
Pollution Control (Ill)
Oil Pollution                        1 MM            9,000          6,000        15,000       15 K
Review (VI)
Environmental Law                    1 MM           9,000           6,000        15,000       15 K
Inst. Expert                         1 MM           9,000           6,000        15,000      i1K
Sub-total                          2 MM                                                     30 K
_        __                    T                               .       _       .  _ 



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 8: FOREIGN COSTS SUXHURY (USD)
PROJECT           Fees          Travel        Equipment    Consumables   Training            Public         Civil        TOTAL        X
COMPONENT                                                                                    Awareness       Works
Cairo Office          40,000          11,400        245,000          70,000             _          47,500            -      413,900     8.7
Red Sea           -                     -         284,000           80,000            -              -             -     364,0()0     77
CZM (I)             400,000         61.600             _                -         96,500         70,000            -      628,100    13.2
EIA (II)            97,500          17,400             _               -         63,000         15,000            -       192,900     4.1
PC (III)           125,000          18,900         15,000               -        56,600         30,000       300,000      545,500    11.5
RAM (IV)            115,000         18,800              _               -         51,000         40,000       750,000     974,800    20.5
PA (V)             115,000         30,400         191,000          60,000        51,500         40,000       750,000    1,237,900    26.1
Review (VI)           95,000         12,500              _-                             -         30,000            -       137,500     2.9
Scientific Advisory      60,000              _-                                                           -             -       60,000     1.3
Committee (SAC)                                        _      . _.
Network              20,000             _               _               _             _              _             -       20,000     0.4
Regional Seas           50,000             _              _                _             -              _             -       50,000     1.1
Framework (RSF)
Contingencies                 .                                                                                              125,400     2.6
Total            1,117,500        171,000        735,000         210,000        318,600        272.500     1,800,000    4,750,000    100
%                   23.5            3.6            15.5             4.4           6.7            5.7          37.9         100



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SED COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 9: LOCAL COST SUMMARY (USD)
PROJECT             Fees        Accommodatlo    Equipment   Consumable                Total          %
COMPONENT                                n                                s
Cairo Office            70,000           240,000          30,000          50,000        390,000        39.80
Red Sea               58,000            100,000         30,000          60,000        248,000        25.30
CZM (I)              94,000                                  -               -         94,000         9.60
EIA (II)             21,000                                 -               -          21,000        2.10
PC (Ill)             48,000                 _-                              -          48,000        4.90
RAM (IV)              58,000                 _-                              -          58,000        5.90
PA (V)               82,000                                 -          26,000         108,000       11.00
Review (VI)            14,000                                 -               -          14,000        1.40
TOTAL               445,000            340,000          60,000         136,000        981,000         100



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
EGYPTIAN RED SEA COASTAL AND MARINE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE 10: PROPOSED PROJECT DISBURSEMENT
FIRST YEAR   SECOND YEAR    THIRD YEAR
PROJECT COMPONENT           1993            1994            1995           Total
Cairo Office              332             46              36             414
Red Sea Office             304             30              30             364
CZN (I)                628              -               --            628
EIA (II)                193             --              --             193
PC (III)                55             250             240             545
RAM (IV)                30             455             490             975
PA (V)                 35             678             525            1,238                             8
Review (VI)               --              --             138             138                             C
Scientific Advisory           20              20              20             60
Committee (SAC)
Conservation Network           --              10              10             20
Regional Seas              10              20              20             50
Framework (RSF)
Contingencies              --              50              75             125
Total                1,607           1,559           1,584          4,750



IBRD 24065R
30O                        30-    Suez                         32                                      34'
CAIRO
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                 30
COASTAL ZONE
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Z3  PROPOSED MULTIPLE USE AREA
PROPOSED PROTECTED AREA
0- '                       __- PAVED ROADS
\ST KATHERINE                              - - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
280 0 El Minya                                    \                                                                                        28
KILOMETERS
0        50        100      150
\- PAS MOHAMMED                     I         I         I        I
NATIONA1 PARK                    I
0              50             100
MILES
0Asyut                                   Hurg
T\h bo-od-es. -o-
oter,fo-nsh-  shown on
hsnspdo no  nsply. o   he
pan of The World BonE Grop
-nY Ndg-ret on the epa!1
Sfaga                                                d-l- -t-o
s-ch Oo-bd-r-es
Qea
26,                                                                                                                                       2
Esnao                                              esaA0
0Kom Omb0
HAMA TA *                                                 4
24o                                                                                                                                       240
Aswan                                                       ,
GEBEL ELBA *
220~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 
-~~~~~ .2               . .-. . ._  .   . .  . .      - - - - - - - - - - -_                 
S U D A N
320                                        340                                        36
SEPTEMBER 1994






I
I
I



-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
*< -.         4       .
j,                     ...-                 - 
-.
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~      ~ :
*~ ~ ~ -
~~~~~~~~~*                                              .      ,-    .
I~ ~ ~               ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                      ,' .
V~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 4
V~~~                                                   ~               ~~ ~        ~     ~      ~ .*  -                                                                                        I.
.     ~         ~ .rne    nrcce    ae                                                                              .         ,   _                             . ,                                                                                           - .  .-



