Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3605 EGT
                              Loan Agreement
                  (Private Sector Tourism Infrastructure
                   and Environmental Management Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                       TOURISM DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
                         Dated September 28, 1993
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3605 EGT
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1993, between TOURISM
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) Arab Republic of Egypt (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even
date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor
has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as
set forth in the Guaranteee Agreement;
      (C)   as part of its economic reform program, the Guarantor
is currently implementing measures for privatization of public
hotel holdings and for restructuring the functions of public
enterprises operating in the tourism sector; and
Page  2
      (D)   by an agreement (the Global Environment Trust Fund
Grant Agreement) dated January 26, 1993 between the Guarantor
and the Bank, acting as Trustee of the trust fund for the
Global Environment Facility (GET) established pursuant to
Resolution No. 91-5 of the Bank's Executive Directors, the Bank
has agreed to make a grant (the GET Grant) to the Guarantor in
the amount of SDR3,400,000 to assist in financing Part E of the
Project and to undertake other environmental protection
measures;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single
Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated
February 9, 1993, (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "MOT" means the Guarantor's Ministry of Tourism;
      (b)   "ASD" means the Abu Soma Development Company, a
joint-stock company incorporated under the Guarantor's Law No.
230 of 1989;
      (c)   "Abu Soma Contract" means the contract, dated
December 11, 1990, between MOT and ASD whereby the area located
in the Abu Soma Bay on the Red Sea Coast, and to be developed
under Part B (1) of the Project, was sold/leased by MOT to ASD;
      (d)   "SHBD" means the Sahl Hasheesh Bay Development
Company, a joint-stock company, incorporated under the
Guarantor's Law No. 230 of 1989;
      (e)   "Sahl Hasheesh Contract" means the Contract, dated
January 8, 1991, between MOT and SHBD whereby the area located
in the Sahl Hasheesh Bay on the Red Sea Coast, and to be
developed under Part B (2) of the Project, was sold/leased by
MOT to SHBD;
      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (g)   "ASD Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into pursuant to the provision of Part A of Schedule 6
to this Agreement, between the Borrower and ASD;
      (h)   "SHBD Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into, pursuant to the provisions of Part A of Schedule
6 to this Agreement, between the Borrower and SHBD;
      (i)   "Private Investors" means ASD and SHBD with respect
to Part B of the Project, and all other private investors who
may be contracted by TDA for the purposes of carrying out Part
C of the Project;
      (j)   "Category" means any of the categories set forth in
the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (k)   "Abu Soma Phase I" means the infrastructure and
Page  3
superstructure facilities described in Part B (1) of the
Project for an area of about 1,500,000 square meters and "Abu
Soma Phase II" means the construction of the remainder of
facilities referred to in said Part B (1) of the Project; and
      (l)   "Sahl Hasheesh Phase I" means the infrastructure and
superstructure facilities described in Part B (2) of the
Project for an area of about 2,000,000 square meters and "Sahl
Hasheesh Phase II" means the construction of the remainder of
facilities referred to in said Part B (2) of the Project.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred thirty million
dollars ($130,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and other
charges on the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank or in the Central Bank of the Guarantor on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, should the
Special Account be opened in a commercial bank, appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
      (c)   On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to pay, on such date, interest
and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before
such date, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to
Single Currency LIBOR, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%), plus or minus the Average Margin as provided in paragraph
(b) (iv) below.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
                (i)   "Interest Period" means the initial period
                      from and including the date of this
                      Agreement to but not including the first
                      Interest Payment Date and thereafter the
                      period from and including any Interest
                      Payment Date to but not including the next
Page  4
                      Interest Payment Date.
               (ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date
                      specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
              (iii)   "Single Currency LIBOR" means the London
                      interbank offered rate for dollar, expressed
                      as a percentage per annum, reasonably
                      determined by the Bank in accordance with
                      Schedule 4 to this Agreement for the January
                      15 or July 15 on which an Interest Period
                      commences (or, for the initial Interest
                      Period, the January 15 or July 15 preceding
                      the date of this Agreement or on which such
                      Interest Period commences).
               (iv)   "Average Margin" means, for any Interest
                      Period, the weighted average margin, for the
                      Semester preceding the relevant January 15
                      or July 15, between: (A) the cost of the
                      outstanding borrowings of the Bank or
                      portions thereof allocated to the funding of
                      single currency loans in all currencies, and
                      (B) the specific London and, for French
                      francs, Paris interbank offered rates or
                      other such reference rates attributable to
                      such borrowings in each such currency, all
                      as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                      expressed as a percentage per annum. For any
                      Interest Period in which (A) exceeds (B),
                      the Average Margin shall be added under
                      paragraph (a) above.  For any Interest
                      Period in which (B) exceeds (A), the Average
                      Margin shall be subtracted under paragraph
                      (a) above. Notwithstanding the fore- going,
                      the Average Margin for the Interest Period
                      ending July 14, 1993 shall be minus 0.28%.
                (v)   "Semester" means the first six months or
                      second six months of a calendar year.
      (c)   After the Bank shall have determined Single Currency
LIBOR and the Average Margin for any Interest Period, the Bank
shall promptly notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of such
determination.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement, shall:
      (a)   make arrangements, satisfactory to the Guarantor and
the Bank, for the carrying out of Part A (1) of the Project
through MOT, and carry out Part E of the Project in
coordination with EAA and the Red Sea Governorate of the
Guarantor, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with the arrangements set forth in Global Environment Trust
Fund Grant Agreement; and
      (b)   carry out Parts A (2) and (3), B and C of the Project
Page  5
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall exercise its rights and
discharge its responsibilities under arrangements it has
concluded with Private Investors for purposes of Parts B and C
of the Project, including the ASD Loan Agreement and the SHBD
Loan Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to achieve the objectives of the
Project.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank quarterly reports on the progress in carrying out the
Project, expenditures incurred in connection therewith, the
sources of financing such expenditures and compliance by
Private Investors with the financial terms of their contracts
with the Borrower.
      Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts (including separate records and accounts for the
Project) adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations, resources and
expenditures, and financial condition.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have its records and accounts including the
                  separate records and accounts for the Project
                  referred to in paragraph (a) above and the
                  Special Account, for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. (a) For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
                (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                      accordance with sound accounting practices,
                      records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
               (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                      invoices, bills, receipts and other
                      documents) evidencing such expenditures are
                      retained until at least one year after the
                      Bank has received the audit report for the
                      fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                      from the Loan Account was made; and
Page  6
              (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                      such records.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
                (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                      paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those
                      for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                      audited, in accordance with appropriate
                      auditing principles consistently applied,
                      by independent auditors acceptable to the
                      Bank;
               (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
                      but in any case not later than six months
                      after the end of each such year the report
                      of such audit by said auditors, of such
                      scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                      have reasonably requested, including a
                      separate opinion by said auditors as to
                      whether the statements of expenditure sub-
                      mitted during such fiscal year, together
                      with the procedures and internal controls
                      involved in their preparation, can be relied
                      upon to support the related withdrawals; and
              (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                      concerning said records and accounts and the
                      audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                      time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   Presidential Decree No. 374 of 1991 of the Guarantor,
regulating the Borrower, shall have been amended, suspended or
repealed so as to affect materially and adversely the
Borrower's ability to carry out its obligations under this
Agreement.
    (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
                the right of the Guarantor to withdraw the
                proceeds of the GET Grant shall have been
                suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                part, pursuant to the terms of the Global
                Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
         (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                apply if the Guarantor or the Borrower
                establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that
                such suspension, cancellation or termination is
                not caused by the failure of the Guarantor to
                perform its obligations under the Global
                Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
Page  7
    (a)   the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence
demonstrating that the action referred to in Part A(1) of the
Project has been taken; and
    (b)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement, except for
conditions related to the effectiveness of this Loan Agreement,
have been fulfilled.
    Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Chief Executive Officer of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Tourism Development Authority
          Nile Tower - 21 Giza Street
          Cairo, Egypt
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                TOURISM DEVELOPMENT           5703492-98
                  AUTHORITY
                  Cairo
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                               82987 (FTCC)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                By /s/ Ram Chopra
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa
Page  8
                TOURISM DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
                By /s/ Ahmed Maher El Sayed
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated                 % of
                          (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1) Works for                                       100%
    infrastructure
    facilities
    (including the
    supply of equip-
    ment and associated
    services) under Part B
    of the Project:
    (a) Part B (1)           40,000,000
    (b) Part B (2)           40,000,000
(2) Works for infra-         12,000,000              50%
    structure facili-
    lities under
    Parts C (1), (2)
    and (3) of the
    Project (including
    the supply of
    equipment and
    associated services)
(3) Works for                13,000,000              40%
    infrastructure
    facilities
    under Part C (4)
    of the Project
    (including the
    supply of equip-
    ment and associated
    services)
(4) Consultants'              3,000,000               100% of foreign
    services under                                    expenditures
    Part D of the
    Project
(5) Interest and             22,000,000               Amounts due pur-
    other charges on                                  suant to Section
    the Loan accrued                                  2.02 of this
    on or before                                      Agreement
    August 1, 1998
                            ___________
        TOTAL               130,000,000
                            ===========
Page  9
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the
Guarantor.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, and (b)
payments under Category (1)(a) or Category (1)(b) unless ASD or
SHBD, as the case may be, shall have satisfied the disbursement
condition stated in paragraph A(1)(i) of Part A of Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are (a) to support the
Guarantor's policy of deregulation and further privatization of
the tourism sector, (b) to provide catalytical financial
support for infrastructure and superstructure development by
the private sector in major tourist areas in the Red Sea, (c)
to improve the Nile cruise ship operations, (d) to provide
appropriate arrangements for proper environmental management of
the Red Sea Coast, and (e) to strengthen the capacity of TDA
and EAA.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Reform of the Operational Environment for the Tourism
          Sector
1.  Preparation and adoption of regulations for the hotel
industry whereby (a) MOT shall continue to be responsible for
grading hotels and for supervising their adherence to safety
and quality and other regulatory standards, and (b) management
of hotels shall be empowered to set hotel rates and the prices
for services pursuant to guidelines to be developed from within
the hotel industry.
2.  A study by the Borrower of the priorities, modalities and
conditions for allocation of public land in areas designated as
tourist zones, and the preparation on the basis of the findings
thereof of related regulations.
3.  Preparation by the Borrower of a plan for improving safety
regulations for Nile cruises.
Part B:   Area Development
1.  Development, for touristic purposes, of the land sold or
leased to ASD under the Abu Soma Contract in the Ras Abu Soma
Bay area 40 km south of Hurghada, including:
    (a)   construction of infrastructure facilities comprising
(i) roads, (ii) water desalination plants and associated
storage and distribution network, (iii) sewage treatment
plants, (iv) sewage network and irrigation network for
landscaping, (v) electric power generators, and (vi) electrical
and telecommunications networks; and
    (b)   construction, in phases, of superstructure facilities
comprising (i) hotels, (ii) villas and condominiums, (iii)
marinas, (iv) commercial and recreational facilities, and (v)
housing facilities for employees.
2.  Development, for touristic purposes, of the land sold or
released to SHBD under the Sahl Hasheesh Contract in the Sahl
Hasheesh area 20 km south of Hurghada, including:
Page  10
    (a)   construction of infrastructure facilities comprising:
(i) roads, (ii) water desalination plants and associated
storage and distribution network, (iii) sewage treatment
plants, (iv) sewage and irrigation network, (v) electric power
generators, and (vi) electrical and telecommunications
networks; and
    (b)   construction, in phases, of superstructure facilities
comprising: (i) hotels, (ii) tourist villages, (iii) marinas,
(iv) villas and chalets, and (v) a commercial center.
Part C:   Infrastructure Improvement in Existing Tourism Areas
    Infrastructure facilities to be constructed, operated and
managed by the private sector, including:
1.  Improvement of water supply service in south Hurghada
through the construction of desalination plants, water
reservoirs, distribution mains, pumping stations, related
electric facilities for the above desalination plants and
pumping stations, in addition to an administration building and
a maintenance facility.
2.  Improvement of waste water service in south Hurghada through
the construction of stabilization ponds, pumping stations, a
gravity collector, force mains and irrigation pipes.
3.  Improvement of solid waste service in south Hurghada,
including the areas to be developed under Part B of the
Project, through the construction of a sanitary landfill and
the provision of compactor trucks and equipment.
4.  Improvement of Nile cruise operations, through (a)
constructing and equipping of additional berths at Aswan,
Luxor, Dandara, Isna, Edfu and Kom Ombu, (b) establishment of
a traffic and navigation control center, comprising a traffic
control system, fire fighting and medical services and
facilities for inspection and licensing, and (c) upgrading of
tourist areas, including improvement of access roads from the
Nile to the antiquity sites and provisions of food and parking
facilities.
Part D:   Institutional Strengthening
    Provision of technical assistance and training (a) for the
Borrower to strengthen its capacity in tourism planning and
marketing, procurement and financial management, (b) for the
Borrower and EAA to strengthen their capacity in the
development of environmental guidelines for tourism zones and
the monitoring and enforcement thereof, and (c) for the
Borrower to assist in the preparation of tourism projects.
Part E:   Environmental Management
    Development and implementation of an integrated coastal zone
management program on the portion of the Red Sea Coast between
Ras Shukeir in the north and the Sudanese border in the south,
comprising: (a) development of environmental impact assessment
standards and practices for coastal tourism and oil and gas
exploration, (b) training of the staff of EAA and the Borrower
in the application of such standards and practices to relevant
projects, (c) development of a capacity for monitoring and
enforcing pollution control regulations, (d) establishment of
standards for the construction, maintenance and management of
recreational facilities so as to protect the marine/coastal
environment, (e) designation of protected areas and preparation
of plans for their management, and (f) establishment of a
mechanism to review such coastal zone management program to
ensure the achievement of its objectives.
                                 *   *   *
Page  11
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                               Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (Expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 1999                                    3,275,000
July 15, 1999                                       3,335,000
January 15, 2000                                    3,400,000
July 15, 2000                                       3,460,000
January 15, 2001                                    3,525,000
July 15, 2001                                       3,590,000
January 15, 2002                                    3,660,000
July 15, 2002                                       3,725,000
January 15, 2003                                    3,795,000
July 15, 2003                                       3,865,000
January 15, 2004                                    3,940,000
July 15, 2004                                       4,010,000
January 15, 2005                                    4,085,000
July 15, 2005                                       4,160,000
January 15, 2006                                    4,240,000
July 15, 2006                                       4,320,000
January 15, 2007                                    4,400,000
July 15, 2007                                       4,480,000
January 15, 2008                                    4,565,000
July 15, 2008                                       4,650,000
January 15, 2009                                    4,735,000
July 15, 2009                                       4,825,000
January 15, 2010                                    4,915,000
July 15, 2010                                       5,005,000
January 15, 2011                                    5,095,000
July 15, 2011                                       5,190,000
January 15, 2012                                    5,290,000
July 15, 2012                                       5,385,000
January 15, 2013                                    5,485,000
July 15, 2013                                       5,595,000
______________________
*   The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars
    to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the
    General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                    Single Currency LIBOR Determination
1.  Single Currency LIBOR for any Interest Period shall be the
offered rate for deposits in dollar for a period of six months
which appears on the display designated as page "3750" on the
Telerate monitor (or such other page or service as may replace
it for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates
of major banks for dollar deposits), as of 11:00 a.m. (London
time) on the second day on which banks and foreign exchange
markets are open for business in London prior to the relevant
January 15 or July 15 (the Interest Determination Date).
2.  If such rate does not appear on the Telerate monitor or on
such service as may replace it, the Bank shall request the
London offices of four major banks to provide the Bank with the
rate at which deposits in dollar are offered by such banks on
the Interest Determination Date to leading banks in the London
interbank market for a period of six months ending on the last
day of such Interest Period. Single Currency LIBOR for such
interest Period shall be the arithmetic mean (rounded upwards
if necessary to the fifth decimal place) of such offered
quotations as determined by the Bank.
3.  If not more than one major bank provides the Bank with such
Page  12
quotations under paragraph 2 above, Single Currency LIBOR shall
be arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth
decimal place) determined by the Bank of the rates quoted by at
least two major banks in New York City selected by the Bank on
the Interest Determination Date for loans in dollar to leading
European banks for a period of six months ending on the last
day of such Interest Period. If fewer than two of the banks so
selected are quoting such rates, Single Currency LIBOR shall be
the single currency in effect for the last preceding Interest
Period.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Egypt may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Contracts for works estimated each to cost less than the
equivalent of $500,000 and contracts for goods estimated each
to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000 may be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotation solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
from at least two different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more or for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
Page  13
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 7
to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part D of the Project, the Borrower, in conjunction with EAA,
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                          Implementation Program
A.  Area Development under Part B of the Project
1.  The Borrower shall onlend to ASD and SHBD the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time for Parts B (1) and B (2)
of the Project under Categories (1) (a) and 1 (b),
respectively, in addition to the corresponding amounts under
Category (5), under two loan agreements the first to be
concluded between the Borrower and ASD (the ASD Loan Agreement)
and the second to be concluded between the Borrower and SHBD
(the SHBD Loan Agreement), under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank, including provision
whereby:
    (a)   the amounts so onlent to ASD and SHBD shall be
denominated in dollars and all debt service payments with
respect to such amounts shall be made in dollars;
    (b)   ASD and SHBD shall each repay the amount so onlent to
it over a period of 15 years, including a grace period of 5
years;
    (c)   ASD and SHBD shall each pay: (i) on the unwithdrawn
portion of the amount so onlent to it, commitment charge at the
annual rate applicable from time to time to the loan pursuant
to Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement; and (ii) on the portion
withdrawn and outstanding of such amount, interest at an annual
rate which shall be equal to the interest rate applicable from
time to time to the loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan
Agreement, plus (i) 2 percentage points or (ii) 3 percentage
Page  14
points in case the loan provided under the ASD Loan Agreement
or the SHBD Loan Agreement is subordinated to other borrowing
contracted by ASD or SHBD, as the case may be, for purposes of
their activities under the Project;
    (d)   ASD and SHBD shall each: (i) obtain the Borrower's
prior written consent to the terms of ASD's or SHBD's borrowing
from other sources for purposes of the Project; (ii) maintain
their capital, organization and management structures and
obtain the consent of the Borrower to any material modification
thereto; (iii) provide on its assets, in favor of the Borrower,
security in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank;
(iv) furnish to the Borrower (A) quarterly financial
statements, indicating the levels of expen- ditures under the
Project and the sources thereof; and (B) quarterly reports on
progress in the carrying out of its activities under the
Project;
    (e)   ASD and SHBD shall each: (i) be required to ensure
under the financial statements referred to in paragraph (d)
above that not less than 40% of their capital expenditures
under the Project shall be financed from equity contributed by
its shareholders; and (ii) furnish to the Borrower evidence of
adherence to such requirement in the audit of such financial
statements referred to in paragraph (g) below;
    (f)   ASD and SHBD shall be required to award contracts to be
financed from the proceeds of the loans provided under the ASD
Loan Agreement and the SHBD Loan Agreement, respectively, in
accordance with the provision of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
    (g)   ASD and SHBD shall each:
            (i)   maintain records and accounts adequate to
                  reflect in accordance with sound accounting
                  practices its operation and financial
                  condition;
           (ii)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statement of income
                  and expenses and related statements) for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Borrower;
          (iii)   furnish to the Borrower as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than five months
                  after the end of each such year: (A) certified
                  copies of its financial statements for such
                  year as so audited; and (B) the report of such
                  audit by said auditors of such scope and in
                  such detail as the Borrower shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
           (iv)   furnish to the Borrower such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Borrower shall from time to time reasonably
                  request;
      (h)   ASD and SHBD shall utilize the amounts onlent to them
under the ASD Loan Agreement and the SHBD Loan Agreement only
for financing expenditures incurred for the carrying out of
Part B (1) and Part B (2) of the Project, respectively;
      (i)   no disbursement shall be made by ASD under the ASD
Loan Agreement or by SHBD under the SHBD Loan Agreement until
each shall have:
            (A)   concluded with commercial lenders the lending
                  arrangements for infrastructure facilities
Page  15
                  included in the Abu Soma Phase I or the Sahl
                  Hasheesh Phase I, as the case may be; and
            (B)   concluded (1) the contracts for the
                  construction of all relevant infrastructure
                  facilities and, where required, for the
                  operation and management thereof, (2) the
                  financial arrangements for not less than two
                  hotels in each of the two areas covered by the
                  Abu Soma Contract and the Sahl Hasheesh
                  Contract, (3) the contracts for the sale of
                  land required for the construction of such
                  hotels, (4) the contracts for supply of utility
                  services by ASD or SHBD, as the case may be,
                  for the operation of such hotels, and (5) the
                  contracts for the operation and management of
                  such hotels with reputable operators;
      (j)   The Borrower shall retain the right to suspend
disbursement under the ASD Loan Agreement or the SHBD Loan
Agreement in the case of material violation by ASD or SHBD of
their obligations thereunder or under the Abu Soma Contract or
the Sahl Hasheesh Contract, as the case may be; and
      (k)   ASD or SHBD may not proceed with the execution of
works included under the Abu Soma Phase II or the Sahl Hasheesh
Phase II, respectively, unless (i) infrastructure and
superstructure facilities included in the Abu Soma Phase I and
the Sahl Hasheeh Phase I have been substantially completed, and
(ii) the Borrower has concluded, with the Bank's concurrence,
based on a review of the financial viability of ASD and SHBD,
that such works under both Phases II may proceed.
B.    Infrastructure Facilities under Part C of the Project
1.    The Borrower shall formulate and furnish to the Bank, for
its review and comment, not later than December 31, 1993,
proposals for the assignment to private concerns of the
responsibilities for the construction, operation and management
of the infrastructure facilities included in Part C (1), (2),
(3) and (4) (a) of the Project.
2.    The Borrower may assume the responsibility for executing
all or part of such infrastructure facilities provided,
however, that the Borrower shall make arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the operation and maintenance of
such facilities with private concerns or with relevant local
utility entities.
C.    Part A (2) and (3) of the Project
1.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   undertake the study included in Part A (2) of the
Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
      (b)   ensure the completion of such study by December 31,
1993;
      (c)   exchange views with the Bank on the findings and
recommendations thereof; and
      (d)   prepare on the basis thereof appropriate regulations
and guidelines for allocation of land in tourist areas and
arrange to inform investors of such regulations and guidelines.
2.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and discuss with the Bank, by December 31,
1993, the plan referred to in Part A (3) of the Project for
improving the safety regulations for Nile cruises; and
      (b)   take thereafter appropriate measures for the
Page  16
enforcement of such regulations, taking into account the Bank's
comments thereon.
                                SCHEDULE 7
                              Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant
                  to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                  or payments in respect of which replenishment
                  is requested. On the basis of each such
                  request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                  deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                  the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                  have been shown by said documents and other
                  evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                  Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
Page  17
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
