Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                               GET GRANT NUMBER 28628 EGT
                      Global Environmental Trust Fund
                              Grant Agreement
                (Private Sector Tourism Infrastructure and
                     Environmental Management Project)
                                  between
                          ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
                                Trust Fund
                          Dated January 26, 1993
                                               GET GRANT NUMBER 28628 EGT
               GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 26, 1993, between ARAB REPUBLIC
OF EGYPT (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT, acting as Trustee of grant
funds provided by Participants of the Global Environment
Facility into the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
      WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank) pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of
March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the Bank (the
Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility
consisting of the Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the
Ozone Projects Trust Fund to assist in the protection of the
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound
and sustainable economic development;
      WHEREAS (B) certain members of the Bank (the Participants)
have provided grant funds to the GET and requested the Bank,
and the Bank has agreed, to administer, as Trustee, such grant
funds for the purposes of, and in accordance with, the
provisions of the Resolution;
Page  2
      WHEREAS (C) by an agreement of even date herewith (the
Loan Agreement) between the Trustee and the Tourism Development
Authority of the Recipient, the Trustee (acting in its capacity
as a lending institution) has agreed to lend to said Tourism
Development Authority with the Guarantee of the Recipient an
amount equivalent to $130,000,000 for financing a Private
Sector Tourism Infrastructure and Environmental Management
Project (the Project), which includes implementation of a
program for proper environmental management of a coastal zone
on the Red Sea (the Environmental Component);
      WHEREAS (D) the Recipient has requested from the Trustee
assistance from the resources of the GET in the financing of
the Environmental Component, and the Trustee has determined
that the granting of such assistance is in conformity with the
provisions of the Resolution;
      WHEREAS (E) the Environmental Component will be carried
out by the Tourism Development Authority (TDA) and the Egyptian
Environmental Affairs Agency (EAA) and the Red Sea Governorate
(the Governorate), all of the Recipient, with the Recipient's
assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Recipient will
make available, in accordance with its applicable regulations,
to TDA, EAA and the Governorate the proceeds of the GET Grant
provided for in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing to extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
                (i)   Article I;
               (ii)   Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8),
                      (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) and (20), 2.02
                      and 2.03;
              (iii)   Section 3.01;
               (iv)   Section 4.01 and the first sentence of
                      Section 4.09;
                (v)   Article V;
               (vi)   Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (d), (e), (f), (i)
                      and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
              (vii)   Section 8.01 (b);
             (viii)   Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
                      9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
               (ix)   Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
                (x)   Article XI; and
               (xi)   Section 12.04.
    (b)   The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
Page  3
                (i)   the term "Bank", wherever used in the
                      General Conditions, other than in Sections
                      2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last
                      use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof,
                      means the Trustee except that in Section
                      6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the
                      International Bank for Reconstruction and
                      Development acting in its own capacity;
               (ii)   the term "Borrower", wherever used in the
                      General Conditions, means the Recipient;
              (iii)   the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in
                      the General Conditions, means this
                      Agreement;
               (iv)   the term "Loan" wherever used in the General
                      Conditions, means the GET Grant;
                (v)   the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the
                      General Conditions, means the GET Grant
                      Account; and
               (vi)   the term "Project", wherever used in the
                      General Conditions, means the Environmental
                      Component described in Schedule 2 to this
                      Agreement.
    Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, General Conditions and in the Recitals to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the term "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                               The GET Grant
    Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the
Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, the GET Grant in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to three million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,400,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be
withdrawn from the GET Grant Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
carrying out the Environmental Component and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
    (b)   The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the
Environmental Component, open and maintain in dollars a special
account in its Central Bank or in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including, should
the Special Account be opened in a commercial bank, appropriate
protection against set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1996
or such later date as the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee
shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Environmental Component as set forth in
Page  4
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry
out the Environmental Component through TDA, EAA and the
Governorate with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, financial and administrative
practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the facilities
and services required for the Environmental Component.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Recipient and the Trustee
shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the
Environmental Component in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Environmental Component and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the GET Grant shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Environmental
Component of the departments or agencies of the Recipient
responsible for carrying out the Environmental Component or any
part thereof.
    (b)   The Recipient shall:
                (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                      paragraph (a) of this Section including
                      those for the Special Account for each
                      fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                      appropriate auditing principles consistently
                      applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                      to the Trustee;
               (ii)   furnish to the Trustee as soon as available,
                      but in any case not later than six months
                      after the end of each such year, the report
                      of such audit by said auditors, of such
                      scope and in such detail as the Trustee
                      shall have reasonably requested; and
              (iii)   furnish to the Trustee such other
                      information concerning said records and
                      accounts and the audit thereof as the
                      Trustee shall from time to time reasonably
                      request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the GET Grant Account were made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
                (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                      accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                      Section, records and accounts reflecting
                      such expenditures;
               (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                      Trustee has received the audit report for
                      the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                      from the GET Grant Account was made, all
                      records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                      receipts and other documents) evidencing
                      such expenditures;
Page  5
              (iii)   enable the Trustee's representatives to
                      examine such records; and
               (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                      included in the annual audit referred to in
                      paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                      report of such audit contains a separate
                      opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                      statements of expenditure submitted during
                      such fiscal year, together with the
                      procedures and internal controls involved in
                      their preparation, can be relied upon to
                      support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                          Remedies of the Trustee
    Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that the right of the Recipient to withdraw
the proceeds of the Loan made to the Recipient under the Loan
Agreement for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the said Loan Agreement.
    (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee that
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by
the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations
under the Loan Agreement.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effectiveness; Termination
    Section 6.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its
execution by the parties and upon the fulfillment of all
conditions required for the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement, except for conditions related to the effectiveness
of this Global Environment Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
    Section 6.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until
the GET Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this
Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
    Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of State for International
Cooperation or the First Undersecretary for International
Finance in said Ministry of the Recipient is designated as
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Recipient:
          Ministry of International Cooperation
          8 Adly Street
          Cairo, Egypt
          Cable address:                             Telex:
            MINISTRY OF INTERNATIONAL                927-23348
Page  6
               COOPERATION
            Cairo
    For the Trustee:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                             Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                              197688 (TRT),
              Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA),
                                                      64145 (WUI) or
                                                      82987 (FTCC)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in Cairo, Arab Republic of
Egypt, as of the day and year first above written.
                ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
                By /s/ M. Makramallah
                                                Authorized Representative
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee
                By /s/ C. Koch-Weser
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation
of the amounts of the GET Grant to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
                         Amount of the
                      GET Grant Allocated              % of
                         (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)           to be Financed
(1) Goods                    700,000               100%
(2) Works                  1,280,000               100%
(3) Technical              1,420,000               100%
    assistance
        TOTAL              3,400,000
                           =========
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
Page  7
3.  If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any
payment made from the GET Grant Account was used for any
expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the
Trustee, refund to the Trustee for deposit into the GET Grant
Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion
thereof as specified by the Trustee.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                Description of the Environmental Component
    The Environmental Component provides for development and
implementation of an integrated coastal zone management program
on the portion of the Red Sea Coast between Ras Shukeir in the
north and the Sudanese border in the south, comprising: (a)
development of environmental impact assessment standards and
practices for coastal tourism and oil and gas exploration, (b)
training of the staff of EAA and TDA in the application of such
standards and practices to relevant projects, (c) development
of a capacity for monitoring and enforcing pollution control
regulations, (d) establishment of standards for the
construction, maintenance and management of recreational
facilities so as to protect the marine/coastal environment, (e)
designation of protected areas and preparation of plans for
their management, and (f) establishment of a mechanism to
review such coastal zone management to ensure the achievement
of its objectives.
                                 *   *   *
    The Environmental Component is expected to be completed by
    March 31, 1996.
                             SCHEDULE 3
              Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:   Procurement Procedures
1.  Items of equipment estimated to cost per contract the
equivalent of more than $50,000 and all items of works shall be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Trustee.
2.  Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Trustee.
Part B:   Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.  With respect to each contract, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure
that two conformed copies of the contract together with the
other information required to be furnished to the Trustee
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Trustee
as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph
4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (1) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the GET
Grant Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
Page  8
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist TDA, EAA and the Governorate in the
carrying out of the Environmental Component, the Recipient
shall cause TDA, EAA and the Governorate to employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
A.  Management of the Environmental Component
1.  The Recipient shall cause TDA, EAA and the Governorate to
implement the Environmental Component under terms of reference
and in accordance with work plans and time schedules
satisfactory to the Trustee.
2.  For the management of the Environmental Component, the
Recipient shall cause TDA, EAA and the Governorate to ensure:
(i) by April 30, 1993:
    (a)   the establishment of an office for such management in
Cairo;
    (b)   the establishment of a Project Management Group for the
Environmental Component, consisting of a high level
representative from each of TDA, EAA and the Governorate to be
responsible for (i) coordination and facilitation of work, (ii)
approving work plans and budgets for the Environmental
Component, (iii) appointing a Project Manager to be responsible
for the day-to-day management of the Environmental Component,
and an Operation Manager to be responsible for site activities
at the Red Sea Coast, and (iv) appointing an advisory Committee
of distinguished national scientists to provide technical
support and guidance;
    (c)   the appointment, for the duration of the Environmental
Component, of three advisors in the areas of coastal zone
planning and management; marine pollution and marine park
management; and (ii) by June 30, 1993:
    (a)   the preparation and furnishing to the Trustee of an
inception report for the implementation of the Environmental
Component;
    (b)   the appointment to TDA's Environmental Unit of four
professionals with environmental, planning and natural science
backgrounds; and
    (c)   the appointment by EAA of professionals to its water
and coastal zone management with backgrounds in geography,
oceanography, pollution science and pollution control, and to
its Parks and Protected Areas Department with backgrounds in
natural resources management and protected areas planning and
management.
3.  The Recipient shall ensure the assignment by TDA and EAA to
the Project Management Group referred to in paragraph (2) (b)
above of (a) a protected area manager and a recreation area
manager, by September 30, 1993; and (b) a chief pollution
control officer, by December 31, 1993.
4.  By March 31, 1994, the Recipient shall ensure (a) the
approval of the coastal zone management program provided under
Page  9
the Environmental Component; (b) the establishment of the
boundaries of coastal protected areas; and (c) the
establishment of a Protected Areas Office, a Recreation Areas
Management Unit and an Environmental Monitoring and Enforcement
Unit, and the preparation of a first-year work plan and an
operation budget for each.
B.  Plans of Action and Reporting
    In order to ensure timely implementation of the
Environmental Component and assess the progress thereof, the
Recipient shall ensure: (1) starting by the end of December,
1993, and on a semi-annual basis thereafter, the preparation
jointly by TDA and EAA of semi-annual reports on progress in
the carrying out of the Environmental Component, (2) the
approval by December 31, 1993, by the Project Management Group,
referred to in Part A.2 (b) of this Schedule, of a draft
coastal zone management plan for submission to the Recipient's
relevant authorities, (3) the approval, by June 30, 1994, by
said Project Management Group, of a plan for recreation
management and for protected areas management, and (4) the
review by the Recipient's relevant authorities, by March 31,
1996, of the final report prepared under the Environmental
Component, setting forth the arrangements for proper
environmental management of the coastal zone and the
institutional responsibilities for the implementation thereof.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Environmental Component and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the GET Grant
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the
Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit in
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient
shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
               Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee requests
               for deposits into the Special Account at such
               intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
Page  10
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
               the Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee the
               documents and other evidence required pursuant
               to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
               payment or payments in respect of which
               replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Trustee shall, on
               behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET
               Grant Account and deposit into the Special
               Account such amount as the Recipient shall
               have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been
               paid out of the Special Account for eligible
               expenditures. All such deposits shall be
               withdrawn by the Trustee from the GET Grant
               Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent
               amounts, as shall have been justified by said
               documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Trustee shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Trustee shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient
directly from the GET Grant Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Trustee
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Trustee
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon
notice from the Trustee: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the
Trustee) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Trustee into the Special Account shall be made until the
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee,
Page  11
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund
to the Trustee all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the GET
Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
