Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
RePart NO. 11429-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
APRIL 15, 1993
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korean Won (W)
US$1.00 - W780
(April 1993)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
EA    -   Environmental Administration
EERC  -   Environmental Education Review Committee
EFB   -   Education Facilities Bureau
ELPD  -   Education Loan Projects Division
EMB   -   Environmental Management Bureau
ERAC  -   Environmental Research Advisory Committee
ICB   -   International Competitive Bidding
MOE   -  Ministry of Education
MOEN  -  Ministry of the Environment
MOHSA -  Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
MOST  -  Ministry of Science and Technology
NICEM -  National Instrumentation Center for Environmental
Management
NIER  -  National Institute of Environmental Research
O&M   -  Operations and Maintenance
OSROK -  Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
PCC   -   Project Coordinating Committee
PCR   -   Project Completion Report
PPAR  -   Project Performance Audit Report
R&D   -  Research and Development
S&T   -   Science and Technology
STEB  -   Science and Technology Education Bureau
SNU   -  Seoul National University
SOE   -  Statements of Expenditure
TAP   -  Technology Advancement Project
UEO   -  University Education Office
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
March - February



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Paze No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ....  .  .    .  .    . .j.j.j...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
I.  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT. EDUCATION AND RESEARCH  . . . . . . . . . . .1
A.  Environmental Institutions and Policies  . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.  Environmental Education  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  4
C.  Environmental Research .5...  .  .   .  .  .  .   i .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  s
D.  Role of the Agricultural and Veterinary Colleges . . . . . . . . . 7
E.  Bank's Experience in Education and Research  . . . . . . . . . . . 8
II. THE PROJECT .10
A.    Origin  of  the  Project    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
B. Project Rationale and Objectives .10
C. Project Design and Description .12
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
A. Costs .15
B. Financing .17
C.  Project Management and Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
D. Environmental Impact .21
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS ......................... . 22
A.  Benefits ............................ . 22
B. Risks ............................. . 22
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION      .......... . 22
The report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited
Korea during July - August 1992 and an appraisal mission consisting of Mr.
W.E. Rees (mission leader), Ms. K. Johnston (institutional specialist) and
Messrs. S.Z. Sung, V.G. Desa and I. Irvine (consultants), which visited Korea
during November 1992. Peer reviewers were Messrs. T. Wiens (EAlAG), C. Rees
(ENVLW) and V. Greaney (ASTHR). The documents have been endorsed by Messrs.
J. Shivakumar, Chief, EAlPH, and Callisto Madavo, Director, EAl.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1  Summary of Project Costs by Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
3.2  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure  . . . . . . . . 16
3.3  Financing   Plan   .    .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .    .    .  .  .  17
3.4  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
ANNEXES
1. Visiting Experts - Terms of Reference
2.  Environmental Education Review Committee - Terms of Reference
3.  Environmental Research Advisory Committee - Terms of Reference
4. Detailed Project Costs
5. Project Expenditure by Year and Recipient
6. Chart - Organization of the Ministry of Education
7. Implementation Schedule
8. Supervision Plan
9. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP



-iii-
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower           : Republic of Korea
Beneficiary           Not applicable
Amount             : US$60 million equivalent
Terms                 Repayable in 15 years including 5 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project
DescriRtion         The objectives of the project are to assist in upgrading
the capacity of selected agricultural and veterinary
colleges to undertake research into key environmental
problems, reinforce the environmental aspects of basic
science programs in the colleges in order to strengthen
the training of environmental professionals and to
establish appropriate arrangements for improving
environment-related research and teaching programs. The
project would include specialized equipment to be
financed by the Bank (baseline cost, US$58.4 million) to
support: (a) the National Instrumentation Center for
Environmental Management (NICEM - US$10.7 million); (b)
selected agricultural colleges (US$34.7 million); and (c)
selected veterinary colleges (US$13 million). The
Government would finance complementary inputs (US$21.7
million) related to making the equipment operational and
maintaining it thereafter, namely, local transportation
and installation costs, O&M and consumables. The project
would also include overseas training, experts and library
materials (US$1.8 million).
Benefits and
Risks            : The project would strengthen the teaching of environment-
related programs which in turn would lead to the
production of better-trained environmental professionals.
The project would also strengthen environmental research
thus leading to a better understanding of key
environmental problems thereby improving the basis for
policy making and increasing the effectiveness of
environmental protection programs.  There are no major
risks associated with the project.



- iv-
Project Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
--------(US$ million)------
NICEM                                         3.9        12.4        16.3
Agricultural Colleges                        11.3        36.4       47.7
Veterinary Colleges                           4.5        13.4        17.9
Baseline Cost                                19.7        62.2        81,9
Contingencies
Physical                                    1.0        3.1         4.1
Price increase                              4.2         7.1       11.3
Subtotal                                5,10,2                 15.4
Total Project Costl'                           24.9        72.4        97.3
Financing Plan:                               Local     Foreign      Total
-------(US$ million)-------
Government                                   24.9        12.4       37.3
IBRD                                          -         60.0        60.0
Total                                     24.9       72.4        97.3
Estimated Disbursements:
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Bank FY
Annual                              4.0   12.0   22.0   15.0    6.0    1.0
Cumulative                          4.0   16.0   38.0   53.0   59.0   60.0
l Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at USS5 million.
Economic Rate
of Return:         Not applicable.
Map:   IBRD No. 24628



KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
I. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT. EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
A. Environmental Institutions and Policies
1.1       The spectacular development of Korea over the last three decades
has been accompanied by rapid industrialization and urbanization, and the
restructuring of agriculture which resulted in a declining farm population
together with rising agricultural productivity and incomes. As a result of
the rapid growth of industry and the cities and steadily rising living
standards, environmental problems began to emerge in the 1980s. Air, soil and
water pollution increased with the rapid increase in motor vehicle ownership,
rising volumes of household and industrial waste and the growing use of
agrochemicals. These problems received little attention during Korea's
single-minded pursuit of economic growth. But in recent years, increasing
political liberalization has allowed the media and the growing middle class to
openly debate environmental issues and to press the Government for action in
addressing environmental problems1'.  The Government has responded by
expanding the environmental legal framework, tightening regulatory activities,
improving monitoring capabilities, etc.
1.2       The first major step in creating an institutional and legal
framework to address environmental concerns was taken in 1977 with the
establishment of the Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) under the Ministry
of Health and Social Affairs (MOHSA). The EMB had divisions for environmental
planning, air and water quality. This was followed in 1978 by the
Environmental Preservation Law, the first major environmental statute in
Korea. This law introduced a number of important regulatory devices such as
the promulgation of environmental standards, environmental monitoring,
environmental impact assessments for new projects, emission standards and
control, etc. To strengthen implementation of the law, the EMB was upgraded
in 1980 to the Environmental Administration (EA) with the status of an
independent agency under MOHSA. Also in 1980, six regional environmental
monitoring offices were set up under the EA.
1.3       The increasing complexity of environmental issues and the growing
sensitivity to them in the 1980s led the Government to conclude that existing
legislation needed to be broadened and its implementation strengthened. This
resulted in 1990 in the upgrading of the EA into the cabinet-level Ministry of
Environment (MOEN) and, in 1991, in the introduction of new basic legislation
v    Environmental problems, although severe, are showing some improvement in
certain areas. For example, the concentration of sulphur dioxide in
Seoul decreased from 0.056 ppm to 0.043 ppm between 1985 and 1991, and
in Pusan, from 0.047 ppm to 0.038 ppm in the same period. Water quality
in the Han River improved by about 9% and in the Nakdong River by 17X
during 1985-90. On the other hand, domestic solid waste in Korea
increased by 25% during 1987-90 and industrial waste by 52% in the same
period.



-2
(the Basic Environmental Policy Law). This was supported by separate laws
dealing with specific problems such as air preservation, water preservation,
noise control, hazardous substance control, solid waste management, marine
pollution, etc. Enactment of this legislation has given the Government a
stronger mandate to address a broad range of environmental issues. The
legislation is also subject to periodic review and has already been revised
with regard to solid waste and marine pollution, and natural environment
preservation.
1.4       The key role in monitoring environmental performance and enforcing
the regulations lies with the Ministry of Environment (MOEN). It also has a
policy and planning role which covers the formulation of comprehensive
environment plans and policy formulation in respect of air and water quality,
waste management, environmental impact assessment and natural resource
conservation. MOEN also has overall responsibility for carrying out
environmental impact assessments. Technical support is provided by the
Engineering and Technology Development Bureau of MOEN. Three technical
bureaus are responsible for the management of air quality, water quality and
waste management. The bureaus are responsible for implementing quality
preservation plans and setting environmental standards. They oversee the work
of the six regional environmental offices of MOEN, which are responsible for
ongoing monitoring activities, collection and analysis of statistics,
oversight of waste processing facilities, etc. The research arm of MOEN is
the National Institute of Environmental Research (NIER), whose activities are
described in more detail in para. 1.13. Until 1991, NIER was responsible for
training environmental personnel, mainly for MOEN's regional offices and for
local authorities. At the end of 1991, NIER's training department was
reorganized as a separate Training Institute for Environmental Officials.>
1.5       Under the jurisdiction of MOEN are several other agencies.  The
Central Environmental Disputes Coordination Commission coordinates
investigations into environmental disputes and the assessment of damages
carried out by the regional commissions (para 1.6). The Korea Resources
Recovery and Reutilization Corporation is responsible for the collection and
treatment of recyclable waste, technology to improve such treatment,
reutilization of waste products (paper, oil, rubber, etc.) and the operation
of a waste products management fund. The Environmental Management Corporation
builds and operates industrial waste and garbage treatment facilities and
landfills. It also provides technical support for the design and construction
of local treatment facilities and helps to finance these facilities through a
fund which receives charges made against industry for the discharge of
pollutants above permissible levels.
2/   The Institute has a staff of 35 which is supplemented by guest
lecturers, mainly from the universities. In 1991 environmental training
was provided to 3,293 persons from the public and private sectors.
Courses covered such topics as analysis, testing and public policy
monitoring.



- 3 -
1.6       In June 1992, the Government decided to decentralize a number of
monitoring and enforcement responsibilities to the 14 municipal and provincial
governments. The latter are now responsible for guidance and inspection of
firms, issuance of permits and registration of pollutant-discharging firms,
levying and collection of discharge taxes and negligence fines, and closing
down repeat offenders. MOEN retains central authority for environmental
impact assessments and, through its regional offices, local responsibility for
monitoring air, water and soil quality and for the registration of toxic
chemical manufacturers. The decentralized activities will be carried out by
the municipal/provincial Departments of Environmental Protection, which
already exist. However, the latter are being reinforced by over 1,500 new
environmental personnel to be allocated to the local authorities. Fourteen
local Environmental Disputes Coordination Commissions with membership
representing the public and private sectors and environmental groups,
adjudicate local environmental matters, including appeals against charges and
fines, the enforcement of legislation, etc. The commissions' decisions are
binding pending appeals to the Ministry of Justice.
1.7       The overall thrust of Korea's environmental policies is highlighted
in the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1991-96), which devotes an entire chapter to
environmental issues. The Plan calls for the strengthening of environmental
standards to the level of the advanced industrial countries and the
strengthening of the "polluter pays" principle through raising the pollution
excise tax and the introduction of advance deposits to ensure that the
producers of toxic or nondegradable products (e.g. tires) finance their
disposal.31 The Plan sets objectives and, in a number of instances, proposes
quantitative targetsA/ in key environmental areas.  These areas are: (a)
water quality - raise the quality of drinking water, expand sewerage
treatment, improve industrial waste water treatment and strengthen river water
management; (b) waste management - expand the number of regulated landfills,
improve recycling of household waste, establish waste salvage stations to
collect and sort waste materials suitable for reutilization, and expand waste
facilities; (c) air quality - expand the supply of clean fuels, tighten
sulphur content in oils, raise auto emission standards and tighten enforcement
of emission standards; (d) marine preservation - expand pollution dredging in
port areas, improve waste water treatment in fishing areas, tighten pollution
discharge controls and strengthen pollution control capabilities; and (e)
environmental science and technology - preparation of a comprehensive plan for
the development of environmental science and technology, promotion of R&D
IL   These deposits are paid into a waste products management fund (para
1.5).
4L   Plan targets include the establishment of 102 advanced sewerage
treatment plants and 150 small and medium-scale plants, 38 million m2 of
landfill capacity and 51 incinerators of 200 tons/day capacity. In
pursuit of improved air quality, LNG supply will be increased from 2.3
million tons/year (1990) to 6.6 million tons/year by 1996. Sulphur
content for light oils will be reduced from 0.4% to 0.2% and for heavier
oils from 1.6% to 1.0%.



- 4 -
projects in pollution measurement and control, and the development of low-
pollution technologies.
B. Environmental Education
1.8       Concern for the environment is introduced early in the Korean
education system. The most recent revision of primary and secondary schools'
curricula (1987) placed special emphasis on environmental education.  In the
primary grades, environmental issues are addressed in the science and social
studies courses and cover such topics as protection of the environment,
pollution, and problems of land and population. An environmental education
kit comprising student texts, teacher's guide, videos, etc. has been developed
for the primary and junior secondary grades. At the secondary level,
environmental education is also a part of the social studies and science
curricula.  It is built around a number of themes such as environmental
preservation, industrialization, natural resources conservation, and these are
included in individual subjects. For example, Korean Geography has a unit
that deals with the impact of population growth on the environment; Science I
has a biology unit which addresses pollution, resource utilization and
protection of the environment.
1.9       The rising sensitivity to environmental issues, clearly reflected
in the schools' curricula, is also reinforced by extra-curricular activities
which include science fairs, nature protection clubs, science education
broadcasts for sixth graders and the Environmental Monitoring Program under
which volunteer senior secondary students monitor local environmental
problems. Although much has been achieved in recent years, environmental
education in the schools has been criticized as being inadequately focused
because it is spread among different subjects rather than concentrated in
specific environmental programs. Both approaches have merit and the present
cycle of curricular revision is monitoring progress and will, in due course,
make appropriate recommendations for the future treatment of environmental
issues in the schools' curricula.
1.10      In higher education, the rising prominence of environmental
concerns is reflected in the rapid increase in enrollments in environment-
related programs. It is impossible to get a full picture of this trend
because many students enrolled in natural science and engineering programs
take specific environment-related courses within their degree programs but
this is not reflected separately in enrollment data. However, where data
exist, the growth trend over the last decade is clear. In the junior
technical colleges (two-year post-secondary institutions), there were 25
departments of environmental management and technology enrolling 5350 students
in 1991. In 1982, such departments did not exist. In the university
faculties of engineering, there were 24 departments of environmental
engineering with 5630 undergraduate students in 1991 compared with 6
departments enrolling 1150 students in 1982. In the agricultural colleges of
the universities, 12 departments of environmental science and technology
enrolled 2120 undergraduate students in 1991 whereas there were no such
departments in 1982. In the graduate schools similar trends exist. In the
engineering faculties, 35 programs enrolled 640 graduate students in 1991 as



- 5 -
compared with 4 programs and 35 students in 1982. In the agricultural
colleges, there were 20 programs with enrollments of 590 in environmental
science and technology in 1991 compared with zero in 1982.
C.  Environmental Research
1.11      Overall environmental research priorities are defined within the
context of the national Five Year Plan (para 1.7). They are also defined
within MOST's long term science and technology (S&T) plan to year 2000 in
which environmental topics form a subset within overall S&T strategies. The
core of the S&T plan is the Highly Advanced New Technology Project which
focuses on 11 areas of high technology-intensive research and development,
with special emphasis on export potential. One priority area is environmental
technology development with a strong focus on pollution control technology.
These overall plans provide the macro-framework of policies and priorities
from which ministries and individual institutions define their own research
activities. Several ministries play a key intermediate role in reviewing
institutional research programs - the Ministry of Education (MOE) for the
universities, MOST for the majority of the national research institutes' and
MOEN for NIER. A recent decision has been made to transfer responsibility for
the environmental technology part of the Highly Advanced New Technology
Project from MOST to MOEN. Within individual institutions, internal
procedures for reviewing research priorities and programs may differ but
usually involve a high-level research review committee, reporting to the
institution's head, who has the final responsibility for approval. The flow
of information through the hierarchy of institutions from national plans to
individual institutes is quite effective in Korea and has resulted in the
broad range of S&T research efforts being generally relevant to the country's
overall development objectives. This has undoubtedly made a substantial
contribution to Korea's rapid industrialization.
1.12      Environmental research in Korea is carried out in a broad range of
institutions - in university departments of natural science and engineering,
in the agricultural and veterinary colleges, in a number of national research
institutes and in the major private sector research institutes, and in the
Ministry of Environment. While there are no formal demarcation lines between
the research activities of the different institutional groups, particular
fields of specialization can be discerned. Much basic research in
environmental science is done in the university departments of natural science
and aims at a better understanding of basic scientific relationships bearing
on environmental problems. The departments of engineering have a greater
focus on applied science and the development of technology in crucial areas
such as pollution control and industrial waste management. The agricultural
and veterinary colleges concentrate on a range of research topics relevant to
rural environmental problems - this is discussed in more detail in para. 1.15.
5    For a description of the role of MOE and MOST in reviewing institutional
research programs, see: Staff Appraisal Report, Korea Universities
Science and Technology Research Project, IBRD Report No. 8205-KO, April
23, 1990, pp. 3-6.



-6-
A number of national research institutes, mainly under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Science and Technology, are expanding their environmental role.
Increasing emphasis is being given to the development of pollution control
technology, low pollution/ecologically sustainable production processes and
improved environmental measurement techniques. Outreach programs to assist
small and medium enterprises to address environmental problems are also being
expanded by the institutes. The environmental activities of the major private
sector research institutes reflect particular industry problems, e.g. reducing
automobile exhaust emissions, waste water treatment, etc.
1.13      The Ministry of Environment has an important, though largely
indirect, influence on overall environmental research through its policy
formulation role. As new regulations in areas such as air, water and soil
pollution, hazardous waste disposal, etc. are introduced and as higher
standards of compliance are mandated, new demand is generated in the
environmental research community for research into such topics as pollutant
transfer phenomena, more accurate measurement of pollutant levels, improved
environment-friendly technology, and so on. Complementing MOEN's policy
formulation and regulatory roles is the National Institute of Environmental
Research. NIER's research priorities are set by MOEN's Executive Committee,
chaired by the Vice-Minister, in consultation with other relevant ministries,
especially MOST. The latter also finances some of NIER's research programs.
NIER has a staff of 184 including 99 researchers supported by 45 technical
staff. About 90% of the research staff have graduate degrees. About 60
contract research staff, drawn mainly from the universities, are also employed
by NIER. Research staff are employed mainly in the four research departments
- air quality, water quality, waste management and environmental health.
There are also two specialized laboratories conducting research into
automotive emissions and lake water quality. NIER also acts as a national
clearing house on environmental information and promotes international
cooperation activities.
1.14      The dissemination of environmental research results is enhanced by
the strong channels of communication within the environmental research
community in Korea. This community is served by some 20 professional
associations ranging from the specific, e.g. the Korea Society of Waste
Management to the more general, such as the Korea Society of Biotechnology and
Bioengineering. These associations are linked at the national level through
the Korea Research Council on Environmental Sciences. The Council was
established in 1987 to serve as an information exchange between the
professional associations but has gained in influence and now serves as a
source of advice to the Government on environmental policies. The Council has
a formal annual meeting but sponsors more frequent meetings of its topical
committees (environmental health, air quality, etc.). There is also a strong
tradition in the scientific community to publish research results in
international, national and local journals, and environmental scientists and
technologists are significant participants. Symposia on environmental topics
are held regularly and published proceedings are increasingly available.
Dissemination also takes place through individuals participating in
cooperative research programs such as the university researchers contracted to
work in NIER and in the cooperative research projects involving the



universities and the national research institutes. The latter sometimes
include researchers from the private sector.
D. Role of the Agricultural and Veterinary Colleges
1.15      Although many of the more visible environmental problems are in the
cities and industrial areas, the rural areas where agriculture is the major
activity, also suffer significant environmental degradation. The major
problems relate to the pollution of soil and water from household and
livestock wastes and agrochemicals, and also relate to the conservation of
soil, forests and fisheries. A great deal more needs to be learned about the
impact of polluting and depleting agents on the rural environment. The
Government is looking to the colleges of agriculture and veterinary science in
the universities to expand their research efforts. The colleges are already
active in a number of major environment-related research fields. These
include the study of animal waste as a pollutant of water and soil; the role
of a range of agrochemicals as pollutants and research into crop-types which
are less dependent on the use of agrochemicals; conservation of forests
including the health and protection of species and the impact of air pollution
and acid rain; soil, watershed and wildlife conservation; a range of issues
related to environmental health including the impact of rural sewerage
disposal, the chemical content of animal feed, food contaminants, pollution
effects of fish farming, etc. Within these major fields, hundreds of
individual research topics have been identified, whose implementation will be
assisted under the proposed project.
1.16      The agricultural and veterinary colleges are also expected to
provide better trained professionals in environmental fields. The latter are
needed in increasing numbers in the agencies concerned with measuring and
controlling pollution, managing waste disposal and improving the conservation
of natural resources. The decentralization of environmental monitoring and
enforcement functions to local authorities is already raising the demand for
trained professionals (para. 1.6). The colleges are responding by moving
their focus increasingly away from the traditional concentration on food
production and animal health, towards issues affecting the rural environment.
1.17      The proposed project would focus on a part of Korea's system of
agricultural and veterinary colleges. This system comprises 29 agricultural
colleges (12 national and 17 private) and 10 veterinary colleges (9 national
and 1 private). Total undergraduate enrollments in 1991 were about 54,600
comprising 45,770 in agriculture (including 6,100 in forestry) and 8,830 in
veterinary and related programs. Total enrollments in the system have been
increasing only marginally in recent years which reflects the changing role of
agriculture in Korea. However, consistent with the broadening of the system's
traditional interests (food production and animal health) towards inclusion of
environmental concerns, enrollment growth in environment-related programs has
been substantial (para. 1.10).
1.18      Women are under-represented in undergraduate agriculture and
veterinary programs. In 1991, women accounted for only 26% of total
enrollments in these programs and this proportion reflects the traditional



-8-
reluctance of women to enroll in science-related programs.Y1 No
discriminatory practices exist which would discourage women from enrolling in
science programs and the present enrollment pattern is largely the result of
individual preferences. However, present trends favor a continued increase in
female enrollments in agriculture and veterinary science. Whereas male
enrollments increased at less than 4% p.a. during 1982-91, female enrollment
rose by over 16% p.a. in the same period. Women now account for 56% of
enrollment in horticulture, 39% in landscape architecture, 36% in agricultural
biology and 34% in food science. In the graduate schools of agriculture and
veterinary science, female enrollment is even less favorable, with women
accounting for only 14% of total enrollments. However, female enrollments are
increasing rapidly (18% p.a.) and this means that increasing numbers of women
are qualifying to enter research positions.
E. Bank's Experience in Education and Research
1.19      The Bank has assisted Korea's technology development efforts
through substantial sup ort for the development of technical and scientific
education and research.- Bank lending has been consistent with Korea's
needs and priorities in education and has closely paralleled the increasing
sophistication of Korean industry. It was recognized that the restructuring
of industry towards more skill-intensive, high-technology production would
require the continuous expansion and upgrading of technical skills. Thus as
industry developed towards greater skill-intensiveness, Bank assistance to
education moved from support for craftsman and technician training through
professional engineering education to graduate engineering programs and
associated research activities.
1.20      The Bank's initial involvement in the sector under four loans/
credits, focused on the development of vocational and technical education at
the secondary and post-secondary levels to strengthen the base of the system
for producing technical personnel. Project performance audit reports (PPARs)
for these projects concluded that they were in general well-conceived and
successfully implemented. The first education project in Korea (Cr. 151-KO)
supported the expansion of vocational high schools, junior technical colleges
and teacher training. It also financed technical assistance and fellowships
to strengthen the planning and administration of vocational and technical
education. The PPAR for the credit (Report No. 1801-KO, November 22, 1977)
concluded that physical implementation was satisfactory but that some delays
were experienced in recruiting and utilizing the experts under the technical
6    Women accounted for 29% of total university undergraduate enrollment in
1991. In natural sciences the proportion was 20% but if engineering is
excluded, the proportion rises to 38%. In humanities, female enrollment
was 48%.
v    The Bank has also provided major support to technology development
through directly financing R&D programs, strengthening intermediaries
which finance R&D and providing credit for industrial development in
general.



- 9 -
assistance component. The latter could have been overcome by more careful
scheduling and a clearer definition of the experts' functions.
1.21      The second education project (Ln. 906/Cr. 394-KO) financed
equipment for vocational high schools, junior technical colleges and
undergraduate programs in science, engineering and education. The PPAR for
the project (Report No. 4509, May 24, 1983) concluded that the project was
implemented substantially as planned but with some delays due to over-
optimistic scheduling. The third education project (Ln. 1096-KO) continued to
support expansion and quality improvement in vocational high schools and
junior colleges and for vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Ministry of Labor. The project was implemented successfully and demonstrated
the growing experience and competence of local project staff. The fourth
education project (Ln. 1474-KO) supported a further expansion of VTIs and
expansion and improvement of instructor training. The project completion
report (PCR) for the project (Report No. 5516, March 8, 1985) concluded that
the project was well designed, implemented efficiently and judged the project
to be an excellent example of Bank/Borrower cooperation. It is reasonable to
conclude that the first four projects demonstrated that the increased
competence of local authorities led to improved project design and
implementation. Project experience also demonstrated that there was a need to
take a broader view of sectoral policies and issues after the implementation
of four conventional projects. This was taken up in the two subsequent
operations which were policy-oriented sector loans.
1.22      The first education sector loan (Ln. 1800-KO) concentrated on
upgrading junior technical colleges and university colleges of engineering and
management through the supply of equipment, staff development and
institutional improvements in curriculum development, manpower planning,
equipment maintenance and academic accreditation. The PPAR for the loan
(Report No. 7252, May 24, 1988) concludes that the institutional improvements
were achieved satisfactorily and indicates that the major lessons learned
were: (a) a stable and responsible sector management agency was the key to
successful implementation of the sector program; (b) the sector approach led
to a quicker and more sustainable development of institutional capabilities;
and (c) the additional time required for preparation was repaid in terms of
more efficient implementation.8/
1.23      The second education sector loan (Ln. 2427-KO), which incorporated
these lessons, assisted in supporting improvements in graduate education in
science and engineering, upgrading secondary school and college science
programs, expanding graduate research programs, improving sector management
and manpower monitoring and strengthening the financial base of private
educational institutions. Implementation of the loan was satisfactory and it
closed on schedule on June 30, 1989. The PCR for the loan concludes that its
B    The Bank's positive role in Korea's education sector under the first
five lending operations is documented in the OED report titled Review of
the Impact of World Bank Lending for Educational Development in Korea
(Report No. 5950; December 4, 1985).



- 10 -
objectives were largely met. Policy and institutional improvements of
particular relevance to science education were introduced in relation to
accreditation of colleges of natural science and science education
departments, upgrading and expanding staffing of these institutions and the
planning of facilities and equipment; at the secondary level, a new
experimentation-oriented science curriculum was introduced, a system to
monitor student achievement in science developed, new examination and college
admission procedures introduced and science teachers upgraded through in-
service training.
1.24      Following these education projects the Bank turned its attention to
supporting research activities in the national research institutes and in the
universities under three Technology Advancement Projects (TAPs) and the
Universities Science and Technology Research Project. The three TAPs (Ln.
3037-KO, Ln. 3202-KO and Ln. 3315-KO) are assisting in raising the quality of
research in a broad range of institutes, mainly under the Ministry of Science
and Technology, through the provision of specialized equipment. The
Universities Science and Technology Research Project (Ln. 3203-KO) is
supporting the broadening and deepening of basic research programs in priority
fields in science and technology. It builds on the policy changes in
university research introduced under Ln. 2427-KO.
1.25      In the Vocational Education Project (Ln. 3314-KO), the Bank
reverted to assistance to vocational training in recognition of the continuing
need for craftsman training to keep pace with the increasingly complex skill
requirements of the labor market. The recently approved Vocational Schools
Development Project (Ln. 3469-KO) continues efforts to upgrade vocational
education and includes institutional elements aimed at strengthening the link
between schools and employers, more effective planning and improved staffing
arrangements in the schools. The Science Education and Libraries
Computerization Project (Ln. 3468-KO) aims to strengthen secondary and
undergraduate science education and to improve information flows through the
establishment of an automated inter-library network. All projects currently
under implementation are proceeding satisfactorily.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
2.1       The Government included the project in its CY92 list of projects
suitable for external financing and formally asked the Bank for assistance in
November 1991. Most of the preparation work was completed by the Government
in accordance with guidelines formulated by the Bank. The project was
preappraised in July-August 1992 and appraised in November 1992.
B. Project Rationale and Objectives
2.2       Over the past decade, the Government has begun to address seriously
the environmental problems that have emerged from three decades of rapid
growth. Wide-ranging legislation has been enacted and agencies have been
established to implement this legislation and to provide policy and planning



- 11 -
guidance on environmental issues. To reinforce these activities,
environmental education has been introduced into primary and secondary
schools' curricula and into teacher training programs. College-level science
courses are focusing increasingly on environmental issues and university
research programs are also moving in this direction. However, in addressing
environmental problems, the focus has been mainly on such problems as they
relate to urban areas. Thus, most attention has been given to alleviating air
and noise pollution in the cities and towns and to inland water pollution as
it affects urban water supply. Published statistics reflect these
priorities.91
2.3       Increasingly however, rural environmental problems are receiving
attention in a densely-populated country with scarce cultivable land and
abundant forests (21% and 66% of total land area respectively). Cultivable
land is becoming increasingly polluted through household, industrial and
animal waste, and agrochemicals; inland and coastal waters are being polluted
in a similar manner. Korea's forests, although extensive, need to be better
managed to ensure effective conservation of soils and watersheds, efficient
harvesting and replanting, reduction of pest damage and improved tree health,
etc. This requires better trained professionals to measure and control
pollution, manage forests and fisheries and operate the regulatory system.
There is also a priority need to improve and expand research into key
environmental problems related to land, water and forests. The agricultural
and veterinary colleges have an important role to play in addressing these
problems through research and teaching.
2.4       The proposed project provides the opportunity for the Bank to
support Korea's policies for environmental improvement by strengthening
environmental research and teaching in selected agricultural and veterinary
colleges. The project would help to push the colleges more firmly towards
addressing environmental concerns and in accelerating the pace of such
involvement. It would also help to bring balance to Korea's environmental
efforts, which have a strong urban focus, by strengthening the country's
capacity to address rural environmental problems.101 The project design
contains value added in the form of creating an efficient mechanism for
centralizing common research activities (NICEM), which would be of particular
benefit to smaller institutions. Value added would also be achieved through
the establishment of suitable arrangements: (a) for the review and
development of environment-related teaching programs which would help to
maintain a focus on the quality and relevance of existing and future programs;
9    Statistics include the various components of air quality, acid rain
measurement and noise levels in the major urban centers. Industrial and
domestic waste production levels are also monitored.
lo/  The project would complement an Environmental Technology Development
Project, proposed for Bank financing, which would focus on strengthening
the capacity of selected national research institutes to develop
appropriate technology for addressing environmental problems. The R&D
work of the institutes has a strong industrial/urban focus.



- 12 -
and (b) to ensure that research programs are relevant to overall
environmental policies and priorities.
2.5       The objectives of the proposed project are to assist selected
colleges of agriculture and veterinary science to: (a) upgrade their capacity
to undertake research into key environmental problems; (b) establish
facilities for effective common research activities; (c) reinforce the
environmental aspects of basic science programs in the colleges, in order to
strengthen professional training in environmental fields; and (d) establish
appropriate arrangements for the review of environment-related research and
teaching programs.
C. Project Design and DescriRtion
2.6       The project would finance equipment with an estimated baseline cost
of US$58.4 million. Bank-financed equipment would be allocated to NICEM
(baseline cost, US$10.7 million), agricultural colleges (US$34.7 million) and
veterinary colleges (US$13 million).1" The equipment forms the core of the
project but in order to ensure that it is utilized effectively, complementary
inputs (US$21.7 million) must also be supplied. These would be financed by
the Government and cover local transportation and installation of equipment,
O&M and consumable materials. The project would also include overseas
training (US$1 million), visiting experts (US$0.7 million) and library
materials (US$0.1 million), which would be financed by the Bank and included
in the NICEM component (para. 2.10). The Government would finance all
contingencies. Overall research priorities have been identified and detailed
lists of research topics for each project institution have been prepared and
are included in the project file. Equipment lists and outline specifications
have also been prepared. Careful analysis has been made to ensure that there
are strong linkages between research priorities, research topics and equipment
lists.
2.7       NICEM would promote a more rational and efficient use of expensive
research equipment and provide common facilities for scientists to pursue
research programs that are more effectively carried out in a central location,
than in separate institutions. NICEM would be established on the Suwon campus
of Seoul National University (SNU) in two existing buildings, which are
satisfactory for the purpose.121 The establishment of NICEM, together with
its operational regulations, have been approved by the SNU Council. A
director has been appointed for NICEM and an Advisory Committee established
representing faculty, researchers and relevant ministries. A long-term
operational plan has also been prepared. Equipment to be financed under the
11,  Many complex items of equipment would be procured including a DNA
sequencer, gas chromatograph, ultra centrifuge, extruder, etc.
Procedures for the selection of equipment have been reviewed and are
satisfactory.
12/  For the future, a,new building is planned for NICEM with an area of
about l0,000m2 estimated to cost around US$8 million.



- 13 -
project (US$10.7 million), would help to establish the capacity of NICEM to
undertake environment-related research, mainly in the fields of soil and water
pollution, waste management, and soil, forest and watershed conservation. The
project would finance books, journals and reference materials (US$0.1 million)
to establish library facilities at NICEM. NICEM would have five divisions
including three research divisions in environmental science, natural resources
management and bio-engineering, and two support divisions in basic science and
training. The latter would be responsible for training researchers to use
complex pieces of research equipment. When fully operational, NICEM would
have a staff of 47 including 25 research professors and assistants supported
by 15 technical/ administrative staff. NICEM would be used by both public and
private agricultural and veterinary colleges and its facilities would be of
particular benefit to smaller institutions. Fees would be charged for NICEM's
services and in the initial stages, fees are expected to generate about
US$120,000 per year, which will be used to finance consumables and O&M for the
equipment. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that NICEM
would carry out its assigned functions during implementation of the project
and thereafter.
2.8       Equipment would be financed under the project (US$34.7 million) to
assist in improving the quality of environment-related research and teaching
in the 12 national agricultural colleges. The colleges are staffed with
highly qualified faculty, many of whom have overseas doctorates and
considerable work experience in overseas universities. The colleges teach
many environment-related programs including generic courses such as
agricultural chemistry and soil science, which have an environmental
component, as well as specific courses dealing with water pollution, soil
conservation, environmental impact of pesticides, etc. The content of
existing environmental curricula is generally sound with good coverage of up-
to-date concepts and issues, although there could be more practical content in
a number of programs, thus giving them greater relevance to Korea's particular
environmental problems. The major weakness lies in the lack of laboratory
equipment to support teaching programs and this reflects past priorities for
faculty development rather than hardware. The provision of equipment under
the project would complement and reinforce previous investments in staff
development. Equipment aimed at improving teaching programs is estimated to
cost US$21.7 million. The remaining equipment (US$13 million) would finance
research equipment aimed at enhancing the opportunities for faculty to carry
out environment-related research in the individual colleges.
2.9       The project would finance equipment estimated to cost US$13 million
for the nine national veterinary colleges. These colleges are staffed with
highly qualified faculty, many of whom have research and teaching experience
in overseas universities. The veterinary colleges offer a range of teaching
programs with environmental components such as toxicology and biochemistry as
well as courses in the field of environmental health. The major areas of
research focus on animal waste pollution in soil and water, efficient
treatment of animal wastes, manure control, effects of fish farming on water
pollution, wildlife conservation, etc. Equipment estimated to cost US$2.5
million would be procured for research programs in the central veterinary
laboratory at SNU and would be available for use by all veterinary staff at



- 14 -
SNU and to faculty from other colleges. Of the remaining equipment valued at
US$10.5 million, about US$5 million would be allocated to the purchase of
research equipment in the nine colleges to strengthen opportunities for
faculty to undertake environmental research. Equipment estimated to cost
US$5.5 million would assist in strengthening teaching of environment-related
topics thus leading to the production of better trained environmental
professionals. Special emphasis would be placed on increasing the practical
content of courses. Graduates at the veterinary colleges are increasingly
finding employment in the public and private sectors in such fields as
environmental health, pollution monitoring, animal products, quarantine,
wildlife conservation, etc.
2.10      The project institutions would be supported by a program of
overseas training and visiting experts (US$1.7 million). Because
environmental research and teaching is at a relatively early stage in the
colleges, there is much to be gained from sending faculty overseas to gain
experience and to learn from visiting experts. About 70 training fellowships
would be awarded (60 agricultural and 10 veterinary) for periods of 1-12
months for a total of 450 study months. Fellows would be drawn from priority
fields of environmental research which would include environmental chemistry,
soil pollution and conservation, animal waste management, etc. Visiting
experts would total about 12 (10 agricultural and 2 veterinary) and visits
would average about three months. The experts would be expected to conduct
seminars, advise on research issues, review and advise on teaching programs,
etc. A schedule for overseas training fellowships and visiting experts has
been agreed. Terms of reference for the visiting experts have also been
agreed (Annex 1). During negotiations, the Government agreed to implement the
overseas training and visiting experts program according to an agreed
schedule. The program would be implemented by NICEM. Procedures have been
agreed for the selection of fellows for overseas training, including criteria
of selection. The key role would be played by the Selection Committee which
has been set up in NICEM. Its terms of reference and membership have been
agreed. The Selection Committee would review recommendations put forward by
the deans of the colleges and make recommendations to the Director, NICEM who
would have final responsibility for approving overseas training. In
consultation with the deans of colleges, NICEM would also identify visiting
experts and organize their work in-country.
2.11      In recent years, Korea's agricultural and veterinary colleges have
moved increasingly to address problems of the environment in their teaching
and research programs. In view of the rapidly rising interest in the
environment within the Government and in the country in general, the colleges
would benefit from a mechanism which would assess the quality and relevance of
teaching programs (including the balance between theory and practice) in a
systematic way and to guide future developments. This would help to ensure
that the colleges' programs would remain relevant to environmental issues and
lead to the production of better-trained environmental professionals. Under
the project, the Environmental Education Review Committee (EERC) representing
the colleges and relevant ministries would be established to carry out these
tasks. There is also need for a suitable mechanism to provide guidance on the
overall directions for environmental research in the colleges, advise on



- 15 -
changes in national environmental policies and priorities and assess the
adequacy of resources being allocated to environmental research within the
colleges. To address these needs, the project would establish the
Environmental Research Advisory Committee (ERAC) with membership representing
the colleges and relevant ministries. Terms of reference for the two
committees (Annexes 2 and 3) have been agreed. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that the initial meetings of the committees would
be held by September 30, 1993 and convene thereafter on dates to be determined
by the chairpersons, but no less than once in each academic year. The
committees would report their findings through the Ministry of Education.
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
3.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$97.3 million
equivalent, net of duties and taxes. The estimated cost by project component
is summarized in Table 3.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 3.2.
Detailed costs by component and category are given in Annex 4 and project
expenditure by year and recipient in Annex 5.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign
Won Billion              US$ Million        as % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Total
NICEM                    3.0      9.7    12.7      3.9     12.4   16.3    76
Agricultural Colleges   8.9    28.2    37.1    11.3        36.4   47.7    76
Veterinary Colleges      3.4    10.6    14.0       4.5     13.4   17.9    75
Baseline cost           15.3    48.5    63.8    19.7       62.2   81.9    76
Contingencies
Physical               0.8     2.4      3.2     1.0       3.1    4.1    76
Price increase         3.3     5.5      8.8     4.2       7.1   11.3    63
Subtotal             4.1     7.9    12.0      5.2      10.2   15.4    66
Total Project Cost La  19.4    56.4    75.8    24.9        72.4   97.3    74
/a Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at USS5 miLLion.



- 16 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Foreign
Won Billion              US$ Million            as % of
Local Foreign Total       Local Foreign Total         Total
Equipment              -    45.6   45.6          -    58.4   58.4           100
Equipment trans-
portation and
installation         2.3   0.4    2.7          3.1   0.4    3.5             10
Operations and
maintenance          6.4   0.7    7.1          8.2   0.9    9.1             10
Consumable
materials            6.4   0.7    7.1           8.2   0.9    9.1            10
Overseas training    0.1   0.6    0.7            0.1   0.9    1.0            90
Visiting experts      0.1   0.4    0.5           0.1   0.6    0.7            80
Library materials    -       0.1    0.1          -     0.1    0.1           100
Baseline cost    15.3  48.5   63.8          19.7  62,2   81,9             76
Contingencies
Physical           0.8   2.4    3.2          1.0   3.1    4.1             76
Price increase    3.3   5.5    8.8           4.2   7.1   11.3             63
Subtotal           4.1   7.9   12.0          5.2  10.2   15.4            66
Total project cost  19.4  56.4   75,8          24.9  72.4   97.3             74
3.2       Base costs are estimated at April 1993 prices.  Equipment costs are
estimated on the basis of master lists already drawn up and recent catalogue
prices. Transportation and installation costs, the initial supply of
consumables and the costs of operations and maintenance are based on recent
experience in project institutions. Cost estimates for oversees training,
visiting experts and library materials are similarly based on local
experience. Duties and taxes, allowing for exemptions, are estimated at US$5
million.
3.3       The contingency allowance of US$15.4 million (about 19% of baseline
costs) includes contingencies for unforeseen physical conditions and for
estimated price increases. Physical contingencies were estimated at 5% of



- 17 -
baseline costs for training, visiting experts, library materials, equipment,
transportation and installation of equipment, consumable materials and O&M
expenditures. Price increase contingencies were calculated for both local and
foreign costs in accordance with the following expected annual average price
increase percentages: foreign cost, 3.1% in FY94 and thereafter and local
cost, 5.5% in FY94 and 5% thereafter. Accordingly, aggregated price increases
are estimated at about 13% of baseline costs plus physical contingencies.
3.4       The foreign exchange component of US$72.4 million (about 74% of
total estimated project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the
following foreign exchange percentages: equipment - 100%, overseas training -
90%, visiting experts - 80%, library materials - 100%, transportation and
installation - 10%, consumables - 10% and O&M - 10%.
B. Financing
3.5       The proposed loan of US$60 million equivalent would finance about
83% of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project or about 62% of
total project costs net of duties and taxes. The Government would be
responsible for the remaining 38% or US$37.3 million equivalent. The loan
amount is limited to US$60 million by the foreign borrowing program and is
therefore less than the foreign exchange cost of the project. The loan would
finance 100% of the baseline cost of equipment and library materials, 90% for
overseas training and 80% for visiting experts. All contingencies would be
financed by the government. The loan amount would be allocated as follows:
NICEM, US$12.3 million; agricultural colleges, US$34.7 million; and veterinary
colleges, US$13 million. Loan funds would be made available to NICEM and to
the participating colleges through MOE, as part of their annual budget
allocations.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
Category of Expenditure                 Government        IBRD         Total
------------US$ million-----------
Equipment                                   -             58.4         58.4
Equipment transportation
and installation                          3.5            -            3.5
Operations and maintenance                  9.1            -            9.1
Consumable materials                        9.1            -            9.1
Oversees training                           0.1            0.9          1.0
Visiting experts                            0.1            0.6          0.7
Library materials                           -              0.1          0.1
Contingencies                              15.4            -           15.4
Total                                  37.3           60.0         97.3



- 18 -
Recurrent Expenditures
3.6       When fully operational, the project would generate recurrent costs
for additional salaries (mainly support staff for NICEM) and for equipment-
related consumable materials and O&M estimated at US$3.3 million p.a. This
would be spread over 22 institutions thus averaging about US$150,000 per
institution. These additional expenditures could be accommodated by the
institutions without difficulty.
C. Project Management and Implementation
3.7       Overall responsibility for project implementation would lie with
the Education Facilities Bureau (EFB) of MOE - an agency that has gained
considerable experience in implementing Bank projects through its
responsibility for earlier Bank operations. Physical aspects of the project
would be handled within EFB by the Education Loan Projects Division (ELPD)
including relations with the Office of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK) for
equipment procurement. Assistance on educational issues would be provided by
the University Education Office (UEO) of MOE and on research issues by the
Science and Technology Education Bureau (STEB) and UEO. The University
Education Administration Division of UEO would provide the administrative
linkage with the institutions. An organization chart for MOE is given in
Annex 6. The Academic Research and Promotion Division of UEO together with
the Science Education Division of STEB would provide the research linkage with
the institutions. The Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), which is
operational under Ln. 3203-KO and Ln. 3468-KO, would also be responsible for
general oversight of this project. The PCC would assist in coordination
between participating bodies, provide policy advice on project-related matters
and resolve major problems which might arise during project implementation.
The project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 7. The Education Loan
Projects Division would be responsible for routine correspondence and
reporting to the Bank, and for financial and disbursement matters. ELPD has
played this role in previous Bank projects and is staffed with experienced
personnel.
3.8       The bulk of the work in equipment procurement would be undertaken
by OSROK, which is highly experienced in procuring equipment under the Bank's
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. On the basis of equipment
lists and specifications provided by project institutions through ELPD, OSROK
would prepare bidding documents, invite bids, evaluate them in conjunction
with ELPD and the institutions and make contract awards with their agreement.
The project institutions would be responsible for installation, initial
testing and operation of the equipment, unless specified in the equipment
contract that the supplier would perform these tasks. The institutions would
also be responsible for maintenance and repair of the equipment including
acquisition of spare parts, accessories and consumables, beyond the items and
services initially supplied under the contract. The Bank would supervise the
project twice yearly around March and September coinciding as far as possible
with the preparation of the semi-annual progress reports (para. 3.14).
Overall implementation issues would be handled by the task manager, assisted
by a procurement specialist; technical aspects would be the responsibility of



- 19 -
a consultant in environmental science. A supervision plan is given in Annex
8.
Status of Proiect Preparation
3.9       The advanced stage of project preparation would allow
implementation to commence immediately after loan signing. Project
institutions have been identified and equipment lists and outline
specifications prepared. Research topics have been identified. Project
management authorities have been identified and competent staff are available
to handle implementation activities. Implementation arrangements, including
those for coordination between project agencies, have been agreed.
Procurement
3.10      Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 3.4.  About 85% of the
equipment would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Equipment items in
contracts valued at less than US$300,000 may be procured up to an aggregate
limit of US$10.2 million through shopping procedures allowing for the
comparison of quotations from at least three eligible suppliers. Local
equipment manufacturers would be extended a 15% preference margin, or the
prevailing customs duties, whichever is the lower, on bid evaluation under
ICB. Local transportation, operations and maintenance costs on equipment,
would be financed by the Government under local procedures. Installation
costs and costs of consumables, if not included in the equipment contracts,
would also be financed by the Government under local procedures. Fellowships
for overseas training would be awarded on the basis of local Government
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Visiting experts would be selected in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Library materials
would be procured on the basis of direct purchase after negotiating for
discounts with publishers or their authorized distributors.



- 20 -
Table 3.4:  SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Total cost
Procurement Method                   including
Category of expenditure       ICB        LCB    Other a/        NBF contingencies
--------------- (US$ million) -----------------
Equipment                    57.5         -      10.2          -          67.7
(49.6)              (8.8)                   (58.4)
Equipment transportation
and installation            -           -       -           4.3          4.3
(0.0)       (0.0)
Operations and maintenance   -            -       -          11.5         11.5
(0.0)       (0.0)
Consumable materials          -           -       -          11.5         11.5
(0.0)       (0.0)
Overseas training              -          -       1.3         -            1.3
(0.9)        -           (0.9)
Visiting experts               -          -       0.9         -            0.9
(0.6)        -           (0.6)
Library materials              -          -      0.1          -            0.1
(0.1)                    (0.1)
Total                   57.5         -      12.5        27.3         97.3
(49.6)             (10.4)       (0.0)       (60.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the
Bank loan.
NBF:   Not Bank-financed.
a/     Includes international and local shopping, selection of fellows using
existing Government procedures, selection of visiting experts following
Bank guidelines for consultants, and direct purchase.
3.11      In accordance with successful practices for procurement under ICB
used in recent education and technology advancement projects in Korea, OSROK
would not be required to refer equipment contracts to the Bank for prior
review before making contract awards. However, complete bidding documents
including commercial terms, schedules of requirements and technical
specifications would be sent to the Bank before each invitation to bid. Bid
evaluation reports, documents and contracts would be retained by OSROK for ex-
post review by Bank missions.



- 21 -
Disbursements
3.12      The proposed loan of US$60 million would be disbursed over a period
of 5.5 years (Annex 9). This corresponds to the standard disbursement profile
for education projects in Korea which is 5.5 years. The completion date of
the project would be June 30, 1998 and the closing date December 31, 1998.
Disbursements would be made on the basis of (a) 100% of foreign expenditures
for imported equipment or, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for
locally manufactured equipment; (b) 65% of local expenditures for other
equipment items procured locally; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures on overseas
training and visiting experts; and (d) 100% of foreign expenditures on library
materials. Reimbursement for technical assistance expenditures and for each
equipment contract of US$300,000 equivalent or more, would be fully
documented. Reimbursement for expenditures on library materials and for each
equipment contract of less than US$300,000, would be made against statements
of expenditure (SOE) for which full supporting documentation would be retained
in MOE, for review as requested, by visiting Bank missions. Administrative
and accounting capability in MOE is adequate to support the SOE procedure.
3.13      To facilitate disbursements, a special account, maintained in US
dollars, would be set up at the Korea Exchange Bank in an amount of US$4
million, to cover the estimated average amount required to finance project
expenditures for the next four months. Applications for replenishment of the
special account would be submitted to the Bank on a monthly basis or whenever
the amount requested exceeds one-third of the initial deposit, whichever comes
first.
Accounts. Audits and Reporting
3.14      MOE would maintain project accounts in accordance with sound
accounting practices. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances
that audited accounts, including the special account and SOE, would be sent to
the Bank within six months of the end of the financial year. Audit reports
would include a separate opinion for expenditures under SOE procedures. The
Government would submit semi-annual progress reports to the Bank in about
March and September and provide status reports for visiting missions and,
within six months of the closing date, submit Part II of the Project
Completion Report.
D. Environmental Impact
3.15      The project would help to strengthen Korea's efforts to address
environmental problems, especially as they relate to rural areas, by improving
environment-related teaching and research in selected agricultural and
veterinary colleges.



- 22 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1       The project would assist the agricultural and veterinary colleges
in strengthening the teaching of environment-related courses which in turn
would lead to better-prepared professionals becoming available to work in
environmental fields in the public and private sectors. The project would
also help to strengthen environmental research which would lead to a better
understanding of key environmental problems thereby improving the basis for
policy making and increasing the effectiveness of environmental protection
programs.
B. Risks
4.2       There are no major risks associated with the project.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1       The Government has agreed to the following:
(a) NICEM would carry out its assigned functions during implementation
of the project and thereafter (para. 2.7).
(b) the program of overseas training and visiting experts would be
implemented according to an agreed schedule (para 2.10);
(c) initial meetings of the EERC and ERAC would be held by September
30, 1993 and the committees convened thereafter on dates to be
determined by the chairpersons, but no less than once in each
academic year (para 2.11);
(d) audit reports would be submitted by the Government to the Bank
within six months of the end of each financial year (para. 3.14);
and
(e) within six months of the closing date, Part II of the project
completion report would be submitted to the Bank (para. 3.14).
5.2       Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$60 million equivalent to the Republic of Korea for
a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.



Annex 1
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
VISITING EXPERTS IN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND TEACHING
Each expert would be responsible for reviewing research and undergraduate
and graduate teaching programs within his/her specified field of expertise and
providing guidance as to how programs should be modified to better address
Korea's environmental problems. In particular the expert would:
*    Consult with EERC and ERAC to facilitate overall direction of the
project;
*    Review the curricula and teaching methods  in environment-related
programs at undergraduate and graduate levels and assess their quality
and relevance in terms of international practice;
*    Review the teaching resources (equipment, computers, library, field
stations etc) and assess their adequacy in terms of international
standards;
*    Review the procedures for setting research priorities appropriate to
Korea's present and anticipated environmental problems and recommend
changes where necessary;
v    Review how research proposals are evaluated and if necessary recommend
alternative procedures based on current international practice;
*    Provide advice on improving existing and proposed research programs,
including alternative/emerging methodologies, equipment or data
analysis procedures;
*    Present seminars on the current state-of-the-art in environmental
research as well as on the application of standard procedures to deal
with common or widespread environmental problems;
*    Give workshops/demonstrations of particular instruments or procedures,
including field demonstrations where appropriate;
*    Where  possible  within  the  time  frame  available,  engage  in
collaborative research with local scientists;
*    Facilitate international cooperation in environmental research, both
with developed and developing countries.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Environmental Education Review Committee -
Terms of Reference
Objective
The main purpose of the Environmental Education Review Committee (EERC)
will be to ensure that environment-related teaching programs in the
agricultural and veterinary colleges are relevant to the major environmental
issues being faced in Korea and lead to the production of better-trained
environmental professionals. The EERC would assess the quality and relevance
of existing teaching programs (including the balance between theory and
practice) and provide guidance on the development of future programs. Such
guidance would reflect, inter alia, the experiences of the major employers of
environmental professionals. The EERC would report to the colleges through
the Ministry of Education. Specialized subcommittees would be formed as
necessary to address specific issues in agricultural and veterinary fields.
Membership
The membership of EERC will comprise faculty members from the colleges
of agriculture and veterinary science representing the major teaching areas,
together with representatives of the major employers of environmental
professionals plus the Ministry of Education. Membership would be as follows:
Chairperson       -      senior faculty member from an agricultural college
Vice-chairperson  -      senior faculty member from a veterinary college
Members*           -     faculty members, agricultural colleges
Members*           -     faculty members, veterinary colleges
Member             -     representative, Ministry of Environment
Member             -     representative, Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and
Fisheries
Member             -     representative, Rural Development Administration
Member             -     representative, Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
Member             -     representative, Ministry of Education
*     Membership to be determined by college deans in consultation with the
chairperson and vice-chairperson.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Functions
The major functions of EERC would be to:
(a)   Assess the quality and relevance of existing environmental teaching
programs in relation to the needs of the major employers of
environmental professionals.
(b)   Advise on the content and relevance of proposed future environmental
teaching programs.
(c)   Provide guidance to the colleges on changes in manpower demand in
environmental fields and the implications of such changes for teaching
programs.
(d)   Keep abreast of changes in national environmental policies and
priorities and advise the colleges on the relevance of such changes for
teaching programs.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Environmental Research Advisory Committee -
Terms of Reference
Objective
The main purpose of the Environmental Research Advisory Committee (ERAC)
will be to ensure that the environmental research programs of the agricultural
and veterinary colleges are consistent with the overall environmental policies
and priorities of Korea, with special emphasis on rural environmental issues.
ERAC will not become involved in the internal procedures under which the
colleges identify and prioritize research programs. Its responsibility will
be to review the major directions in which the environmental research programs
of the agricultural and veterinary colleges are moving and advise on their
relevance to national environmental policies and priorities. ERAC will also
provide guidance to the colleges on likely future changes of environmental
policy so that the colleges may react accordingly. ERAC would report to the
colleges through the Ministry of Education. Specialized subcommittees would
be formed as necessary to address specific issues in agricultural and
veterinary fields.
Membership
The membership of ERAC will comprise representatives of the agencies
which have direct responsibilities for environmental matters or have a close
indirect interest in them. Membership would be as follows:
Chairperson       -      senior faculty member from an agricultural college
Vice-chairperson  -      senior faculty member from a veterinary college
Member             -     faculty member, agricultural college
Member             -     faculty member, veterinary college
Member             -     representative, Ministry of Environment
Member             -     representative, Ministry of Education
Member            -      representative, Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and
Fisheries
Member             -     representative, Ministry of Science and Technology
Member            -      representative, Rural Development Association



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Functions
The main functions of ERAC would be:
(a)   Review annually the major fields of environmental research being
proposed by the agricultural and veterinary colleges in their budget
submissions, in terms of national environmental policies and priorities.
Provide appropriate advice as necessary;
(b)   Keep abreast of environmental policies and priorities and advise the
colleges of relevant changes;
(c)   Assess the adequacy of resources (human and financial) being allocated
to environmental research in the colleges and make recommendations for
their increase as necessary;
(d)   In view of the strong interdisciplinary nature of environmental
research, promote cooperation between researchers in different
disciplines; and
(e)   Review the annual report of NICEM and make recommendations as
appropriate.



KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Detailed Project Costs
(Won million)
Equipment                                              Technical Assistance
Transportation                       Consumable          and Library                       Total Cost
Equipment         and Installation        0 & M          Materials          Materials                  Won M         USS M
NICEM                                8,346                  505              1,311           1,311                  1,248               12,721           16.3
Agricultural Colleges               27,066                1,706              4,146           4,146                       -              37,064           47.7
Veterinary Colleges                 10,140                  614              1,597           1,597                       -              13,948           17.9
Baseline Cost                45.552               2.825              7 054           7 054                   1.248               63.733           81.9
Contingencies
Physical                      2,278                 141                367             367                      84                3,237            4.1
Price Increase                5,007                 398              1,546           1,546                     317                8,814           11.3
Subtotal Contingencies        7.285                 539              1.913           1.913                     401               12               15.4
Total Proiect Cost
Won million          52.837                3.364              8967            8.967                  1.649               75784
USS million               _                  __                                __ 197.3



KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Proiect Expenditure by Year and Recipient
Base Costs (Won million)                                                        Total Cost
93/4            94/5           95/6            96/7            97/8            98/9            Won M             USS$
NICEM                                     929          2,362            4090           3,180           1,918             242           12,721             16.3
AgricuLturaL Colleges                   2,486          6,440          12,772           9,182           5,139           1,045           37,064            47.7
Veterinary ColLeges                       955          2,418           4,515           3,552           1,932             576           13,948             17.9
Baseline Cost                   4.370          11,220         21.3            15.914           8.989           1.863            63.733            81.9
Contingencies
PhysicaL                          218             566           1,092            820             449              92             3,237             4.1
Price Increase                     93             731           2,604          2,731           1,984             671             8,814            11.3
Total Project Cost              4.681          1              25073              465          11 422           2626             7578497.3
Foreign Exchange                4,049          10,468         20,561          14,396           6,291             377            56,142            72.4
un



KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Education
Vic Mnlnster 
[ 5  3                              |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'r Ed aalnBrreau  S|  nc| Ed08bY     Education FaciNtbes  |[University Education|
Pubic lknformatin                                                             Te ,g                        ueuOfc
School                 Vocational            Faclties Pla                University Education
Emergency Planning                                   Adminlstratln              Education              Dc es  nn                    Administration
Officer                                         Dmiisron                   Divisn Division                                       Officer
_________________           School Finance          Science Education        ~~~Education Loan
SchoolsFbnarice     Sclbnce Educatlon             Prolect                Universtty Education
Dlvlslon         ~Division                  Division                 Student Affairs
Inspector     J                                                                                                                   Oficer
ComptAsory              Junior Collge              Equipment
Education              Administrative           Management
Division                 Division                 Division                National Education
Division    1                                                                            I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Officer
Genorai Services                                   EryCidodJunior Colleg                              School Buildin            ________
Division                                       Educarlythnhood          Academic Affairs           Construction
_______________                        ~~~~~~~~~Educatlon Officer    Division                 Division
Planning &  I      Supervision &                                     Teacher AHars             Non-formal &             University Educatlon
Management Oflice        Cormplation Officer                                     Bureau              Education Bureau   jDivision
I~ ~ ~ ~ Tetl ..                                                                           nealoa          i          Adiitrto
University Education
.1.                                               .                     Finance DMsbon
Planning a               Textbook       |    Chlet Supervisor for        Teacher Affars             Non-Formal             _
Budget officer            Complation            Educatin Research             Division                Education               University Educaion
Officer      J   _                                                    Promotion Diision            Academic Affairs
I                             ~~~~~~~~~Pre-Service Teacher  Non-Service Teacher           Division
Administrative            Currlcuiumn           Chief Supervisor for         Education                EducationStdnAfar
Management Officer          Developmernt            Moral Education              Division                 Division                  MtddAnfage rsn
Officer                                                                                              Mngmr
Legal Affairs         Senior Coordinator       Chief Supervisor for      In-Service Teacher         International                  Division
Officer              for Humanities             Instruction           Education Division      Cooperation DMsion           Academic Research
& Arts                                                                                -          & Promotion Division
Chief Supervisor for      Teacher Welfare         Overseas Residents
Student Guidance         Student Guidance             Division             Education Division           Student Guidance
for  Social Science    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _      _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ __Officer
Senior Coordinator
for Natural Science
E KEKW461 5



KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
CY     1993   |   1994   |   1995   |   1996   |   1997   I  1998
Bank FY   9        94          9           90          _                    9 90
Quarter (CY)     1 3 1 4     12 341  2 3 412  34 1  2  3  4  1 2  3  4
EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT                                        Phase I       Phase II      Phase III
Equipment list and specifications prepared
Bidding Documents prepared
Invitabon For Bids (IFB) announced                                *           *              -
Bids evaluated
Contracts awarded
Equipment delivered, installed and tested
Warranty penod
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Appointment of specialists
Teaching, research and training for equipment ublizabon
Fellowships, selection of candidates, overseas training
Local workshops led by specialists                                       _ _ _
LOAN PROCESSING AND GENERAL IMPLEMENTATION
NegotiationsA
Board Presentabon
Loan Signing
Effectiveness
General Procurement Notce Adverbsed                         A
Project Completon Date
Project Closing Date
ksr/c/w52991
(D



Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
RORL
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate Dates        Activity                     Expected Skill           Staff Input
(Month/Year)                                         Requirements              (Staff-weeks)
9/93                     SuperviSion Mission          Project management          1.0
Review final equipment      Environmental science        1.0
lists and specifications
for Phase I procurement
3/94                     Supervision Mission          Project management          1.0
Review semi-annual          Procurement                  1.0
progress report
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports
Review SOE documentation
Review TA program
9/94                     Supervision Mission          Project management          2.0
Review final equipment      Environmental science        2.0
lists and specifications   Procurement                   1.0
for Phase II procurement
Review progress report
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Review TA program
3/95                     Supervision Mission         Project management           1.0
Review progress report      Environmental science        1.0
Visit selected              Procurement                  1.0
laboratories to review
equipment utilization.
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Review TA program



Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate Dates        Activity                    Expected Skill           Staff Input
(Month/Year)                                         Requirements             (Staff-weeks)
9/95                     Supervision Mission         Project management          2.0
Review progress report      Procurement                 1.0
Review final equipment
lists and specifications
for Phase III
procurement
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Review TA program
3/96                     Supervision Mission         Project management          2.0
Review progress report      Environmental science       1.0
Review sample of bid        Procurement                 1.0
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Visit selected
laboratories to review
equipment utilization
Review TA program
9/96                     Supervision Mission         Project management          2.0
Review progress report      Procurement                 1.0
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Review TA program
3/97                     Supervision Mission         Project management          2.0
Review progress report      Environmental science       1.0
Review sample of bid        Procurement                 1.0
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Visit selected
laboratories to review
equipment utilization
Review TA program



Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate Dates        Activity                    Expected Skill           Staff Input
(Month/Year)                                         Requirements             (Staff-weeks)
9/97                     Supervision Mission         Project management          2.0
Review progress report      Procurement                 1.0
Review sample of bid
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Review TA program
3/98                     Supervision Mission         Project management          2.0
Review progress report      Environmental science        1.0
Review sample of bid        Procurement                  1.0
evaluation reports and
SOE documentation
Visit selected
laboratories to review
equipment utilization
9/98                     Supervision Mission         Project management           2.0
Prepare for PCR
3/99                     Completion Mission          Project management           2.0
Prepare PCR                 Environmental science       2.0
Procurement                 1.0



ANNEX 9
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursements
Disbursements
Disbursements                              Profile /a
IBRD Fiscal Year           Semester        Cumulative      as % of              (X)
and Semester             ----------US$-----------         Total
1994
1                  4.0 /b           4.0            7                   1
2                  0.0              4.0            7                   3
1995
1                  4.0              8.0          13                    5
2                  8.0             16.0          27                   10
1996
1                 11.0             27.0          45                   23
2                 11.0             38.0          63                   44
1997
1                  9.0             47.0          78                   70
2                  6.0             53.0          88                   81
1998
1                  3.0             56.0          93                   92
2                  3.0             59.0          98                   97
1999
1                  1.0             60.0         100                  100
/a  Standard disbursement profile for education projects in Korea.
/b Initial deposit in Special Account.



ANNEX 10
KOREA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
* A-1  Problems and Issues in Science Education in Korea, Han Jong-Ha, KEDI,
September 1986.
* A-2  Education in Korea 1989-90, MOE.
* A-3  Korea Higher Education - Its Development, Aspects and Prospects, KCUE,
1990.
A-4  Environmental Protection in Korea, Ministry of Environment, Republic of
Korea, 1990.
A-5  National Report of the Republic of Korea to UNCED 1992, Ministry of
Environment, Republic of Korea, December 1991.
A-6 Environmental Education in Asian Countries, AST/IBRD, April 1991.
B.     Reports and Studies Related to the Project
** B-1 IBRD Natural Resources Management Education and Research Project, IBRD
Education Loan Committee/KANCA, 1992.
B-2 Agriculture and Veterinary Medical Education Development Project, MOE,
June 1992.
B-3 Environmental Research and Education Project - Korea, Report on
Technical Aspects, Ian Irvine, September 1992.
** B-4 IBRD Natural Resources Management Education and Research Project
(Veterinary Medicine), IBRD Education Loan Committee, KANCVM, 1992.
B-5 Training and Technical Assistance Program for 1992 IBRD Environmental
Management Education and Research Project, 1993.
B-6 Report on NICEM, March 1993.
- See Project File for the Science Education and Libraries
Computerization Project (Ln. 3468-KO).
**   - Includes equipment lists.



IBRD 24628
4^j.r 1j                                       120                          128                         12S                          131
,E,       _._            DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC                          I
CH I N A     '                                         OF  KOREA
N)                                                     - S    -                  i                            - )3730-IULLUNG DO    37'30-
. ,nEm                                                                  n                                                                 30301Sokch.
RE' y KOREA                                                                                                                                 i    _     31'
REP. OF
v  ,,    KOREA  JAPAN                  mn. ;J38..
, e                     .SKYO   GI DO                             DO                     no
125'2                                                            u                                                        oh
Inehn   \v   J                               7     0              hngrrn 
E-" " 37._
f- \  t 14 CHU!`jC\HON1GBUK A
44NGChn A._ 
Ye//ow See kr  lHLABK a 
AND EDUCATION PROJE
-  - .-                                                          -'---.   Ra$X iroads
.-t_                Drt    v99 <Mi0                                   D
C   . - .-         -                                                RaAload  Under P  ConTru
-34,~_-s~s            alros3
--   Ns                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
wgswi thr ~. co                                                                                       +'     Airports
rSf    W,ea,- --- -   Province Boundaries
Ye fi l q    o  w Sea+ onOL_LA_IBIoU
'mS'U*                                   -h -t    - nternational Boundaries
-  of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
OISSqor2Xo0q5 "                            CHEJU>                                0     20    40    60    eo    00o   30   I40   60
.odibew)don                               DOl                                                      KIlOMETERS
SOgwjp                                     0,    ,    0    , 4C0    ,    0     ,   80         100
MILES
125'                         128'                          127-                          178'                         129'
FEBRUARY 1993



