Report No. 340a-MLI                                                                    FILE  COPY
Appraisal of Integrated
Rural Development Project
Mali
May 13, 1974
Agriculture Projects Department
West Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for officiai use only by the Bank Group. Rt may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Croup authorization. The Bank Croup dors not dacept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1    =    MF 500
MF 100        US$ 0.200
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton     0.984 long ton
1 kilometre   = 0.6215 mile
1 hectare     5  2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
AF           Alphabétisation Fonctionnelle
EDM          Banque de Développement du Mali
BDPA         Bureau pour le Développement de la Production Agricole
DGP          Direction Générale de la Production
DNS          Direction Nationale de la Santé
DNTP         Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics
FAC          Fonds dtAide et de Coopération
FED          Fonds Européen de Développement
GERDAT       Groupement d'Etudes et de Recherches pour le Développement
de l'Agronomie Tropicale
ICRISAT      International Crops Research Institute for the Semi Arid Tropics
(Hyderabad, India)
1ER          Institut d'Economie Rurale
IFAC         Institut Français de Recherches Fruitières Outremer
IRAT         Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures
-Vivrières
IROT         Institut de Recherches du Coton et des Textiles Exotiques
IRHO         Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oléagineux
OA           Opèration Arachide
OACV         Op'ération Arachide et Cultures Vivrières
OC           Opération Coton
OD           Opération de Développement
OPAM         Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali
OSRP         Office de Surveillance et de Regulation des Prix
RCFM         Regie des Chemins de Fer du Mali
SCAER        Société de Crédit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural
SEPOM        Société d'Exploitation des Produits Oléagineux du Mali
SoMIEX       Société Malienne d'Import Export
STR          Service des Travaux Routiers
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOP`E NT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMTARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..           .....................           i- v
I.          INTRODIJCTION   ........      ...................... ........            1
II.         BACKGROUND         .........................*.......                     1
A.    General   ................       ......................... 
B.    The Agricultural Sector           .....................            2
C.   D)evelopment Options   . ....... . .. ....... . . . .  .            4
',).   Institutions   ....................................               4
E.   Agricultural Research   .           .................               5
III.        T-IE PROJECT AREA   ....................... .......                      6
A.    General   ...       ................................ ..            6
B.    Operation Arachide   ...................        .......            8
IV.         TIE PROJECT    .        ........................                         9
A.   Description   .......       ................... ....                9
B.   Detailed Features . ......... o.................. .                10
C.    Credit Arrangements and Supply of Inputs .....                    12
V.          COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING   .....................                    14
A.    Project Costs   . .............. ..... ..........                 14
B.    Financial Arrangements            ......................          16
C.    Procurement and Disbursement   ......               ....          19
D.    Project Accounts and Audits                .................      20
VI.         ORGANIZATION AND MlANAGEMFNT - STAFFING AND TRAINING                    21
A.   Organization and Management.                     ..     .          21
B.    Staffing and Training           ....      ...........             23
VIl.        YIELDS AND PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARMERS' BENEFITS
AND GOVERNMENT REVENUES          .      ..................              24
A.    Yields



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
A.  Yields and Production  .................. .....      24
B.  Marketing and Prices  ....        ...................   25
C.  Farmers' Benefits        ...........................  27
n.   Impact of Project on Government Revenues
and Expenditures  ......   ....................   28
VIII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS  ............. .........      29
lx.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............       30
ANNEXES
1.  Agriculture in %`ali
Table 1  Production and Marketing of Main Crops (1967 to 1972)
Table 2  Official Producer Prices for Principal Commodities
Table 3  Agriculture Sector Contribution to Exports
Table 4  Volume of Grain Imports (1969 to 1973)
Table 5  Groundnut Production and Marketing (1953 to 1973)
2.  Operation Arachide
Table 1  Area, Production, Yields, Marketing
Table 2  Inputs
Table 3  Financing
3.  Cropping Pattern, Inputs, Yields and Production
Table 1  Cultivation Schedule
Table 2  Labor Requirements for Groundnut and Cereal Production
Table 3  Area of Groundnuts Grown under OACV Supervision by Sectors
Table 4  Area under Groundnuts:  Diffusion of Modern Techniques
Table 5  Estimated Production and Yield of Groundnuts
Table 6   Incremental Groundnut Production Induced Directly by the Project
Table 7  Area of Sorghum and Millet Grown under OACV Supervision
Table 8  Area under Sorghum and Millet:  Diffusion of Modern Techniques
Table 9  Estimated Production and Yield of Sorghum and Millet
Table 10  Incremental Sorghum and Millet Production Induced Directly
by the Project



ANNEXES (Cont'd)
4.   Improvement of Rural Tracks
Table 1  Length of Roads and Tracks in the Western and Central Sectors
Table 2  Roads Classified in 1972
Table 3   Improvement of Feedier Roads 1974/77 Program
Table 4   Tracks for Improvements and Proposed Third Highway Project
Table 5   Roads and Tracks Technical Characteristics
Table 6   Scope of Works
Table 7  Analysis of Trucking Costs in Project Zone (for 7 t lorry)
5.   Functional Literacy
6.   Research Programs
7.   Medical Assistance
~8.   Veterinary Assistance
9.   Evaluation Unit
10.  Groundnut Seed Production
11.  Agricultural Inputs and Credit
Table 1   Cost Prices and Sales Prices of Farm Inputs
Table 2   Comparative Table of Loans and Repayments
Table 3   SCAER Condensed Balance Sheets
Table 4   SCAER Condensed Operating and Profit and Loss Accounts
Table 5   Farm Implement Requirement, Costs and Medium-Term Credit
Table 6   Seasonal Inputs Requirements, Costs and Seasonal Credit
Table 7   Sumary of Incremental Farm inputs, Co0ts and Financing
12.  Project Costs
Table 1  Project Costs
Table 2  Buildings and Equipment
Table 3   Vehicles
Table 4   Technical Assistance
Table 5   Local Staff
Table 6   Operating Expenses
Table 7  Rural Tracks Improvements
Table 3  Functional Literacy
Table 9   Agricultural Research
Table 10 'Iedical Assistance
Table 11 Veterinary Assistance
rable 12 Evaluation Unit
Table 13  Incremental Farm Inputs Cost and Financing
Table 14 Revolving Fund
Table 15 Contingencies
Table 16 Import Duties and Taxes



ANNEXES (Cont'd)
13. Financing
Table 1   Financing per Ileading
Table 2   Sources of Financing
Table 3   IDA Disbursement
14.  Market and Prices for Project Commodities
Table 1   Bareme Arachide (Groundnut Schedule)
Table 2   Producer Prices for Groundnuts
Table 3   International Prices of Groundnuts, Groundnut Oil and
Groundnut Cake
Table 4   Croundnut Economic Farm-gate Price (1973-1980 onwards)
Table 5   Destination of Marketed Production
Table 6   OSRP Groundnut Reserve Account (1969-1972)
Table 7   Price and Marketing Structure for Sorghum/Millet -
Domestic Price Structure
Table 3   Cereal Producer Price in Mali and Neighboring Countries 1972/73
Table 9   Sorghum/Millet - Economiç Farm-gate Price (1973-1978 onvards)
15. Farm Models and Budgets
Table 1   Farm under Manual Cultivation Adopting Improved Techniques
Tab;Le 2   Farm under Ox-Powered Cultivation
Table 3   Cash Flow for Farm under Ox-Drawn Cultivation
16.  Impact on Governnent Budget
Table 1  Impact of Project on Consolidated Government Finance
Table 2   Detailed Proceeds from Taxes and Levies on Groundnuts
Table 3   Foreign Exchange Benefits
17. Rate of Return Calculation
Table 1  Project Economic Cash Flow
Table 2   Economic Cash Flow Calculation - Project Benefits
Table 3   Incremental Farm Labor
CHART     Project Organization
MAL'S
1.  Project Area
2.   Rainfall
3.   On-going and Planned Road Improvement



MIALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary and Conclusion
i.        Mali has asked IDA to help finance a project under which Government's
ongoing "Operation Arachide" (OA) would be intensified and extended to new
areas. OA is aimed at improving the productivity and incomes of farmers for
whom groundnuts are the main cash crop. The intensified second phase program
would emphasize the application of modern techniques to the cultivation of
Mali's principal cereal crops, millet and sorghum as well as58     groundnuts.
ii.       The project would be carried out over the five years 1973/74 to
1977/78, cover an area of approximately 125,000 km2 and benefit about one
million of some of the very poorest people in the world. Average per capita
income in the project area is about US$30.
iii.      Mali suffers from several development constraints, the principal
of which are:
(a)  distance from the sea, the closest sea ports are Dakar
and Abidjan, both about 1,200 km from the capital, Bamako;
(b) lack of mineral and other natural resources; and because
of low and variable rainfall and generally poor soils, a
weak agricultural base;
(c) a serious shortage of skilled manpower, both technical and
management; and
(d) problems of communications due to the size of the country,
and its inadequate road anQ telecommunications systems.
On the other hand, Mali has the advantage of a hardworking population accus-
tomed to living under harsh climatic conditions and with a minimum of social
services.
iv.       Serious droughts, more frequently the result of ill-distributed,
than of insufficient total rainfall plague the country. Such droughts
affected Mali adversely in 1968, 1970, 1972 and 1973, as a consequence food
shortages occurred and massive bilateral and international food aid vas re-
quired.  External aid alone has enabled Mali to withstand the vagaries of
the weather in recent years, and it is essential that the country's productive
capacity be strengthened. This would be the main objective of the proposed
project.



- li -
v.        Agriculture, including livestock and fisheries, is the mainstay
of Mali's economy, and the sector accounts for nearly half the country's
GDP - 43% lin 1972, and for virtually all foreign exchange earnings, US$54
million equivalent in 1972. Rural activities provide a livelihood for about
85% of total population and the vast majority of farms are less than 5 ha.
About 85% of the 2 million ha under cultivation is devoted to food crops,
principally millet and sorghum, and iin the river valleys rice. Cotton and
groundnuts are the principal cash crops, and in a normal year extend to about
90,000 ha and 250,000 ha respectively.
vi.       In the long run Mali could develop a strong agricultural base
through using the large surface water resources of the Senegal and Niger
Rivers systems for intensive irrigated agrizulture. This however will be
very expensive, and even if fînance became available the rate at which such
development could be introduced would be slow. Thus in the meantime Govern-
ment lis concentrating on improving rainfed farming which sustains the great
bulk of Mali's people.
vii.      The project, renamed "Operation Arachide et Cultures Vivrieres"
(OACV) to reflect better its expanded responsibilities, would be managed by
the current management team which is satisfactory and would obtain technical
assistance from "Bureau pour le Developpement de la Production Agricole"
(BDPA). BDPA, a French consulting firm, has supplied such assistance to
OA since the latter's inception in 1967. The results of this collaboration
have been good and fully to Government's satisfaction. Principal components
of the proposed project would be:
(a)  intensifying OA activities in areas now served by the
program;
(b) extending OA services into new areas;
(c)  supplying farm inputs and equipment, on cash or credit, to
participating farmers;
(d)  supplying equipment on credit to selected blacksmiths in
the project area;
(e)  improving the 1,500 km of tracks in the project area;
(f)  expanding an ongoing functional literacy progran;
(g) implementing a program of agricultural research to supple-
ment the current national program;
(h)  improving medical facilities in the project area;
(i) limp-oving veterinary services lin the project area; and
(j) establishlng a project evaluation unit.



- iii -
viii.     The proposed IDA credit of US$8 million would cover 42% of total
project costs which are estimated at US$18.9 million, including import duties
and taxes totalling US$1.3 million, and 75% of the foreign exchange component
of project costs which is estimated at US$10.6 million. Remaining coasts,
estimated at US$10.9 million, would be covered by a FAC grant of US$2.5 mil-
lion, Government contributions totalling US$4.3 million and farmers' contribu-
tions of US$4.1 million. Thg IDA credit would be provided by Government as
a grant to OACV to finance technical assistance, operating costs, buildings,
seeds, improvement of rural tracks, functional literacy, research and medical
and veterinary assistance. U';$4.0 million would be held as a contingency
reserve.
ix.       Project vehicles and graders amounting to US$1.5 million would ,âe
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with IDA guidelines. Equipment and furniture valued at US$0.4 million and
for which there is a satisfactory degree of local competition, would be pro-
cured by local competitive bidding. Contracts for the construction of project
offices, houses, stores and garages evaluated at about US$1.9 million are not
suitable for international competitive bidding due to the dispersed location
of the work and the small size of individual contracts, and would be awarded
under local competitive bidding. A satisfactory degree of competition between
experienced local contractors could be expected. In appraisal of bids,
domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a preference margin of 7.5%.
Farm inputs (fertilizers, agrocides) and implements for draft animals amount-
ing to US$3.5 million, to be financed by Government and farmers, would be
procured by SCAER as part of the country's total requirements. SCAER purchase
procedure, which is based on satisfactory competitive bidding, would continue
under the project. An informal understanding was reached that IDA would be
consulted on the preparation and publicity of tender documents and the evalu-
ation of bids for the SCAER procurement. Seeds required by the project cost-
ing an estimated US$1.3 million would be locally produced and distributed
under OACV supervision. Cart bodies valued at US$319,000 would be supplied
or purchased locally by farmers. Technical assistance and consultant services
to the project are expected to cost US$2.5 million; it is proposed that a
contract should be made with BDPA, which has successfully assisted the on-
going project, to supply experts required by OACV costing an estimated
US$2 million. Similarly, GERDAT, which is currently assisting Mali in agri-
cultural research, would supply the experts required at an estimated cost
of US$150,000. Internationally recruited staff and consultants at a cost of
about US$390,000 would be recruited under procedures acceptable to IDA to
evaluate the functional literacy literacy program, to provide accountancy
assistance to OACV, to head the evaluation unit and to carry out a study on
cereal producer prices and marketing arrangements. A total of US$3.5 million
would cover Malian staff and operating expenses, credit for blacksmiths'
equipment, motorcycles and bicycles for the extension staff.  The rural track
improvement and maintenance program would be carried out by force account,
which is the only practical means for timely and proper execution of this
program. An amount of US$4.0 milliqp would be unallocated.



- iv -
x.        The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed during the four
year period 1974/75 through 1977/78 to cover:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures or 66% of total expenditures for
vehicles and graders imported for the project - US$0.8 million.
(b)  18% of the incremental cost of seeds - US$0.2 million.
(c) 80% of total expenditures for buildings - US$1.4 million.
(d) 85% for the salaries of internationally recruited staff and
consultants for project management - US$1.7 million.
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures for a proposed cereal marketing
study and accountancy services - US$0.1 million.
(f) 75% of incremental expenditures for local staff - US$0.8 million.
(g)  80% of incremental operating costs of Project - US$1.6 million.
US$1.4 million of the credit would be unallocated to cover contingencies.
Except for local staff, operating costs and seeds, allocations for disburse-
ment would be supported by contracts, shipping and other appropriate documents.
Applications for reimbursement of local and related co0ts would be supported
by certificates issued by the project manager.
Xi.       The principal direct benefits of the project would be induced in-
cremental production of cereals and groundnuts. By maturity of the project,
eight years after its inception, such production is estimated at 65,000 tons
of groundnuts and 39,000 tons of cereals annually, and to have a net foreign
exchange earnings or savings value of MF 5.5 billion (US$11.8 million). The
economie rate of return from investment in the project is estimated at 91%
over a project lîfe of 15 years. This high return is partly attributable to
the importance of previous and ongoing investments which are sunk costs to
the project and the high degree of technical proficiency of farmers resulting
from previous extension efforts.  Also instrumental are the relatively high
projected groundnut and sorghum long-term international prices.  The sensitiv-
ity of the return to such factors and other variables has been tested. The
return shows a relatively high sensitivity to changes in prices, but it can
withstand substantial and adverse deviations from appraisal estimates and
still remain acceptable.
xii.      At full development, some 107,000 farming families, involvîng about
one million people in all, would participate in the project compared to 52,000
farming families and 490,000 people served by OA in 1972/73. Total incremental
cash income from groundnuts and cereals, assuming all are sold, and accruing to
participating families would a»ount to about MF 2.5 billion (US$5 million)
annually. The great differences in levels of technology adopted by farmers



-v -
and in the physical and human conditions prevailing in the project area make
the determination of "typical farm bidgets" difficult. Nonetheless It appears
that the per capita incomes of farn ,'amilies prepared to implement the tech-
nical recommendations of OACV would increase between two and threefold.
xiii.     Agreements reached and recommendations are in Chapter IX.  The
proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$8 million. vZ






MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMFENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Mali has asked IDA to help finance a project under which Govern-
ment's ongoing "Operation Arachide" (OA) wvould be intensified and expanded
into new areas.  OA is aimed at improving the productivity and incomes of
farmers for whom groundnuts are the main cash crop.  The intensified program
would emphasize the application of modern cultivation techniques to millet
and sorghum as well as to groundnuts and other crops. The project vould also
include spot improvement of rural tracks, a functional literacy program, im-
provement of medical and veterinary services, an agricultural research compo-
nent and a project evaluation unit.
1.02      The project would be carried out over the five years 1973/74 through
1977/78 and benefit about one million of some of the very poorest people in
the world. Average per capita incomes in the project area are about MF 14,700
(US$3C). The proposed project would be the Bank Group's second lending opera-
tion for agriculture in Mali. In 1972 IDA made a credit (277 MLI) for the
improvement of irrigated rice production.  This project is proceeding satis-
factorily.
1.03      The project was identified by the Bank's Permanent Mission in Western
Africa (PMWA) and prepared by Coverriment assisted by consultants financed by
the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC). This report is based on the
findings of an appraisal mission that visited Mali during June/July 1973 com-
posed of Messrs. M. Huas and F. Agueh (IDA), Mr. J. Doyen, (PMWA), Mr. J.
Guilmoto (credit consultant) and Messrs. M. Casse and C. Gassion (FAC).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Republic of Mali i  some 1.2 million km2 in area and has a
population of about 5.2 million. It is landlocked, and Dakar in Senegal and
Abidjan in Ivory Coast are its principal outlets, both road and rail, to the
sea. The northern half of the country ls almost uninhabited. In the south,
rainfall is better, but only 25% of the country receives more than the 550 ma
per year needed for growing sorghum and millet, the staple foods. With the
exception of the Niger river valley, where irrigation and flood recession
cropping is possible, and the southernmost region where annual rainfall ex-
ceeds 1,300 mm, most of the 25% of the country is suitable only for fast-growing,
drought-tolerant crops such as millet, sorghum, cotton and groundnuts. With
a per capita GDP of about US$70, Mali 'is one of the poorest countries in Africa
and one of the world's 25 "least developed" countries, s0 identîfîed by the
United Nations General Assembly.



2.02      The country suffers from several development constraints, the
principal of which are:  (i) distance from the sea, the closest sea ports
are Dakar and Abidjan, both about 1,200 km from Bamako the capital; (fi) lack
of mineral and other natural resources, and because of low and variable rain-
fall and generally poor soils, a weak agricultural base; (iii) a serious short-
age of skilled manpower, both technical and management; and (iv) problems of
communications due to the size of the country, and its inadequate road and
telecommunications systems.
On the other hand, Mali has a hardworking population accustomed to living
under harsh climatic conditions and with an absolute minimum of social services.
2.03      Serious droughts, frequently the result of ill-distributed than of
insufficient rainfall, seriously affected Mali in 1968, 1970, 1972 and 1973.
As a consequence, food shortages have occurred and in the north many animals
and some human lives have been lost. Most of the remaining population is
undernourished and consequently, in poor health. Massive bilateral and inter-
national food aid alone has enabled Mali to withstand the vagaries of the
weather in recent years, and it is e:3sential that the country's productive
capacity be rehabilitated and strengthened; this would be the main objective
of the project described in this report. On November 13, 1973 IDA approved
a drought relief fund project under which Mali receîved a credit of US$2.5
million to finance activities concerned principally with: (1) construction
and rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation schemes; (ii) purchase of equip-
ment and supplies for the veterinary services; and (iii) the equipment of well
construction and repair teams.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.04      Agriculture, including livestock and fisheries is the mainstay of
Mali's economy, and accounts for nearly half the country's GDP, 43% in 1972;
and for virtually all foreign exchange earnings, US$54 million equivalent in
1972. Rural activities provide a livelihood for about 85% of total population.
earm sîzes vary greatly but generally 60 to 70% of holdings are less than 4 ha.
About 35% of the 2 million hectares under cultivation are devoted to food crops,
principally millet and sorghum, and in the river valleys rice. Cotton and
groundnuts are the principal cash crops, and in a normal year about 90,000 ha
and 250,000 ha respectively are grown.
2.05      In recent years performance of the sector has been determined
by fluctuations in weather conditions. The main feature, however, has been an
imbalance between a rapid development of production for export, and the signif-
icant decline in food crop production. Thus despite adverse weather, produc-
tion of seed cotton rose from 39,000 tons in 1967 to 74,000 tons in 1971, and
that of undecorticated groundnuts from 81,000 tons to 152,000 tons (see Annex
1).  Both cotton and groundnuts have benefited from well coordinated programs
carried out by adequately staffed and financed "Operations de Developpement"
(OD), see para 2.11, which have supplied extension assistance and modern in-
puts; efficient marketing channels have been set up and producer prices
established which have given good incentives to farmers.



-3-
2.06      In contrast all evidence points to a decline in foodcrop;production.
Millet and sorghum production peaked in 1967 and since then has declined
steadily, the average for the period 1968 - 1972 being 600,000 tons annually.
Foodstuffs handled by official marketing channels decreased sharply in the
same period, from 60,000 tons in 1967 to an annual average of 15,000 tons.
Rice production also fluctuated but showed a slightly upward trend, probably
as a consequence of substantial investment in programs such as the IDA financed
Mopti rice project. Production increased from 172,000 tons in 1967 to 198,000
tons in 1971.
2.07      The major constraints to increasing cereal production probably are
the marketing and pricing mechanisms. The official producer price for millet/
sorghum of MF 20/kg is far too low relative to actual prices for cereals in
unofficial trade, see para 7.08, the prices paid to producers in neighboring
countries, and producer prices for export crops in Mali. This and ineffectual
but restrictive Government marketing controls undoubtedly have seriously hindered
the expansion of cereal and other food crop production. The following table gives
gives an indication of the return per hectare of the principal crops grown in
Mali under traditional methods.
kg/ha     MF/kg /1  Revenue  Seeds and   Return /2
per ha      tools      per ha
MF         MF          MF
Millet/sorghum        600        35       21,000        500       20,500
Rice                  700       25        17,500        500       17,000
Groundnut             500       30        15,000        500       14,500
Cotton                400       50        20,000        500       19,500
Improved cultural methods under the supervision of extension service would
result in increased returns per hectare as follows MF 17,500 (150%) for
millet/sorghum, MF 34,500 (200%) for rice, MF 29,500 (200%) for groundnut and
MF 44,500 (225%) for cotton.
/1   Government fixed prices except for millet/sorghum which takes into
account prices available in unofficial trade.
/2   Before labor costs.



C. Development Options
2.08      The shortage in the supply of cereals and consequent large importe,
have convinced Covernment of the need to increase domestic food production.
Governnent has now set an objective of attaining self-sufficiency in cereals
by 1978/79. This will require increasing millet, sorghum and maize production
bv 200,000 tons and paddy output by 100,000 tons. To achieve this, Governiaent
plans to (i) concentrate on improving food crop production within the frame
of existing "Operations de Developpement"; (ii) create "Operations de Develop-
pemént" for millet and sorghum production; these will be difficult to implement
in t:he absence of improved high-yielding varieties acceptable to the local taste.
Ultimately, the success of Government's plan to expand food production depends
largely on its ability to provide adequate financial incentives to producers
and efficient marketing services. The proposed project would help achieve
some of the Governnent's objectives.
2.09      Other Government priorities are (i) rehabilitation and expansion of
livestock and inland fishing industries severely damaged by recent droughts;
(ii) exploitation of Mali's substantial water resources mainly the Senegal and
Niger rivers systems for intensive irrigated agriculture; this however, will
be very expensive and if finance became available, the rate at which such
development could be introduced would be slow; and (iii) improving value added
through agricultural processing. Studies and projects preparation in these
E;ectors are underway within the framework of the next five year plan which is
expected to be completed early in 1974.
D. Institutions
2.10      MInistry of Production.  Most official agricultural activity i8
managed and controlled by the Ministry of Production. The Ministry's
Direction Generale de la Production (DGP) controls the so-called "Operations
de Developpement" (OD) through its Service de l'Agriculture to which the
managers of OD report directly. The Institut d'Economie Rurale (IER), has
responsibility for planning and preparing development projecte and programs.
IER also coordinates and controls agricultural research, Governnent-owned
farms, and agricultural education.
2.11      Operations de Developpement. (OD) A number of national or regional
development programs have been initiated during the past eight years to in-
crease agricultural production. The OD are administrative entities with a
high degree of management and financial autonomy. The OD are concerned essen-
tially with a single cash crop such as groundnuts, cotton, rice, tobacco, and
fruit, but subsequently usually diversify to foodcrops, grown traditionally
by the farmer. There are now 16 OU which are all organized on the same pattern
and typically provide all support services needed by farmers: inputs; credit;
training for staff and farmers; crop purchase and collection. By and large
the OD have been successful.



- 5 -
2.12      Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural (SCARR).  SCAER
is controlled by the Ministry of Finance and Trade, and i an autonorous
state company. SCAER supplies farm equipment and inputs on credit or cash.
SCAER financial resources are its capital - all provided by Government-the
proceeds of specific levies on cotton and groundnuts purchased by the OD; 1/
operational revenues, and grants from aid agencies. SCAER benefits from
rediscounting facilities provided by the Central Bank. SCAER provides credit
only to farmers partlcipating in an OD, other farmers must purchase lnputs for
cash. Further details on SCAER are at para 4.13 to 4.17.
2.13      Societe Malienne d'Import Export (SOMIEX).  Also controlled by
the M4inistry of Finance and Trade, SOMIEX has a monopoly for groundnut pur-
chasing outside OA areas and monopolies for the export of groundnuts and
cotton and import of a wide range of products including sugar and cement.
SOMIEX sells imported goods at standard prices over the whole country, and
losses incurred in these transactions are met by profits generated by exported
products and by Government subsidies.
2.14      Office des Produits Agricoles du Malî (OPAM).  Another Mlnistry of
Finance and Trade-controlled state company, OPAM has a monopoly on the local
marketing of cereals. This may be exercised until OPAM supplies meet the
country's buffer stock requirements. OPAM has also a monopoly for the import
and export of cereals, and fruits.  OPAM has generally failed to make cereals
available to consumers at reasonable costs because of the unrealistie producer
price policies and poor management and usually OPAM is forced to resort to
coercive measures to obtain its cereal requirements. Currently the major role
of OPAM., given its problem in marshalling domestic supplies, is to distribute
foreign relief supplies of cereals.
E. Agricultural Research
2.15      Agricultural research in Mali is monitored hy "Direction de la
Recherche" (DGR), a division of IER., but ie carried out primarily by members
of the French Groupement d'Etudes et de Recherches pour le Developpement de
l'Agronomie tropicale (GERDAT). These are Institut Francais de Recherches
Frnitieres Outremer (IFAC) for fruit and market gardening research; Institut
de Recherches du Coton et des Textiles Fxotiques (IRCT) for cotton and other
fibers and Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures
Vivrieres (IRAT) and Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineux
(IRHO) for food crope and groundnuts respectively.
1f    /F/4,OOO per ton of seed cotton and MF 2,000 per ton of undecorticated
groundnuts.



- 6-
2.16      Groundnut research started in Mali in 1962 and has emphasized
variety improvement work. The long cycle variety 28.206, selected and
suitable for most of the OA area, has yielded up to 2.9 T/ha; and the short
cycle variety 47.10 chosen for the driest parts of the project area has pro-
duced yields of 2 T/ha under experimental conditions, Other research programs
cover selection for rosette virus disease resistance, the use of seed dress-
ings, and tbih trials with fertilizers and herbicides. Research on millet and
sorghum is directed mainly towards the selection of high-yielding varieties
with a short growing cycle, and a graîn palatable to the taste of the consumer.
Yield improvement has been achieved, but varieties with generally acceptable
grain qualities so far have been elusive. Hopefully, the International Crops
Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) at Hyderabad in India
which receives financial support from the Bank vill produce results that will
be applicable in Mali.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. General
3.01      Location.  The project area is situated in the Western part of Mali
and covers about 125,000 km2.  From an East-West line, Tominian-Sadiola, ap-
proximately 850 km in distance and running from the boundary of Upper Volta
to that of Senegal, the project area extends 50 to 200 km North and South
(see map). The project area represents 10% of the country's total area, and
20% of its populated areas, and comprises part of the administrative districts
of Segou, Bamako and Kayes.
3.02      Climate.  The project area is situated in the Sudan zone, an eco-
climatic zone distinguîshed by a single rainy season extending from March/
ApriL to September/October.  Annual rainfalls increase from 550 mm in the
northern part of the project area (Mourdiah) to 1,300 mm at Faraba In the
South (see rainfall map). Rainfall is very erratic, however, being ill-
distributed and unreliable. Tenperatures vary from minima of between 12'C
and 20'C in December/January, to maxima of between 38°C and 43C in April/May.
Humîdity is lowest in April--25 to 35%--and highest in November--60 to 82%.
Evapotranspiration is high, but in a normal year water i adequate for culti-
vation of a wide range of annual crops during the period of May-September.
3.03      Water.  The Niger and Senegal rivers and tributaries flow through
the project area (see map); but there are no permanent surface water sources
in the northern section of the project area. Ground water is available over
the whole of the project area, and generally can be reached at lesa than 20 m
in the east, but only at greater depths in the north and west. Traditional
wells are adequate in the wet seasons of years of normal rainfall, but due
to restricted depth, many dry up in the average dry season.



7 -
3.04      Topography, soil and vegetation.  Generally fiat ïn the north and
east, moving west and south the project area becomes undulating and then hilly
and dissected by winding rivers and streams. No general soil survey has been
carried out in Mali, and knowledge of the project area's soîls is based on
limited surveys and on the extrapolation of data from countries with similar
soli conditions. About half the project area i cultivable, and soîls are
mainly leached ferruginous tropical soils of medlum fertility suitable for
millet, sorghum and groundnut.
3.05      Population.  Population of the project area was estîmated at
1,000,000 in 1972, or about 20% of Mali's total population, and to be grow-
ing at 3% annually, including migration from less favored zones. About 90%
of the work force is employed solely in agriculture. Project farmers are
considered among the best in the Sudano-Sahelian countries, being hard-working
and receptive to innovations. Health conditions are about average for the
drier parts of West Africa, i.e. better than in the forest areas. Malaria,
measles, bilharzia, various intestinal diseases, and tuberculosis are all
common. Onchocerciasis i present in the area but confined to limited and
sparsely populated areas along parts of the Senegal River and its tributaries.
None of the project area is included in the internationally financed onchocer-
ciasis eradication campaign; but the disease is not considered a constraint
teo effective project development.
3.06      Land tenure.  The basis of the system is that all unused land belongs
to the State, and that individuals establish a right of usufruct by occupyîng
and cultivating land. This right is fairly permanent and may be translated
into official ownership through deliverance of a land title.
3.07      Farming system.  Direct exploitation of the land by family labor
and the occasional hiring of outside labor, is almost universal in the project
area. There are some 200,000 farms in total, of which 60 to 75% support and
sustain one to 10 persons, 25 to 35% - 11 to 25 persons, and about 5% more
than 25 people. Farm sizes vary greatly but generally 60 to 70% are less
than 4 ha. The principal crops, in order of importance, are millet, sorghum,
groundnut, maize, rice, cotton, cassava and sweet potatoes. The land, once
cleared, is cultivated for 5 to 7 years under a rather irregular 'system of
crop rotation and then left fallow for 15 to 20 years. There is no land shortage
and the only constraint to farm increase would occasionally be availability of
labor. All farmers keep goats, sheep and poultry. There is no trypanosiomasis
in the project zone and 50% of the farmers keep cattle.
3.08      Communications.  The railway line of "Regie des chemins de fer du
Mali" (RCFM) linking Koulikoro and Bamako with Kayes and the seaport of Dakar
in neighboring Senegal passes through the center and west of the project area.
The railway constitutes Mali's main outlet to the sea. The performance of the
railwqay has declined recently, but it is hoped that it will improve as a result
of ongoing projects in Senegal and Mali assisted by the Bank Group (Credîts
384-MLI and 314-SEN and Loan 835-SEN). The railway would transport inputs
imported for the project and all project induced exports. The main road net-
work in the project area, comprising about 2,200 km of classified roada



- 8 --
maintained by Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics (DNTP), is being improved
under an IDA financed highway project (Credit 383 - US$ 7.7 million), and a
FAC grant of MF 931 million. IDA is considering another highway project which
would extend the existing main road network in the project area. Secondary
roads and tracks, linking villages with one another and with main roada, are
adequate in the east of the project zone but are insufficient in extent and
generally in poor condition in the center and much of the west. Most secondary
roads and tracks are impassable in the wet season. The local authorities res-
ponsible for the maintenance of secondary roads and tracks can do little because
of lack of equipment and funds. The proposed project therefore, includes the
improvement of the worst part of some 1,500 km of tracks.
3.09      Health services.  In the project area, which includes Bamako, there
are six hospitals with 1,135 beds, 18 maternity centers with 168 beds, 25
hlealth centers with 116 beds and 125 dispensaries. These facilities are
insufficient for the needs of the population, and the health services lack
both funds and qualified staff. The proposed project therefore includes a
modest program to improve medical facilities in the remotest parts of the
prolect area.
3.10      Education.  The literacy rate in the project area, as in Mali as a
whole is low at 10%. Literacy among rural people is even lower than the
national average, and the literate farmer is an exception. In order to facil-
itate the adoption of new agricultural techniques essential to achieve objec-
tives, OA, with the help of Government and outside financing, has started a
functional literacy program, see para 4.07. This program is generally regarded
25 useful and an important contribution to the success of "Operation Arachide,"
although a detailed evaluation has still to be made.
B. Operation Arachide
3.11      Following a steady decline in groundnut production and exports
after a record crop of 138,000 tons in 1957, Government tried unsuccessfully
to rehabilitate the groundnut industry. Finally, "Operation Arachide" (OA)
was established in June 1967. Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) of France
provided part of the financing and "Bureau pour le Developpement de la Produc-
tion Agricole" (BDPA), a French company, the technical assistance. OA was
initially directed to reorganizating groundnut marketing as deficiencies in
this were principal reasons for a loss of farmer interest in groundnuts as a
cash crop. This effort was supported by a 25% increase in the producer price
for groundnuts in 1969 and subsequently OA proceeded to promote improved farming
methods and modern inputs. Additionally, attention was paid to farmers' educa-
tion, particularly through the functional literacy program. By the 1972 grow-
ing season, 52,000 OA farmers growing 99,000 ha of groundnuts produced 76,500
tons of groundnuts, or about 51% of Mali's production. In 1972/73, OA collec-
ted 80% of ali's marketed production of the crop. In that same season 50%



- 9 -
of OA farmers sowed at the prescribed time, 30% at the recommendcd denaity,
36% applied fertilizers and 32% used seed dressings on groundnutti and 20% seed
dressings on millet and sorghum. In the five years of OA operation the dis-
tribution of improved seeds increased 12 fold, yields increased from 500 kg/ha
in 1968 to 814 kg/ha in 1971, the area under the supervision of OA doubled,
and as a result of this, national production increased from 81,000 tons in
1967 to 153,000 tons in 1972 (see Annex 2).
3.12      OA achievements have been excellent in spite of adverse weather
conditions. Its farmer support services are efficient and honest, and most
key positions are now filled by local staff, with some expatriates remaining
as advisers. However, OA administration needs improvement, particularly ac-
counting and credit control.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The project would be a second phase, April 1973 to March 1978, of
Operation Arachide in which OA's activïtieE would be intensified and extended
to new areas. The project is underway and disbursement of the proposed IDA
credit would commence in Project Year 2 (PY 2), see para 5.09. Principal
project activities would be:
(a)  intensifying OA activities in areas now served by the
program, to cover not only groundnuts but all principal
farming activities especially the production of basic
cereals and livestock; the name of OA would be changed
to "Operation Arachide et Cultures Vivrieres" (OACV) to
stress the importance of foodcrop production in the
project;
(b)  expanding OACV services into new areas;
(c)  supplying farm inputs and equipment, on cash or credit,
to participating farmers.
To support, the above, the project would include also:
(d)  a rural track improvement program, under which spot repaire
and improvement of about 1,500 km of tracks;
(e)  a functional literacy program;
(f)  a program of agrîcultural research to supplement the
current national program;



- 10 -
(g) improvement of medical facilities in the project area;
(h) improvement of veterinary services in the project area;
(i) supply of equipment on credit to selected backsmiths; and
(j) establishment of a project evaluation unit.
The project would also finance a study on millet and sorghui producer prices
and marketing arrangements (see para. 7.08).
B. Detailed Features
4.02      Agricultural development program.  The hectarages of groundnut,
millet and sorghum that would be grown under improved techniques within the
OACV program and the incremental hectarage attributable directly to the pro-
ject are summarized below; details are in Annex 3.
Project Year (PY)  Pre-    1        2      3     4     5      6    7      8
(hectares'OOO)    72/73  73/74  74/75 75/76 76/77 77/78 78/79 79/80 80/81
rounded
Total on which OACV recommended practices employed:
Groundnut          100    105    138    157    172   182   187   191   191
Millet/Sorghum    114    117    234    245    255   264   267   270   270
'ncremeratal hectarage attributable to project:
Groundnut           -      1      3      8       16    23    28    32    32
Millet/Sorghum      -     -       -      3        7    10    13    17    18
Tlue above estimates assume that even without the project there would be
growth in the use of improved farming techniques.
4.03      Improved agricultural practices.  Participating farmers would
move through stages of improved practices. The pace at which they would
do so would depend on their current cultivation methods, receptivenesa
to advice, and credit worthiness in so far as this would govern their
use of improved inputs. All participants would grow millet and/or sor-
ghum in rotation with groundnuts and would receive technical advice on how
to maximise yields. A range of improved practices has been introduced by
OA over the past five years and consequently those now recommended have been
fully tested and proven. The recommended practices for groundnuts include
early and dense sowing, timely weeding, fungicidal seed dressing, fertilizer;
application and the use of improved seeds; it is expected at full development



- 1'1 -
that at least 70% of farmers would us such seeds. For millet and sorghum,
and in the absence of better varieties, timely sowing and weeding, and seed
dressing are the basic recommended practices. However, these crops benefit
from the residual effect of fertilizers applied to groundnut and the better
seedbed produced when using ox-drawn equipment for seedbed preparation. Ox-
drawn equipment would be available to qualified project farmers on credit.
4.04      Administrative structure.  The project area would be divided
into nine sectors. Each sector would have two to five sub-sectors, giving
a total of 26 sub-sectors and 308 extension agents for the project as a whole.
Each extension agent, would supervise an average of about 8 villages wîth some
45 farmers per village. For the project overall the ratio of extension workers
to farmers would be 1:350.
4.05      Construction program.  The program would include the construction
of a headquarters office in Bamako, 27 offices, 29 sheds and 33 houses in
Bamako, sectors and sub-sectors, 4 workshop-grages, and the extension of OACV's
central workshop and garage in Bamako. All these buildings would be appro-
priately equipped and furnished.
4.06      Rural track improvement program.  (Annex 4) The program (Annex 4)
carried out over three years starting in PY2, would improve the worse parts of
some 1,500 km of tracks located in the Western and Central Sectors of the
project area. These tracks are essential for efficient crop collection,
general trade and the effective use of extension services, and of medical and
veterinary personnel.
4.07      Functional literacy program.  (Annex 5)  The main objective of
functional literacy (Alphabetisation fonctionelle - AF) programs is to help
individuals increase their productivity by teaching them the elements of
reading, writing and arithmetic needed for a better understanding of their
work or business through "out-of school" courses carried out in their native
language. In agriculture an AF program helps farmers to better understand
and thus apply more efficiently technical innovations recommended by extension
workers. Thus, an effective AF program should significantly reinforce the
impact of the extension services. It is estimated that by the end of 1973
some 30,000 farmers in OACV areas will have completed AF courses. An evalua-
tion of AF programs in Mali in general and within OACV in particular has not
been made. Thus the-program to be financed under the project would be restric-
ted to (a) the evaluation of past and ongoing OA/AF programs and (b) pending
the conclusion of this evaluation, establishing, staffing and equipping an
additional 500 AF centers in PY1 through PY3. If as expected the evaluation
confirms the effectiveness of AF a further 200 centers would be established.
4.08      Research programs.  (Annex 6)  The research prograæs would be divided
into (i) applied studies on diversification of agricultural production in the
project area by the introduction, in longer than traditionally employed rota-
tions, of crops such as cotton, maize, cowpeas as well as fodder crops; (ii)



- 12 -
continuation of work on groundnut for unproving local varieties and adapting
materials developed in countries with smilar conditions; pesticides and ferti-
lizers trials and (iii) soil surveys.
4.09      Improvement of medical facilities.  (Annex 7).  This would con-
sist of a modest program to improve the activities and quality of exist-
ing health services in the rerotest parts of the project area. The pur-
posc of the improved facilities would be to detect and combat at the
earliest possible stage outbreaks of infectious diseases. These usually
affect the project area's population at the beginning of the cultivation
season with the onset of the rains. The program would also provide train--
ing for farm families in basic hygiene. Additional staff, dispensaries,
vehicles, equipment, medicines and operating costs required for the above
purposes would be provided under the project.
4.10      Improvement of veterinary services.  (Annex 8)  Existing vet-
erinary services which generally lack funds for equipment and medicines
would be strengthened under the project. Such strengthening is essential
given the planned development of ox-drawn cultivation in the project area.
In addlition to improved veterinary care for work oxen farmers would be
trained in animal husbandry. Additional staff, dips, vehicles, equipment,
veterinary medicines (for which farmers would be charged) and operating
costs would be provided under the project.
4.11      Evaluation unit.  (Annex 9)  The effects of the proposed pro-
ject on the population in OACV areas and on the economy of Mali would be
subject to study by an Evaluation Unit that would be established under
the project. This unit would measure among others the impact of the
project on the income and well being of participating farmers and gener-
ally assess changes in economic and social indicators. This unit would be
autonomous but would be attached to the Institut d'Economie Rurale and work
in close cooperation with this institute.
4.12      Environnent and health.  The project should have amall but
beneficial impacts on environment and health. Moderate improvements
in health care would result from the medical program and since in areas
covered by OACV its agents are empowered to prevent the clearing and
cultivation of slopes subject to soil erosion, the dangers of soil
degradation would be diminished.
C. Credit Arrangements and Supply of Inputs
4.13      Sale of farm inputs to farmers, either for cash or on credit, is
a nationwide monopoly of Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural
(SCAER). Since April 1971, SCAER has acted primarily as a central supply
.lgency for the "operations," such as OA, which themselves deliver the inputs
to farmers, collect cash payments and credit repayments and hold stocks of
inputs on belialf of SCAER (see Annex 11).



- 13 -
4.14      Credit operations in OA areas have suffered from the following
problems: (i) inadequate coordination between SCAER and OA maniaging stocks
of inputs which led to shortages in some areas and surpluses in others; (ii)
a proportion of overdue debts, of about 20% of all loans made to groundnut
farmers since 1968, compared with 2% for cotton farmers in "operation cotton" 1/
areas; (iii) continuing controversy between SCAER andl OA over the financing
of credit for groundnut seed; OA has retained, over the objections of SCAER,
funds from repayment of other loans to finance credit for seed. Recently,
however, a "reciprocal service agreement" has been prepared and accepted in
principle by both parties, which defines more clearly the responsibilities
of OA and SCAER. An improved system of input ordering and stock management
is being implemented, and Government has agreed that more legal pressure may
be put on defaulting farmers. A condition of credit effectiveness would be
that a "reciprocal service agreement" satisfactory to IDA and defining the
responsibilities and obligations of both parties had been signed between OACV
and SCAER.
4.15      Under the project, farm inputs and equipment, except seeds would
continue to be procured by SCAER and supplied to farmers, both for cash and
on credit, by OACV. The arrangements would be financed by SCAER through re-
discounting with the Central Bank. The Banque de Developpement du Mali (BDM)
serves as intermediary, and charges 1.5% on top of the Central Bank rediscount
rate which currently is 3.5%. Effectively BDM is engaged in an almost risk-
less operation and its charge should therefore be reduced. Informal assurances
were obtained that the terms and conditions under which BDM would finance
farm inputs and equipment procured by SCAER for the project should be satis-
factory to IDA. Credit for seeds would be the direct responsibility of OACV
and be financed from a revolving fund that would be set up by OACV for this
purpose. It was agreed that "Office de Surveillance et de Regulation des
Prix" (OSRP) would take over responsibility for all outstanding debts of OA to
SCAER in respect of seed (effectively writing off past losses incurred in seed
distribution operations) and that no later than six months after signature of
the proposed IDA credit responsibility for supplying seed, and credit for seed,
would be transferred from SCAER to OACV which is best equipped for this purpose.
The project would include provision for strengthening OACV's existing credit
organization and staff, including the finance to upgrade training of credit
staff. All project farmers would be eligible for credit for seasonal inputs.
No credit would be provided for draft animal purchase since most farmers
possess such animals and, as at present, applicants for medium-term credit
for farm equipment would be required to prove possession of a pair of oxen
and of at least 1.5 ha of destumped land.
1/   Cotton, unlike groundnut, can be sold only to a single processing agent,
CFDT, and can be used to only a very limited extent by the producer
himself. Consequently, credit is easily collected by CFDT through
deducting repayments from the growers sales proceeds.



- 14 -
4.1,5     Subsidies.  Farm inputs, and spare parts for equipment, are sold
by SCAER at prices higher than cost delivered to farmer. Only in the
cases of seeds and of ox-drawn implements are prices lower than cost
and a subsidy involved. On average the farmer pays about 60% of the cost
of seeds and implements, and the subsidies for the whole country currently
amount to about MF 500 million a year, partially covered by Government levies
on produce sales, and in the past the balance has been met by FAC, FED and
when necessary by Government contributions. In future FAC and FED intend
to reduce and eventually cease their grants for these subsidies. Government
cortribution would therefore be increased tnless the subsidies are reduced
or the levies raised, as happened recently. Total subsidies in project
costs are covered by Government contributions. Given the critical need for
farmers to use improved seed, and the desirability of sponsoring ox-drawn
equipment it would be undesirable to take any measures that would increase
the cost to the farmers of these items at this time, and it was agreed that
IDA would be consulted on any changes proposed by Government in policy regard-
ing the prices of, and subsidies on, production inputs.
4.17      Interest rate.  No formal interest is charges on seasonal and mediu=-
tern credit made to OA farmers, but financial costs (equal to 8.5% of cost
price delivered to farmers) and other charges including operating expenses,
provision for losses and bad debts, and an adequate spread are included in
SCAER cost prices. A feature of the arrangement, however, is that as financial
charges and provision for bad debts apply equally to both cash and credit
sales, they discourage farmers from buying for cash. It was agreed that in
future the prices of Inputs and equipment sold for cash would be appropriately
discounted to encourage cash sales. Such discount should reflect savings
generated by cash purchases roughly estimated at 7-9% of cost price delivered
to farmers.
V. COST ESTIMATES AMD FINANCING
A. Poect Co8tS
5.01      Project cost estimates are detailed in Annex 12 and summarized
irn the following table. Costs are based on mid-1973 prices. The estimates
incLiet provision for price escalation 1/ for various project items.  A
phys kal contingency of 5% has been applied to all project costs.  Total
contingencies amount to US$4.0 million or 27% of total costs before con-
tin'encies. Project costs include import duities and taxes which are estimated
at about MF 649 million (US$1.3 million).
1/   r he followinR rates of price increase have been used:
Technical
Eiuîpment    Civil Works    Assistance   Others
1973              10             12               7          3
1974               14            18               7          6
1975               il             15              7          6
1976-80             7.5          12               7          6



-15-
SUMMARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
% Foreign
Local     For.      Total      Local      For.    Total      Exchange
---------MF Million------    -----US$ '000----------
1.  MAIN SUBPROJECT
Buildings                    643.6    262.9       906.5    1,287       526      1,813        29
Furniture & Equipment         62.1      93.1      155.2       125      186        311        60
Vehicles                     184.8    277.3       462.1       369      555        924        60
Tech. Assistance             201.4    818.8   1,020.2        402    1,638       2,040        80
Local Staff   1/             352.5       -        352.5       705       -         705         -
Operating Costs  1/          321.1    362.1      683.2       642       724      1,366        53
Total 1                1,765.5  1,814.2   3,579.7    3,530    3,629          7,159        51
2.  ANCILLARY SUBPROJECTS 1/
Tracks Improvement           201.2    209.4      410.6       402       419        821        51
Functional Literacy           92.7      92.7     185.4       186       185        371        50
Research                     107.5      99.2      206.7       216      198        414        48
Med. Assistance               94.4      77.3      171.7       188      155        343        45
Vet. Assistance               65.1      62.5      127.6       130      125        255        49
Evaluation Unit v»            89.4      67.4      156.8 V/   178       135        313NX      43
Studies  2/                    -        45.0      45.0         -        90         90       100
Total 2                   650.3    653.5   1,303.8    1,300    1,307         2,607        50
Total 1 & 2             2,415.8  2,467.7   4,883.5    4,830    4,936         9,766        51
3. FARM INPUTS 1/
Equiptnent                   212.8  1,206.0   1,418.8        426    2,412       2,838        85
Seasonal Inputs              619.5    512.8   1,132.3    1,24- 1,025            2,265        45
Total 3                   832.3  1,718.8   2,551.1    1,666    3,437         5,103        67
4.  REVOLVING FUND  _              20.7      31.1      51.8        42        62        104        60
Total 1 to 4           3,268.8  4,217.6   7,486.4    6,538    8,435    14,973             56
5. CeNTINGENCIES
Price                        714.3    896.5   1,610.8    1,429    1,793         3,222        56
Physical                     163.4    210.7       374.1       327      421        748        56
Total 5                   877.7  1,107.2   1,984.9    1,756    2,214         3,970        56
GRAND TOTAL                4,146.5  5,324.8   9,471.3    8,294   10,649    18,943'           56
1/ Incremental Costs, except for Evaluation Unit
2/   Cereal producer prices and marketing arrangements study and accountancy assistance to OACV
Blacksmith equipment and motorcycles and bicycles for staff.



- 16 -
5.02      As the project is a continuation and expansion of an existing
program, project costs are those that are additional to the costs of main-
taining the ongoing program at its current level of activity. An excep-
tion, however, is the case of technical assistance where total costs reflect
the requirements to implement the project.
B. Financial Arrangements
5.03      It is proposed that IDA should make a credit of US$8.0 million
to meet 42% of total project costs. The credit would be equivalent to 75%
of project foreign exchange costs which are estimated at MF 5,324.8 million
(US$10.6 million). Project financing would be completed by FAC providing
13% of project costs, Government 23% and farmers 22%. Details of the proposed
financing are set out in the following table and in more detail in Annex 13.



IALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVEIDPtENT PROJECr
SUMNARY OF PROJECT FINANCING
IDA                              FAC                       GOVERNNENT                          PARNERS                                GRAND TOTAL
My m      us$ looo        %       MF n       US$'000                M NF m     us$  0ooo      X        Mp .      US$ '000         .       MF u       US$ '000       Z
Buildings                        672.8        1,346        70        90.2         180         10      194.6         389         20         -           -           -        957.6         1,915       100
Equipment and Furniture            -            -            -      121.6         244         59       84.4         169         41         -           -           -        206.0           4f3       100
Vehicles                         397.4           795       55        73.0         146         10      258.8         518         35         -           -           -        729.2         1,459       100
Technical Assistance             860.6        1,721        70       361.1         722         30       -             -          -          -           -           -      1,221.7         2,443       100
Malian Staff                     403.4           807        70      124.6         249         21       51.6         103          9         -           -           -        579.6         1,159        100
Operating Costs                  818.7        1,637        72       231.1         462         20       94.6         189          8                     -           -      1,144.4         2,288       100
Cart Bodies                       -            -            -        -             -           -       -             -          -        159.6        319         100       159.6           319       100
Farm Inputs  1/                    -            -            -       -              -          -      748.1       1,496         43    1,001.1       2,002          57    1,749.2          3,498        100
Seeds                            103.8          208        16        -             -           -      214.5         429         33       324.0        648          51       642.3         1,285       100
Revolving yund    2/               -           -            -        -             _           _       51.8         104        100        -            -            -        51.8           104       100
5tudies  il                       45.0            90 00-                                               -             -          .         -                         -        45.0            9C       100
Sub-Total                  3,301.7        6,604        44    1,001.6        2,003         13   1,698.4        3,397         23    1,484.7      2,969           20    7,486.4         14,973       100
Contingencies                    698,3        1.396        35       257.8         516         13      449.3         899         23       579.5      1.159          29    1.984.9          3.970        100
GRAND TOTAL                4.000.0        8.000        42    1.259.4                                          4.296         23    2,064.2      4.128           22    9.471.3         18.943       100
The above percentages refer to total project costs.  Percentages on project costs during IDA disbursement period (PY 2 to PY 5) are detailed in Annex 13.
Exchange rate: US$ 1 = MF 500.
1/ Incremental farm inputs (excluding seeds) at full costs; Government contribution include cost of subsidies
2/ Revolving Fund for blacksmiths' equipment and motorbicycles and bicycles for extension staff.
y/ Cereal producer prices and marketing arrangements study and accountancy assistance to OACV.



- 18 -
5.04      The contributions proposed for farmers and Governnent appear high
given the tight financial situation of both. However, farmers' contributions
include repayments for inputs and equipment totalling MF 983 million; the
remainder of their contribution MF 1,081 million would be the down payments,
the purchase of inputs for cash, the costs of cart bodies and contingencies.
Government's contribution would include about MF 444 million that it is
estimated SCAER would rediscount with the Central Bank in connection with its
providing farm equipment on medium term credit.  MF 645 million of Governnent's
contribution would be offset by the import duty and added value taxes component
of project costs; a further MF 1,036 million would accrue to Government/OACV
from the "bareme arachide" and serve to meet the cost of extension services.
5.05      Bareme Arachide (Groundnut schedule) the government after consulta-
tion with OA and OSRP establishes annually a list of the estimated expenses
covering the various operations from the groundnut producer to CIF Europe.
The list, called Bareme Arachide, for the 1973/74 season is at Annex 14 table 1.
Under this arrangement Government/OACV would receive a cess of MF 7,600 per
ton of undecorticated groundnut marketed by OACV, which would generate an
estimated MF 1,036 million on the incremental marketed project production
during the period 1973/74 through 1977/78. Surpluses arising when the CIF
price exceed the schedule price accrue in fact to SOMIEX and shortfalls are
met by Government. It was agreed that the annual Bareme Arachide would be
established in consultation with IDA.
5.06      It is proposed that an IDA credit of US$8 million be made on standard
terms to Government which will pass it on to OACV. The IDA credit would be
disbursed during the four-year period 1974/75 through 1977/78, the first
year costs being financed by FAC and Government. Funds to meet recurrent
operating costs, after 1977/78 until full production is reached in 1980/81
would total MF 810 million. Government should have no problem in finding
these funds from project revenues and there would be no point in extending
the IDA credit disbursement period beyond 1977/78.
5.07      To ensure the efficient and timely execution of the project against
the background of very tight budgetary constraints, it is proposed that IDA
should prefinance project activities. To that effect, immediately after
credit effectiveness, an initial IDA disbursement of US$200,000 equivalent
would be made into a special account that Government would establish for this
purpose; from this account Government would be able to finance project
expenditures. IDA would replenish the special account upon reception of
satisfactory evidence that such expenditures are eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the credit. Ilowever, should any disbursement out of the
special account fail to meet the criteria of eligibility, IDA would refuse
reimbursement, and Government would be under the obligation to deposit the
corresponding amount into the special account. Agreement was reached to
that effect. A condition of effectiveness of the credit would be that the
special account has been established.



- 19 -
C. Procurement and Disbursement
5.08      Procurement.  Project vehicles and graders amounting to US$1.5 million
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with IDA guidelines.
Equipment and furniture valued at US$0.4 million and for which
there is a satisfactory degree of local competition, would be procured by
local competitive bidding. Contracts for the construction of project offices,
houses, stores and garages evaluated to about US$1.9 million are not suit-
able for international competitive bidding due to the dîspersed location of
the work and the small size of individual contracts and would be awarded under
local competitive bidding. A satîsfactory degree of competition between ex-
perienced local contractors could be expected. In appraisal of bids, domestic
civil works contractors would be allowed a preference margin of 7.5%.
Farm inputs (fertilizers, agrocides) and implements for draft
animals amounting to US$3.5 million, to be financed by Government and farmers,
would be procured by SCAER as part of the country's total requirements.
SCAER purchase procedure, which is based on satisfactory competitive bidding,
would continue under the project. An informal understanding was reached that
IDA would be consulted on the preparation and publicity of tender documents
and the evaluation of bids for the SCAER procurement. Seeds required by
the project costing an estimated US$1.3 million would be locally produced
and distributed under OACV supervision. Cart bodies valued at US$319,000
would be supplied or purchased locally by farmers.
Technical assistance and consultant services to the project is
expected to cost US$2.5 million; it is proposed that a contract should be
made with BDPA, which has successfully assisted the ongoing project, to supply
experts required by OACV and costing an estimated US$2 million. Similarly,
GERDAT, which is currently assisting Mali in agricultural research, would
supply the experts required at an estimated cost of US$150,000. Internationally
recruited staff at a cost of about US$390,000 would be recruited under pro-
cedures acceptable to IDA to evaluate the functional literacy program, to
provide accountancy assistance to OACV, to head the evaluation unit and to
carry out a study on cereal producer prices and marketing arrangements.
A total of US$3.5 million would cover Malian staff and operating
expenses, credit for blacksmiths' equipment, motorcycles and bicycles for
the extension staff. The rural track improvement and maintenance program
would be carried out by force account, which is the only practical means for
tiimely and proper execution of this program.
An amount of US$4.0 million would be unallocated.



- 20 -
5.09      Disbursement of the IDA credit would start in 1974/75, the second
year of the project. The proceeds of the credit would cover expenditures
during the four-year period on the following basis:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures or 66% of total expenditures for
vehicles and graders imported for the project - US$795,000.
(b)  18% of the incremental cost of seeds - US$208,000.
(c)  80% of total expenditures for buildings - US$1,352,600.
(d)  85% for the salaries of internationally recruited staff and
consultants for project management - US$1,721,000.
(e)  100% of foreign expenditures for a proposed cereal marketing
study and accountancy services - US$90,000.
j (f) 75% of incremental expenditures for local staff - US$807,000.
" (g) 80% of incremental operating costs of Project - US$1,637,400.
US$1,389,000 of the credit would be unallocated to cover contingencies.
5.10      Applications for disbursements under categories (a), (c) and (e)
would be supported by contracts and shipping and other appropriate docu-
ments. For categories (b), (d), (f) and (g), applications would be supported
by certificates issued by the Project Manager that expenditures had been
incurred for project purposes. Documents supporting applications under
categories (b), (f) and (g) would not be submitted for review but would be
available for inspection by IDA. A schedule of estimated disbursements by
semester is in Annex 13.
D. Project Accounts and Audit
5.11      OACV accounts require to be improved and an accurate opening balance
sheet established. An informal understanding was reached that an independent
accountancy firm or consultant would be engaged under the project for this
purpose.
5.12      Project accounts would be kept by OACV in accordance with estab-
lished accounting principles, would be audited by a firm of independent
auditors satisfactory to IDA, and would be submitted together with the
auditors report to IDA within four months of the close of each financial
year. The accounts of Office de Surveillance et de Regulation des Prix
(OSRP) are audited by the government Audit Service. To enable IDA to



- 21 -
assess arnually the amount of the groundnut reserve (see para 7.05) these
would be submitted together with the auditors report to IDA within four
months of the close of each financial year. Agreement to this effect was
reached with Government.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT - STAFFING MND TRAINING
A. Organization and Management
6.01      Project entity.  The project would be managed by "Operation Arachide
et Cultures Vivrieres" (OACV), see para 4.01. As OA's performance has been
satisfactory in the past, no significant changes are proposed in its organiza-
tion and administration.
6.02      Board of Directors.  OA has a Board of 20 directors which meets at
least twice a year to consider general policy and to determine program details
and budgets. Board members are 13 Government officials, three technical experts,
three farmers' representatives and one representative of OA staff; the chairman
is the Minister of Production. In order to ensure the efficient execution of
project components involving other agencies, the Board would co-opt as needed
representatives of (i) Direction Niationale des Travaux Publics (DNTP); (ii)
Direction de l'Alphabetisation Fonctionnelle; (iii) Institut d'Economie Rurale
(IER); (iv) Direction Nationale de la Sante (DNS); and (v) Service de l'Elevage
et de la Sante Animale (SESA). The manager of "Office de Surveillance et de
Regulation des Prix" (OSRP) would be one of the three technical experts.
Agreement was reached that (i) the Board would co-opt, as necessary, re-
presentatives of other government agencies; and (ii) the manager of OSRP
would become a permanent Board member.
6.03      HO Management.  The general manager, as now, would report to the
Service de l agriculture of the Ministry of Production. He would be assisted
by a deputy general manager, a technical manager and a chief accountant. The
deputy general manager would be responsible for general and personnel administr-
ation and credit operations; the technical manager, assisted by a specialist
in animal-powered mechanisation, for all technical aspects of the program and
the chief accountant for all project and farmers' credit accounts (see Organi-
zation Chart).
6.04      Field management.  Field management would be effected through nine
sectors, each headed by a sector chief assisted by sub-sector chiefs. The
latter, in turn, would instruct and control the activities of extension agents.
For administration, accounting and credit operations, sector and sub-sector
chiefs would be assisted by "agents sociaux economiques", a type of bookkeeper
with responsibility for marketing and credit transactions.



- 22 -
6.05      Rural tracks improvement program.  A special unit, the "Service des
Travaux Routiers" will be established within OACV Hleadquarters to plan and
supervise its track improvement activities. The unit will be headed by an
experienced road technician (Inspecteur des Travaux Routiers), seconded from
the DNTP, who will assume broad responsibilities for the organization, plan-
ning and supervision of the activities, and for the efficient use of the road
gangs and of the equipment. He will also be responsible for coordination of
the annual track improvement and maintenance program with the DNTP. The
proposed program will include schedules for use of the two graders procured
under the project, and for rental of DNTP equipment, such as bulldozers.
Each of the four road gangs will be attachei to one sector of the OACV, and
will operate under the administrative autho-ity of the Chief of Sector who
will supply them with funds, materials and fuel, and will control their
expenditure. Each gang will be headed by a gang leader to be seconded from
DNTP. It was agreed that a road inspector and four road gang leaders with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA would be seconded from DNTP
to the project for the duration of the tracks program.
6.06      Functional literacy program.  Annual functional literacy programs
and associated budgets would be prepared by the Directorate of Functional
Literacy in consultation with the deputy general manager of OACV. It would
be the responsibility of the latter to arrange for the effective monitoring
of the program, and to recommend such modifications as may appear appropriate.
The authorization of expenditures within the agreed budget for the functional
literacy program would rest with OACV.
e.07      Research program.  The details and budgets of annual research pro-
grams financed under the project would be prepared by the Directorate of
agricultural research of the Institut d'Economie Rurale in consultation with
<)ACV. The Technical Manager would be responsible for ensuring that the agri-
cultural research program reflected project needs, and for helping to locate
aZnd estabLish field triais. Financial control of research expenditures with-
in the acreed budget would be the responsibility of the Directorate of
Agricultural Pesearch.
'.(03     Improvement of Mledical Facilities.  Annuai medical programs and budgets
woutid he established by the firectorate of Medical Services and submitted for
approval to OACV which jointly witlh the I)irectorate of medical services would
control the execution nE the program.  Financial control of medical program
expenditures within the agreed budget, would rest with the Directorate of
aedical services.
6.09      Improvement of Veterinary Services.  The annual veterinary programs
and budgets of the project would bc established jointly by the Service de
l'Elevage et de la Sante Animale (SFSA) and OACV.  OACV's specialist in animal-
pzowered mechanisation would ensure that the program is satisfactorily carried
out. F'inancial control of veterinary program expenditures, within the agreed
budget, would be the responsibility of SESA.



- 23 -
B.  Staffing and Training
6.10      Senior Staff.  The positions of OA (to be OACV) General Manager,
Deputy General M4anager and Chief Accountant are filled by experienced
TMalians. Ail Sector Chiefs are also Malian. Nine senior positions in OA
continue to be held by expatriates supplied by BDPA, these are: adviser to
the Ceneral Manager, Technical Manager, specialist in animal-powered mechani-
zation, administrator and five field advisers. In view of the critical im-
portance of efficient management to the success of the project, it was agreed
that during the disbursement period of the IDA credit the positions of OACV
Ceneral Manager, Deputy General Manager, Teclhnical Manager and Chief Accountant,
would be filled by persons with experience and qualifications satisfactory to
IDA and under terns of reference and conditions of employment mutually accept-
able to Cnvernment and IDA. Currently persons filling these positions and
their terns of reference and conditions of employment are satisfactory to IDA.
6.11      Technical Assistance.  BDPA provided technical assistance to OA
for tlhe five years 1967/68 to 1972/73, and is continuing to do so under
interim arrangements expiring in ilarch 1974. This interim period corresponds
with the first year of the project (PY 1) reviewed in this report. BDPA per-
formance lias been satisfactory, and thus it is proposed that BDPA be employed
for the four years of the ID)A credit disbursement period (PY2 through PY5).
Under the project the level of assistance from BDPA would increase from nine
expatriates, six advisers and three executives, as at present in PY 1, to 12
in PY2, and thereafter decline to 10 in PY 3, 7 in PY 4 and finally to six in
PY 5.  SIPA expatriates would not be replaced, or their tenure extended, when
their contracts expired, and project cost estimates are based on the assump-
tioni that expatriates would not be retained beyond the IDA credit disbursement
period. BDPA teclnical assistance would include visits by BDPA specialists
to deal with specific problems. An informal understanding was reached that
(i) Government would contract BDPA to supply technical assistance to OACV under
terms of reference and in accordance with a staffing schedule acceptable to
IDA; (ii) that the contract would permit a reduction in the number of ex-
patriates if so requested by Governnent in agreement with IDA; and (iii) that
Government would discuss and agree annually with IDA the number and deploynent
of technical assistance staff supplied by BDPA.
6.12      Evaluation and Research.  The consultants required to (i) evaluate
the functional literacy program and (ii) to carryout a study on cereal producer
prices and marketing arrangements, and the agricultural economist who would
head the Evaluation Unit of OACV, would be recruited internationally under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Technical assistance for the
rcsearch component of the project would be supplied by GERDAT under terms and
conditions of service satisfactory to IDA. Agreement was reached with
Government to this effect.



- 24 -
,.13      Junior Staff.  ,Tost existing junior positions in OA are now filled
by adequately trained and experienced personnel.  As a consequence bf the
pro jects, however, an additionai 120 extension agents would be required.
'fost of these would be recruited frorm the "Centres d'Apprentissage ligricole"
(CAU) 1/. Promotions from the ranks of extension agents and graduates from
lthe "Institut Polytechnique Rural" (IPR) of Katibougou woul(d fill the eight
additional positions of sub-sector chief that would be created under the
project. Difficulties are not foreseen in recruiting the other junior support
staff required.
!',. 1 4  Training.  BDPA has always laid great emphasis on the in-service
traiaiirç of Malian personnei, and a permanent program for all categories of
staff .ias been established and works well.  This in-service trai;aing system
wouLd be continued and extended.  Training programs for the "agents sociaux
economiques" would pay particular attention to farm credit control, which
woul(d also be given greater prominence in the training sessions for extension
staff.
VII.  YIELDS MID PRODUCTION, MARKETING,
FAUMERS' BENEFITS AND GOVFRNMENT REVENUES
A. Yields and Production
7.01      Groundnuts.  The vield of groundnuts has increased substantially
whcre OA recommendations have been followed.  The average yield in 1972/73
was 767 kg/ha of undecorticated groundnuts 2/, somewhat lower than the peak
of '14 kg/ha achieved during the previous season when the weather was better.
These yields compare with a 500 lkg/ha average on farms using traditional
cultivation methods and represent increases of 53% and 63% respectively. By
the end of the project development period, it is estimated that further
improvements will occur; in existing OA areas where an estimated 100,000 ha
of groundnuts are now grown, yields will increase to an average 950 kg/ha
(24, more than in 1972/73).  A substantial increase is anticipated in new
areas where yield is estinated to increase fromn 500 kg/ha to 835 kg/ha (a 67%
increase); it is estimated that about 91,000 ha of groundnuts would be grown
in tliese areas by the end of the project development period. If the foregoing
tarc;ets are achieved the vield of all OACV farmers would average 895 kg/ha
1/   Thiere are 3CAA in Mali.  The courses last 3 years and about 30
students graduate annually from each CAA.
_/   Undercorticated groundnuts are groundnuts in shell as harvested and after
drying. Dccorticated groundnuts are 65 to 75% in weight of undecorticated
groundnuts depending on variety.  In Mali the average ratio is 68 to 70%.
Decorticated groundnuts produce, after milling, about 40% of oil and 60%
of cake.                                                                  %



- 25 -
by PY 6 representing an average increase of 255 kg/ha or 40% over 1972/73.
This estimate is conservative in view of neighboring countries' experience
where yields of over 1,100 kg/ha are obtained under similar programs and of
the results of locally conducted field trials where vields of 1,500 kg/ha
are regularly obtained. As shown in Annex 3 table 4, project induced
incremental grotndnut production is estimated to reach 65,000 tons annually
at full development in PY 8.
7.02      Millet and sorghum.  Yield and production estimates for millet and
sorghum are in Annex 3 table 7. The average yield of millet and sorghum with
the project is expected to increase from the current national average of 600
kg/ha 1/ to about 725 kg/ha (20% increase) by the development period end.
At ful1 development in 1930/81 (PY 8) prodLction induced by the project is
estinated to reach 38,600 tons annually. Yield improvement would stem from
seeé dressing, the residual effects of fertilizers used on groundnuts and the
benefits of better cultivations brought about by using ox-drawn equipment.
Tlhe imnpact of these improvements on cereal yields lias been demonstrated by
trials carried out by IRAT in Bambey (Senegal) and in IRAT field trials in
the- iroject area and elsewhere in IJest Africa.
1B.  Mfarketing and Prices
7. 03     Croundnut.  OACV wouild have responsibility for the marketing of
*,roundnuts produced in the project. Problems are not foreseen and produce
collection and evacuation should be facilitated by the ongoing IDA, FAC and
Government Financed road prograrms as well as by the project' s track improve-
ment progran. As roads are improved in the project area it is anticipated
tLat a greater part of road transport would be assumed by the private sector
and OACV involvement in this field gradually reduced.  An informal understand-
ing was reached that OACV's involvement in road transport of marketed ground-
nuts would gradually be reduced when road improvement in the project area
would permit transport by the private sector.
7.04      It is estimated that 65% of increimental project production would be
marketed hy project farmers by PY8.  (This proportion allows for the retention
of scéd, ihome consumption and losses) and thus some 111,000 tons of undecorti-
catcdl -roundnuts collected compared with an average of 60,000 tons in recent
years.  Ns a consequence of the project, Mali's share in world groundnut exports
woulid increase from 2'% to about 3.5% by 1930/81. This should not result in
anv significant imbalance in the worl(l groundnut trade, and an increase of
this magnitude would bring Mali's share of world trade back to that it enjoyed
until 1961.  Prices used in project calculations are based on forecasts made
by tlie Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department (BEAPD); Annex 14
contains further details of price projections, and gives a description of the
prospects for groundnuts in the world's fats and oil trade.
1/   A wceighted average of 500 kg/ha for milLet and 650 kg/ha for sorghuin.



- 26 -
7.05      The BEAPD predicts that world market prices for decorticated ground-
nuts will decline from their current price of CIF Europe US$393 per metric
ton to TJS$235 in 1980 (1973 real prices). If this fall occurs, Mali groundnut
exports would still make a significant contribution to Government revenues
(see Annex 16). The "Office cie Surveillance et de Regulation des Prix"
(OSRP) is designed to cushion the impact of fluctuations in world prices;
but the reserve accumulated to date, about MF 520 million, is far below the
estimated 4.5 billion 1/ (US$9 million) required for adequate functioning
of the OSRP. Assuming that the price decline expected by the Bank takes
place and that the current producer price is maintained, an additional MF 4.8
billioi would accrue to OSRP over the 15-year project period.
7.06      Producer price for undecorticated groundnuts, fixed by Government,
is currently 'F 30 per kg. This has provided sufficient incentive to farmers
as the groundnut producer price is more beneficial than prices paid for other
crops and compares favorably with prices paid for groundnuts in neighboring
countries (Annex 1, Table 2 and Annex 14, Table 2). Return to groundnut
producers would further increase with improved productivity and marketing.
Should prices paid for other crops be increased, some shift from groundnuts
would occur, however, where cither the alternative cash crop could be profit-
ably grown, currently the only scrope for this is cotton in the west of the
project area, or where a mnarket exists for increased food crop production.
Agreement was reached that priority would be given to accumulating
and riaintaining the Groundnut Stabilization Fund at an adequate level, and
that Government would consult IDA annually on a producer price for the
Coming season and submit a schedule of payments into or from OSRP for approval.
7.07       !illet and sorghum.  Incremental demand for cereals by 1978/79 is
estimated at between 200,000 and 300,000 tons, with millet and sorghum
accounting for about 75%. Consequently there would be no problem in dis-
posing of project induced production, about 39,000 tons annually. In cal-
culating the project's economic benefits, cereal production has been valued
alt ',;'API) estimated( world prices plus the costs of transportation to Mali.
*;y 19Q30/81, the economie farm gate price of cereals is estimated at MF 50,700/
ton (Ur$ 101), see Annex 14 table 9.
7.0       Producer prices for cereals are fixed by Government, and were
MT 20/k,; in 1972/73.  This was about half the average price paid by private
.inofficial dealers; at times cereals unofficially traded have fetched as
UCl as 'T 90/kg.  The high prices ruling in unofficial trade make it
impossible for "Office tles Produits Agricoles du Mali" (OPAM) to exert its
cereal narketing nonopoly and what purchases it makes are generally through
coercive means. In effect, OPAM's role is counterproductive since, apart
from its many admtinistrative deficiencies, through attempting to enforce
iirealistically Low producer prices it restricts the volume of grain
1/   Based on average return to producers in the three preceding years.



- 27 -
available for sale, and causes a nationwide black market and artificially
high price for cereals. To ensure the success of the important foodcrop
component of the project, it was agreed that (i) sorghum and millet producer
prices would be increased from MF 20 per kg to a minimum of MF 25 per kg
effective from November 1974, and the increase would be publicized in
May before the planting period; (ii) a study on millet and sorghum producer
prices and marketing arrangements, to be completed by April 30, 1975, would
be carried out by consultants and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
This studly would provide the basis for further decisions on both producer
prices and marketing arrangements which should be satisfactory to IDA.
In the farm budgets at Annex 15, a producer price for sorghum
averaging MF 35/kg is used reflecting their unofficial trade value.
C.  Farmers' Benefits
7.09      At full development, some 107,000 farming families, involving
about one million people in ail, would participate in the project compared
to 52,000 farming families and 490,000 people served by OA in 1972/73. Total
incremental income accruing to producers from marketed groundnuts would appro-
ximate ME 1.6 billion (US$3.2 million) annually at current producer prices,
and the value of project induced millet and sorghum would be about MF 0.9
billion (US$1.8 million). Determina'ion of a "typical farm" of the project
area is difficult. Nonetheless the niodels in Annex 15 are considered reason-
ably representative of the situation of participating farmers in the project
area. Two models are compared with the traditional "pre-project" farm. First,
a farm using hand cultivation and a second one using oxen for cultivations.
vor the former, it is assumed that the area under millet/sorghum would remain
at 2 ha but that of groundnut would increase from 1.2 ha to 2 ha under the
stimulus of favorable cash incomes from groundnut production and that produc-
tivity would improve steadily over a four year period. In the case of the
faim using an ox-drawn multipurpose cultivator and seeder it is assumed that
the area cropped would expand fromt 4 to 6 ha over a four-year period as a
consequence of the farm family switching from hand to animal-powered cultiva-
tion and that 50% of the land would be used for cereals and the balance for
groundnuts. The following table summarizes the information in Annex 15.



- 28 -
Farm Income at Full Development
Without the
Project               With the Project
Traditional       Manual             Ox-Powered
Cultivation    Cultivation           Cultivation
Farm area                       3.2 ha          4 ha                 6 ha
Total farm income /1        MF 56,500        117,000              177,400
Farm cash income /2         MF  8,250        65,700               126,200
Per capita income /3        MF  6,650         13,760               20,870
US$    14            28                   42
Other income per capita /4 US$       8            10                   15
Total per capita income    US$    22              38                   57
/1   Net value of production from groundnut and cereals only in the case
of ox-powered cultivation, after amortization of equipment.
/2   Total farm income less value of food consumed by family and taxes
paid by 2 adults.
/3   Fanily of 8.5, providing 3.5 adult labor equivalent.
/4   Represented by production from other crops, kitchen garden, poultry,
fruit and cattle.
7.10      Farn labor requirements would increase as a consequence of the
project despite the increase in animal drawn cultivation as labor savings in
cultivations would be more than offset by the extra labor needed in maintaining
and harvesting the expansion in cropped area. It is anticipated that additional
labor would be supplied by the farm family supplemented as necessary by avail-
able hired labor. The return per manday worked, would rise from about MF 253
under traditional cultivation to MF 302 on hand cultivated, and 409 on ox-
cultivated farms using OACV recommendations (see Annex 15).
D.  Iract of Project on Government Revenues and Expenditures
7.11      Annex 16 contains estimates of consolidated Government revenues
and expenditures resulting from the project. The project would generate net
cashi surpluses after debt servicing rising from MF 137 million (US$0.3 mil-
lion) in Year 1 to MF 1.1 billion (US$2.3 million) by end of project period
in 1987/88 and would average MF 1 billion (US$2.0 million) thereafter.



- 29 -
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
8.01      The principal benefits of the project would be the project induced
increases in groundnuts and cereal production shown in Annex 3. With these
valued at the economic prices shown in Annex 14, Tables 4 and 9 and savings
resulting from track improvement reflected in marketing costs, the internal
rate of return investment in the project is estimated at 91% over a project
life of 15 years, see Annex 17. This high return is partly attributable to
the importance of previous and ongoing investments which are sunk costs to
the project and the high degree of technical proficiency of farmers resulting
from previous extension efforts. Also instrumental are the relatively high
projected groundnut and sorghum long-term international prices. Costs used
in the calculations are net of taxes but include all subsidies from which
farmers benefit and expenditures incurred in the improvement of medical and
veterinary services, although no separate benefits have been assumed from
these expenditures. Costs include both the incremental costs of OA services
at the current levels of expenditures as well as 2/3 of the current cost of
OA services. The latter are treated as project costs since without the
project OA costs probably could be reduced eventually by about 60 percent
without a fall-off in production in OA areas. Incremental labor requirements
whether family or hired have been valued at MF 200/manday; this appears
appropriate as labor is in relatively short supply in the project area during
the cropping season. MF 200/manday corresponds to the estimated earnings of
the "navetane" the traditional hired labor and is about 60 percent of the
legal minimum wage of MF 350/manday for casual labor in rural areas.
8.02      The sensitivity of the rate of return has been tested using a range
of variations in benefits and cost from that employed in the standard calcula-
tions.  The results are shown below.
Lenefits (percent)
-    Croundnut           100  100  100  100   90   80   75   90   90   80   75
-    'Millet/sorghum     100  100  100  100   90  130  50   90   90   80   50
Costs (percent)          100  110  120  130  100  100  100  110  130  120  110
"atu of neturn            91   69   54   44   67   49   30   52   33   29   21
Fuels and fertilizers accouat for 7% of project expenditures ex-
clucling contingencies.  Assuming that the prices of these two commnodities
are (loubled total costs would be increased by 6.4%.
3.03      The project would generate substantial foreign exchange earnings
and savings the first through the export of grourndnuts, and tne second from
the substitutioli of ,sillet/sorghuim production for imports.  Net foreign ex-
chan,e h)enefits fromr groundnut exports and savings oS1 cereal imports would
anount to about MF 5.2 billion (US$10.4 million) from PY 6 onwards.  Given
Mlahils limfited export possibilities the foreign exchange characteristic of
tlUe project are of major significance.



- 30 -
IX.  AGREEMENTS REACIED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Conditions of Credit effectiveness are:
(a)  a "recinrocal service agreement" satisfactory to IDA and defining
the responsibilities and obligations of Operation Arachide et
Cultures Vivrieres (OACV) and Societe de Credit et d'Equipement
Rural (SCAER) has been signed between both parties (para 4.14);
(b) a special bank account has been established by Government (para 5.07).
9.02      Agreement was reached during negotiations on the following principal
points:
(a) IDA would be consulted on any change proposed by Government in
policy regarding the prices of and subsidies on production inputs
(para 4.16);
(b) the "Bareme Arachide" would be established annually in consultation
with IDA (para 5.05);
(c) Government would replenish the special account for expenditures
not eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the credit
(para 5.07);
(d)  during the disbursement period of the IDA credit the positions of
OACV General Manager, Deputy General Manager, technical manager
and chief accountant would be filled by persons with experience
and qualifications satisfactory to IDA and under terms of
reference and conditions of employment mutually acceptable to
Government and IDA (para 6.10);
(e)  the consultants to assist OACV; the specialists required for the
agricultural research component; the economist to head the OACV
evaluation unit; the consultants required to evaluate the functional
literacy program and for the millet and sorghum producer prices
and marketing arrangements study and the firm to provide accountancy
assistance to OACV would be acceptable to IDA and employed under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (paras 6.11
and 6.12);
(f) priority would be given to the accumulation of groundnut reserves
in OSRP to a level which would be adequate to counteract price
variations and that Government would consult with IDA annually
on a producer price for the coming season and submit a schedule of
payments into or from OSRP for approval (para 7.06);



- 31 -
(g) no later than September 1974 Government would fix producer prices
for millet/sorghum at no less than MF 25 per kg; it would carry
out a study on the producer prices and marketing arrangements
of millet and sorghum and would agree with IDA no later than
Mav 31, 1975 on changes in the producer prices and marketing
arrangements based on the study's findings and agree on a time-
table for their implementation (para 7.08).
9.03      Informal assurances were also obtained including inter alia:
(a) Banque de Developpement du Mali (BDM) would enable Societe de
Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural (SCAER) to finance farm
inputs and equipment required by the project under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA and would consult with IDA to
that effect (para 4.15);
(b) Government would contract Bureau pour le Developpement de la
Production Agricole (BDPA) to supply technical assistance to
OACV (para 6.11).
9.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of US$8 million equivalent under the usual IDA terms. The borrower
would be the Government of Mali.






ANNEX 1
Table 1
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture in Mali
Production and Marketing of Main Crops  (1967 to 1972)
(lî'O0 ton)
1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   197221
Millet/SorghumT
Production                           830    556    603    600    750    500
Marketed through official channel    60       8      26     10     30      5
Marketed on free market               55     46      68     80     60     16
Total marketed                       115     54     84      90     90    21
Paddy
Production                           172    134    161    148    198    110
Marketed through officia} channel   2&       18      29     40     52     30
Marketed on free market               52     38    h1       30     30     17
Total marketed                        80     56     70      70     82     47
Seed Cotton
Production                            39     50     51      60     74     70
Marketed                              33     hi     42      53     68     66
Undecorticated Groundnuts
Production                            81     99    133    156    152    150
Marketed                              30     28     56      74     60     50
Source: Ministry of Production
1] Preliminary
/ Estimates
September 10, 1973



MALI
INTE1RATED RURAL DEV LOP M1T PROJECT
Agriculture in Mali
Official Producer Prices for Principal Commodities
(Value: current lD?/kg; index 196b - 100)
1964       1965        1966        1967       1968        1969        1970        1971        1972
Millet/Sorghum: V       il          il         15          16          18          18          18         18          20
I     100         100        136         145         163        163         163         163         182
'White Paddy     V      12.5        12.5        16         18          25          25          25         25          25
I     100         100        128         144         200         200        200         200         200
Groundnuts      V       13          13         16          24 3h                  30          30          30          30
(unshelled)     I      100        100         123         184        230         230         230         230         230
Cotton          V       34          34         34          40         4h           45         50          50          50
(Grade 1)       I      100         100        100         117         117        117         132         147         147
Source: Ministry of Produaction
September 10, 1973  il



ANNEX 1
Table 3
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture in Mali
Agriculture Sector Contribution to Exports
(MF billion)
1°68    1-69     ly70     19,71    1972
Cotton (lint and seed)                  3.3      4.6       5.2      6.4     7.9
Groundnuts and Groundnut Products       1.5      i1        3.0      4.8     4.o
Live animals                            2.0      4.0       4.9      4.8     4.7
Fish (dried and smoked)                 1.3       1.6      1.4      1.3     0.9
Others                                   .8      1.7       3.7      4.2     5.2
rotal recorded exports                  8.9     13.3     18.2      21.5    22.7
Groundnuts and Groundnut Products as
a % of total exports                   16.8     10.5      16.5     22.3     17.6
Cotton as a % of total exports         37.0     34.5      28.5     29.7     34.8
j Preliminary
W  Includes in main: karite products, arabic gum, kola nuts.
Note: Uirecorded exports, mainly livestock, fish and food grains,have been
estimated as follows:
(MF billion)
9.7     8.7     8.4     7.5      8.0
Source: Bank's Economic Report. Banque Centrale du Mali, Rapport dfactivité 1972.
September 10, 1973



A3N EX 1
Table 4
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Agriculture in Mali
Volume of Grain Iniports (1969 to 1973)
('000 tons)
1969     1970      1971     1972      1973  /
Millet/Sorghum            31         1       15        32       125
Rice Voiume               16         -       21        31        45
Total      47         1       36        63       170
Total Value (MF billion)  3.4       0.6       1.9       3.8      13
As a % of total food
products imports          41%        7.6%    18%       30%       57
As a % of total domestic
cereal production          5          -       3         9        27
j Estimated.
NOTE: Most Millet/Sorghum is supplied through assistance
progranis(FAC, US-AID, PAM, EEC).
SOURCE: Ministry of Production, Central Bank annual reports.
December 17, 1973



AlNNEX 1
MALI
I:NTEGRATED RURAL D)EVKLOP1P1EM¶T PtOJiCT
Agricul ture iri islali
(roundnut ?roductiori and llarketing 1 9253-73
(i.indecorLicated)
Total Production                      Marketed
Share ot
Year                              Total        AOperation acfl
Quant,Lt-y
1953     102.500                  8.6 3.9J
19514     90.000                 55.000
1955     117.500                8d.oou
1 95k    120.000                 85.500
1957     1 24.000                83.400
1958     138.000                 97.000
1959     125.000                 85.800
1960      90.000                 50.1-où
1961     125.000                 135.700
1962    -108.000                 66.900
1963     117.500                 73.600
19614    117.000                 72.100
1965      9C.000                 144. 800
1966      75.000                 27.900
1967      87.500                 3o.f0l         15.of-
1968      81.000                 30.000         -3 .5(00o     3 5
1969      98.500                 28.000         114.5oo      52
1970     132.500                 56.600         30.100       o
1971     156.000                 714.000         e. 000
1972     152.000                 59.00           h. oco 7o
1973     150.000                 50000          l(t'JÛ0       20






ANNEX 2
Page i
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OPERATION ARACHIDE
Articles of Decree No. 116-PG-RM of September 16, 1972
establishing Operation Groundnut
Article 1. There is hereby established a Rural Development Operation entitled
Operation Groundnut and intended to promote the cultivation of groundnuts in
particular and agricultural production in general in the area to which it
applies. The operation shall be under the supervision of the Minister for
Rural Development.
Article 2% The objectives of the Operation, in the area concerned, shall
be to:
-    take all necessary steps for the development of groundnut
cultivation and agricultural production in general;
-    organize marketing and farm credit;
-    promote and encourage the farm communities by working with
the Cooperation (extension) services to establish professional
structures enabling farmers eventually to control the collec-
tive production and marketing facilities;
-    train the Operation's supervisory staff and farm workers by
means of refresher courses, seminars, various specialised
training courses, and basic literacy classes;
-    propose and perform, with prior approval from the Supervisory
A4inister, all action relating to the various aspects of ground-
nut development in the area.
Article 3. Operation Groundnut is subject to the provisions of Decree No.
33/PG-RM of March 25, 1972 referred to above.
ADMINISTRATION
Article 4. Operation Groundnut shall have a Board of Directors with the
following membership:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
The Supervisory Minister or his representative
The Minister of Finance and Commerce or his representative
The Minister of Information or his representative
The Managing Director of the Mali Development Bank or his
representative
The Minister of Transport or his representative
lThe Governors of the regions concerned, or their representatives
The Director of Agriculture
The Director of Rural Engineering
The Director General of Societe de Credit Agricole et d' Equipement
Rural (SCAER) or his representative
The Director General of Societe d'Exploitation des Produits
Oleagineux du Mali (SEPOM) or his representative
The Director General of Cooperation
Three experts appointed by the Supervisory Minister
Three representatives of the farmers
One representative of the workers
The Director of the Operation shall attend meetings of the Board with the
right to speak.
Article 5. The Board of Directors shall:
-    Take decisions regarding the programs and budget of the Operation.
-    Examine the technical and financial reports on its activities.
-    Authorize changes in the program.
-    Rent or lease, without commitment of purchase, all moveables
and real estate.
-    Take decisions on any financial, technical or administrative
matters affecting the Operation.
The Council shall meet when convoked by its Chairman, at least twice yearly.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
The decisions of the Board of Directors shall be taken by simple majority.
In the case of a tie, the chairman shall cast the deciding vote.
The Board's proceedings shall be recorded in Minutes entered in a special
book and signed by the secretary of the meeting.
Article 6. The decisions of the Board of Directors shall not be enforceable
until approved by the Supervisory Minister, within a maximum of 15 days if
he did not chair the meeting.
MANAGEMENT
Article 7. Operation Groundnut shall be headed by a Director appointed by
a Decree adopted in Council of Ministers at the proposal of the Minister for
Rural Development. The Director shall be under the authority of the Director
General of Agriculture.
Article 8. The Director of the Operation shall each year prepare a program
of activities in consultation with the Departments and Organizations con-
cerned. This program shall relate to:
(a) Production and marketing activities in the Operation's areas.
(b) Extension of all or part of the Operation's activities to new
areas.
(c) The possible extension of the scope of the Operation to other
aspects of groundnut production, in accordance with its objectives.
(d) Preparation of the annual operating budget.
Article 9. Each year at the end of the season the Director shall submit a
report on the performance of the annual program. He shall also prepare a
financial balance sheet. These documents shall be forwarded to the Public
Auditor for examination and submitted to the Board of Directors for approval.
Article 10. Operation Groundnut is established for an unlimited duration.
In the event that it be dissolved, return of the property shall be settled
by the Board of Directors after consultation with the Government.
Article 11. The Ministers of Finance and of Rural Development are responsible,
each in 1his own field, for implementation of this Decree, which shall be re-
corded, published and communicated wherever necessary.






Operation -4rac&ii4ae
Area - eroduction, Yields, ,.arketLincig
1 967       1968         1 969       1 970         1971         1972/
Area under
groundnuts (ha)         46,h0        hS650        71,630      102,63        92,360       99600
Production (tons)        2 3,Coe"u    24,30U       54,0UU0       6c3,"0      75,20W       76, 370
Yi'eld', kg/hna              313                      7L4          663          8            767i
i~Ia-rke ted Production
(tons)                 1 u,"OtJ     1 4.,u0      3d,100U      4b,0Uu       44~,uuu-     hu , uuu
Source: MiLnistère de la e9roduction., Operation Arachide.
lA1972 being ani exceptionally bad year., figures quoted for this year are partly estimrated
on the basis of past trend.
September 26, 1973



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVLOPMD4T PRDJECT
Operation Arachide
1967       1968        1969         1970         1971         1972
Use of Fungicides/Insecticides
Groumdnut area (ha)                6,,000     10,000      i ,000       19,000       22,000       32,000
% of total area                      14         20          15           18           24           32
- on sorghun/millet area (ha)      2,000      10,000      13,000       11,000       20,000       23,000
% of total area                     -           -           -            -            -            20.u
Use of Fertilizers
(groundnuts)
Area (ha)                          2,000       5,000  '   6,0o0        19,000       23,000       36,000
% of total area                       4         10            8          19           25           36
Distribution of Improved
Seeds (tons)                        133          812       1,042        1,540        1,501       1,580
Ox-Draim Implements Distributed
(numier of units)
Multicultivators                    -9                                                   ô46        7u9
Seeders                           - _           _                                      213         544
Litters                                                                                  3           19
Carts                               -                        132          157          395          60`19
Source: Ministère de la Production - Operation Arachide
SepteIrtber 26, 1973



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOIkMT PROJECT
Operation Arachide
Financig 
1967        1968        1969        1970        1971        1972       Total
FAC
Capital inrvestments     b2.2        51.9        110.7       15.7        4o.3        15.d       316.6
Personnel costs         195.5       163.1        223.0      212.7       230.5       188.5     1,213.3
Operating costs          75.3        60.0         89.6       75.2        75.5        36.8        412.4
Subtotal                353.v      27b.u         4z3.3      3u3.6       346.3        z41.1     1j942-3
FED
Capital investments       3.1        z1.3          ô.4        1.3        3z.;e       51.7        118.0
Personnel costs          45.2                                  -           -            -         45.2
Subtotal                 48.3        21.3          8.4        1.3        32.2        51.7        163.2
Governmenti/              163.0       163.0        163.0       163.0       223.0       216.0     1,091.0
Farmers' Contribution      13.0        37.0         57.0      110.0       160.0       203.0       580.0
TOTAL              577.3       496.3        651,7      577.9       761.5       711 .d     3,776.5
j,/ Very tentative estimate quoted by Operation Arachide. No reliable accounts exist to support these figures.
i/ Farmers' contribution:  f ai.a inputs bought for cash or on credit - fertilizers, fungicides, seeds,
ox-drawn equipment.
September 26, 173
H I't






ANNEX 3
Page .1
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROPPING PATTERNS, INPUTS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
A. Cropping Pattern and Crop Rotation
1.        The main cash crops grown in the project area would continue to
be groundnuts, millet and sorghum. Some cotton and maize are grown in the
South Western part of the project area where yearly rainfall exceeds 900 mm;
and rice is grown in areas along the River Niger. Data on labor requirements
and cultivation schedule are given in Tables 1 and 2. Information on farm
sizes and cropping patterns is scant. Annex 15 provides some information on
these points.
2.        Cropping pattern and crop rotatioa varies according to the different
ecological zones of the project area; and wbuld tend to change on participants'
farms as the farmers move through the various technical stages of development.
In general, however, the cropping pattern employed would be designed to achieve
the following:
(i)  self sufficiency in food crops for the farm family;
(ii)  elimination of labor bottlenecks at times of land
preparation, weeding, and harvesting;
(iii) permit cereals following groundnuts in the rotation to
benefit from the residual effect of fertilizer applied
to the groundnuts.
3.        A typical rotation for a farm using fertilizer would thus be:
Year 1 (Y1) groundnuts; Y2, millet/sorghum; Y3, groundnuts; Y4 millet/sorghum;
Y5 and 6, bare fallow. This rotation is almost universal in the project area.
B. Technical Recommendations to be made under the Project
4.        The technical project recommendations are the result of continuing
research and experimentation and field results in Mali and elsewhere in Western
Africa. Recommended timing of critical operations are shown in Table 1 and
the estimated impact of recommended techniques on yield is at section C.1.
Principal recommendations are as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Groundnuts
If correctly implemented.the recommended improvements would increase
the basic yield at least by a factor of 2.4.  Key elements are:
(a)  Early sowing.  Duration of rainfall is the most important constraint,
and early sawing is the only means of ensuring that the complete
grotndnut growing cycle falls within the rainy season. The optimal
period for sowing is from end of May to the end of the first two
weeks of June; within this range optimum dates have been determined
and publicized for each OA sector. Sowing at the correct time in-
creases the basic yield of 500 kg/ha by a minimum of 20% or 100 kg/ha.
After the recommended deadline for planting, every day of delay re-
duces the potential yield by an estimated 1%.
(b) Spacing. One of the causes of the low yield from groundnute tradi-
tionally cultivated is wide spacing, usually about 40,000 plants/ha,
against optimums of 90,000 to 110,000 plants/ha for the heavily
branched type 28-206 groundnuts; and 150,000 to 170,000 plants/ha
for the less heavily branched type 47-10 varieties. These densities
represent seed rates of 100 and 150 kg of seed per hectare respec-
tively, compared with about 40 kg dnder traditional cultivation.
Dense sowing, which is also the beSt method for combatting the
rosette virus disease, improves the basic yield by a minimum of
40% or 200 kg/ha.
(c) Improved varieties. Two varieties suited to the ecological condi-
tions of the groundnut zone in Mali have been selected, and are
distributed to growers:
(i) for the southern area with more than 700 mm of rain per year,
the Virginia type, variety 28-206, with a long 120-day growing
cycle. This variety is suitable for most of the groundnut zone
(nearly 70% of the proJect atea);
(ii) for the northern area with less than 700 mm of rain per year,
the Spanish-type variety 47-10, with a short 90-day cycle;
47-10 is hardier and more drought resistant than 28-206.
Farmers can retain their own seed of the above varieties but seeds
of the 28-206 variety need replacing every four years and those
of the 47-10 variety possibly every three years. By the end of
the project development period, about 70% of farmers in the project
area are expected to be using seed of improved varieties. The use
of improved seeds will increase the basic yield by a minimum of 20%
or 100 kg/ha.



ANNEX -
Page 3
(d)  Seed dressing.  After sowing, untreated seeds are subject to attack
,)y various pests; often farmers have to sow a second time, or as a
minimum to fill in gaps. In order to ensure a full stand, it is
recommended that seed is dressed with Thioral at a rate of 1OOg/kg
of undecorticated seed nuts. The active ingredients of Thioral are
an equal mixture of an insecticide (heptachlor) and a fungicide
(Thirame). Thioral is very persistent and provides good protection
even if sowing is followed by a period of drought and germination
delayed.  Farmers will also be recommended to use a benzene hexa-
chloride insecticide, at a rate of 50 g/100 kg of seed to protect
their seed stocks. The use of fungicide will increase the basic
yield by a minimum of 10% or 50 kg/ha.
(e)  Mineral fertilizer.  Heretofore, the groundnut operation had rec-
ommended a complex and expensive NPK fertilizer at a do3age of
110 kg/ha. More recent research has revealed that single super-
phosphate (21% P205) applied at a rate of 65 kg/ha has had the
same beneficial impact on yield at a cost of some 30% lower. 1/
This fertilizer, distributed to farmers at present, would continue
to be used under the project and will contribute to increase the
basic yield by a minimum of 50% or 250 kg/ha. Research will continue
in an endeavour to seek more economical fertilizer formulas adapted
to the various soils and crop rotations of the project area.
(f)  Ox-drawn implements.  The use of ox-drawn implements is spreading
in Mali, and demand for ox-drawn implements increasing rapidly.
Distribution of implements, on credit, under the project will,
however, be subject to closer supervision than in the past. In
particular as a prerequisite to qualifying for implements farmers
must meet the following criteria: (i) have at least 1.5 ha cleared
and stumped; (ii) possess 2 young oxen suitable for work; (iii) be
able to contribute a down payment of 1/3 of the cost of implements.
The basic implement unit would comprise a seed-drill, which will
ensure proper spacing; a multipurpose toolbar with a plowshare (for
cereals); hoeing and cultivating tynes. These implements permit
timely land preparation and thus early sowing; but their use has not
shown any effect on groundnut yield. A groundnut lifter and a
1,000 kg capacity cart frame with tires would be optional items
available to farmers on credit. The quantity and estimated cost
of implements to be supplied under the project are shown in Annex 11.
1/   Nitrogen, the principal requirement of cereals, is provided by the ground-
niuts which respond particularly to phosphate application.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Cereals
6.        It is the purpose of the project to achieve a closer association
between the production of groundnuts and cereals. The mechanism in the
absence of high yielding varieties of cereals accepted for consumption in
Mali, is based on the cereals benefitting from better cultivation, seed
dressing, and the residual effects of fertilizer used on groundnuts:
(a) Residual fertilizer effect. A rotation scheme is recommended in
which millet and sorghum follow, groundnuts, to permit the former
to benefit from the residual effects of mineral fertilizer applied
to groundnuts. The resulting effect on yield has been "stimated
at 150 kg/ha or an increase of about 25% on the basic yield. Using
this rotation, the nutrient reserves of the soil are better utilized
by the succession of two plants with different requirements. In
the absence of acceptable varieties responsive to fertilizers (at
least at present cereal prices) it is not proposed to promote the
direct application of fertilizers to millet and sorghum under the
project. Indeed the only new input employed would be seed dressing.
(b) Seed dressing. Farmers would be recommended to use Green Thioral
whlch is a compound of insecticide, fungicide and bird repellent
(anthaquenone). It ensures more regular germination, especially
in dry periods and an average yield increase estimated at 90 kg/ha.
(c) Deeper plowing. Made possible by ox-drawn implements, deeper
plowing has been shown to have a positive effect on yields of
millet and sorghum. The effect is very apparent, has been
demonstrated at Bambey in Senegal and confirmed by observations
iu the 0À operational area.  Yield increase from deeper cultivation
has been estimated as being as much as 175 kg/ha.
(d)  Other recommendations.  Other rec.emmendations made to farmers
would be concerned with the maintenance of soil structure and
fertility, and combatting soil erosion as land clearing increases
and more intelisive cultivation develops. Along these lines, a
minimum 2 year fallow would be recommended, and OACV staff would
prohibit clearing and uprooting of cover on slopes of more than
1%.  Contour plowing would be recommended.
C. Yields and Production
Y ields
7.        The table below summarizes the anticipated effect on yields of
groundnuts and millet/sorghum of the techniques and inputs recommended under
the project.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Estimates of Impact of Recommended Techniques on Yield
Croundnuts           Millet/Sorghum
Z.    kg/ha          Z        kg/ha
Basic Yield                 100      500          100        600
Early Sowing                 20      100           -          -
Correct Density              40      200           -          -
Use of Fungicides            10       50          15         90
Improved Seeds               20      100            -         -
Fertilizer Application          i
and Residual Effect        50      250          25        150
Deep Plowing Implements       -       -           30        175
Total                  240   1,200          170      1,015
Production
8.        Calculations of project production are based on annual estimates
of the distribution of project farmers by categories using recommeitded prac-
tices and inputs. This distribution is shown in Tables 4 and 8. F'roject pro-
duction estimates are given in Tables 5 and 9.






ANNEX 3
Table 1
MAL I
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cultivation Schedule
May    June   July   Aug.   Sep.   Oct.   Nov.
1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3
Groundnuts: 28-206 variety
Land Preparation
Sowing
1st weeding and fertilizer
2nd weeding
3rd weeding (optional)
Harvesting
Groundnuts: 47-10 variety
Land Preparation
Sowing
lst weeding and fertilizer
2nd weeding
Harvesting
Sorghum/Millet
Land Preparation
Sowing
1st weeding
2nd weeding - thinning & earthing
Harvesting



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Labor Requirements for Groundnut and Cereal Production
(per hectare)
Time Required
Procedure                                   Manual Cultivation         With Ox-Drawn Implements
Man Days              Man Days    Animal Days
Groundnuts
Land preparation                                12.50                 13.00          3.75
Seed shelling                                    8.50                  8.50           -
Seed dressing                                     .25                   .25           -
Sowing                                          10.00                  2.00          1.00
Fertilizer application and Ist weeding           3.00                  1.00           -
2nd weeding                                     25.00                 10.50         3.00
3rd weeding                                     18.75                  6.00          3.00
Harvesting/Threshin,                            26.25                 22.50          2.50
Internal transport -                            12.00                  5.75          2.00
Total                             116.25                 69.50         15.25
Sorghum/Millet -2
Land preparation                             12.05-8.50            10.00-6.50    4.00-3.25
Sowing                                           2.05                  2.00          1.00
lst weeding                                     12.00                  6.00         3.00
Thinning                                         3.00                  3.00           _
Earthing                                         6.25                  2.00          1.00
2nd weeding                                     12.00                  6.00          3.00
Harvesting/Threshing                         19.00-25.75           24.00-27.25        -
Internal transport                           10.00- 9.00               5.75         2.00
Total                           77.25-79.00           58.75-58.50   13.25-14.00
1/  Based on a 1,200 kg/ha yield both under manual and ox-powered cultivation.  Ox-drawn
implements include:  multicultivator, seeder, groundnut lifter and cart.
2/  In the cases where two figures are quoted, the first refers to sorghum and the second                    (D
to millet.  Labor requirements for harvesting operations and transport are based on a
900 kg/ha yield for sorghum and a 725 kg/ha yield for millet.
Source: IRAT - Operation Arachide
September 21, 1973



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRUJECT
Area of Groundnuts Grown under QACV Supervision by Sectors
and Years in Project Area
Pre                  (hectare)                                                 PY7
Sectors                 Prolect     Pyl        PY2         PY3                              _P6        Onwards
Koulikoro - Banamba        16,900     18,300     20,550      24,300     27,000      28,200     29,000      29,400
Kolokami                   19,700     21,300     24,150      26,750     28,700      29,700     30,400       30,800
Kita                       37,500     38,200     39,000      39,750     40.,600    41h,300     42,200      42,900
Kayes - Kenieba -Bafoulabe25,500      26,800     28,400      36,000     39,100     40,h400     41,200      42,100
San Segou                               -        26,000      30,000     37,000     42,000      44,150      45,85o
Total               99,600    104,600    138,100    156,800    172,400    181,600    186,950        191,050
The above table could be read to imply that as a result of the project the area of groundnuts grown under
improved methods would increase from 99,600 to 191,050 ha. Tbis is not 80, since vithout the project
additional,but fewer,farmers would adopt the improved techniques; thus in calculating the economic rate of
return, see Annex 16, an adjustment has been made to take this into account.
b  9
October 5, 1973                                                                                                W



HALl
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPtEST PROJECT
Area under Oroundnuts: Diffusion of Modern Techniques in Project Area
Pre
Project               pyl                   pyil/                                    PY4                  Prc M                                  PY7 Onwards
ha      7.           ha      7            ha      %            ha      %            ha      2            ha      2            ha       %            ha      2
Total area cropped        99,600   100        104,600   100        138,100   100        156,800   100        172,400   100        181,600   100         186,950   100        191,050   100
Timely sowing             49.900    50         57,500    55         62,100    45         78ï400    50         94,800    55        108,900    60         112,100    60        114,600    60
Correct density           30,100    30         36,600    35         41,400    30         54,800    35         77,500    45         90,800    50          93,400    50         95,500    50
Using fungicides          32,350    32         43,900    42         55,200    40         70,500    45         86,200    50         99,800    55         102,800    55        105,000    55
Using improvedpseeds      49,000    49         60,600    58         75,900    55         94,000    60        120,600    70         127,100    70        130,800    70        133.700    70
Applying fertilizers      36,150    36         49,100    47         55,200    40         79,500    45         94,800    55         99,800    55         102,800    55        105,000    55
Ox-powered cultivation    2,400       2         4,350      4         7,450      5        13,200      8        20,950    12         30,400    17          35,000    19         46,300    24
1/  Decreased in percentages due to the addition of 26,000 ha of the San Segou sectors where no improved techniques are used.
See footnote to Table 3.
October 8, 1973
zIi



MALI
INTEGEATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
Estir ted Production .ad Yi.ld of Croundeut in Prriect Area
(are. ie he; production in m tee., yield ie kg/ho)
Production with-rt improv.eent -----------------n_t--------_- ---------------                         otp   Due to Mode-  Tec       --niq     ----------------------------------------------------  Total Production  -nd Average Yield under Proiect
Tinely Soving               Correct Density              Use of Fongicides            Use of Improved Seeds      Appliration of Pertilîcems
Total are.
Years      cropped        Production i.        Are.     Production          Area      Prodction 3         Ares      Production _/       Aret     Production _         Are.      Production        Total Production         Average Yield
Preproject    99,600           49,800           49,900       4,990            30,100      6,020             32,350       1,620           49,000       4,900            36,150       9,040                76,370                     767
pY I        104,600          52,300           57,500       5,750            36,600      7,320            43,900       2,195            60,600       6,060            49,100      12,275               85,900                      821
py2         138,100          69,050           62,100      6,210            41,400       8,280            55,200       2,760            75,900       7,590            55,200      13,800               107,690                     780
PS 3        156,800          78,400           78,400      7,840             54,800     10,960            70,500       3,525            94,000       9,400            70,500      17,625               127,750                     815
py4         172,400          86,200           94,800      9,480            77,500      15,500            86,200       4,310           120,600      12,060            94,800      23,700               151,250                     877
0Y57        181,600          90,800          108,900      10,890            90,800     18,160            99,800       4,990           127,100      12,710            99,800      24,950               162,500                     895
py6         186,950          93,475          112,200      11,210            93,400      18,680           102,800      5,140           130,800      13,080           102,800      25,700               167,285                      895
PY7         191,050          95,525          114,600      11,460            95,500     19,100           105,000       5,250           133,700      13,370           105,000      26,250               170,955                     895
1/ Basic yield          500 kg/ha   .edecortic.ted
2/ Additi .al yieldc  100 kg/ha
3/                      200 kg/h.
4/     "                 50 kg/ho
3/               O      100 kg/h.
6/    "a         ,      250 kg/ha
Se. footnote to Table 3
October 8, 1973



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Groundnut Production Induced Directly by the Project
Pre                                                                                                           PY7
Area (ha)                      Proiect          PY1            PY2                PY3              PY4             PY5            PY6          Onwards
- without the project  1      99,600        103,700        135,200 2/        148,700 21         156,400        159,000        159,000        159,000
- with the project                -         104,600        138,100           156,800            172,400        181,600        186,950        191,050
Increment                     -              900          2,900             8,100            16,000         22,600         27,950         32,050
Average Yield (kg/ha undecorticated)
rounded
- without the project             767           756             697              6 697 3            670            667            667            667
- with the project                -             821            780               815                877            895            895            895
Increment                     -               65             83                118              207            228             228            228
Production
rounded
- without the project         76,370         78,430         94,170           100,920            104,770       106,070         106,070        106,070
- with the project                -          85,900        107,690           127,750            151,250       162,500         167,285        170,955
Increment                      -           7,470         13,520            26,830            46,480         56,430         61,215         64,885
1/   Without project situation assumes that some additional farmers will grow groundnuts under improved methods, and some existing farmers
now using improved methods would further increase their hectarage and productivity.
2/   Sharp increase  in PY2 and PY3 reflects inclusion of Segou Region in project area in PY2 (26,000 ha) and Kenieba district in PY3 (6,650 ha).
3/   Average yield declines due to inclusion of Segou Region and Kenieba district with their low traditional and non-improved yields.                           |
October 8, 1973



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area of Sorghum and Millet grown under OACV Supervision
by Sectors and Years in Project Area
(ha)
Pre                                                                                       PY8
Sectors            Project      pyl        PY2          PY3        PY4        PY5         py6        PY7     Onwards
Koulikoro - Banamba     19,050     19,650     20,250       21,700     25,250     27,850      28,230     28,670     28,870
Kolokani                26,000     26,700     27,450       29,150     30,900     32,900      33,3h0     33,780     33,980
Kita                    40,5°00     41,300     42,800      43,700     45,)450    45,850      46,390    >47,050    >47,400
Kayes - Kenieba -       28,450     29,100      29,550      33,850     35,450     36,800      36,840     37,400     37,670
Bafoulabe
San Segou                  -          -       114,250     116,000    118,150    120,250    1 21.,670    123,000    123,850
Total               114,000    116,750    234,300      244,400    255,200    263,650    266,470    269,900    271 ,770
The above table could be read to imply that as a result of the project the area of
millet and sorghum grown under improved methods would increase from 114,000 to 271 ,770 ha.
This is not so since-without the project additional but fewer farzners would adopt the
improved techniques; thus in calculating the economic rate of return, see Annex 16, an
adjustment has been made to take this into account.
October 11, 1973                                                                                                   J



NALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area under Soro_hur and Millet:  Diffusion
of Modern Techniques in Pro,ject Area
Pre                                                                                                                                      PYH
Project           F?Y1              PY2 1           PY3               PYL              PY;               PY6               PY1          Onwards
Total    %       Total    %       Total    %       Total    %       Total    %       Total    %       Total    5       Total    %       Total    %
Area cropped           114,000  100    116,750  100    234,300  100    24U,900  100    255,200  100    263,650  100    266,470  100    269,900  100    271,770  100
Usirg fungicides        22,950   20      36,150   31      67,100   29      87,o50   36    109,600   43    130,800   50    133,200   50    135,000   50    135,800   50
Fertilizer Residual
effect           22,500   20       27,100   23      40,000   17      44,500   18      54,500   21      69,300   26      85,200   32      86,400   35       87,000   32
Deep ploughing           2,800    2       2,950    3       5,200    2      11,900    5       20,350    8     28,000   11      37,050   14       41,750   15      47,950   18
1/  Decreases in percentages due to the addition of 1,114 ha of the San Segou sectors where no improved techniques are used.
See footnote to Table 7.
October 9, 1973                                                                                                                                             t ,
(D1



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Production and Yield of Sorghum and Millet in Project Area
(area in ha, production in m tons, yield in kg/ha)
Production without Improvement       -------------------Incremental Output Due to Modern Techniques----------------------   Total Production/Average
Yield under Project
Use of Fungicides         Fertilizer Residual Effect              Deep Plowing
Total                                           Incrementa3                     Incrementa ,                     IncrementO3        Total            Aver.
Years      Area           Production 1/        Area           Output           Area           Output           Area            Output -       Production        Yield
Preproject   114,000            68,400            22,950           2,065          22,500           3,375           2,800              490            74,330          652
Pi 1       116,750           70,050           36,150            3,255          27,100           4,065           2,950             515             77,885          667
PY 2       234,300          140,580           67,100            6,040          40,000           6,000           5,200             910            153,530          655
PY3        244,900          146,940           87,050           7,835          44,500            6,675          11,900           2,085            163,535          668
PY4        255,200          153,120          109,600            9,865          54,500           8,175          20,350           3,560            174,720          685
py 5       263,650          158,190          130,800           11,770          69,300          10,395          28,000           4,900            185,255          703
PY6        266,470          159,880          133,200           11,990          85,200          12,780          37,050           6,485            191,135          717
py7        269,900          161,940          135,000           12,150          86,400          12,960          41,750           7,305            194,355          720
PY 8
onwards     271,770           163,060          135,800          12,220          87,000          13,050           47,450           8,305           196,635           724
1/  Average yield:  600 kg/ha.
2/  Average incremental yield:   90 kg/ha.
3/  Average incremental yield:  150 kg/ha.
4/  Average incremental yield:  175 kg/ha.
See footnote to Table 7.
October 11, 1973



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMe1NI IEOJECT
Incremental Sorghum and Millet Production
Induced Directly by the Project
Area (ha)                                                                                                                     P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y8
Area (ha)                             tPre                PY1          PY2             PY3              MYP PY5                        PY6              PY7           onwards
- Without the Proiectl/           .11h1000          116,750      233,930 2/       242,320 2/       2h7,950          253,450      253,450          253,450          253,450
With the Project                       -          116,750      234,300          2t44,9o0         255,200          263,650      266,470          269,900          271,770
Increment                   -              -            370            2,580            7,250          10,200        13,020           16,450           18,320
Yield (Kg/ha threshed grains)
- Without the Project                   652            652            626 2/           624-/           624              623           623              623              624
- With the Project                       -             667            655             668              685              703          717              720              724
Increment                   -              15             29              44               61               80           94               97              100
Production (Tons threshed grains)
- Without the Project               74,330           75,980       146,510         151,320          154,700          158,000      158,000          158,000          158,000
- With the Project                       -           77,885       153,530         163,535          174,720          185,255      191,135          194,355          196,635
Increment                    -            1,905         7,020          12,215           20,020           27,255       33,135           36,355           38,635
1/  Without project situation assumes that some additional farmers will grow groundnuts under imuroved methods and some existing farmers now using improved
methods would further increase their hectarage and productivity.
2/ Sharp increase in PY2 and PY3 reflects inclusion of Segou Region in project area in PY2 (114,250 ha) and Keniebo Llistrict in PY3 (3,700 ha).
3/ Average yield declines due to inclusion of Segou Region and Kenieba district with their low traditional and non-improved yields.
October 9, 1973
ol



ANNEX 4
Page 1
MALI
LINTERGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPROVEMENT OF RURAL TRACKS -
A. General
1.        OA, until now has relied for its extension and marketing activities
on deteriorated secondary roads, and natural tracks created by the recurrent
passage of vehicles travelling cross-country through open bush and savannah.
2.        Transportation costs on the roads and natural tracks are very high;
OA has been able to support these only because its truck fleet has been largely
financed by external grant funds. A requisite of smooth implementation of the
proposed project lies in the betterment of road conditions throughout the
project ar~éa. Government is aware of the need to improve roads, and since
1970 has undertaken a comprehensive progra. (financed by IDA Credit 197-MLI)
to strengthen màintenance and improve selectid roads in the groundnut area.
These programs, however, require extension and intensification.
B. Transport Infrastructure
3.        The project area covers about 125,000 km  of Western Mali, along
a line Tominian-Sadiola. It is divided into nine sectors which are the UA
basic field units; the condition of,the transport infrastructure varies ïreatly
botl- within and between these sectors.
4.        The railway line of the Regie des Chemins de Fer du Mali (RCFM),
passes through most of the project area. RCFMI and the connecting Senegalese
railway are Mali's main outlet to the seaport of Dakar in neighboring Senegal.
Thie capacity and efficiency of these railways are expected to improve gradually
over the next few years as ongoing programs, partly financed by the Bank Group
(Credits 384-MLI and 314-SEN and Loan 835-SEN) are implemented.
1/   The transport aspects and the road component of the proposed project
were reviewed during the appraisal mission by a special task force which
included Mr. Ouatarra from the Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics
(DNLP), rlr. Kante from "Operation Archide" (OA), and Hr. Doyen from PMWA.
This annex is based on the task force's report, and on a recent study
andertaken by consultants (BCEOM) who were employed by DNTP to identify
t:ie requirements for road improvements in the project area in addition
to those being undertaken in ongoing or planned IDA and FAC-financed
programs; for details of the latter see Appendix 2.



,A!NEX 4
Page 2
5.        In the hinterland of the Western Sectors (Kayes, Kita, Bafoulabe
and Kenieba), the transport system is based on roads and tracks serving railway
stations. Road transportation in this zone will improve markedly in the future
as the DNTP progresses with implementation of its road betterment programs,
mostly financed by external aid. The Central Sectors (Koulikoro, Banamba and
Kolokani) are linked with Bamako and Koulikoro by gravel roads, but need more
and better roads which will be provided under DNTP road betterment programs.
Tlie Eastern Sectors (Segou and San) are served by a dense network of roads.
Tihe infrastructures of the Eastern Sectors are adequate to support the project
and will not be subject to project financed rural track improvement.  The extent
of the road and track network in the Western and Central Sectors is given at
Tables 1, 2, 3, and 4.
6.        Roads in the project area are classified in two broad categories
(see Table 5):
(a) Major feeder roads - comprising roads which carry sufficient traffic,
roughly more than 2,000 t per year, to warrant some form of
permanent improvement and continuous mechanized maintenance.
Two levels of improvement have been defined:
(i)  Type A (Normal) for roads with more than 4,000 t
of traffic per year;
(il) Type B (Minimal) for roads carrying'roughly between
2,000 t and 4,000 t annually.
(b) Rural tracks - including unclassified rural roads and
natural tracks, link villages with one another and with major
roads. Although- not qualifying for permanent improvements
even to minimal Type B standards, these are essential for
crop marketing.
The length, classification and proposed improvement levels of roads serving
the Western and Central Sectors of the project area are given in Tables 2 to
4. The project area is served by:
(i)  about 2,200 km of major feeder roads which are (or would be on
completion of ongoing betterment programs) under the responsibility
of DNTP; (see Table 3 - IV) and,
(ii) about 1,500 km of rural tracks which would be subject to spot
improvements under the project (see Table 4).
7.        Government policy is (i) to make DNTP fully responsible for the
construction and subsequent maintenance of mejor feeder roads; and (ii) to
leave spot improvements (occasional repairs carried out mainly by manual labor)
of tracks to local authorities or to agricultural development agencies.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
8.        The DNTP road program under the IDA-financed Highway Maintenance
Project, is progressing more slowly and at higher costs than expected; and
by June 1974 only about 600 km out of tie total of 1,450 kml planned for better-
ment under the project are expected to be completed. The remaining sections
plus an additional 800 km probably will be considered under a possible Third
Highway Project, tentatively scheduled for appraisal during the second semester
of 1974.
9.        If, as expected, the remaining 1,200 km are subject to a project
betterment program beginning later in 1975, all major feeder roads serving the
area would be improved to adequate standards by 1978; and the program for im-
proving the roads serving the western part of the project area along the railway,
where transport problems currently are most acute, would be largely completed
by 1976.
C. Improvement of Rural Tracks
rhe Program
10.       Small scale spot improvements on 1,500 km of rural tracks would be
financed under the project and carried out directly by OA. Execution would
be through small road gangs equipped with tipper trucks and a stock of manual
tools. Their tasks would be limited to simple manual operations such as quar-
rying, loading, spreading laterite and arranging rubble stones. The gangs'
activities would be divided into:
(i)  programmed improvement works on selected tracks in the
period from April to October;
(ii) maintenance and emergency repairs from November to March
in direct support of the marketing campaign, and farm
input distribution.
11.       Rural tracks to be improved under the project have been classified
in two categories according to the amount of traffic they carry (see Table 5):
(i)  TypeC - tracks carrying between 500 t to 2,000 t annually,
comprising mostly links between marketing points and major
feeder roads;
(ii) Type D - less important tracks, carrying less than 500 t,
mainly those linking villages with marketing points.
The aim of the improvements, (details are in Table 6) would be:



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(i) for Type C tracks - to provide a reasonable level of serviceability
for trucks during the dry season and to ensure year-round passage
of general purpose vehicles (except during the height of the
rainy season); and
(ii) for Type D tracks - to allow the passage of heavy trucks without
risk of heavy damage during the crop marketing period (i.e. in
the dry season).
12.       Provision would be made under the project to procure two graders,
one For the Kita region, and the other for the Kolokani region. The DNTP
lquipment Department would be contracted for the repair and maintenance of these
graders. DNTP would lease other equipment as requested, in particular bull-
dozers, to the OACV.
13.       Average quantities of works needed to improve a typical 10 km section
of rural track to C or D standard are given in Table 6. The size of the gangs
and their distribution were determined on the basis of an estimate of the size
of programmed works throughout the project development period. The proposed
road gangs and graders would provide the project with adequate capacity to
carry out all programmed improvements of C and D tracks over the period 1974 -
1977, and,to maintain and repair roads and tracks on an ad hoc basis during
the marketing season. The equipment and personnel to be attached under the
project to various sectors are as follows:
Kolokani and
Banamba      Kita   Bafoulabe  Kenieba   Total
Road Gangs                    1          1          1          1        4
Trucks (7 t)              5           5          4          3       17
.`anpower                29          29         22         20      100
Grader (120 hP)               1           1         -          -         2
Cost Estimate
14.       Estimated capital costs for equipment and tools required to establish
the four road gangs are given in Annex 12 Table 7. The direct costs of pro-
grammed improvement works and unprogrammed maintenance and repairs have been
estimated together on the basis of the annual operating cost of the four road
gangs and the rental cost of the two graders and bulldozers; these are sum-
marized below:



ANNEX 4
Page 5
.Istimated incremental cost of rural tracks improvement
(MF Million)
Foreign
as % of
Local     Foreign       Total           total
Vehicles and equipment        37 /1      147          184              80
Staff                         39          -            39              -
Operating Expenses /2        94           94          188              50
Cost                        170          241          411              59
/1   Including local handling charges, taxes and duties.
/2   Including taxes, salaries, fuels, lubricants, maintenance and repair
of trucks, construction materials, hand tools, etc.
D. Organizational Arrangements
15.       A special unit, Service des Travaux Routiers, would be established
within OACV headquarters to plan and supervise the road activities of the
project. The unit would be headed by an experienced road inspector (Inspecteur
des Travaux Routiers), seconded from the DNTP. The road inspector would assume
broad responsibilities for the organization, planning and supervision of all
track improvement activities of the project and for the efficient use of the
road gangs and of the equipment. He would be responsible for coordination of
the project's annual track improvement program with DNTP. The proposed annual
program would be submitted first to DNTP for comment and then for agreement
on DNTP's support. The proposed program would include schedules for the use
of the two graders procured under the project, and for the rental of other
DNTP equipment, in particular bulldozers. Each of the four road gangs would
be attached to a sector of the project and ;ould operate under the administrative
authority of the Sector Chief who would supply them with funds, materials and
fuel, and control their expenditures. Each gang would be headed by a gang lead-
er to be seconded from DNTP.
E. Road Transport Costs in the Project Area
10.       Road transport costs on classified roads are expected to decrease
by 30 to 40% over the period 1973 - 1978, as a result of DNTP programs for
tihe betterment of major feeder roads and for strengthening road maintenance.
The use of unclassified roads and rural tracks would be facilitated by small
scale improvements financed under the project. Estimates of trucking costs
for varîous types of roads in years 1972 and 1978 are given in Table 7.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Official freight rates have been set consistently lower than actual vehicle
operating costs. This, together with the very poor condition of the road
network, has discouraged private truckers from participating in the collection
of the groundnut crop. Thus, OA has been compelled to organize its own fleet,
which operates currently at low capacity and high costs. In the future, how-
ever, and as road conditions improve, OACV would attempt to gradually reduce
its involvement in trucking.
17.       Existing freight price regulationi  concerning road transport will be
studied under IDA's Second Highway Project (Credit 383-MLI). This study is
expected to provide the basis for revising eixisting prices so as to encourage
the development of a trucking industry of adequate capacity.
F. Economic Evaluation of the Road Component of the Project
18.       The rural track improvement program is essentially a maintenance
cum betterment work (average cost is about US$600/km). However, since the
program is a major component of the entire project and involves an initial
capital investment of about US$400,000, a brief economic evaluation of it
Itas been separately performed.
19.       The economic benefits from road improvements consist of:  a) oper-
ating cost savings to vehicles used (i) for transporting agricultural products
and farm inputs, and (ii) in OACV's operations; and b) induced increase ir
groundnuts production due both to increased acreage under production and more
effective use of extension services, medical and veterinary personnel.
On the basis of savings in vehicle operating costs above, the investment in
thLe -.ural tracks yields an economic return of over 15% which indicates that
the inciusion of the improvement program is economically justifiable.



ANNNEX 4
Table 1
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOP 7T PROJECT
IMPROVEMEIT OF RUiLAL TRACKS
Length of Roads and tracks
in the Western and Central Sectors
(kilometres)
Classifii4          For              To be           Proposed
Sectors       in 1973 !/        Improvemerot      Classified          under
1974/77 g/        inI 1978 21       IDA  ProjectM
Western           656               997              1,437            935
Central 6]        388               41 2               743            565
TOTAL         1,04h             1,409             2,180           1,500
1]  Classified roads are the responsibility of DNTP - see Table 2.
g/ Roads for improvement by DNTP under ongoing or planned programs mostly
financed by external aids. Sane roads already classified in 1973 would
be improved : Western Sector 216 km, Central Sector 57 kn (total 273 km),
see Table 3.
3/ Roads classified in 1978 will include roads classified in 1972 plus roads
imnproved in 1974/77 and not already classified in 1972, see Table 3.
1K/ Tracks of types C and D to be improved by road gangs financed under the
IDA project, see Table 4.
5] Wes tern Sectors : Kayes, Bafoulabe, Kenieba, Kita.
6]  Central Sectors : Koulikoro, Banamba, Kolokani.
December 16, 1973



ANNEX 4
Table 2
MAI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPROVEMENT OF RURAL TRACKS
Roads Classified in 1972
Sectors                          Designation                        t  Kilometres
WESTERN                Bafoulabe - Djibourou - Kenieba (Guinee)             184
Kayes - Sadiola - Djibourou                         1 87
Kati - Sebekoro - Kita                               70
Kita - Toukoto - Segeto                             160
Kita - Sirakoto (Guinee)
Total Western Sectors          656
CENTRAL               Bamako - Kati - Kolokani                         i  124
Kolokani - Didieni                                   65
Koulikoro - Banamba                                  90
Banamba - Borou - Bamandjoujou                      109
Total Central Sectors          388
GRAND TOTAL             |       o,044
i _ __
..xc;L;er >, 1,)73



ANNEX 4
Table 3
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Iprrove-n-t cf Rural Tre-ko
Improvemnnt uf Feeder ROeds 1974/77 Proara,
I INCLUDED 1N IDA CREDIT 383 1/
Ki lu,eetnes
Tons 
SECTDdS      TYPES            DESIGNATION                        Ysar            ITset        Total
WESTERN  21   A         Kit. - Didjan - Blti.klnak              10,000         (29)  30
Kit. - Kokof.ta                          7,000               60
90
B       Didjan - NRmbiri                          2,700        (19)  21
B.ti,kalsa   - NataI.                    2,500               13
Batia.kasa - Ta.fssadaga                 3,000               13
Kita - Sageberi                          3,800               77
Olanko - Bamafele                       2,800              115
Mahins - Tantidji                        2,100       (;15) 121
360
Total Western Secture                                                 450
CENTRAL /    A         Kolokuni - Sirakorola             (B)    8,500         (64)  54
Masaant.ol  - Tioribougou - Niokona
- Niokna                         (B)    4,700         (55)  57
B       Niokon-  - Faladie                (C)    2,500         (19)  20
Rolokani - Sebekoro                      2,200               42
Sirakorola - Niasi.u                     2,600               71
133
Total Csntrel Se-tors                                                 244
GRAND TOTAL                      694
1/ Ses  report PTR-52 a uf MNy 1970.  Appraisal cf e Highway nuiotenans projeot - Republo cf MIli
2/ Western Setotrs   Kayet, BRfoolube, Kenieba, Kita
3/  Central Sectore  KRolikora, B.asabe, Kolokani
4/ Type A  Western Sertore    90 km
Central Se-to-s   111 km
201 ku
Type B  Western Sectors   360 kl
Ceotral  etotrs   133 ko
493 km.
Grand Total         694
; rvised nu-ber uf kilometres
II INCLUDED IN FAC PROGRAM
Kilometres
SECTORS      TYPES           DESTGNATION                         yT-ar             Inset    Total
WESTERN         B       Tokukoto- Sefets                          2,500               87
Toukouto - Ta.bAge                       2,200               60
Tookouto- Tondidji                       2,000               75
Msmbetr  - Koorooninkoto                 2,500               66
Kayes - SOdiole - Dialufera              2,100              150
GRsND TOTAL                      -
III RECAPITULATION
1)  Type A    IDA       201 kl
DNTP- 1/16 km
-    217 kmc
2)  Type B    IDA       493 ke
FAC     438 ks
DNTP1/ 261 km
1,192 ke
TOTAL              1,409 kn
1/  Total 277 km cf which 273 km alreedy ole.sified in 1973 (addititn 4 km)
IV ROADS CLA8SIFIED IN 1978
1)  Ruads olaeoifisd i  1973 (.ee teble 2)            1,044 kb
2)  IDA Ctedit 383 (see S ub-ve)                         694 km
3)  FAC Progran (ses ET abuvu)                           438 km
4)  DNTP Progran (ses 1/ cf III abuve)                      4 kb
2,180 kl
Outober 7, 1973



ANNEX L
Table 4
MALI
INTEGRATED RtRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Improvement of Rural Traclzs
TRACKS FOR IMPROVEMENTS
Kilome tres
Tons/
Sectors   Types                   Designation                       vear        Inset    Total
WESTERN Il  C          Sagabari - Balega                               800       60
Namala - Bangassikoro                         1,600       20
Djibouroa - Dialafora                        1,900        34
Sikoto - Toubafinian                            600       25
Djimekourou - Herokoto                       1,500        54
193
D        Sebekoro - Madina - Moro Moro                   450       90
Safeto - Dialan                                 200       40
Sagobari - Karo - Kakofata                      400       50
Bougaribaya - Kokofata                          450       10
Sabagari - Gale                                 250       40
Makariako - Segoune                             400       10
Kokofata - Bafing Kana                          450       60
Samboula - Yatera - Kassama                     400       23
Samboula - Tamboula                             150       15
Dialokoto - Faraba                              450       40
Toubafinian - Kouroukoto                        100       43
Makina - Neguetabali - Koulangoulan             450       65
Solinte - Walia - Fatafing                      400       82
Kamansdo - Bamafele                             450       38
Malina - Kale                                   450       25
Heroko - Moussala                               150       14
Tantidji - Bamafele                             400       17
Sadiola - Kakadian - Moussala                   200       35
Same - Ndagassenon                              200       45
742
Total Western Sectors                                                935
CENTRAL 2/  C         Didieni - Falon                                  600       82
Bananiba - Kiban                              1,100       10
Bananiba - Toubakoura                           600       12
104
D       Niokona - Fassa - Kolokani                       100       50
Sagabala - Samantara                            200       35
Kiban - Toukouroba                              400       40
Kiban - Toubakoro - Sebete                      400       63
Douraba - Koula - Tamani                        100       33
Massantola - Sirakoroba - Bamaniba              200       35
Bamandjoujou - Mourdiak                         400       30
Mourdiak - Falou                                100       70
Koulikoro - Tougouni - Katiola                  200      105
461
Total Central Sectors                                                565
GRAND TOTAL 3/                        1,500
i/  Western Sectors:  Kayes, Bafoulabe, Kenieba, Kita
2/  Central Sectors:  Koulikoro, Banamba, Kolokani
32  Type C - Western Sectors - 193 kms
Central Sectors - 104 kms
297
Type D - Western Sectors - 742 kms
Central Sectors - 461 km
1,203
GRAND TOTAL                     1,500



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEvOEPFNT PROJECT
Improvements of Rural Tracks
Roads and Tracks Technz.cal Characteristics
Type of -i,oade                     A                               B                           C            -        D
1.  Tons per year                 4,000 to 10,000                 2,000 to 4,000               500 te 2,000        less than 500
2.  Clearing widtii m                    9                               7                          5                      4
3. Roadway widty  m                      5.5                             4                          3.50                   3
4. Surfacing and ancillary        Continuous laterite             Discontinuous laterite   Spot improvements    Minimum spot
works                        15  cm thick;                   12 cm thick                to insure passage &  improvements to
Continuous ditches, outlets   Ditches and outlets on   improve riding cond- ineure passage;
pipe and culverts, dikes and  grade sections, small   itions; annual             ad hoc repairs
concrete fords                  dikes and stone fords    grading and repairs
5.  Serviceability for 7T         throughout the year, except   during dry season            during dry season    during dry
ti'uck                       during & immediately after                                                        season
rains
i)  loading capacity         75 to 90%                       70 to 85%                  60 ta 75%              50%
ii)  average spe Pe.          35 to 50 ka/h                   20 to 40 km/h              15 to 25 km/h          15 to 25 km/h
iii) average transport cost
MF/kma                   124  124                              155                      178                    20h
6. Average cost of iniprove-
ments (MF million/km)
i)  operating cost           1.5 to 1.7                      0.55 to 0.65               0.15 to 0,18           0.075 to 0.10
ii)  total cost (incliding
technical assis ance &
equiptenl )              2.ic tG 2.35                    o.o0 to 0.9U               0.25 to 0.28           0.135 tG o.16
7.  Main use for CACV             Transport of siielied ground-  Transport of groundnuts  fransport cf             Transport of
activities.                  nuts frori secondarj solrage   froin marketing potnts .e groundnuts frorL        grolundnuts from
point, (seccas) to railway      seccos and froin seccos  sarrair marketing       villages to
stazionIs & oil milIs           ,o railway sDaînons       points to seccos       marketing poirtzs
October 7, 1l9'i
x\7J  r



ANN1X 4
Table 6
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPME!ÇT PROJWCT
Improvement of Rural Tracks
Scope of Works
JI    fspe C Track
1 ) Works to be carried out
i) clearing of 5 m width
,i)  filling of potholes and hollows, reloading sandy stretches vith laterite
gravel
iii)  construction of small dikes and fords across low points with rubble
iv)  erasing rock outcrops
42) Average quantities for 1G lkm stretch
i)  truck loads of laterite gravel  : 65 to 120
ii)  truck load of rubble             : 30
iii)  rock outerops                       50 m
iv)  number of working days              10 to 13
I  ~Type D Track
1) t4orks to be carried out
.)' rîinimuwrn clearing to al:low truck passage
il) filling of hoMlows and reloading sandy stretches with laterite gravel
-ii .) construction of small dikes and fords with rubble
2) Average guantities for 10 km stretch
i) truck loads of laterite gravel : 30 to 60
i .  r,ruck loads of rubble          : 30
iiii  nunber of working days               6 to 8
Il T'2asks ta be periÙmed by road gan
i)  oul.-ting and removing trees and bushes
ii) quarrying and preparation of laterite and rubble
iii) loading and unloading of trucks
iv)  spreading and compacting of laterite, arranging rubble
October 7, 1973



ANIEX 4
Table 7
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Improvement of Rural Tracks
Analysis of Trucking Costs in Project Zone
(for 7T lorry)
` era,e uniJt costs for various types of roads and tracks (1 972 value)
Operating   Operating      Loading    Transport
Cost      Cost % on      Capacity      Cost
(MF/Km)]/  Paved roads        %        (MF/TK)?/
Paved                             86.8          100      up to 10C)       24.8
iïnproved gravel road            10v.6          125      85 - 95         32.6
Feeder road Type A               124.2          145       80 - 95        4o.7
B             154.8          170       75 - 85         52.5
Track          l C             1783             210      60 - 75         69.1
D                203.8           240      60 - 70          85.7
'nriaintained tertiary road    220.8            260      50 - 70          99.8
Nat,ural track                  233.5           275      50 - 60        115.2
1/  Including ail taxes and duties (representing about 22%), depreciations and
drivers wages.
2/  As for L] and assuming trucks only loaded on return trip tno payload carried
on the way to marketing points or villages).  Operating c6st reduced by 10%
for empty loads on roads beyond type B.
B. Estimates of average transport costs in project zone in 1972 and 1978
Western Sectors   Central Sectors   Eastern Sectors
1972      1978      1972    1978       1972    1978
i)  Gathering (If/TK)                    100         72      104       72         78      66
Dif'`erence between 1978 & 1972            28%                  31%                15%
2)  Deli.very (S,'/TK)                     68         47        73      47         52       43
Differerice between 1978 & 1972             30%                 36%                18%
October 7, 1973






ANNEX 5
Page 1
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FUNCTIONAL LITERACY PROGRAM
A. Background
1.        Functional literacy programs were introduced to Mali in 1968 under
the patronage of UNESCO, FAC and FED. The main objective of a functional
literacy program is to help individuals increase their productivity by teach-
ing them the elements of reading, writing and arithmetic needed for a better
understanding of their work or business through "out-of-school" courses car-
ried out in their native language. In countries with a limited educational
infrastructure and serious financial constraints, such as Mali, a system of
functional literacy, if correctly managed, could be a satisfactory means of
spreading basic education at a low cost. In agriculture, the objective of a
functional literacy program is to help the farnier better understand, and thus
apply more efficiently, teclnical innovations recommended by agricultural ex-
tension services, and provide him with a knowledge of matters such as weights
and measures that prevents him from being the prey of the unscrupulous.
B. Organization
2.        National Level.  Responsibility for education in 1Mali is split
between the Ministry of Basic Education, Youth and Sports, and the Ministry
of Secondàry and Higher Education and of Scientific Research. The latter
controls Direction Nationale de l'Alphabetisation Fonctionnelle (DNAF).
DNAF comprises two units: (i) a management unit which, at the request of
and in close cooperation witli Operations de Developpement, or industrial
and commercial enterprises, carries out preliminary surveys, prepares programs,
and generally implements AF programs and assesses their results; and (ii) a
visual and audio aid production unit, which prepares and distributes posters,
and other educational inaterials, including making radio broadcasts, necessary
for the support of AF programs.
3.        Rejqonsand zones.  Mali is divided into AF regions in which a
manager is responsible for the organization and control of all AF programs.
The regional manager works in close cooperation with the managers of Opera-
tions de Developpement and other enterprises for which AF programs are being
undertaken, and directs and coordinates the work of the chiefs of Functional
Literacy Zones (ZAF). In turn each ZAF comprises one or two AF districts,
each with an average of about 40 AF Centers (CAF).



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        Functional Literacy Centers.  A CAF, which is the basic unit of
the AF program, is established in a village when requested by,the villagers,
who elect an AF Committee and choose two literate volunteers (animateurs) to
teach the AF courses. The villagers, led by the commlttee, build a shed to
house the CAF. Here, the animateurs, after training by staff of ZAF, give AF
courses with the help of educational material and equipment supplied by the
DNAF, anà1 with the assistance and under the supervision of both staff of AF
and the ciperations de developpement or other agency involved. The animateurs
are not paid but are given food.
C. Operation Arachide
5.        OA requested a functional literacy program geared to its require-
ments in 1969.  During the first year of the program emphasis vas laid on
explaining to farmers, using practical demonstrations, the systeus employed
by OA in crop marketing and credit distribution and collection; importantly,
in this phase farmers vere taught such things as how to read the scals used
to weigh their produce and to check payments made for their produce. Follow-
ing this relatively successful first attempt, AF vas extended to other vil-
lages, and the curriculum enlarged to cover improved methode of cultivation
being recommended by OA extension staff. OA basic sector chiefs act as ani-
mateurs for the first two months of operation of any new CAF, and thereafter
remain as close adviser to the regular animateurs and attend the classes.
The animateurs are subject to the supervision of the ZAF chief, who makes
regular visits, and they attend training sessions at the Regional AF office.
The AF program and its supporting educational naterial are the subject of
continuing review, to take into account OA requirements and farmersV needs
and reactions. An AF program cycle extends over two years, and is Limited
to the dry season when field work in at a minimum. It is estimated that, at
the end of 1973, 30,000 farmers will have completed AF cycles connected vith
Operation Arachide. The joint OA/AF target is to educate at least one active
member of each farm family through the AF system.
D. AF Program in the Proposed Project
6.        lp to now, a complete evaluation of the value of AF programa ln Mali
in general, and within OA in particular, has not been made. For this reason,
Government's request that an additional 3,000 CAF be establlshed vithin the
five year project development perlod could not be accepted at appraisal. Such
a program vould be very expensive, an estimated MF 1.2 billion (US$ 2.9 mil-
lion), and expenditures at such a level would be unvise vithout a careful
assessment of the effectiveness of AF. Consequently, a component of the
proposed project would be an evaluation of past and ongoing AF programa, and
pending the conclusion of this evaluation, a limited prograi of expansion
for CAF in PY1 through PY3 as followa:



ANNEX 5
Page 3
1973            1974           1975       TOTAL
New
1      2        1      2        1      2   Centers
Existing Centers 249      -        -      -        -      -       -
" ~    "i   115    115         115     -        -      -       -
"   "    225    225  225    225       -      -       -
New Centers        -     265/1   265    265       265     -      265
"l    "155    155                                155    155    155
100     100    100    100
100    100    100
100    100
Total Centers
in operation    589      605      760    745      620    455      -
Total New
Centers    720
/1   Already committed at appraisal.
At the end of 1974, and after consideration of the findings of the evaluation
study, a decision would be made whether the last 200 CAF scheduled for 1975
would be opened or not.  In the former case, alternative financing would
have to be found for their continuation after 1975, but at this time and if
the findings of the study vere positive, Mali's AF program as a whole probably
could be the subject of a major functional education project.
7.        Cost of the proposed Functional Literacy Program.  The coste of
the AF component of the project are estimated at MF 185 million (US$ 441,000);
these costs are summarlzed in Annex 12, Table 8.






ANNEX 6
Page 1
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RESEARCH PROGRAMS
A. Background
1.        Institut d'Economie Rurale (IER) of the Ministry of Production is
responsible for agricultural research through its Divisions des Recherches
Agronomiques (DRA). DRA is divided into 7 sections: (i) nurseries;
(ii) seeds; (iii) plant introductions; (iv) regional trials; (v) fruit
crops and market gardening; (vi) cotton and fibres; and (vii) food crops.
Under the proposed project OACV would liaise closely with the seeds sections
which are responsible for the multiplication of seed of improved crop varie-
ties; the seeds section operates seed farms, c,ntrols stores and distributes
the seed it produces. The seed section assists OA in supervising the produc-
tion of seed produced by OA sponsored seed growers. Cooperation in the past
between OA and the section has been satisfactory and would continue during
the proposed project. The project would also maintain permanent relations
with the food crops research section.
2.        Food Crops Section.  This section is managed by an expatriate re-
search worker provided by Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et
des Cultures Vivrieres (IRAT). The section comprises four units: (t) a
soils unit, with a station at Sobuta, and managed by an IRAT staff member;
(ii) an oil seeds unit, with a main station at Katibougou and a substation
at Kita, managed by an expatriate supplied by Institut de Recherches des
Huiles et Oleagineux (IRHO); (iii) a maize, millet and sorghum unit managed
by a Malian research worker with a main station at Sotuba and a substation
at Seno, and (iv)  a rice unit managed by an IRAT staff member wtth principal
stations at Mopti and Kogari, and a substation at Sikasso. All units have
field trials located strategically throughout the country.
3.        Research Programs.
(i) Groundnut. Past and ongoing research has concentrated on
varietal improvement and this continues with new varieties
being screened for yield potential, growing cycle and re-
sistance to rosette disease and drought. Other wark is
concerned with fertilizers, pest control, cultural methods
and use of ox-drawn equipment. New varieties or methods
that give promising results at Katibougou or Kita are
tested on local adaptation trials before being issued or
recommended te farmers. The adaptation, or so-called
multilocal, trials are carried out at 2 or 3 sites per



ANNEX 6
Page 2
sector under conditions similar to those prevailing on a
good average farm in the sector. These trial sites also
serve as demonstration farms in the training of project.
staff and farmers.
(ii) Millet and sorghum. Research with these crops is to firid
new high yielding varieties suited to the country's ecolo-
gical conditions and with tastes and other qualities accep-
table to the local population. Some ten local millet var-
ieties exhibiting yield potentials of between 2 and 3
tons/ha under experimental conditions have been retained
for further development but so far have not exhibited suf-
ficient promise to warrant their distribution to farmers 1/.
Research on sorghum has produced more promising results;
but so far no high yielding variety acceptable to local
tastes has emerged. In the absence of high yield poten-
tial varieties the units' work on fertilization, rota-
tions, soil fertility maintenance, and use of ox-drawn
equipment etc., while interesting, is of linited practi-
cal application.
B. Project Research Component
4.        The research component of the project would be to assist the con-
tinuation and intensification of ongoing research programs on groundnuts and
crop rotations and help the soils unit to conduct the soil surveys and pre-
pare the soils maps needed for OACV's and other agricultural development pro-
grams:
(a)  Groundnut work.  The project would provide financial assistance
for the following:
varieties:      continuation of variety trials on high yield
potential material;
agrocides:      trials with fungicides, insecticides and herbi-
cides;
fertilizers:   nutrient requirements, timing of applications,
residual effect on cereals in rotation;
cultural
techniques:    timing, plant population, soil preparation;
1/   This is not a peculiar to Mali; measures to improve the produc-
tivity of millet have proved singularly unrewarding elaewhere.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
equipment:     testing of hullers, washers for confectionery
groundnut, and seed sorting equipment;
quality:       control of aflatoxin; control, preparation
and packing of groundnut for confectionery;
control of seeds; control of groundnut oil.
(b)  Rotation.  Research on millet, sorghum, maize and rice is satis-
factorily financed and could not be substantially improved under
the project; on the other hand, the possibilities of diversifying
farm production need close examination: in particular, rotations
of longer duration than the traditional sorghum/cereal type and
including such food crops as maize, cowpea, foddercrops and other
cash crops such as cotton. Work is required to determine the
optimum rotational combination of these crops with groundnuts,
millet and sorghum and to assess the financial and economic advan-
tages of the alternatives. This type of work has been instituted
successfully in Senegal. The program would require about 4 field
trials of some 2 hectares in each of OACV's main sectors.
(c)  Pedological maps.  Under the project the soils unit would receive
financial and technical assistance for soil surveys and to produce
the pedological maps which are so badly needed in Mali to plan the
best use of its natural resources. The objectives of this assis-
tance would be (i) to define the large morphopedological units of
the areas under study, (ii) to evaluate the potential fertility
of the various soils, (iii) to select the soils most suited for
agriculture intensification, (iv) study the economic risks due
to the shifting of traditional itinerant cultivation with long ro-
tation periods to intensive cultivation on permanent fields. This
assistance would in addition offer the marked advantage of forming
a starting point for a general mapping of the soils of Mali which
has not yet been done. The scale chosen would be 1 : 200,000 which
corresponds to the scale used for existing topographic maps and
this is well suited to the country's need.  On  pedologist can,
when working on this scale, prospect 14,000 km per year. The
Malian authorities would indicate the boundaries of the zones to
be studied and specify their priority and supply the corresponding
aerial photographs. The project would provide funds for a two year
survey by a pedolog cal team which should complete the required
work over 28,000 km representing about 21% of the project area.






ANNEX 7
Page 1
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MEDICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        Organization.  The Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs is
responsible for all medical and social services in Mali. The minister and
his cabinet are especially in charge of legislation drafting, planning,
control of inspectors, doctors, medicines and pharmacies, relations with
international health organizations and foreign countries providing technical
assistance, education and training. The ministry is divided in two depart-
ments: Direction Nationale de la Sante (DNS), responsible for medical and
health services, and Direction des Affaires Sociales (DAS), in charge of social
services; their work is coordinated by a bureau of studies made up of the
directors and division heads of both departments. DNS is responsible for the
execution of the health, sanitary and medical programs prepared by the
Minist:er, the administrative and technical supervision of hospitals and
health centers, and the control and application of medical regulations. DNS
is also responsible for suggesting and preparing health programs and regula-
tions, maintaining medical statistics and generally for dealing wîth all
matters concerning medical and health matters. In each of the six regions
IDS is represented by a Regional Director of Health who is the Governor's
health adviser and controls hospitals, health centers and medical staff of
the region. In each of the 42 administrative districts of the country the
health services are headed by a health district chief who i8 a doctor or a
dresser, depending on staff availability. There is a dispensary and in some
cases a maternity unit managed by a dresser in each sector. The public
health services are divided into two branches: (i) medical care dealing with
first aid, treatments and surgery in dispensaries, maternities and hospitals;
(ii) medical prevention, dealing with transmissible diseases (responsibility
for tracking these down), vaccination and cure. The program i carried out
bv means of regular visits planned annually in advance, with the aim of
examining all the inhabitants of the sector for which the medical prevention
team is responsible. When warranted, mass vaccinations are undertaken against
smallpox, yellow fever, measles, tuberculosis and cholera, which are the most
prevalent diseases in Mali. Both branches are generally under-staffed and
under-equipped due to lack of funds, which are also insufficient to meet
operating expenses. Consequently, medical services are often inefficient.
2.        Proposed project.  In the project area, there is one dispensary for
15,000 inhabitants and 3 hospital beds for 5,000. These health facilities
however benefit only a small minority of the people who live nearby. The
proposed project would provide funda for staff seconded from DNS and working
under OACV administrative control, for purchase of vehicles, equipment and
medicines, for the construction of dispensaries and for operating expenses.
This would help the medical care branch to extend its sphere of activities
and to give attention to people heretofore outside its scope. The proposed



ANNEX 7
Page 2
project would also assist the medical prevention branch and vould allow
more detection visite, more regular vaccination cmpaigns and better education
on sanitation and health among the populations visited by the prevention
teams. The annual programs and budgets would be established jointly by DNS
and the deputy general manager, who vould insure, through the project
extension service staff and with the help of DNS local staff, that the
program is satisfactorily executed. Financial control of medical program
expenditure within the agreed budget would be the responsibility of DNS.



ANNEX 8
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
VETERINARY ASSISTANCE
1.        Organization.  Service de l'Elevage et de la Sante Animale (SESA)
is one of the four divisions of the Directorate Generale of Production of
the Ministry of Production and is in charge of the development of animal
production. SESA's main responsibilities are (i) animal health; (ii) improve-
ment of animal production; and (iii) meat inspection. At the national level
SESA comprises two sections (i) animal health; and (ii) animal husbandry. In
the field there is a veterinary coordinator in each region, a livestock sector
chief in each sector and a district veterinary at district level. As for
all other agricultural services, staff and funds are insufficient to insure
adequate services.
2.        Cattle.  SESA estimated that at the end of 1972 and before the full
impact of the drought was felt, the national cattle herd totalled 5.2 million,
made up of 30% males and 70% females, of which 55% vas less than one year old.
The reproduction rate is low at 66%, and the death rate, while a reasonable
3% for cattle of over two years, is 33% for animals of under one year. The
survey of the effects of the drought has not yet been completed, but SESA
estimates that in northern areas of the country losses have been in the
order of 40%, and that a period of 5 to 10 years vill be needed to re-
establish the pre-drought livestock population of these areas. In the
southern and western regions, the effects of the drought have been much
less serious and are estimated at somewhere between 5 and 10% of total
numbers. Cattle heads in the project area are estimated at 1.4 million;
most of these are considered as "saving accounts" by their owmers, and
before OA was initiated were seldom employed as draft animals. Since then
farmers have shown remarkable ability in training their cattle for work
with advice and assistance from the ox-drawn equipment staff of the OA
extension service.
3.        Proposed project.  The proposed project would provide staff
seconded from the SESA and working under OACV administrative control, with
vehicles, veterinary equipment and a revolving fund for the purchase of
veterinary medicines; and funds for the construction of spray races and
operation expenses. The revolving fund would be replenished through charges
paid by farmers for veterinary medicines. The main duties of the staff
would be to provide for the health of cattle in the project area, through
preventive inoculations, but also some curative treatment, and to advise
farmers on animal husbandry. Annual programs and budgets would be established
jointly bv SESA and OACV. The ox-drawn equipment specialist vould act for
OACV in the latter arrangement and, through his own staff at sector and sub-
sector levels, would monitor animal health and control.






ANNEX 9
Page 1
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EVALUATION UNIT
1.        The proposed Integrated Rural Development Project would have
important effects on the population in the project area and on the economy of
Mali. These effects cannot however be estimated with accuracy and therefore
an Evaluation Unit would be established under the project as from PY 2 to
assess the actual results and compare them with project forecasts. As no
organization can satisfactorily evaluate itself, the Evaluation Unit would
be independent from project management although working closely together.
2.        The function of the Evaluation Unit would be:
(a) to follow project development;
(b) to assess the actual results for comparison with project
forecasts;
(c)  to measure project efficiency;
(d) to reappraise project goals and if required to suggest
modifications of project objectives and organization;
(e) to study the rural development process for future planning
and development; and
(f) to help project management in establishing project goals
and scheduling of project activities.
3.        The evaluation would include:
(a) participating farmers: modifications in their gross and net
incomes, in their consumption, in their participation in
education, etc., and generally in their well being;
(b) changes in volume and value of production, efficiency of
the marketing system;
(c) use of project resources;
(d) impact of ancillary subprojects;
(e) changes in employment, in volume and type of business;
(f) clianges in tax revenues and expenditures and,
(g) generally any changes in economic and social indicators
showing direct and indirect re8ults of project activities.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Some of the information required would be available from project records,
other data would be collected by surveys and from sources outside the
project, but the methods of data collection and assessments would be
determined by the Evaluation Unit.
4.        The Evaluation Unit would be headed by an agroeconomist with
experience of West Africa and knowledge of statistics and social economy.
He would be recruited internationally for a period of 4 years (PY 2 through
PY 5) and as from PY 6 would be replaced by a Research Assistant engaged
in PY 5. HIe would be assisted by a statistician at headquarters, and by
2 supervisors and 20 enumerators in the field.  As funds are not available
to cover the field activities over the whole project area, the agroeconomist
will select, in consultation with project management, the sectors in which
the enumerators will operate during the project. The Evaluation Unit head
would recruit his staff and train them, he would design record documents,
develop data collection system, instruct and control hie staff, consult
withi project management, government officials and IDA personnel. He would
prepare reports and recommendations for submission to OACV Board and, after
Board approval, for distribution to IDA and project management. The Evalu-
ation Unit would work in close cooperation with IER and would investigate
the possibilities of obtaining additional support from the University of
Mali. The head of the unit would be professionally responsible to the direc-
tor of IER. (See project organization chart).
5.        Detailed estimated costs are at Annex 12, Table 12.  OACV would
pay the expenses of the Evaluation Unit, within the limit of the annual
budget, after approval by the Evaluation Unit head.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
kALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GROUNDNUT SEED PRODUCTION
1.        A principal objective of OACV is to replace entirely local groundnut
varieties or mixtures of varieties used by farmers with selected varieties,
and thereafter to maintain varietal purity at a satisfactory level. This is
needed not only for reasons of productivity but to facilitate shelling and
to obtain an homogeneous production that can be sold easily on the world
market.
2.        Selected varieties.  The two varieties chosen by Operation Arachide
(OA) for distribution are well suited for Malian conditions; they are
28-206 and 47-10. These, pending the selection of still better varieties,
will be sold to farmers on seasonal credit terms at subsidized prices. The
two varieties are:
-    28-206, a Virginia type, 120 day cycle, rosette resistant,
yields up to 3 T/ha in field experiments, grown for oil
production.
-    47-10, a Spanish type, 90 day cycle, rosette resistant, yields
up to 2 T/ha in field experiments, is grown for confectionery
and sells for a higher price than that obtained for 28-206.
Suitable for the northern and drier part of the project area.
Seed rates are 100 kg/ha for 28-206, and 150 kg/ha for 47-10. At the end
of the project development period the total annual seed requirement vould
be some 21,000 tons of which OA would provide 4.740 tons and the balance
would be produced by the farmers.
3.        Multiplication stages.
Stage (A) Parent material
(i   28-206.  Parent material until 1972 was maintained at
Bambey (Senegal) but is now established at the Centre
d'Apprentissage Rural (CAR) at Sirakola.
(ii) 47-10. Parent material until 1972 was maintained at
the M'Pesoba farm.  As from 1973 parental stocks
will be kept at the Didieni CAR.
Stage (B) Elite 1
(i) 28-206. Elite seed is produced at the Sirakola,
Kolokani and Didieni CAR.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(ii) 47-10. Elite seed is now produced by selected
farmers but as soon as possible will be produced at
Mourdiah directly by OACV.
Stage (C) Elite 2. This multiplication stage is by farmers chosen
from among the best and most reliable.  These farmera grow
seeds under contract under the close supervision of extension
staff and OA seed agents. Records of dates of planting and
of field operations are maintained for each seed farm.  As
payment grovers receive fertilizer and other inputs frea
but their crop is bought at the standard rate. In 1972 OA
had 400 ha of Elite 2 seed produced in this way.
These 3 stages should enable limited quantities of selected seeds to be
produced as economically as possible. Those obtained from the two last
stages are regularly controlled by the division of selected seeds of IER
and IRHO staff.
4.        Diffusion stage.  The following two stages regulate distribution of
selected seeds produced at *trategic points to reduce transport costs.
(i)  Stage (D)  first multiplication.  Seeds produced from
stage (C) are sold to selected farmers at sub-sector
levels and used for the next multiplication stage.
(Mi) Stage (E) second multiplication. Seeds produced from
stage (D) are widely distributed to farmers with the best
performance at basic sector level and the seeds produced at
this stage are then mass-distributed, through OA control,
to all the farmers of an area previously cleaned of groundauts.
The production from these seeds is used for another crop which
is not used for further sowing; new seeds are then brought in.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
2ALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMEUT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL ISPUTS AND CREDIT
A.   Organization and Operation of Agricultural Credit
Organization of the Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural (SCAER)
1.        Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural (SCAER) became an
independent agency in April 1971, following recommendations by Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) following a study of the agricultural credit
situation in Mali.
2.        SCAER is legally and financially autonomous and is authorized to
make use of the rediscount facilitiès offered by the Central Bank; its main
functions include:
(a)  Acting as the central supply agency for production goods,
such as agricultural equipment, fertilizers, insecticides
and fungicides, and controlling certain imports on behalf
of Government;
(b)  distributing these production goods either directly through
its 26 retail outlets throughout the country, or indirectly
through the "Operations de Developpement" which, acting on
behalf of SCAER, holds stocks for sale on cash or credit
terms, recovers credit repayments at the time of crop
collection, and makes small individual loans to farmers
either from its own funds or from special credit funds,
but this activity has been deferred until adequate guarantees
can be obtained for recovery of the loans.
3.        The distribution of agricultural production goods and the
provision of short-term credit constitutes SCAER's major activity.
Responsibility for these functions is divided between SCAER and the
Operations as follows:
(a) SCAER, in close cooperation with the Operations (i) places
orders, after consultation and local or international
competitive bidding, and delivers the goods to the Operations;
(ii) finances purchases and stocks; (iii) obsorbs the
financial risks involved in credit operations;



ANNEX 11
Page 2
(b) the Operations (i) manage and control stocks deposited with
them; (ii) sell goods to farmers on credit or for cash,
at their discretion; and (iii) recover the credit amounts
d'ie when the crop is marketed.
SCAER reimburses the Operations for the cost of their services through a 5%
rebate on the selling price of goods.
4.        Uniform selling prices for agricultural production goods are fixed
by Government (see Table 1).  Since these prices are on average 9% lower than
the cost price delivered Bamako, SCAER's operating account is credited vith
the following:
(a) domestic subsidies financed from cotton (MF 4,000 per ton of
seed cotton purchased) and groundnuts (<MF 1,000 per ton of
undecorticated groundnuts purchased); and
(b) contributions from FAC and FED which are provided specifically
to finance subsidies. The expected production increases of
both groundnuts and cotton, together with increased selling
prices, is expected to compensate for a decrease in FAC and
FED assistance.
5.        There are two factors, which result from the geographical
isolation of Mali, contributing to SCAER's high costs:
(a) transportation, which adds an average 27% to the ex-factory
price;
(b) financial charges on working capital which increase the
cost of 6% borrowings to more than 8%, as 20 months elapse
between the placing of orders and the first credit
reimbursements.
Operation Arachide - Organization of Credit Operations
6.        At the Operations' central offices at Bamako, the following
departments deal with the distribution of production goods:
(a) the administrative department, which coordinates requirements,
places orders through SCAER, and takes delivery and distributes
the goods;
(b) the credit department, which records the quantities and
value of all production goods.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
7.        Locally, each sector of the Operation constitutes an administrative
unit in which the sector chiefs and bookkeepers play a major role in the
distribution of production goods and the recovery of credit repayments
fromn farmers:
(a)  thc sector chief is responsible for:  (i) cash sales of
fungicidies and spare parts, (il) credit sales of equipment,
fertilizers and seed;
(b) the bookkeepers working at sector and sub-sector levels
record these activities and carry out periodie stock checks.
3.        This system should provide both SCAER and the Operation management
with adequate control data. In particular, a monthly statement of stock
movements for each sub-sector permits detailed checking of deliveries and
sales. lUowever, there are two serious shortcomings in the system:
(a) overdue debts total about 20% of total loans to
farmers as compared with about 2% under "Operation
Cotton";
(b) coordination between SCAER and OA is weak.
OA is taking steps to reduce bad debts and hopes to establish a system of
mutual guarantees. In the meantime, individuais or groups with a poor
credit repayment record should be banned from receiving further credit, and
legal action should be taken against defaulters. The project provides for
the strengthening and training of personnel in charge of credit operations
as field level. A statement of SCAER loans and repayments for the period
1963 through 1971 is at Table 2.
B. Financial Position of SCAER
9.        SCAER's opening balance sheet, which was approved by the Government
and the Board of Directors, showed that equity contributions financed all
fixed assets and 95% of stocks.  The position was further improved by a
government grant of MF 350 million, representing working capital (MF 150
million) and an equipment subsidy (MF 200 million). Balance sheets and
operating and profit and boss accounts for 1971 and 1972 are summarized in
Tables 3 and 4.
10.       Cash requirements are met by special rediscounting arrangements
witii the Central Bank through the intermediary of Banque de Developpement
du Mali (BDM). These arrangements, which are subject to review every six
months, lave been regularly increased.  However, bank overdraft facilities
impose heavy financial charges as BDM does not allow SCAER a preferential
rate.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
11.       The drought conditions in '1972 and 1973 adversely affected credit
repayments and caused a heavy increase in stocks and working capital. It
is imperative for SCAER to maintain strict control of annual orders since
the accumulation of stocks may endanger the financial position. This would
allow SCAER accounts to remain positive. SCAER's operating account should
remain in credit provided the ratio of orders to sales is adjusted and
moderate increases are made in sales prices.
C.  Integrated Rural Development Project Credit Requirements
12.       Details of farm implements, other inputs and credit requirements
eo he supplied by SCAER and improved seeds to be supplied by OACV are detailed
in Tables 5, 6, and 7.
D. Recommendations for Credit Organization and Operations
13.       Accurate records should be kept of stocks held by SCAER's retail
outlets and OA sectors. This would be taken care of in the SCAER/OA recipro-
cal service agreement and it is necessary that this agreement be promptly
agreed and signed.
14.       SCAER and OA should ensure that the annual orders for production
goods should not exceed production needs to reduce working capital require-
ments. OA should also take steps to reduce credit repayment defaults to
an acceptable level (about 5% of loans).



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Prices and Sales Prices of Farm Inputs
(MF)
Measure- Price ex-                                                              Selling Price as %
ment     factory2/ Del. Bamako        Del. to Farmers       Selling PriceY       of Full Cost
Multicultivator             Unit      38,430       40,351            49,794                 30,000               60%
Tyne                        Unit       3,800        4,230             4,,750                 4,750              100%
1,000 kg cart wheel set    Unit       25,537       26.,814           33,088                 32,800                99%7-
Seeder                      Unit      24,930        26,177           32,302                 18,500               57%
Groundnut lifter            Unit       4,860        5,103             6,297                  6,075 -             96%
Superphosphate 21%          Ton       17,000        31,270           37,469                 40hO, 0             107%
53,,8h6             144
Red Thioral (Groundnuts)   Kg            680           720              900                  1,500 W            107%
Green Thioral (Sorghum)    Kg            570           604              759                  2,000 W            263%
Gammafrain (Lindane)        Kg           190           200              250                    500 Si           200%
Groundnut selected seed    Kg            -             -               47.5                 34.50 50             73%
j/ 1973 orders.
/ Excluding tax, including freight.
~/  Excluding tax, including costs to SCAER (financial charges and management costs) and a 5% delivery comiass-on
for "Operation Arachide".
V|  Government approved 1973 SCAh  scales.
Selling price fixed by "Operation Arachide".
October 10, 1973



MALI
INTEGRATED RU RPAI DEVEOPMT PROJECT
Comparative Table of Loans and  uYmeLnIt_
_ition on Nov. 3   1972                          Outstanding Debta
as a % of loans
Totals for Year                     Cumulative Totals
Loan      Repayment1s Outstanding     Loans     Repaymèeits  Outatanding for year Cumulative
1968     17,849,070   12,352,185   5,496,885   17,,849,070   12,352,185   5,496,885    31       31
1969     55,324,325   49,298,070   6,026,255   73,173,395   61,650,255  11 ,523,140    11       16
1970    11i4,223,570   99,405,625  14,817,945  187,396,965  161,055,880  26,341,085    13       14
1971    142,473,570  103,637,295  38,836,275  329,870,535  264;693,175  65,177,360     27       20
Breakdown as of November 30, 1972
Loans          Repayments          Outstanding          Outstanding Debt/Loans
Seeds        169,086,305     137,102,135          31,983,970                  19%
Fertilizers  134,138,305     112,535,125          21,603,180                  16%
Equipment     26,645,925      15,055,915          11 ,590,010                 43.5%
Total     329,870,535     264,693,175          65,177,160
Actual overdue debts include all outstanding debts on seeds and fertilizers and only a portion of outstanding
debts on equipment;the average overdue debts are about 18%.
>31



MALI
IN'TEGRATED RURAL DEVELpPMET PRO!ECT
Soc-ete de Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rurail
Condensed Balance Sheets
MF'000,000
Assets           Jan. 1,1971   Dec. 31, 1971   June 30, 1?72   Dec. 31, 1972           Liabilities      Jan. 1, 1971   Dec. 31, 1971   June 6, 1972   Dec. 31, 1?73
Fixed Assets          50             181             427              311              Owners' Equity        1,2h1         1,25h,             1,718           1,713
Net value of
fixed assets  1/      13              18              1h                23              Long Terri                              1 0               10              1 ')
Other fixed assets   37              163             411              288              Current                1, 4h           98tc             1,392           2,h85
Inventories  2/   1,260              802           1,711            2,521              Resu]ts                  -             113                 24              24
Receivables/Cash  1,448            1,380           1,006            1                                       _4__
TOTAL           2,758           2,363           3,L, 44,237                                                2,758         2,3u3             3,1Lh            4,23?
1/  As'ter allowance for depr ciatio n.                                                a)  Net workinF
2/  After provision for reserves.                                                             capital         1,204         1,1ut)             1,325           1,441
a)  Current inventories and current receivablcs and cash.                              b)  Ratio net working
b)  Net working capital/inventories and accounts rece;vable nnci cash.                      capital/gross      4hh             55> %4 48>
ieorkinr  capital
o ci



£. 'kLI
Societe de Credit_ et d'34uipernent Rural
Ooridensea (0nerqtin a nd Profit and Loss Accounts
MF' 00, 080
Dec. 31, 1        .une {, 1'72   Dec, 31, 1972                                  Dec. 31, 1371   June o, 1972   Dec. 31, 1972
1.  Operatin: Xcccurits
BeEinning inventory         1,260'              82           1,711               Closing inventory        8C2                1,711             2,521
Purchases                     678             1,99h          1,021               Sales                  1,22h                  71h3              211
Operatirs costs               129               107              h2              OperatirE subsidies    158                    2S2               115
Financ-al' charges              1                34              60              Additional income           2                 -                 _
Depreiitîtion                   5                 2                             Financial income            14                   1 
Xoserves                       -                 24              -
Results                       127                -               17              Results                    -                  258               -
TOVXL           2,20n             2,963,         2,851                                      2,200                2,9u'             2, 83i
2.  Profit snd Loss .ccounts
Operatini losses                                258                              Operatbq7- -rLt,         127                                     17
Non-rocurrent. losses          14                                               Non-recurrent profits                           u7                 h
Price support subsidy                         21'
Profits for the year          113                24              21
TOEUSL            127               282              21                                       127                  282                21
--Si
O I 2~
o- I'



ANNEX 11
Table 5
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Implement Requirement, Costs and Medium-Term Credit
------------------------Years---------------------------
0          1         2             3           4            5
I.   Quantities
Multi-cultivators         -       1,300      2,050        2,550        3,100        3,750
Tynes                     -         950     1,700        2,195         2,740        3,385
Groundnut lifters         -         400       600           745          930        1,125
Seeders                   -      1,000      1,670        2,100         2,570        3,080
Set of cart wheels        -         650     1,025        1,280         1,550        1,875
II.  Values (000,000 MF) 1/
(Full cost delivered to
farmers)
Multi-cultivators         -        64.7       102.1       127.0         154.4        186.7
Tynes                     -         4.6         8.2        10.5          13.2         16.2
Groundnut lifters         -         2.5         3.8         4.7           5.9          7 n
Seeders                   -       32.3        54.0        67.8           83.0         99.5
Cart wheels               -        21.5       33.9        42.4           51.3         62.0
Cart boxes 2/             -        16.3       25.6        32.0           38.8         46.9
Total              -       141.9       227.6       284.4         346.6        418.3
III.   Financing
-  Cash Sales  3/         -       16.3        25.6        32.0           38.8         46.9
-  Down payment  4/  5/ -          28.6       45.9         57.5          70.1         84.6
-  Farmers' Repayment-  -          -           28.7        74.7         103.0        127.5
Net Medium-term Credit
Total                    -        57.3        63.4        40.4          36.8         41.8
-  Subsidies to SCAER   -          39.7       64.0         79.8          97.9        117.5
Total                           141.9        227.6       284.4         346.6        41b.3
1/  See Annex 11 Table 4 inputs price list.
2/  Made by local artisans at about MF 25,000 per unit.
3/  Includes card box costs.
4/  One-third of the value of implements.
5/  Two-year term loan.



ANNEX Il
Table   6
MAtI
INTECRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENTf PROJECT
Seasonal Inputs Requirements. Costs and Seasonal Credit
------------------------------------- Years -----------------------------------------
(>  (;roendnuts                                  O          i           2          3           4          5           6          7       Onwards
1, fuertijicers  (P,05, 21.; tons)            2,350       3,195      3,590      4,585       6,165      6,490       6,690      6,825       6,825
2.  foingicides  (kg) _/                      3,560       4,830      6,070       7,560      9,480     10,980      11,310     11,550      11,550
3.  l.icdacn  fkg) 2/                            755      2,420      3,040       3,780      4,740       5,490      5,660       5,780      5,780
4 sers lotal (1t ani 4/                       10,950     11,500     15,190      17,250     18.960      19,980     20,560      21,020     21,020
Srrds probluerd by formers _/             9,370      8,805      11,580     12,795      !4,010     14,275     15,760      16,260      16,260
I.rovexl  a.-ds sc1-pîied bu O.A. 6/   1,580         2,695      3,610       4,455      4,950       5,705      4,800       4,760      4,760
hu  Porgi lcî/Mi lin
1.  SciAs (tos,  '7/
proniluvcI bu farît.rs(                   1,540      1,575       3,165      3,305       3,445      3,560       3,600      3,645       3,670
.   Igiit iL  s (kg) B/                         575         905      1,675      2,175       2,740      3,270       3,470      3,555       3,590
I  VAL19   r "'r I-as    i tees on 1i noo,'0000 MIF) 2/
I.   cri lihirS
AL fr11  osi 11')/                         88.1      120.0       134.6      172.0       231.2      243.4       250.9      256.0       256.0
At offi,iai sclling price                  94.0      127.8       143.6      183.4       246.6      259.6       267.6      273.0       273.0
ILofits                                     5.9        7.8         9.0       11.4        15.4       16.2        16.7       17.0        17.0
2.   cuti rAtiol ilFugieids-
At i,i1l  -os I                             3.2         4.4        5.5         6.8        8.5         9.9       10.2        10.4       104
Ai 1.ffiiial scIling pri,e                  5.3        7,2         9.1       11.3        14.2       16.5        17.0       17.3        17.3
l'rofits                                    7.1        2.8         3.6        4.5         5.7        6.6         6.8        6.9         6.9
3.  Liodane
At fuit  -est                               0.2         0.6        0.8         0.9        1.2         1.4        1.4         1.5        1.5
At: officiai seliog prite                   0.4         1.2        1.5         1.9        2.4         2.7        2.8         2.9        2.9
Profits                                     0.2         0.6        0.7         1.0        1.2         1.3        1.4         1.4        1.4
4.  .rondoont fouedauion Sends J4/
At fsil  osi 10/                           75.0        128.0    171.5       211.6       235.2      271.0       228.0      226.1       226.1
At official selling price                  54.5         93.0     124.5      153.7       170.8       196.8      165.6      164.2       164.2
SPbsidies (losses)                         20.5         35.0      47.0        57.9       64.4       74.2        62.5        61.9       61.9
5.  Sorghum Fongicides
At full cost                                0.4          0,7       1.1         1.7        2.1         2.5        2.6         2.7        2.7
At official selling price                   1.2          1.8       3.4         4.4        5.5         6.5        6.9         7.1        7.1
Profits                                     0.8          1.1       2.1         2.7        3.4        4.0         4.3         4.4        4.4
111 TlREDlT REQU'IREMLNT 12/
Total                                     148.5        220.8    268.1        337.1      417.4      456.4       433.2       437.2      437.2
Net Yearly Incremeni                      148.5        72.3       47.3       69.0        80.3       39.0       (23.2)       4.0          -
!/  65 kg/ha.
2/  100 g of Thioral  (red) for 100 kg of seeds.
3/  Lindane: 50 g for 100 kg of seeds.
4/  100 kg/ha for the 28-206  ariety and 150 kg/ha for the 47-10 variety, in average 110 kg/ha
S/  Serds prod-ed by farmers bot, improved and unimproved.
6/  î7oa,tits necessarv for replacing seeds previously distributed and expanding area under
improved secds.
7/  13.5 kg/ha iii average; 10 kg/ha for millet and 15 kg/ha for sorghon.
8/  Abo-t 185 g of Thioral (green) for 100 kg of seeds.
9/  S4c Alnon     fable    , inputs price list.
10/   ncieldes SCAER finanrial and administrative costs, delivery charges and 57. conmission
for "OperaLion, Arachide".
Il/  Send srîppl  and fina-cing is the responsibility of "Operation Arachide" while SCAER is
respoosihll  for other inputs.
12/  finl  ferîllizers and improved seeds are supplied on credit.  Official selling prices
bave hein used for rompuîting credit requirement.



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Incremental Farm Inputs Cost and Financing 1/
(MF Million)
Year             1            2            3            4            5            TOTAL
I.  Equipment:  Total   2/                           141.9       227.6        284.4         346.6        418.3         1,418.8
(unsubsidized)
Farmers' contribution  3/                        44.9        100.2        164.2        211.9        259.0            780.2
Medium term credit  4/                           57.3         63.4         40.4         36.8         41.8            239.7
Subsidies                                        39.7         64.0         79.8         97.9        117.5            398.9
II. Seasonal Inputs: Total
(unsubsidized)                                   86.8        146.8        226.1        311.3        361.3         1,132.3
Farmers' contribution  3/                          3.3        79.4        130.3        203.8        287.7            704.5
Incremental credit                               72.3         47.3         69.0         80.3         39.0            307.9
Subsidies                                        11.2         20.1         26.8         27.2         34.6            119.9
III. Total Parm Inputs (I & II)
(unsubsidized)                                  228.7        374.4        510.5        657.9        779.6         2,551.1
Farmers' contribution  3/                        48.2        179.6        294.5        415.7        546.7          1,484.7
Incremental credit by SCAER 4/
(MT & Seasonal)                                  91.1         79.2         80.2        100.0         54,8            405.3
Seasonal credit by OA (seeds)                    38.5         31.5         29.2          17.1         26.0           142.3
Subsidies   5/                                     50.9       84.1        106.6         125.1        152.1           518.8
1/  Excluding spare parts and millet and sorghum seeds supplied by farmers.                                                 e >
2/  Includes implements and cost of cart boxes.
3/  Cash sales, down payment and repayment.                                                                                 ( 
4/  Net incremental credit requirement.
5/  Mainly for seeds, taking into account profits on other inputs.






MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
(MF Million)
Reference                                                                                       TOTAL                              Foreign Exchange
Tables               1            2           3           4              5         (.F Million)      (US$'000)       %     MF (Million)      US$  000
I. MAIN SUBPROJECT
Buildings                                  2                103.3        392.6       404.6          6.0           -             906.5           1,813        29        262.9              526
Equipment and Furniture                    2                  6.6         73.0        71.7          3.9           -             155.2              311       60         93.1              186
Vehicles                                   3                104.7        160.9        30.7         46.7         119.1           462.1              924       60        277.3              555
Technical Assistance                       4                191.3        263.0       227.8        173.8         164.3        1,020.2            2,040        80        818.8            1,638
Local Staff 1/                             5                 14.1         63.3        85.6         92.5          97.0           352.5              705        -         -                  _
Operating Costs   1/                       6                 90.8        160.4       166.8        141.4         123.8           683.2           1,366        53        362.1              724
Total I                                                510.8      1,113.2        987.2       464.3         504.2         3,579.7            7,159       51      1,814.2            3,629
II. ANCILLARY SUBPROJECT
Rural tracks improvement  1/               7                 -           256.6         73.0        73.0           8.0           410.6              821       51        209.4              419
Functional literacy  1/                    8                 55.8         86.8        42.8         -             -              185.4              371       50         92.7              185
Research                                   9                 34.7         44.7        56.3         45.3          25.7           206.7              414       48         99.2              198
Medical Assitance 1/                      10                 -            39.1         39.2        38.1          55.3           171.7              343       45         77.3              155
Veterinary Assistance  1/                 il                 43.0         26.0         14.8        26.5          17.3           127.6              255       49         62.5              125
Evaluation pnit                           12                 -            25.4         38.6        38.2          54.6           156.8              313       43         67.4              135
Studies  2/                                -                 -            45.0         -           -             -               45.0               90      100         45.0               90
Total Il                                               133.5         523.6       264.7       221.1          160.9        1,303.8            2,607       50        653.5             1,307
Total I and II                                         644.3      1.636.8    1,251.9         685.4         665.1         4,883.5            9.766       51      2.467.7            4,936
III.  FARM INPUTS  2                             13               228.7         374.4       510.5       657.9          779.6        2,551.1            5,103       67      1,718.8             3,437
IV.  REVOLVING FMND I                          14                 24.2          14.0         4.7         8.9           _              51.8              104       60          31.1               62
Total I to IV                                          897.2       2,025.2    1,767.1    1,352.2          1,444.7        7,486.4           14,973        56     4,217.6            8,435
V.  CONTINGENCIES
Price                                                        59.6        261.4        304.9       402.9         582.0         1,610.8            3,222       56        896.5            1,793
Physical                                                     44.8        101.1         88.4        67.6          72.2           374.1              748       56        210.7              421
Total Contingencies                                    104.4         362.5       393.3       470.5          654.2        1,984.9            3,970        56     1,107.2             2,214
GRAND TOTAL MF Million                                    1,001.6      2,387.7    2,160.4    1,822.7          2,098.9         9,471.3              -         56      5,324.8
US$ '000                                    2,003        4.775-       4.321       3,645          4.199             -              18.943        56         -              10,649
VI.  IMPORT DUTIES AND TAXES                    16                78.0         233.0       169.5        84.7           81.6          646.8               129.4
I/  Incremental Coats.
Y   Cereal producer prices and marketing arrangements study and accourntancy assistance to OACV.                                                                                                     -
3/  Incremental at unsubsidized costs.
4/  For staff motorcycles, bicycles and for blacksmith equipment.
April 25, 1974



ANNEX 12
Table 2
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVIELOPMENT PROJECT
Buildings and Equipment
(MF Million)
Unit           Year 1             Year 2            Year 3            Year 4            Year 5               TOTAL
Cost       Unit    Cost    Unit   Cost    Unit   Cost    Unit   Cost    Unit   Cost                     Unit    Cost
A. BUILDINGS
1.  Sheds:   180 m2                9.8          1       9.8                                                                                  1       9.8
100 m2              5.9          2      11.8        1      5.9        3     17.7                                              5      35.4
75 m2              4.3        19       81.7        1      4.3       2       8.6                                             22      94.6
Subtotal                                     103.3              10.2              26.3                                                    139.8
2.  Housing:  165 m2              19.4                             4     77.6                                                                4      77.6
140 m2           15.0                              6    90.0                                                                 6      90.0
130 m2           14.0                              7    98.0                                                                 7      98.0
80 n2             8.9                           12   106.8         3     26.7                                             15      133.5
Subtotal                                                       372.4              26.7                                                    399.1
3.  Offices:  H.Q.               200.0                                               1   200.0                                                1    200.0
5 Rooms           8.4                                               3      25.2                                              3      25.2
3 Rooms            5.4                                               5     27.0                                              5      27.0
2 Rooms           3.8                                              18     68.4                                              18      68.4
Subtotal                                                                         320.6                                                    320.6
4. Garages & W.rkshops
Bamako                                                             4.0                                                                         4.0
Banamba                                                            6.0                                                                         6.0
Kita                                                                                20.0                                                      20.0
Mahina                                                                              11.0                                                      11.0
Kenieba                                                                                                6.0                                     6.0
Subtotal                                                        10.0              31,0               6.0                                   47.0
Total Buildings                                   103.3            392.6             404.6                6.0                                  906.5
B. FURNITURE & EOUIPMENT
1.  Sheds:      75 m2              0.3         19       5.7        1      0.3        2      0.6                                             22        6.6
100 m2              0.4          1       0.4        1      0.4        3      1.2                                              5       2.0
180 m2              0.5          1       0.5                                                                                  1       0.5
Subtotal                                       6.6               0.7               1.8                                                      9.1
2.  Housing:  165 m2               2.8                             4     11.2                                                                4       11.2
130 m2             2.4                             7    16.8                                                                 7      16.8
80 n2            1.9                            12    22.8         3       5.7                                             15      28.5
Subtotal                                                        50.8               5.7                                                     56.5
3.  Offices:  H.Q.                25.0                                               1     25.0                                               1      25.0
5 Rooms            2.0                                               3      6.0                                              3       6.0
3 Roons            1.2                                               5      6.0                                              5       6.0
2 Rooms           0.5                                              18       9.0                                             18       9.0
Subtotal                                                                           46.0                                                      46.0
4. Garages & Workshops
Bamako                                                              9.1                                                                        9.1
Banamba                                                             3.9                                                                        3.9
Kita                                                                                11.7                                                      11.7
Mahina                                                                                6.5                                                      6.5
Kenieba                                                                                                3.9                                     3.9
Subtotal                                                        13.0              18.2               3.9                                   35.1
5.  Equipment for Training                                                8.5                -                _                                       8.5
Total Furniture &
Equipment                                         6.6              73.0             71.7               3.9                                   155.2
GRAND TOTAL                                       109.9            465.6             476.3                9.9                                1,061.7
September 20, 1973



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
VEHICLES
(MF Million)
Unit Price       Import
A. HEAD OFFICE                                  TYPE    inc. Imp. DutiÉs  Duties            1            2            3            4            5         TOTAL
General Manager                     Station wagon       2.5            0.6     1    2.5                               1    2.5                  2    5.0
Deputy General Manager              Station wagon       2.5            0.6                               1    2.5                               1    2.5
Deputy Technical Manager            Pick-up             2.2            0.5                  1    2.2                               1    2.2    2    4.4
Deputy Ox-Drawn Cultivation Head  Pick-up               2.2            0.5     1    2. '                              1    2.2                   2    4.4
Chief Personnel                     Light wagon         1.6            o.4     1    1.6                               1    1.6                  2    3.2
Chief Accountant                    Light wagon         1.6            0.4                  1    1.6                               1    1.6    2    3.2
Chief Clerk                         Light wagon         1.6           04      1    1.6                               1    1.6                  2    3.2
Adminis trator                      Light wagon         1.6            0.4                                            1    1.6                  1    1.6
Mechanical Engineer                 Four wheel drive  3 6              1.3                                                         1    3.6    1    3.6
-  -           -      4    7.9    2    3.8    1    2.5    5    9.5    3    7-4   15   31.1
B. FIELD
Sector                              Light lorries       3.3            G.8     4   13.2    1    3.3      -      -     4   13.2    1    3.3   10   33.0
Sector, sub-sector chiefa,)         4-wheel drive       3.6            1.3     1    3.6   22   79.2    6   21.6    2    7.2   22   79.2   53  1y0.8
ox-drawn equipment heads, )         pick-up             2.2            C.5     h    8.8   10   22.0    2    h.4    h    8.8   10   22.0   30   66.0
garage head.
9   25.6   33  104.5    8   26.0   10   29.2   33  104.5   93  289.8
Subtotal                                                                13   33.5   35  108.3    9   28.5   15   38.7   36  111.9  108  320.9
C. LORRIES
7T                 7.9            2.0      8   63.2    h   31.6                                            12   94.8
Subtotal                                                                21   96.7   39  139.9    9   28.5   15   38.7   36  111.y  120  415.7
D. V?HICLES FOR EXPATRIATES                                                           3    8.0    7   21.0    1    2.2    3    8.0    2    7.2   16   46.4
(see Table 3)                                                                                                                                                      D
GRANJ) TOTAL VEHICLES                                                   24  104.7   h6  160.9   10   30.7   18   46.7   38  119.1  136  h62.1
October 6, 1973



ANNE2 12
Table 4
MALI
INTRATSD niIL DEVEIDPMENT PP0JSOT
Technicai Assistance
(NF Million)
A. STAFF                              Basic Year1y
Emoluments                                  1              2              3              4              5             TOTAL
1. Sead Office
Adviser te G.M.                   22.50                               1   22.50      1   22.50      -              -             -
Head teohnical department         20.00                               1   20.00      1   20.00      1   20.00      1   20.00      1   20.00
Head ox-drawn coltivation         13.00                               1   13.00      1   13.00      1   13.00
Administrator                     15.50                               1   15.50      1   15.50      -              -              -              2     31.00
Eqoip.ent adviser                 15.50                               -              1   15.50      1   15.50      -             -               2     31.00
2.  Field
Teohiioal advisers (sone)        15.50                                4   62.00     5   77.50      5   77.50      3   46.5o      3   46.50    20    310.00
TechnicaI advisers (sector)       13.30                               1   13.30      2   26.60      2   26.60      2   26.60     1   13.30       e    106.4C
Subtctal                                                              9  146.30    12  190.60    10  152.60        7  106.10      6   92.8C    44    688.43
3. Supporting Mission
- Technical                                                                  2.70           2.70           2.70           2.70           2.7C            13.50
- TraLning                                                                   3.30           3.30           3.30           3C30           3.30            16.50
- IPiO                                                                       3.10           3.10           3.10           3.1C           3.10            15.50
Subtotal                                                                   9.10           9.10           9.10           9.10           9.10            45.50
Subtotal                                                                 155.40         199.70         161.70         115.20         101.90           733.90
Incre.eot 7% comp.                                                        10.90          29.00          36.40          35.90          41.00           153.20
Sintstai                                                                 166.30         228.70         198.10         151.10         142.Y0           8B7.10
Agency Feso 15%                                                             25.00          34.30          29.70          22.71          21.40           133.10
Total Staff                                                                191.30         263.00         227.80         173.80         164.30         1,020.20
B. VEHIfLAS                                      Unit Price
Type          C(ic. impert    Import
1.  Head Office                                     duties)       Duties
Adviser to G.M.         Station uagon         2.50            0.60          -              -
SeaS technical dept.   Pick np                2.20            0.50   1    2.20             _              -        1    2.20            _        2      4.4°
:lead o-dras colt.    Pick up                2.20            0.50          -              -        1    2.20            -              -        1      2.20
Adm-nistrator           Light car             1.60            0.40          -              -              -              -              -                -
Equipsent adviser       4 wheel drive         3.60            1.30          -        1    3.60            -              -              -        1      3.60
2. F-eld
Technical advisers      Pici np               2.20            0.50   1    2.20       3    6.60            -        1    2.20            -        5     11.00
4 eheel drive         3.60            1.30   1    3.60      3   10.80             -       1    3.60      2    7.20      7      25.20
Total                                                                   3    8.00      7   21.00      1    2.20      3    8.oo      2    7.20    16      46.40
3.  Isort DSUties             Pick up                0.50            0.50   2    1.00      3    1.50      1    0.50      2    1.00            -        8       4.00
4 ,heel drive         1.30            1.30   1    1.30      4    5.20             -       1    1.30      2    2.60      8      10.40
Total Vehicles                                                          3    2.30      7    6.70      1    0.50      3    2.30      2    2.60    16      14.40
-.  OPSRATING COSTS
1. Rent and Upkep Heouses
a)  Head office                                                         1    i.80      1    1.80            -              -              _        2      3.62
Adviser to G.M.                      1.80                         1    1.80      1    i.80            -              -              -        2      3.60
Head technical dept.                 i.80                         1    1.80      1    1.80     1    1.8C       1    1.80      1    i.80      5      9.02
Hesd os-dsrwn colt.                  1.56                         1    1.56      il   1.56     1    1.56       1    1.56      1    1.56     5       7.a2
Administrator                        1.56                         1    1.56      1    i.56            -              -              -        2      3.12
Equipm.ent adviser                   1.56                               -        1    1.56      1    1.56            -              -        2      3.12
Subtoctl                                                          4    6.72      5    5.28     3    4.92       2    3.36      2   3.36    16       26.64
b)  Field
Technical advisers Carne)            0.60                         4    2.40     5    3.00    5       3.00     3    1.80      3    1.80    20       12.00
Technical adviser Csotor)            0.30                         1    0.30      2    o.60    2      0.60      2    o.60      1    0.30     a       2.40
Subtotal                              -                           5    2.70     7    3.60    7       3.60      5    2.40      4    2.10    28      14.40
Subtotal                                                          9    9.42    12   11.88   10       8.52      7    5.76      6   54.6     44      41.04
2. Vehicles Maintenaece and Operation    cost/ke   cost per yeer
(5F)       (MC'FOO)
o) Hesd office
Adviser to O.M.  (St.W)            70           1.75              1    1.75      1    1.75            -              -              -        2      3.50
Head technical dept. (P.U.)        70           1.75              1    1.75      1    1.75    1      1.75      1    1.75      1    1.75      5      8.75
Head ox-drawn cilt. (P.U.)         70           1.75              1    1.75      1    1.75    1      1.75      1    1.75      1    1.75      5      8.75
Administrator (L.C.)               50           1.25              1    1.25      1    1.25            -              -              -        2      2.51
Mechanical engineer (4 W.D.)       90           2.25                    -        1    2.25    1      2.25            -              -        2      4.50
Subtotal                            -            -                4    6.5o     5    8.75    3       5.75      2    3.50      2    3.50    16      28.00
b)  Field
Pick up                            70           1.75              1    1.75     3    5.25    3    '5.25        2    3.50      2    3.50    il      19.25      o
4 eheel drive                      9O           2.25              4    9.00      4    9.00    4      9.00      3    6.75      2    4.50    17      38.25       .
Subtotol                                                          5   10.75      7   14.25    7    14.25       5   10.25      4    8.00    28      57.50
Subtotal                                                              17.25          23.00          20.00          13.75          11.50            85.50
Tbtal Oporating Costs                                                       26.67          34.88          28.52          19-51          16.96           126.54
GRAND TOTAL                                          225.97         318.88         258.52         201.31         188.46         1,193.14
Octeber 6, 1973



ANNEX 12
Table 5
MALI
INTmRATE.0 RURAL DKVELOPMENT PROJEC T
LOCAL STAFF
1                      Tm-p ~~~~~~1 =000)
Annua I
A. H. Q.                           Salarv              I                   2                  3                  4                   s                 Total
General mmnager                 1,920       1      1,920       1      1,920       1      1,920        1      1,920       1      1,920       5       9,600
Dy general manager              1,500      1       1,500       1      1,500       1      1,500        1      1,500       1      1,500       5       7,500
Dy technical assistant          1,260      1       1,260       1      1,260       1      1,260        1      1,260       1      1,260       5       6,300
Asst. technical manager         1,1140     1       1,140       1      1,140       1      1,140        1      1,140       1      1,140       5      5,700
Dy ox-drani cultivation head    1,260       1      1,260       1      1,260       1      1,260        1      1,260       1      1,260       5       6,300
Chief personnel                 1,260      1      1,260        1      1,260       1      1,260       .1      1,260       1      1,260       5      6,300
Chief accountant                1,260      1      1,260        1      1,260       1      1,260       1       1,260       1      1,260       5      6,300
Accountant                      1,140      -        -          1      1,140       1      1,140        1      1,140       1      1,140       4      4,560
Chief clerk                     1,140      1      1,140        1      1,140       1      1,140       1       1,140       1      1,140       5      5,700
Chief statistics                1,140      1      1,140        1      1,140       1      1,140        1      1,140       1      1,140       5       5,700
Book-keepers                      630      8      5,040       8       5,040       a      5,040       8      5,040        a      5,040      40     25,200
Secretaries (E)                 3,0C0      2      6,000        1      3,000       -                                      - _                3       9,000
Secretaries                       420      2        840        4      1,680       6      2,520       6       2,520       6      2,520      24     10,080
Drivers                           400     10      4,000        9      3,600       9      3,600       8      3,200        8      3,200      44      17,600
Office messengers                 145      4        580        h        580       4        580       4         580       4        580      20      2,900
Watchmen                          145      8      1,160        8      1,160       8      1,160       8       1,160       8      1,160      40      5,800
Laborers                          100     10      1,000       10      1,000      10      1,000      10       1,00O      10      1,000      50       5,000
Audio visual technician         1,150      1      1,150        1      1,150       1      1,150       1       1,150       1      1,150       5       5,750
Total H. Q. Staff                         54     31,650      55      30,230      56     28,070      55      27,670      55     27,670     275    145,290
B. Field
Sector chiefs                   1,260      6      7,560        8     10,080       9     11,340       9      11,340       9    11,340       41     51,660
Sub-sector chiefs                 745     18     13,410       23     17,135      26     19,370      26      19,370      26     19,370     119     88,655
Basic sector chiefs               240   191      45,840      278     66,720     308     73,920     308     73,920      308     73,920   1,393    334,320
Book-keepers                      630    23      14,490        28    17,640      35     22,050      41      25,830      46     28,980     173    108,990
Ox-drawn cultivation agents       630      8      5,040       10      6,300      il      6,930       il      6,930      il      6,930      51     32,130
Secretaries                       420      8      3 360       10      4,200      il      4,620      il       4,620      il      4,620      51      21,420
Drivers                           4°°    38      15,200       54     21,600      54     21,600      54      21,600      54     21,600     254    101,600
Watchmen                          145     23      3,335       29      4,205      34      4,930      34       4,930      34      4,930     154      22,330
Messengers                        145     23      3,335       29      4,205      34      4,930      34       4,930      34      4,930     154      22,330
Laborers                          100     28      2,800       34      3,400      40      4,000      47       4,700      53      5,300     202      20,200
Total field staff                        366    114,370     503    155,485      562    173,690     575    178,170      586    181,920   2,592    803,635
C. Garages and borkshops
1)  H. Q.
Technical inspector         1,260      -        -         1       1,260       1      1,260       1      1,260        1      1,260       4      5,o40
Clerks (stores-accounte)      420      -        -          1        420       2        840       2         840       2        840       7       2,940
2) Field
Senior garage chiefs          630      -        -          -        -         1        630       2       1,260       2      1,260       5       3,150
Junior garage chiefs          480      3      1,440       3       1,440       3      1,440       3       1,440       3      1,440      15      7,200
Mechanics                     420      5       2,100       5      2,100       8      3,360      10       4,200      10      4,200      38      15,960
Electricians                  420      1        420        1        420       2        840       2         840       2        840       8      3,360
Mechmic assistant             240      7       1,680       8      1,920       9      2,160      10       2,400      10      2,400      44      10,560
Storeman/clerk                240      -        -          2        480       2        480       2         480       2        480       8       1,920
Pump attendant                145      3        435       3         435       4        580       5         725       5        725      20       2,900
Watchmen                      145      -         -         3        435       4        580       4         580       5        725      16       2,320
Laborers                      100      -        -          3        300       4        400       4         400       5        500      16       1,600
Total garage and workshops staff          19      6,075      30       9,210      40     12,570      45      14,425      47    14,670      181     56,950
Total                                    439    152,095     588    194,925      658    214,330     675    220,265      688    224,260   3,048  1,005,875
D. Social Charges 15%                                 22,815             29,240             32.150              33.040             33.640             150,885
GRAND TOTAL                                 174,910             224,165            246,480            253,305             257,900          1,156,760
Coet of ongoing project 1'                      160,860             160,860            160,860             160,860            160,860             804,300
Incremental costs                                14,050              63,305             85,620              92,445             97,040             352,460
1/ H  139,874,00G  plus 15% social charges.
July 26, 1973



ANNS 1 2
Table 6
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVRLOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Eenses
{MFMMllion)
TOTAL
A. GENERAL EXPENSES                                                    1              2             3             4             5          (1 to 5)
1. Head Office
Stationery, stamps, telephone                                   9.6           12.6          12.6          12.6           12.6          60.0
Electricity, gas, water                                         2.8            3.0           3.0           3.0           3.0           14.8
Upkeep office                                                    1.0           1.5           2.0            2.0           2.0           8.5
b houses                                                     1.0            1.5           2.5           2.5           2.5           10.0
Training                                                       10.5          22.5          23.5           10.5          10.5           77.5
Medical expenses                                                 1.5           1.7           2.0            2.0           2.0           9.2
Local travels                                                    1.4           1.5           1.6           1.6            1.6           7.7
Audit                                                                         18.0          16.0          14.0           12.0          60.0
Subtotal                                                        27.8          62.3          63.2          48.2           46.2         247.7
2. Field
Stationery, stamps, telephone                                    1.5           2.0           3.0           3.0            3.0          12.5
Slectricity, gas, water                                          o.6           1.0           2.0           3.0           3.0            9.6
Upkeep houses, offices, sheds                                    1.0           1.5           2.0            2.5           3.0          10.0
Subtotal                                                         3.1           4.5           7.0           8.5            9.0          32.1
3. Garages
Stationery, stamps, telephone                                    o.5           1.0           1.5           1.5            1.5           6.0
Electricity, gas, water                                          0.5           1.0           2.0           2.5            2.5           8.5
Ulpkeep buildings                                                1.0           2.0           3.0           3.5            4.0          13.5
Materials, tools, fuels, lubricants
lubricants                                                    2.0           3.0            4.0           5-0            6.o          20.0
Subtotal                                                         4.0           7.0          10.5          12.5           14.0          48.0
Total general expenses                                          34.9          73.8          80.7          69.2          69.2          327.8
B. VEHICLES (Maintenance & Operation)
MF/kl     NF'OOO/y
1. Head Office (25,000 kam/y)
Station wagon                      70         1,750       2    3.5       2    3.5      2     3.5     2     3.5      2    3.5    10    17.5
Pick up                            70         1,750       2    3.5       2    3.5      2     3.5     2     3.5      2    3.5   10    17.5
Light wagon                        60         1,500       3      4.5     3     4.5     3     4.5     4     6.0      4     6.0   1,7   25.5
4 wheel drive                      90         2,250       -              -            -      1       1      2.2     1     2.3     2    4.5
Total head office vehicles M x 0                          7    11.5      7    11.5     7    11.5     9    15.2      9    15.3   39    65.0
2. Field and Garages (20,000 kle/y)
Pick up                            70         1,750       8    14-o   16    28.0   16    28.0   16    28.0   16    28.0   72   126.0
4 wheel drive                      90         2,250       22    49.5   23    51.7   29    65.3   30    67.5   30    67.5  134   301.5
Light lorries                     110         2,750       4    11.0      5    13.7     5    13.7     5    13.8      5    13.8    24    66.o
Subtotal                                                 34    74.5   44    93.4   50   107.0   51   109.3   51   109.3  230   493.5
Subtot al                                                      86.0          104.9         118.5         124.5          124.6         558.5
Reduction in cost following roads improvements     %                                           5            10             20              -
86.0         104.9   88   112.6           112.1          99.7         515.3
Motorcycles                                      90       63     5.7   74      6.7   88      7.9   99       8.9  109      9.8  433    39.0
Bicycles                                         30     155     4.6  171       5.1   252     7.6   265      8.0  260      7.8 1;103
10.3          11.8          15.5           16.9          17.6          72.1
Lorries, sundry transport
(4,ooo im/y)                    130           520      57    29.6   61    31.7   56    29.1    49    25.5   47    24.4   270   140.0
Reduction in cost following roads improvesente   %                                           1.0           20.0          30.0
roads improvements
Total field and garages vehicles M x 0                          29.6          31.7          26.2          20.4           17.1         125.0
Total vehicles M x 0                                           125.9         148.4         154.3          149.4         134.4         712.4
Total                                                          108.8         210.2         222.0          218.6         203.6       1,035.2
Expenses on ongoing project                                     96.7          96.7          96.7          96.7           96.7         483.5
Incremental cost                                                84.1         113.5         125.3          121.9         106.9         551.7
C. OPERATING EPENSES FOR EXPATRIATES                                  26.7          34.9           28.5          19.5          16.9          126.5
(see Table 4)
GRAND TOTAL                                  90.8          160.4         166.8         141-4          123.8         683.2
September 20, 1973



MALI
INTERATED RURAL D2ELMOPM$NT PROJECT
RURAL TRiACKS IMPROVDOENTS
(HF' 000)
Price/unit
(includin
import duties)   duties/unit              1                 2             3              4             5               Total
1. Vehicles and Equipment
Tipper trucks 7T              7,500           1,500                          17   127,500                                                17   127,500
Initial stock of spare parts 16,000           3,000                           -    16,000                                                      16,000
Graders (120 HP)              17,000          3,500                           2    34,000                                                 2    34,000
Small equipmrnt and tools      3,000            500                                 3,000                                                       3,000
h wheel drive                  3,600          1,300                           1     3,600                                                       3,600
Subtot al                                                                         184,100                                                      184,100
2. Staff                      (annual salary)
Road inspectors                1,260                                          1     1,260   1    1,260    1    1,260                      3      3,780
Clerk/typist/bookeeper           420                                          2        840   2      840    2       840                    6      2,520
Gang leaders                     480                                          h      1,920   4    1,920    4    1,920    4    1,920    16        7,680
Mechanics                        420                                          4      1,680   4    1,680    4    1,680                    12      5,040
Driver                           400                                          1       400   1       400    1       400                    3      1,200
Watchmen                         145                                          8      1,160   8    1,160    8    1,160                    24      3,480
Laborers                         100                                         68      6,800  68    6,800   68    6,800   32    3,200   236    23,600
Casuals                                                           3.000              1.000        1,000          1,000                           6.000
Subtotal                                                          3,000             15,060       15,060         15,060          5,120           53,300
3. Operating Expenses
Tipper trucks (20,000 km/y)  RF/lm   130   MF 2,600,000/y         7,000     17    44,200   17   44,200   17   44,200    4   10,400             150,000
Graders (200 days/y)          MF/d 33,500   MF 6,700,000/y                    2    13,400    2   13,400    2   13,400           1,480           41,680
Bulldozers 30 days/y)         MF/d 77,000   MF 2,300,000/y                   2     4,600    2    4,600    2    4,600                            13,800
4 wheel drive (25,000 km/y)  MF/km    90   MF 2,250,000/y                    1      2,250    1    2,250    1    2,250                            6,750
Upkeep and renewal small
equipment and tools                                                                   500         1,000          1,000            500            3,000
Construction materials                                                              2,000         2,000          2,000            500            6,500
Office expenses                                                                       500            500           500                           1,500
Subtotal                                                          7,000            67,450        67,950         67,950         12,800          223,230
Total                                                            10,000          266,610         83,010         83,010         18,000          1460,630
Expenses on ongoing project                                      10,000           10,000         10,000         10,000         10,000           50,000 '
GRAND TOTAL                                  -              256,610        73,010         73,010          8,000          410,630      CDX
4.    FAC Road Proiect  L1                                            600,000           331,000            -              -              -            931,000
/L   This FAC grant would rehabilitate 438 km of type B road in the Western sectors of the project erea.
The cost of this FAC program is not included in the cost of the proposed IRD project which only covers
spot improvements on rural tracks. It is however mentioned for record as it was specially designed to
facilitate OA activities in an area lacking in road communications.  Similar IDA road projects which
would likewise assist in the project development are also excluded from the cost of the proposed IRD project.
December 30, 1973



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DSVELOPMENT PROJECT
FUNCTIO;SAL LITEACY
(MF' 000)
Unit Cost          1                 2                 3            4          5               TOTAL
1.  Evaluation Study                                    -               45,000              -             -          -             45,000
2. Investments:
Equipment                         36     490   17,640      255    9,180      200    7,200           -          -     945    34,020
Vehicles                                         6,360              -                 -             -          -              6,360
24,000             9,180             7,200          -          -            40,380
3. Training:
2 animators per center             9     980    8,820      510    4,590      400    3,600           -          -   1,890    17,010
h. Technical Visits
By expatriates                                  10,000             9,000             9,000          -          -             28,000
5. Staff
HQ - zones and regions                          28,000            32,000            34,000          -          -             94,000
6. Recurrent Expenditure
HQ - zones and regions                          18,000            20,000            22,000          -          -             60,0oo
88,820           119,770            75,800          -          -           284,390
7.  Expenses on Ongoing Project                       33,000            33,000            33,000          -          -             99,000
8.  Incremental Cost                                  55,820            86,770            42,800          -          -            185,390
July j 1973
CD
vo



ANNZX 12
Table 9
MALI
I;TEGRATED Fr33kAL D5SVELOPMENT PZOJZT
Agriculturaiesearcn
Z,OO)
A. CEfLsALS ASEARCH                                                          1              2              3               4              5             Total
1. Vehicles
Pick ap                                    2,200                1    2,200    -               _              _               _              _    2,202
2. Soostatacos
Land prepara'ton, fPncie.g, sheds                                    2,500          1,000                                                         3,50C
3.   q:pr"et - Fornltre                                                       500          1,000                                                        1,500
Z3. Staff
A- csstfa                                  1,14Z                1    1,140    1    1,40C    1    1,140    1    1,140    1    1,14G0               5,700
Heodesoan                                    2L'J              14      860    4        860    4       86      4 860          4 88o    .  880  ,  8  14  862   20    4,30G
ittcrohn                                     1145               4      580    4        580    4       520    J       580    4       580   22    2,gr ,,
Lottr                                        100                8      Boo    8        800    6       800     8      8o0     H       Bo   14:    Z,000
3siuais                                       50               40    2,000  Co   2,000   42    2,000   4O    2,000    40    2,000  20^   12,000
Suroot-l                                                             5,380          5,380           5,380          5,380          5,380          26,900
j .  0peraa:r  g 3xp enses
Pot ut (10,0              C kr/y)     4F/Ie/y 70      p.y.      1      700    1        700    1       700    1       700    1       700          3,500
Feeaailzera,s, sedeù, fuLn2,icides etc.                                600            60C             6uO            600            60C          3,0 ZO
.iacttt                                                              1,300          1,30v           1,300          1,300          1,3 OÙ          ,g506
.ozi  ceea  rlsearhe11,880                                                          8,680          6,630           6,680          6 F80         4u,60û
r hG'.Z ND!3.1 n lSFURCIJ
k.  0600012AKAAOz
Z`;ck 3p                                   2,200                1    2,200    -               -               1    2,200    - eo,143
_.  t au cceSt -  oFrnitur-                                            1,700    1               1               1                                      O1,700
*. Staff
I0HO fessorval a.: 1stance                 8,00e                     8,030          8,00f           #4 oor         5,000          8,0" ,4u,uuO
L. ho-rat-ry :essistasto                 O5c/y                  6    3,000 M        3,002    6    3,002    6    3,200         f   3,30')         1C 5,
Cleek                                     1420/y                1       1420      1    020    1        20)    1       1422    1      1420:        2, I
Oriver                                   1400/y                 1      400    1       LOO    1        400    1       40C      1      LOO         ?,tr
Watcnma,ca                                1J5/y                 1      1J5    I        145    1       î145    1      145      1      1LS            725
Lator                                     100/y                 7      700    /        702    7       700    7       700      7      702          3,5_u
12,665         12,665         12,665         13,665          1e, (5         e3,3l5
Operticg zrpenses
Pick up - (20,ÙOU kt/y)              MF/km 70   1,400/y              1,4uO           1,LUV          1,4LU          1,1400         1,i4D.          2, W
Local transport                                                         5O`            500            5: 5502                        503          2,50'
Office erpe-ses                                                         500            500            500             500            5VJ            50:J
Hoo-es, upkeep, rnt, electrieaty                                     2,000           2,3u0          2,CûO          2,000           c,000         1 J,OJU
Sr.ll equipment                                                        LOO            400            400            400             430          2,000
Laborotoey  ee0uieeets                                                  400           aJOO            401 400                        40lu         2,> 0
Seeda, fertalleera, foagicioe  etc.                                     200            200            20u             203            200          1,uJOU
02.oesiaoo  oea fo,.ar analysis                                        700             700            700            300                          3,530
6,300          6,300          6,300           6,320          6,363         31,5u0
Totai Groandeut Reee.,ch                                            22,865         18,95           1î8,965        21,165          S,95e5       10,925
C.  PEDOLOGY
1. Vehicles
4 wheel drive                              3,600                                    3,600                                                         3,800
2.   mIn.ent                                                                                 350             150                                          500
3.  Staff
IRAT TecenicalI asciosacce                                                          9,000          18,0@0          9,0Ou                         36,JO0
Assistant                                  1,140                                     1,114          2,280          1,140                          4,560
Driver                                       400                                       400            Bou             400                         1,60u
Labor                                        100                                       200            500             200                           800
10,740         21,480         10,740                        142,960
4.  Operoting Fxpenses
4 wheel drive (23,000 km/y)         M1F/em 90   2,250/y                              1,125          2,250          1,125                          4,500
Analyses                                                                             1,200          2,400          1,200                          4,800
Report oad top preparation                                                                          4,403          4,400                          8,800
2,325          9,050          6,725                         15,100            ,|
Total Pedology                                                                     17,015          30,680         17,465                         65,160
GkAND TOTA.L
314,7345       44,660         56,325          45,31û         25,645        206,685
Septenber 4, 1973



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Medic al Assistance
(MF '000)-
Unit
Cost            1             2               3                t                5                 TOTAL
1. Vehicles
h wheel drive                           3,600             -      3   10,800      2    7,200                      (3)   10,800        8    28,800
2. Buildings
Dispensaries                                                          5,000           5,000           10,000           15,000             35,000
3. Equipment
Technical                                                             1,800             600                                                2,400
Camping                                                                1.000                                              500               1,500
2,800             600                               500             3,900
4. Staff
Governnent stafî                                        10,432       10,432          10,432           10,432           10,432             52,160
Assistants                                405             -      6    2,430      8    3,240      10    4,050    10      4,050       34    13,770
10,432       12,862          13,672           14,482           14,482             65,930
5. Operation
4 wheel drive (25,000 km/y)   MF/ln        90                    3    6,750      5   11,250      5    11,250      5    11,250       18    40,500
Motorcycles                    MF/m    7,500                     6       540     8       720    10        900    10        900      314    3,060
Bicycles                       MF/m    2,500                    18       540    24      720    30         900    30        900     102     3,060
Upkeep existing buildings                                4,750         4,750          4,750            4,750             4,750             23,750
New buildings                                                            250            500            1,000            1,750              3,500
4,750       12,830          17,940           18,800           19,550             73,870
6. Medicines                                                                10,000         10,000            10,000           10,000             40,000
Total                            15,182        54,292          54,412           53,282           70,332            247,500
7.  Expenses on Ongoing Project                               15,182        15,182          15,182           15,182           15,182             75,910
INCREMENTAL COSTS                                           -          39,110          39,230           38,100           55,150            171,590
b   7M
October 7, 1973



INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPIMENT PROJECT
Veterinary Assictance
(MF '000)
Year:    1            2               3              4              5
Ur.it
Cost                                                                                 Total
1. Construction:  Spray races       1,400    7    9,800    2    2,800                                                   9   12,600
2. Vehicles
Pick up                       2,200    2    4,400    1    2,200                     2    4,400    1    2,200    6   13,200
4 wheel drive                 3,600    i    7,200                                   2    7,200                    4   14,400
11,600         2,200                        11,600          2,200         27,600
3. Equipment
Freezers                        400    7    2,800    2        800                                                 9    3,600
Small equipment & ice boxes      60   il       G60    3       180    2       120    3      180    4        240   23    1,380
-          3,460            980            120            180            240         4,980
4. Staff                         (An. Sal.)
Veterinary assistants j!        405    4    1,620    5    2,025    5    2,025    5    2,025    5    5, 025   24    9,720
Dressers  1/                    321    3       963    4    1,284    4    1,284    4    1,284    4    1,284   19    6,o99
Vaccinators 2/                  101    8       808   10    1,010   10    1,010   10    1,010   10    1,010   48    4,848
-          3,391          4,319          4,319          4,319         4,319         20,667
5.  Operation
Vehicles (25,000 km/y) MF/kmc   90    4    9,000    5   11,250    5   11,250    5   11,250    5   11,250   24   54,000
Motorcycles         MF/month 7,500   il        990   14    1,260   14    1,260   14    1,260   14    1,260   67    6,030
Upkeep spray races & sundries   -              200            300            400            500            600          2,000
10,190        12,810         12,910         13,010         13,110         62,030
6. Medicines                            -          7,100          5,500                                                      12,600
Subtotal                       45,541         28,609         17,345         29,015         19,869        140,477
7.  Sxpenses on Ongoing Project                    2,583          2,583          2,583          2,583          2,583         12,915
Incremental Costs                             42,958         26,026         14,766         26,526         17,286       127,562
Taxes:  Vehicies Pick up          500    2    1,000    1        500                   2    1,000    1        500    6    3,000
4 vheel drive 1,300    2    2,600                                    2    2,600             -      h    5,200
3,600            500                        3,600            500          8,200
Squipment: Freezers               100    7       700    2       200                                                 9       900
Small equip.            15   11       165    3       45    2        30    3        45    4        60   23       345
-            865            245             30             45             60          1,245
4,465            145            30          3,645            560          9,445
1/ Malian budgJet
2/ On contract
JuIy 7, 1973



MAL I
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Evaluation Unit
(MF'0O0)
1          2           3            4              5           TOTAL
I.    STAFF                                (Annual Salaries)
A- H.Q.
Economist                             15,000             -    1/2   7,500  1   15,000   1  15,000   1  15,000  3.5  52,500
Research Assistant                     1,140             -      -       -    -      -                   I   1,140  1       1,140
Statistician                           1,000              -    1/2      500  1    1,000   1   1,000   1   1,000  3.5   3,500
Clerk                                    630             -    1/2      315  1        630   1      630   1      630  3.5   2,205
Typist                                   420             -    1/2       210  1       420   1      420   1      420  3.5   1,470
Total A                                           -           8,525       17,050       18,190       18,190        60,815
B-Field
Supervisors                              900              -    I        900  2    1,800   2   1,800   3   2,700  8         7,200
Enumerators                              500             -   10      5,000 20   10,000  20  10,000  30  15,000  80   40,000
Clerk/Typist                             420             -    1         420  2       840   2      840   3   1,260  8       3,360
Total B                                           -           6,320       12,640       12,640       18,960         50,560
Total I                                           -          14,845       29,690       29,690       37,150       111,375
Unit Price   ) (Import)
II     VEHICLES                        (Ind. Imp. duties) (duties)
Station Wagon                             2,500      600    -    1        2,500        -            -       I   2,500  2       5,000
Light Water                               1,600      400    -    2        3,200        -            -       3   6,800  5       8,000
Office Furn. & Equipment                     -        -      -    -         500         400         -       -    -      -        900
Total II                                          -           6,200          400         -           7,300         13,900
III.   OPERATING COSTS
Rent and upkeep House                                        -             780        1,560        1,560        1,560          5,460
Rent and upkeep Offices                                      -             300          600          600          700          2,200
Stationery, Stamps, Telephone                                -             100          200          200           200           700
Maintenance & Operation                                      -
-Station Wagon(MF 1.75 million/Y)                          -             875        1,750        1,750        1,750         6,125
-Light Wagon (MF 1.5 Million/Y)                            -           1,500        3,000        3,000        4,500        12,000
-Bicycles    (MF 90,000/Y)                                 -             450          900          900          900         3,150
-Motorrycles (MF 30,000/Y)                                 -             150          300          300          300          1,050
Sundries                                                    _              200          200          200          200            800          N 
Total III                                         -           4,355        8,510        8,510       10,110         31,485
GRAND TOTAL                                           -          25,400       38,600       38,200        54,560       156,760
December 28, 1973



AN1NEX 12
Table 13
MALI
INTEGEATED RURAL DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT
Incremental Farm Inputs 1/ Cost and Financing
(MF Million)
A) Costs                            1              2            3             4             5              Total
Seasonai Inputa
S o Inuiters                    31.9          hi6.5         83.9          1h3.1         155.3          460.7
Seeds                           53.0          96.5         136.6          160.2        196.0           642.3
Fungicides, Insecticides         1.9            3-8          5.6            8.0          -0.0            29.3
Sub Total                    86.8         146.8         226.1          311.3        361.3           1132.3
Far, Imalemente
Cart boxe-2/                    16.3           25.6         32.0           38.8          46.9          159.6
Implements                     125.6          202.0        252.4          307.8         371.4         1259,2
Sub Total                  141.9           227.6        284.4          346.6         418.3         1418.8
Grand Total                       228.7          374.4        510.5          657.9         779.6          2551.1
B) Financing                 3/
3Sales/Parchase on Cash-       19.6          32.7          42.7           54.o          65.7          214.7
Mediumn Tern Credit
Farmers' down payYments         28.6           45.9          57.5          70.1          84.6           286.7
Farmers' Repayments                            28.7         74.7          103.0         127.5           333.9
NIedium Term Credit/SChER       57.3           63.4         40o4           36.8          htî.8          239.7
3ub Total                    85.9         138.0         172.6          209.9         253.9          860.3
Seasenal Credit
Farmera' Re-rdnaent              -             72.3        119.6          1R8.6         268.9           649.4
Met Credit/SCAER                33-8           15.8          39.8          63.2          13.0           165.6
Net Credit CA                   38e5           31.5          29.2          17.1          26.0           142.3
Sub Total                    72.3         1-19.6        188.6          268.9         307.9          957.3
Subsidies
Impements      V                39.7           64.o         79.8           97.9         117.5           398.9
Oeasonal Input -                11.2           20.2         26.8           27.2          34.6           119.9
3ub Total                    50.9          84h1         106.6          125.1         152.1           518.8
Grand Total                        228.7         374h4         510.5          657.9        779.6          2551.1
1/ Full cost delivered to farmers; excludes spare parts for ir.plements and self supplied seeds.  Details are
in ANIEX 11, Tables 5 and 6.
2/ Cart boxes are made by village craftsmen
3/Value of cart boxes and actual sale price for fungicides/insecticides.
LV Net subsidies mainly for seeds, taking into account profits on other inputs.
Noveinber 19, 1973



HALI
INTBGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Revol ingFun
(MFI'OCO()
Unit
Cost                  1                     2                     3                      4                     5                       Total
A. Vehicles: Motorcycles           118       57        6,726       34        4,012        76       8,968        47        5,546       86       10,148        300       35,400
Bicycles            36       93        3,348       96        3,456       180       6,480       115        4,140      175        6,300        659       23,724
Total                              10,074                  7,468                15,448                  9,686                16,448                  59,124
Disbursements 1/                      17,542                15,448                 9,686                 16,448                  -                      59,124
Refunds 2/                             5,037                 8,771                11,458                 12,567                13,067                   50,900
Credit                              12,505                 6,677                (1,772)                3,881                (13,067)                  8,224
B. Blacksmith Equipment
Phase 1                      30        33          990       62        1,860       77        2,310        81       2,430        95        2,850       348        10,440
Phase 2                     150        33       4,950        30        4,500       56        8,400        69      10,350        73       10,950       261        39,150
Phase 3                     200                               7        1,400        6        1,200        11       2,200        14        2,800        38         7,600
Total                      66       5,940        99        7,760      139       11,910       161      14,980       182       16,600       647        57,190
Disbursements 1/                                  13,700                11,910                14,980                 16,600                  _                     57,190
Refunds 2                                          1,980                 4,566                 8,537                11,550                 14,496                  41,129
Credit                              11,720                 7,344                 6,443                  5,050               (14,496)                 16,061
GRAND TOTAL                         24,225                14,021                 4,671                  8,931               (27,563)                  24,285
Revolving Fund                      24,225                14,021                 4,671                 8,931                                         51,848
1/  Disbursements one year in advance (years 1 and 2 together in year 1).
2/  Refunds:  Motorcycles      monthly allowance MF 7,500, monthly refund MF 6,500,  half price refunded equally in the year of purchase and in the following year.
Bicycles      : monthly allowance MF 2,500, monthly refund MF 2,000,   "         "       "       "       "  "    "  "      "      ""
Blacksmith equipment  : refunds in one third of the price per year starting in the year of purchase.
September 5, 1973



INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Contingencies
(MF Million)
1            2            3             4              5               TOTAL
A.  Price Contingencies   1/
I.  Equipment:      Furniture and equipment       29.9         90.9         80.1            4.1           0.7             205.7
Ox-drawn equipment,
fertilizers, agrocides      159.4        252.3        341.9         458.9         536.7            1,749.2
Vehicles                    127.1        364.3         37.9           60.5         139.4             729.2
Sub-Total                   316.4        707.5        459.9          523.5         676.8           2,684.1
Contingencies %              10.0         17.7         28.0           44.0          55.0             (33.0)
31.6       125.2        128.6          232.4         373.6             891.4
II.  Civil Works:    Buildings                     115.6       401.4        409.6           16.0          15.0             957.6
Contingencies /              12.0         22.0         27.0           61.0          80.0             (25.0)
Total                   13.9         88.3        112.0            9.8          12.0             236.0
III.  Miscellaneous:  Malian Staff                   41.6       115.0        148.5          137.1         137.4             579.6
Operating Costs             120.8        278.7        298.0          261.9         185.3           1,144.7
Cart Bodies                  16.3         25.6         32.0           38.8          46.9             159.6
Seeds                        53.0         96.5        136.6          160.2         196.0             642.3
Revolving Fund               24.2         14.0          4.7            8.9          -                 51.8
Studies                      -            45.0         -              -             -                 45.0
Sub-Total                   255.9        574.8        619.8          606.9         565.6           2,623.0
Contingencies %               5.5          8.3         10.3           26.5          34.7             (18.0)
Total                  14.1         47.9         64.3          160.7         196.4             483.4
IV.  Technical Assistance                          209.3       341.5        277.8          205.8         187.3           1.221.7
V.  TOTAL;           Project Costs                897.2     2,025.2      1,767.1        1,352.2       1,444.7           7,486.4
Price Contingencies          59.6        261.4        304.9          402.9         582.0           1,610.8
B.  Physical Contingencies
Total Project Costs         897.2      2,025.2      1,767.1        1,352.2       1,444.7           7,486.4
Contingencies %               5            5            5              5             5                 5
Total                  44.8        101.1         88.4           67.6          72.2             374.1
C.  GRAND TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                     104.4       362.5        393.3          470.5         654.2           1.984.9
1/  Price contingencies = average 22% on total costs or 26% on total costs less technical assistance.
2/  Grand total contingencies = average 27% on total coasts.
April 25, 1974



AINEX 12
Table 16
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Import Duties and Taxes
(MF Million)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    TOTAL    L
Buildings               17.4     64.2      65.5      2.6       2.4     124.6    16%
Equipment and
Furniture             8.9     27.3      24.0      1.2        -       61.4    30%
Vehicles                33.8     94.0      12.5     16.8      45.5     202.6    28%
Operating Costs         17.9     47.5      67.5     64.1      33.7     225.7    20%
TOTAL               78.0    233.0    169.5      84.7      81.6     646.8



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                   ANNEX 13
Table 1
Financing per Heading
(MF Million)
TOTAL
Years 2- 5              Years  - 5
Years           1          2           3            4          5           %              -           %
1.   Buildings                              IDA             -        320.3       327.7        12.8       12.0         80            672.8        70           672.8
FAC          90.2        -           -            -          -            -              -          10            90.2
Mail         25.4        B1.1        81.9         3.2        3.0         20             169.0       20           194.6
Total                             115.6       401.4       409.6        16.0       15.0        100             B42.0      100           957.6
2.   Furmiture and Esuipuent                IDIA          -           -           -           -          -             -              -           -            -
FAC           3.3        60.1        54.9         2.8        0.5         67             118.3       59           121.6
Mali         26.6        30.8        25.4         1.3        0.3         33              57.8       41            84.4
Total                  2           29.9        90.9        80.3         4.1        0.8        100             176.1      100           206.0
3.   Vehicles                               IDA           -          240.5        25.0        39.9       92.0         66             397.4       55           397.4
FAC          73.0        -           -           -          -             -              -          10            73.0
Mail         54.1       123.8        12.9        20.6       47.4         34             204.7       35           258.8
Total                             127.1       364.3        37.9        60.5      139.4        100             602.1      100           729.2
4.   Teehnical Assistance   1/              IDA           -          290.4       236.1       174.8      159.3          85           860.6        70           860.6
FAC         209.3        51.1        41.7        31.0       28.0         15             151.8       30           361.1
Total                             209.3       341.5       277.8       205.8      187.3        100          1,012.4       100         1,221.7
5.   Maltan Staff                           IDA           -           86.2       111.4       102.8      103.0         75            403.4        70           403.4
FAC          -           25.9        33.9        31.0       33.8         23             124.6       21           124.6
Mali         41.7         3.1         3.1         3.1        0.6           2              9.9        9            51.6
Total                              41.7       115.2       148.4       136.9      137.4        100             537.9      100           579.6
6.   Operatin  Coests                       IDA           -          222.7       238.3       209.6      148.1         80            818.7        72           818.7
FAC          63.8        43.7        47.4        40.3       35.9         16             167.3       20           231.1
Mali         56.9        12.1        12.2        12.2        1.2          4              37.7        8            94.6
Total                             120.7       278.5       297.9       262.1      185.2        100           1,023.7      100         1,144.4
7.                                          Farmers       16.3        25.6        32.0        38.8       46.9        100             143.8      100           159.6
8.  Ox-Drawn Equipment
Fertilizers and Agrocides               Mali        127.5        136.8       149.4       181.2      153.2         39            620.6       43            748.1
Fasmers      31.9       115.5       192.5       277.7      383.5         61             969.2       57         1.001.1
Total                             159.4       252.3       341.9       458.9      536.7        100          1,589.8       100         1,749.2
9.  Seeds                                    IDA          -           31.5        29.2        17.1       26.0         18             103.8       16           103.8
Mali         53.0        26.5        37.4        43.9       53.7          27            161.5       33           214.5
Farmers      -           38.5        70.0        99.2      116.3         55             324.0       51           324.0
Total                              53.0        96.5       136.6       160.2      196.0        100             589.3      100           642.3
10.  Revolvine Fund                          Mali          24.2        14.0         4.7         8.9       -           100              27.6      100            51.8
Il.  Studies   2/                             IDA          -           45.0        -           -          -           100              45.0      100            45.0
TOTA                  IDA          -        1,236.6       967.7       557.0      540.4         50           3,301.7       44         3,301.7
FAC         439.6       180.8       177.9       105.1       98.2           8            562.0       13         1,001.6
Mal.        409.4       428.2       327.0       274.4      259.4         20           1,289.0       23         1,698.4
Farmers      48.2       179.6       294.5       415.7      546.7          22         1.436.5        20         1.484.7
897.2    2,025.2    1,767.1    1,352.2   1,444.7            100          6,589.2       100         7,486.4
12.  Contingenctes                            IDA          -          114.2       183.3       168.8      232.0         37             698.3       35           698.3
FAC          14.4        64.0        57.8        55.9       65.7         13             243.4       13           257.8
Mali         85.8       119.7        62.0         83.2      98.6          19            362.5       23           449.3
Farmers       4.2        64.6        90.2       162.6      257.9         31             575.3       29           579.5
Total                             104.4       362.5       393.3       470.5      654.2        100           1,880.5      100         1,984.9
GRA1ID TOTAL         IDA           -        1,350.8    1,151.0        725.8      772.4         47           4,000.0       42         4,000.0
FAC         454.0       244.8       235.7       161.0      163.9          10            805.4       13         1,259.4
Mali        495.2       547.9       389.0       357.6      358.0 ~    19              1,652.5       23         2,147.7
Farmers      52.4       244.2       384.7       578.3      804.6          24          2.011.8       22         2,064.2
1.001.6    2.387.7    2,160.4    1.822.7   2.098.9             100         8.469.7       100         9.471.3
Il  Technical assistance:  This includes - Technical assistance for the main subproject                      MF 1,020.2 milli
Economist for the evaluation of the project                   MF    52.5 million
Consultants for the appraisal of the functional
literacy ongoing program                                   MF    73.0 million
Specialista for the research program                          MF    76.0 million
Cereai producer priaes and marketing arrangements study and                                     Total   MF 1.221.7 million
accountacy assistance to OACV.



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPM9ElT PROJECT                                                      ANNEX 13
Sources of Financing
TOTAL
Years 2 - 5              Years 1 - 5
1            2            3             4               5 
1. IDA
Buildings                                     -           320.3       327.7          12.8            12.0        80        672.8         70         672.8
Vehicles                                      -           240.5        25.0          39.9            92.0        66        397.4         55         397.4
Technical Assistance                          _           290.4       236.1         174.8           159.3        85        860.6         70         860.6
Malian Staff                                  -            86.2       111.4         102.9           103.0        75        403.4         70         403.4
Operating Costs                               -           222.7       238.3         209.6           148.1        80        818.7         72         818.7
Seeds                                         -            31.5        29.2          17.1            26.0        18        103.8         16         103.8
Studies 1/                                    -            45.0         -             -               -         100         45.0        100          45.0
Sub-Total                                _         1,236.6        967.7         557.0          540.4        50      3,301.7         44        3,301.7
Contingencies                            _           114.2        183.3         168.8          232.0        37        698.3         35          698.3
Total                                  -         1.350.8    1,151.0           725.8          772.4        47      4,000.0          42      4,000.0
Il. FAC
Buildings                                    90.2           -           -             -               -            -         -           10          90.2
Furniture and Equipment                       3.3          60.1        54.9           2.8             0.5        67        118.3         59         121.6
Vehicles                                     73.0           -           -             -               -            -         -           10          73.0
Technical assistance                        209.3          51.1        41.7          31.0            28.0        15        151.8         30         361.1
Malian Staff                                  -            25.9        33.9          31.0            33.8        23        124.6         21         124.6
Operating Costa                              63.8          43.7        47.4          40.3            35.9        16        167.3         20         231.1
Sub-Total                              439.6          180.8       177.9         105.1           98.2         8         562.0         13       1,001.6
Contingencies                           14.4          64.0         57.8          55,9           65.7        13        243.4          13         257.8
Total                                454.0         244.8       235.7          161.0          163.9        10        805.4          13       1,259.4
111.   AlI _OVERNMENT
Buildings                                    25.4          81.1        81.9            3.2            3.0        20        169.2         20         194.6
Furniture and Equipment                      26.6          30.8        25.4            1.3            0.3        33         57.8         41          84.4
Vehicles                                     54.1         123.8        12.9          20.6            47.4        34        204.7         35         258.8
Malian Staff                                 41.7           3.1         3.1            3.1            0.6         2          9.9           9          51.6
Operating Expenses                           56.9          12.1        12.2          12.2             1.2         4         37.7          8           94.6
Ox-drawn equipsent, fertilizers
and agrocides                           127.5          136.8       149.4         181.2          153.2         39        620.6         43         748.1
Seeds                                        53.0          26.5        37.4          43.9            53.7        27        161.5         33         214.5
Revolving Fund                               24.2          14.0         4.7           8.9             -         100         27.6        100          51.8
Sub-Total                              409.4          428.2       327.0         274.4          259.4        28      1,289.0          23       1,698.4
Contingencies                           85.8         119.7         62.0          83.2           98.6         19       363.5          23         449.3
Total                                495.2         547.9        389.0         357.6          358.0        19      1,652.5          23       2,147.7
IV. FARMERS
Cart Bodies                                  16.3          25.6        32.0          38.8            46.9       100        143.3        100         159.6
Ox-drawn equipuent. fertilizers
and agrocides                             31.9    -   115.5         192.5         277.7           383.5        61        969.2         57       1,001.1
Seeda                                         -            38.5        70.0          99.2           116.3        55        324.0         51         324.0
Sub-Total                               48.2          179.6       294.5         415.7          546.7         22     1,436.5          20       1,484.7
Contingencies                            4.2          64.6         90.2         162.6          257.9         31        575.3         29         579.5
Total                                 52.4         244.2       384.7          578.3          804.6        24      2,011.8          22       2,064.2
V.  GRAND TOTAL
IDA                                           -         1,350.8    1,151.0          725.8           772.4        47      4,000.0         42       4,000.0
FAC                                         454.0         244.8       235.7          161.0          163.9        10        805.4          13      1,259.4
Mali                                        495.2         547.9       389.0         357.6           358.0        19      1,652.5          23       2,147.7
Farmers                                      52.4         244.2       384.7         578.3           804.6        24      2.011.8         22       2.064.2
1.001.6       2.387.7    2.160.4        1,822.7         2.098.9       100      8.469.7        100       9.471.3
1/ Cereal producer prices and marketing arrangements study & accountancy assistance to OACV.



AENEX 13
Table 3
MAIJ
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of IDA Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Cumulative
Fiscal Year               Disbursements per               Disbursements
& Semester                   Semester                   at end of Semester
1975:
lst                       1,000                          1,000
2nd                       1,300                          ,300
1976:
lst                       1,h00                          3,700
2nd                       1,200                          4,900
1977:
lst                       1,000                          5,900
2nd                         800                          6,70C
1978:
lst                         500                          7,200
2nd                         500                          7,700
1979:
lst                         300                          8,000
2nd
April 26, 1974






ANiNEX 14
MALI                         Page 1
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARKET AND PRICES FOR PROJECT COi'4MODITIES
A. Fats and Oils - Past Trends and
Future Prospects of Demand and Supply
1.        Total estimated consumption of fats and oils expanded steadily at
a trend rate of 2.9 percent from 1960 to 1970, but both the geographic and
the product composition of demand changed during this period. While total
consuinption in both the developed and the developing groups of countries rose
at a trend rate of 3.2 percent, in centrally planned economies the trend rate
of growth was only 1.8 percent.
2.        The product composition of supply and use also changed substantially
during the past decade. Consumption of animal fats and marine oils rose
much more slowly than consumption of vegetable oils. Within the vegetable
oils group the composition of usage also changed in response to availabilities
of the different oils and to a number of economic and non-economic factors.
3.        The rise in consumption of vegetable oils mainly reflected some
countries growing demand for them as substitutes for animal fats in food uses.
higher food consumption of vegetable oils (in the form of margarine, shortening
and other cooking oils) compared with animal fats seems to reflect, at least
in some major consuming countries, the concern of consumers with excesive
cholesterol intake. Other factors have played a role, however, such as the
increased consumption of convenience foods. In North America, concern over
cholesterol and the development of convenience foods both seem reasonable
explanations for the fact that consumption per head of vegetable oils, notably
in the form of margarine and shortening, lias risen rapidly during the last
decade while consumption of butter has fallen. In other major developed
consuming areas the pattern was different. In the enlarged EEC the evidence
of a change in consumer preferences is less marked. In Japan, consumption
of animal as well as vegetable oils and fats rose rapidly in the last decade,
mainly reflecting income growth.
4.        The shift of demand away f'rom animal fats and oils and to vegetable
oils opens opportunities for virtually any of these oils in view of the high
degree of substitution between them. For each individual oil the rate of
growtlî of supplies compared with that of competing oils does have an influence
on its relative price, but this influence is less the closer the balance
between total supply and total demand of all vegetable oils.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
5.        According to Bank staff projections, world demand for ali fats and
cils will continue to grow at the sane rate as in the 1960s, reaching a
total of 56 million tons in 1980. The Bank's estimate is higher than the
FAO's by 2.4 million tons, because we expect a stronger rise of demand in
developed countries. The FAO has projected that the share of vegetable oils
will rise to 69.5% of the total, which would imply world consumption of vegetablE
oils in 1980 of about 39 million tons. The increase in the share of vegetable
oils compared with other fats and oils is due to a number of factors which are
likely to be felt more in developed than in developing countries.  However,
future demand for vegetable oils in developing countries is also expected to
increase considerably faster in this decade, reflecting the rise in incomes
in these countries and the fact that the income elasticity of demand for the
oils tend to be relatively high at low income levels. The assumed rate of
increase of overall demand for vegetable oils is 3.8 percent per year from
1970 to 1980 in developing countries.
6.        The changing distribution of world demand between different fats
and oils over the last decade has been accompanied by changes in the supply
availabilities not related to changes in prices or demand of the different
commodities. World production of animal fats and oils increased slowly com-
pared to vegetable oils. On the who]e production of butter has remained
almost stagnant, though there were increases in particular areas such as
the ESC under the stimulus of high support prices which merely led to stock
accumulation and the need to subsidize consumption. The growth of lard pro-
duction also has been very slow partly as a result of production practices
which have led to a decline in fat per animal. The output of marine oil pro-
ducts increased rapidly in recent years, but these are mainly consumed as
animal feeds. The rise in production of marine oil products and animal fats
and oils is expected to be slow in the decade to 1980. For butter, lard and
marine oils combined, production is expected to grow at the rate of 1.9 percent
per year, against 3.5 percent a year for vegetable oils. On the basis of
estimated production trends world supply of all fats and oils combined in
1980 is expected to be roughly in balance with world demand at the level of
56 million tons oil or fat equivalent. Consequently the expected increase
of supplies of fats and oils will be absorbed in the market without persistent
downward pressure on the prices of these commodities as a group.
7.        Within the vegetable oil group, production has grown comparatively
slowly except for sunflowerseed oil, rapeseed oil, soybean oil and palm oil.
World output of groundnuts increased at a diminishing rate in the last decade,
particularly after 1967. lWorld exports of groundnut oil have been stagnant
since 1955, except for an increase during 1966-68. Production is not expected
to rise again at rates comparable to those of the 1950s in the coming decade,
unless vigorous expansion plans are undertaken. World coconut production
remained stagnant from the mid 1950s to 1970, and the improvement noted in
1971-72, which was attributable to favorable weather conditions, was
expected to be short-lived. The development and use of high-yield hybrid
varieties could increase production but the effect will not be felt until



ANNEX 14
Page 3
after 1980. The production of cottonseed oil has grown slowly in the past
decade at the rate of less than 1 percent a year. A rise in supply occurred
in 1972 and is expected to continue into 1973 due to favorable weather condi-
tions and to the diversion of cottonseed fr?m direct feeding to oil extraction
in some countries. However, the long-term growth, which is linked to the
growth of output of cotton, is not expected to exceed 1.7 percent per annum.
Sunflowerseed is produced mainly in centrally planned economies and the rate
of growth of output has tended to level off towards the end of the last decade.
The recent trend in output of sunflowerseed oil is expected to continue in
the period to 1980 as yields stabilize and the area under sunflower in the
USSR will probably not be greatly expanded beyond present levels.  The possibility
of a large scale introduction of sunflower plantings in the United States
still seems remote.  The reverse tendency was shown by output of rapeseed,
whiclh originates mainly in Canada, Western and Eastern Europe, the USSR, and
centrally planned economies ih Asia and Southeast Asia. Most of the future
expansion of output is expected in Canada, Western Europe, the USSR and Eastern
Lurope and this may provide cômpetition for other vegetable oils in developed
markets. UIowever, even at recent growth rates the increase in output of
rapeseed will not be sufficient to capture a large share of the growing
market for oils.
8.        In contrast, the output of both palm oil and soybean oil, which has
grown rapidly in the 1960s is expected to follow a strong upward trend in
the coming decade. The important producing countries planted large areas to
oil jlalm in the 1960s, and have currently on hand plans supported in most
cases by the necessary financial arrangements - to plant more areas in the
next few years.  This planting is in addition to other forms of rehabilita-
tion of the oil palm industry. World soybean output has risen from 26.5 million
tons in 1956-60 to 43 million tons in 1966-70, a rise of 65 percent. The
largest quantity increase was recorded in the United States where production
doubled, rising from 14.2 million tons in 1956-60 to 28.7 million tons in
1966-70.  Brazil's output of soybean rose fastest in percentage terms during
the same period (+521 percent), but this country's total output in 1966-70
was still less than a million tons. The United States' soybean output is
expected to rise to about 48 million tons in 1980; Brazilian output is also
expected to continue rising sharply, to about 10 million tons in 1980. These
increases are mainly in response to demand for animal feeds both in the pro-
ducing countries and abroad, but much output of soybean oil will also result
as a by-product of bean crushing for cake manufacture. The production of
soybeans in China has remained at about the same level of 9 to 10 million tons
throughout the last two decades and future output is likely to be tailored
to domestic needs. If this is so, China will become neither a net exporter
nor a net importer of soybeans or soybean cake and oil in the next decade.
Total world output, including that of China, is forecast to reach roughly
70 to 75 million tons of soybeans hy 1980, or 11 million tons oil equivalent.



ANNEX. 14
Page 4
9.        Since the supply of most other vegetable oils is expected to grow
slowly, the greater part of the increase in world demand for oils in the
next decade will be met by palm oil and soybean oil. The 1971 and the pro-
jected 1980 snares of the different oils in world output of fats and oils
are shown in the following table:
Commodity                             1971                        1980
Output    Z of Total /1   Output    Z of Total /1
Edible Vegetable Oils          26.00         60.46        36.8         65.71
Soybean                    7.10         16.51        11.0        19.64
Sunflower                  3.55          8.26         5.0         8.93
Groundnut                  3.05          7.09         4.1         7.32
Cottonseed                 2.50          5.81         4.0         7.14
Rapeseed                   2.50          5.81         3.3         5.89
Coconut                    2.30          5.35         3.0         5.36
Palm                       2.10          4.88         2.9         5.18
Olive                      1.55          3.60         1.9         3.39
Sesame                     0.70          1.63         0.9          1.61
Palm Kernel (Incl.babasu) 0.65           1.51         0.7          1.25
Animals Fats                    14.10        32.79        15.8         28.21
Tallow/Greases             5.00         11.63         5.9         9.64
Butter (Fat Content)       4.90         11.39         5.4         8.04
Lard                       4.20          9.77         4.5        10.54
Industrial Olls                 1.70          3.95         2.0          3.57
Linseed                    1.25          2.91         1.3         2.32
Castor                     0.35          0.81         0.5         0.89
Tung                       0.10          0.23         0.2         0.36
M^larine Ohis1.25                             2.90         1.4          2.50
Total                          43.00        100.00        56.0        100.0
/1  'Llllion metric tons oil or fat equivalent



ANNEX 14
Page 5
B.   Groundnuts
Marketing
10.       Groundnuts were Mali's leading export crop until 1961 but they are
now second after cotton. Data on past and estimated future groundnut production
and marketing are shown in Annexes 1, 2 and 3. The average officially marketed
production of undecorticated groundnuts for the period 1968/1972 was nearly
30,000 tons compared with,z 111,000 tons in the project area at full development.
11.       Marketing of groundnuts is carried out by Operation Arachide in
areas under its supervision. This includes collection to the market place,
and evacuation to the dumps (seccos) of the Societe Malienne d'Import Export
(SOIIIEX) or the Societe d'Exploitation des Produits Oleagineux du Mali (SEPOM).
Tlhese activities are expected to decrease as road development in the project
area enables private transporters to play a more active role. Elsewhere
collection is carried out by SOMIEX licensed agents, who operate without
supervision. These agents supply less than 25% of unshelled groundnuts marketed
through officials channels. The role of the licensed agents will diminish as
OA activities expand.
12.       The estimated production marketed through official channels varies
from area to area, depending mainly on the density and efficiency of the
marketing network. It is estimated that marketed production of unshelled
groundnuts in the project area will increase from about 60% in 1972/73 to 65%
witlh increased production and improvements in marketing facilities. The
difference between harvested and marketed production is accounted for by:
- Seed requirements (about 100 - 150 kg/ha)
- Home consumption, estimated at 10 - 15 kg per capita per
year, depending oui the availability of other food crops
- Sales on other markets, which are estimated to range between
10,000 and 30,000 tons, to meet the demand of non-groundnuts
producing areas in Mali and neighboring countries, mainly
Mauritania.
Processing
13.       Decorticating of unshelled groundnuts is carried out by SOMIEX, or
by SEPOM which uses the shells as fuel. SEPOM operates a crushing mill at
Koulikoro with a capacity of 30,000 tons of unshelled groundnuts and about
10,000 tons for other seeds (karite, cotton seed). This mill is currently
working at full capacity.  A second mill, with the same capacity, is planned
for the Kita area in 1976. This would be financed with the assistance of
tne German Federal Agency for Development Aid. Even after completion of



ANNEX 14
Page 6
the second miil large quantities of groundnuts would still have to be exported
unprocessed, since total crushing capacity would represent about 54% of the
total quantity marketed officially and 35% of estimated production of the
project area.  SEPOtI exports oil and cake and supplies refined oil to SOMIEX
for distribution on the domestic market.
Present Prices and Price Mechanism
14.       As for other commodities, groundnut prices are established by gov-
ernment decree. A "Bareme Arachide" (Groundnut schedule) which is published
annually contains producer prices, the prices to be paid by SOMIEX/SEPOM to
OA against delivery (including the levies for OA and SCAER and reimbursement
of marketing costs) and a theoretical CIF price applicable to SOMIEX. The
schedule for the 1972/73 campaign is shown in Table 1.
15.       The producer price for undecorticated groundnuts was fixed at MF
30/kg in 1968/69 and to date has remained unchanged. This has provided
sufficient incentive to farmers as the groundnut producer price is more
beneficial than prices paid for other crops (Annex 1, Table 2) and compares
favorably with groundnut producer prices paid in neighboring countries (Table
2). The 1967 devaluation of the Malian Franc enabled the Government to raise
producer prices and to earmark revenues from groundnut sale proceeds for OA
and the Office de Surveillance et de Regulation des Prix (OSPR).
16.       OSPR was established in 1968 by merging the Groundnut and Cotton
Stabilization Funds and the Caisse de Perequation; the latter organization
was responsible for stabilizing petroleum products and certain basic consumer
goods. The Groundnut Stabilization Fund is financed by a levy of MF 7,000/ton
on exported decorticated groundnuts and MF 1,800/ton crude oil exported. The
Croundnut Stabilization Fund's revenues, expenditures and reserves to date
are shown in Table 6. The net reserves amounted to MF 520 million at the end
of fiscal year 1972. Hlowever, these reserves are not sufficient to support
variations in export prices predicted for the future.
Future Prices
17.       Mali ranks far behind major West African groundnuts producing coun-
tries sucli as Nigeria, Senegal, Niger and Gambia. The estimated total marketed
production from the project at full development would represent about 3.5% of
world exports compared to 2% at present; future annual world groundnut pro-
duction and export are not expected to differ greatly from those of the last
six years, the estimated rate of growth in volume of world groundnuts and oil
exports being 1.5% per annum over the period 1969/1980. This compares with
an annual growth of 3.5% for the 10 years period 1960-70, and a forecast
growth rate of 12% per annum for palm oil. Thus groundnuts are expected to
still be in relatively short supply by 1980, although substitution between
different oils may keep prices for groundnut products in step with other fats
and oils. On this basis the projected increase in groundnut production in
Mali is expected to have little impact on world market prices.



ANNEX 14
Page 7
18.       The Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department predicts
a decline in world groundnut prices from the unprecedented US$393 per m ton
(CIF Europe) in 1973 to US$235 in 1980 (in constant 1973 terms). If this
prediction holds the economic price at farm gate (see Table 4) will fall from
'IF 105,480/ton undecorticated in 1973 to MF 53,250/ton at full development
in 1980. This decline in world price is taken into account in the calculation
of the economic rate of return.
C. Millet and Sorghum
Marketing
19.       Sorghum, millet and, to a lesser extent, rice, are the major staple
food crops in Mali. Details of production and marketing from 1967 chrough
1972 are shown in Annex 1, Table 1. In recent years estimated millet and
sorghum production has averaged 600,000 tons compared with annual requirements
of 750,000-800,000 tons. The reduction in production is mainly due to the
unfavourable weather conditions experienced in Mali during the past five
years. However it is difficult to assess whether the short fall has not been
accentuated by the disincentives of the official marketing system or smuggling
to neighboring countries.
20.       Only 5% of current production is marketed for each.  Although the
Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali (OPAM) has a marketing monopoly on
cereals, and movement of grains i subject to strict controls, it has been
unable to operate effectively in view of the wide disparity between official
and black market prices, poor organization aid financial difficulties. OPAM
is also responsible for distributing cereals supplied by aid donor countries
or imported with Government funds. The volume of millet and sorghum handled
by OPAM in the eight years period to 1973 is shown in the following table:
Millet/Sorghum Handled by OPAM
TMetric Tons         1965/66   66/67   67/68   68/69   69/70   70/71   71/72   72/73
Domestic Production  25,000  56,000  60,000   8,000   26,000  10,000  30,000  5,000
Imports /1               -       -        -    17,000       -    25,000  37,000 200,000
/1 .,stimated figures; inports consist mainly of aid donations.



ANNEX 14
Page 8
Prices
21.       Producer and consumer prices fer millet and sorghum are fixed annually
by Government, which also determines freiLght rates for transportation of cereals.
Table 7 shows the millet/sorghum price schedule for 1972/73. The official
prices for cereals are very low compared to prices paid for other crops, such
as cotton and Qroundnuts, black market prices and the prices prevailing in
neighboring countries (see Table 8). This is a major disincentive to the
production and marketing of cereals. Although acknowledging the need to
raise cereal prices government is reluctant to do so because of the impact
on the cost of living (cereals account for about 34% of the cost of living
index) and on salaries. As a first step the producer price for millet and
sorghum was raised from MF 18 to 20 in 1972/73, and further increases to
-F 25-26/kg are under consideration following recommendations by governnent
services and USAID experts. This, together with a reorganization of OPAM to
provide proper price stabilization, would do much to improve cereal production
and marketing.
Arrangements under Project
22.       To insure the success of the important cereal component of the
project, Government has agreed that (i) sorghum and millet producer prices would
be increased from MF 20 per kg to a minimum of MF 25 per kg effective from
November 1974, although the increase would be publicized in May before the
planting period; (ii) a study on millet and sorghum producer prices and
n!arketing arrangements, to be completed by April 30, 1975, would be carried
otit by consultants and under terms of references acceptable to IDA. This
study would provide the basis for further decisions on both producer prices
:.Ànd marketing arrangements which should be satisfactory to IDA.
23.       There should be no difficulty in disposing of project production as
estimated annual deficits in 1978/79 are 200,000 tons for millet, sorghum and
maize (300,000 tons taking into account buffer stocks requirements). Project
production would represent 12% of the estimated shortfall.
24.       For the rate of return calculation import substitution prices
based on the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department, have been
u-sed. Details are shown in Table 9.



ANNEX 14
Table 1
MA1I
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bareme Arachide (Groundnut Schedule)
Seasons 1973/74
(MF/mt)
Undecorticated         Decorticated
Producer Price                                 30,000
"tOperation Arachide" cess                 7 7,600
Collection Costs                           3,556
Handling/Bagging                             390
Buying Allowance                             900
SCAER cess 2/                              2,000
Selling Price to SOMIEX/SEPOM             44v44
Bag Allownace                                585
Dessication/loss                           1,335
Cost Price Delivered to Decorticating Dump2/ 45,781                 67,325
Decorticating Cost 4/                                          1,775
Handing/Onloading                                              l, 250
Inland Transport/Insurance                                        556
Financial Charges                                              1, 458
Waste                                                              10
Road/E'ail Freight to Malian Border                            5,552
Government Taxes 5/                                            8,951
Stabilization Fund Levy                                       10,000
Rail Freight Border to Port                                    6,880
Port Charges                                                   3,,526
FOB Cost Price                                                     107$293
Cost from FOB to CIF                                          15,280
CIF Cost Price                                                     122,563
1/  This amount is levied only on groundnuts marketed through nOperation Arachide?,
and covers OA extension service expenses and seed treatment and handling costs.
2/  Levied both in "Operation Arachide" area and outside to partly cover the sub-
sidies on farm inputs.
3/  Rate  decorticated to undecorticated 68%.
I4/ Machine decorticated by SOMIEX.
g/  Consists of i) taxes: MF 4,901; ii) export tax: 4,o50.



ANNEX 1 
Table 2
MALI
INTERATED RURAL DEVEL JNT ÂRJECT
keroducer iFrices ror Uroundnuts
rrices raict to Producer in Mali and Neigfboring Countries
(MF/kg - 1972/73 Canmaign)
Unlhelled          Hand-Shelled          Machine-Shelled
Mali             3                                            40
Niger            32                             48
Senegal          4b.:e
Upper Volta      zô - 3e                      49-54
1/ r~rice paid to the producer in Senegal was raised recently and would
be MF 51/kg for the 1973/74 canpaign.



ANNEX 14
MALI            -                      Table3
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Internatonal Prices of~ Groundniu ta  (ondinlt, <Ul-
and Groundiut Cake
(US$ per metric ton)
Groundnut 01l          Groundnuts          Groundnut Cake
Annual Averages              (1)                    (2)                   (3)
1960                    327                   197                     89
1961                    330                   196                     86
1962                    274                   171                     97
l9O3                    268                   172                   100
1964                    315                   187                   104
1965                    325                   206                   106
1966                    297                   187                   103
r67(                    dOi                   .1(9                   L nn
1968                    270                   166                     97
1969                    332                   207                   100
1970                    378                   229                   109
1971                    446                   254                   105
1972                    433                   271                   117
1973                    546                   393                    296
Forecasts
1980 Cudrrent Terms     787                    425                   267
1973 Constant Terms    435                     235                   147
(1)     Up to December 1971 Nigerian, 3-5% bulk, n.f.s. c.i.f. Europe.  From January 1972
Nigerian/Gamxbian/any origin, c.i.f., U. K.
(2)     Nigerian shelled n.f.s. c.i.f. Europe
(3)     Argentina, 50% exmorters, n.f.s. c.i.f.  North European Ports.
Source: F. A. 0. CCP: OF/ST ?3/CRS.2 and Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections
Department (April 1974).



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GROUNDNUT PRICE STRUCTURE
Economic Farm Gate Price
(Constant 1973 MF and m ton)
1973           1974           1975           1976            1977           1978           1979        1980 Onwards
CIF European Port US$ -/                     390            340             300            280            265             255            245                235
Equivalent MF 2/                         195,000        170,000        150,000         140,000        132,500        127,500         122,500           117,500
Ocean Freight/Insurance 3/                12,925         12.550          12.250         l2.100         11,990         11,910          11,840            11,760
FOB Dakar                                182,075        157,450        137,750         127,900        120,510        115,590         110,660           105,740
Transport Border/Port and Port
Charges  4/                            11,500         11,500         11,500          11,500         11,500         11,500         11,500             11,500
Exporter/Seller Commission 5/              3.650          3,650                          3,650          3,650          3,650           3,650             3,650
Available at Malian Border               166,925        142,300         122,600        112,750        105,360        100,440          95,510            90,590
DecorticatLng/Transport from
dump to border  4/                      6,950          6,950                                         6,950                         6,950              6.950
-- Value at dump                       159,975        135,350        115,650         105,800         98,410         93,490         88,560             83,640
-- Equivalent unshelled (70%)          111,980         94,745         80,955          74,060         68,890         65,440         61,990             58,550
-- Marketing cost from farm
to dump  6/                       6,500          6,400           6,200          5,900          5,600           5.OO           5,300              5,300
Economic Farm Gate Price                 105,480         88,345          74,755         68,160         63,290          60,140         56,690             53,250
1/ Bank's Ecnomic Department Projections as of April 5, 1974.
2/ Conversion rate US$ 1 = MF 500.
3/ MF 10,000/m ton + 1.5% of CIF value for insurance.
4/ Actual charges net of tax; includes road and rail freight, insurance and handling.
5/  Estimate:  2% FOB value (rounded) for SOMIEX overheads.
6/ Transport coEts, based on economic vehicle operating costs, are higher than Government fixed freight rates.
They are expected to dectine as a result of general road improvement program and project ad hoc road improvements.
Other marketing costs estimated to MF 2,500/ton include buying costs, and other allowances.
February 15, 1974
Cr 
z 
C-



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELO'ENT PROJECT
Groundnut Destination of Marketed Production
1973        1974        1975         1976        1977        1978         1979         1980
Total Production *
(Unshelled)             86,000    108,000       128,000     151,000     162,000      167,000     171,000      171,000
Marketed
(Unshelled)             55,000      65,000       79,000      97,000     106,000      109,000     111,000      111,000
Maximum Crushing Cap.
(Unshelled)             30,000      30,000       30,000      45,o000.-   60,000       60,000      60,000       60,000
Available for Export
(Unshelled)             25,000      35,000      49,000       52,000      46,oO        49,000      51 ,000      51 ,000
Equivalent Shelled        17,500       24,500      34,300      36,400       32 ,200     34,300       35,700      35,700
Crushing Mill Output i/
a)  Groundnut cake        12,700      12,700       12,700      19,000       25,300      25,300       25,300      25,300
b)  Crude Oil Total        8,700        8,700       8,700      13,000       17,300      17,300       17,300      17,300
- For export          (3,700)      (3,600)     (3,500)     (7,600)    (11,700)    (11,500)    (11,300)    (11,100)
- Domestic use        (5,000)     (5,100)      (5,200)     (5,400)     (5,600)      (5,800)     (6,000)      (6,200)
* Rounded figures.
j  Assxniing that the projected Kita crushing mill will be operational in 1976 and will function at full
capacity in 1977.
Conversion rates:
1 ton unshelled = 70U kg shelled
1 ton shelled   = 410 kg of crude oil and 600 kg of cake (the additional weight 10 kg
is made of shell load)
September 1 9, 15'V3



ANNEX 1h
Table b
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVLOPMENT PROJECT
Office de Surveillance et de Regulation des Prix
Groundnut Reserve Account (1969-1M72)
(NF)
I   Income
Receipts from former Groundnuts
Stabilization Funds (as of Jan. 1, 1970)                192,72L,946
Receipts of fiscal year 1970                            144,000,955
il  s'   "       " 1971                             175,231 ,825
ih  ti  Il    t" 1972                               1 34,351 ,225
Total Revenue as of EndFi8cal Year 1972                 646,312,951
II  Expenditures (1970-1971-1 972)
Personnel                                                 3,665,650
Stationery/Operating                                      2,585,1 35
Aid to Production                                         4,390,000
Contribution to Debt Management Fund                     41,123,410
Actual Lisbursements/Groundnuts                          57,055,043
Other Contributions                                      16,524,410
Total Expenditures                    125,343,648
Balance as of End Fiscal Year 1972                      520,969,303
Source:  Office des Prix et de Regulation.
Note: No expenditure breakdown per year is available. The Office des Prix et
de Regulation total net reserves amounted to MF 2,597 million of which
562 million for cotton accounts, as of Fiscal 1972 end.



ANNEX 1h.
Table 7
MALI
INTEGRATED LRUAL DEVELOP*NiT PROJECT
Price and Marketing Structure for Sorghum/Mil Let
Domestic Price Structure
I. Price Schedule (Bareme) for Sorghum/Millet 1972/73
Producer Price                                                           20,
Bulking and Delivery                                                      3,200
Losses (5%), Bag, Financial Charges                                       2,50o0
OPAM Overheads                                                            5,O00
3'0,700
âoun*ed1:        31 000
Retail Margin
Consumer Price/Production Areas                                          32,500
Consumer Price in Bamako                                                 37,000
Consumer Price in Kayes                                                  39,OO0
Consumer Price in Region vi (GAO)                                        45,000
II.  Retail Prices in Cooperatives and on Bamako Market 19O5-1 973
(Current MF/kg)
1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973
(Jaln -May)
Cooperatives
Sorghum               17.5   17.5   22      29     29.5   31      32     33      37
Rice  RM 440          -      -       -      -      -       78     85.25  85.2N  8'.25
Market
Sorghum               47     56     46      39     46      41     60     73    102
Rice RM 40            91    111    113    114      87      96    113    123    145
Source: Office de surveillance et de Regulation des prix (OSRP).
December 30, 1973



ANNEX 14
Table 8
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Price and Marketing Structure for Sorghum/millet
Cereal Producer Price in Mali and Neighboring Countries 1972/73
(Governnent fixed prices MF/kg)
Millet/Sorghum           Maize          Paddy (Grade I)
Mali                       20                     20                  25
Niger                     24-36                    -                   3
Senegal                   30-34                  32                   42
Upper Volta                28                     30                  43



ANNEX 14
Table 9
MAII
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Price and Marketing Structure for Sorghum/Millet
Economic Farm Gate Price
(Constant 1973 I'F and MT)
73/75     7G')7/78    79 Onwards
FOB US Gulf:  US$                                       95         85             70
Ocean freight insurance (US$)                           25        25              25
CIF Dakar US$                                       120       110              95
Equivalent MF:                                  60,000    55,000           47,50,D
Porterage/Harbor dues:                               2,900     2,900           2,900
Transport Bamako./Delivery                          10,500    10,500          10,500
Economic value Bamako (bulk)                        73,4OO    68,400          60,900
Transport from production areaSto
consumption centers                              8,200      8,200
Intermediaries  margin                               2,000     2,000
Economic Farm Gate Price                        63,200    58,200           &,Q,700
Note:
(a)  Conversion rate:  US$ 1 = MF 500
(b)  Cost from Dakar to Bamako are actual charges net of taxes.
(c)  Transportation from production areas to consumption centers are based
on the following assumptions: long distance haulaSe: 230 Lm (Sikasso/
Segou-Bamako).  Collection: 30 km on feeder roads ,AB) and 20 km on
tracks.  Costs are based on avera'e transport costs shown in Annex L,
Table 7, adjusted to 1973 price level.
December 28, 1973






ANNEX 15
Page 1
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Models and Budgets
Basic Data
1.        Data on population, farm size and farm activity in Mali are
either scant or conflicting. The following information was compiled from
the 1969/70 rural survey, the consultants Integrated Rural Development
project feasibility study, "Operation Arachide" records and other sources.
(i) Population. Farm population in the OA area in 1972/73
(Year O) is estimated at 486,000 (about 85% of total
population) and the number of farm units (or households)
at 52,000, the average household consisting of 9.3 persons.
At full development, the total farm population in the
expanded project area is expected to increase to nearly
1 million in 107,000 farm units.
(ii)  Area cropped and farm size.  Total project area cropped in
1972/73 (project year 0) was 213,600 ha, the average farm
size being 4.1 ha (2.2 under millet and sorghum and 1.9
under groundnuts). At full development this would increase
to nearly 463,000 ha (average farm size 4.3 ha). Without
the project the estimated average farm size would be 3.8
ha of which 1.4 under groundnuts.
Basic Assumptions
2.        (a)  The farm models and budgets show the impact of the project
on:
(i)  subsistence farmers shifting from traditional cultivation
practices to improved techniques and inputs recommended
by the project (Farm budget A); Table 1.
(ii)  advanced farmers proficient in improved cultivation
techniques and adopting ox-powered cultivation (Farm
budget s). The latter case would apply either to the
new farmers after, say year 4 or to farmers already
supervised by OA (Table 2). The cash flow projection
for this category of farm is shown in Table 3.
(b)  A summary of technical progression for the farmer in
situation A (subsistence, farmer, manual cultivation) and
the change in area for the farmer in situation B (proficient
farmer using ox-drawn implements and expanding area
cropped) is shown below:



AçNEX 15
Page 2
Budget A
Technical Progression for a Subsistence Farnmer Adopting
Improved Techniques
Groundnuts                     Sorghum/Millet
Year O          traditional cultivation         traditional cultivation practices
practices
Year 1          timely sowing and correct       traditional cultivation practices
density
Year 2          use of improved seed and        traditional cultivation practices
fungicides
Year 3          application of fertilizers    use of fungicides
Year 4          full development                rotation to take advantage of
fertilizer residual effect
Year S          full development                full develop.ent
Budget B
Changes in Area Cropped due to Ox-drawn Implements
Total
area (ha)                YO       Yi     Y2      Y3      Y4      Y5
Groundnuts                2        2     2.5      3        3      3
Sorglhum/Millet           2        2     2        2.5      3      3
Total                  4        4     45.5             6       6
of which ox-
cultivated
Groundnuts                O        0      1.5     2.5      3      3
Sorghum/Millet            O        1.5   1.5      2.5      3      3
Total                  O        1.5   3        5       6       6
improved cultivation practices have been completed in
Year O.



ANNhX 15
Table 1
INTREGlTED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJ0T
ParoI Dudget A
Ftrm Under Manual Cultivat5qa Adoptineg itoroved Techniques ./
°    ;          2 -~~~Years_____   _4______
1.  trop Yield. Production sud Value
Groundnuts
area (ha)                              1.2         1.2         1.5        2           2           2
yield (kg/ha)                        S00         800         950      1,200       1,200       1,200
production (kg)                      600         960      1,425       2,400       2,400       2,400
value (at MF 30/kg)               18,000      28,800     42,750      72,000      72,000      72,000
Sorehus/Millet
rea (ha)                                2           2           2          2           2           2
yield (kg)                            605         605         605        695         845         845
production (kg)                     1,210       1,210      1,210       1,390       1,690       1,690
value (et MFi 35/kg)               42,350     42,350      42,350      59,650      59,150      59,150
Total value of Produ-titu            60,350     71,150      85,100    120,650    111,150    131,150
2. Production costs
Seeds 2/
Groundnuts (MF)                     2,340       3,960       5,692       6,600      6,600       6,600
SorghP=/Millet (MF)                    700        9L5        9bS         94c         9?Is        q4c
Funglcideo&
Groondnuto                            -           -           253        338         338         338
Sorghuo/oillet                        -           -           -          100         100         100
Fertilioors                             -           -           -        5,200       3,200       5,200
Overall îoceooeeaL                      800         800         875     1000        1.000       1.000
Total            3,840       5,705       7,765     14,183      14,183      15,183
3. Net Volue of Production                56,510      65,445      77,335    106,467    116, 9k7    11 6,07
Fa-ily Consu_ptio  aod Taxes
Faoily Coosueptioon1               45,475      45,475      L8,45o     48,45o      18,450      48,450
Head taxeo /                        2.800       2.800       28002 80     800       2.800       2.800
Total           58,275     48,275      51,250      51,250      51,250      51,250
5.  Net Caoh Onco
Annual                              8,235      17,170      26,094     55,217      65,717      65,717
Gunulative                          8,235      25,405     51,59°    106,707    172,424    238,1ù1
6.  Retor  ta Labac
- Labor requicenent~
- Groundnuts                           97         120         158        232         232         232
- Ooeghu,o/colllet                    126         136         136        142         156         156
Total              223         256         294        374         388         388
Net Reveoue/Maoday  Worked (M4F)         253.4       255.6       263.0       284.7       301.S       301,5
Net Cash InconeeManday Worked (Mi7)       36.9        67.1        88.7       147.6       169.4       169.4
Net Revon.e/Cap,ta (MF)                £,648       7,69;       9,098      12,526      13,761      13,761
NRt Rsvenue/OCpita (uS$)                  16          18          22          30          33          33
/  Basic assucptinos: si.e  cf holding: 3 to 4 ha, fanily of o.5 persons of
which 3.5 active and 2 taxahle.
Soedo.  Grcucdnu; 65 kg/ha in yeor 0, thceasfter 110 kg/ha.
Millt/sccghu- 10 kg/ha ij yeaT 0, theroafter 13.5 kg/ho et 2' 35.
In year 2, pur-hase cf grour.drut improved seedo o  ME' 34.5/kc;
seeds rp-aced ecoh fo-r-h year, o-hbr-o-e c`' 30/kg.
3   lt presernt officiol seiig price.
E lotir-e:-d et MF 250/ha for touis.
5t  Groundnuts: 15 kg/capita/year valued ut 'M  30/kg.
Sorghun/milet: 14O kg/capite/year, incr..eamg to 150 ig/capi;Ca/er foc;
year 2; valuei at MF 35/kg.
j   MF 1 ,4 S/c.e  adult.
,/ ee Accex 3, talle 1:.
Beecbar c, 19733



O     11 1 1                                                                         hbb   1, 1                        h             hi , o    tz b X  n  hi                              J                  
h                                         Z  Ch                                      i an   1>       h    n.   h   |r                                                                  i h                             h              
Dn >n--o                >                                            a- S  ,H       ,t- _        O  |   ' h                                                      ho'hC0 >  °OhtO-|
en- o                                                                                          e,   a n  o 5           e                                                                                                   ieh C o. t 
°. Ch  Oh  o.                                                             O' .   o  o o-               c         o                  o     °                       w H           9           o,   o o  nw  n o   o.
hi~~                      ~~ o                                                                                                                                       F -  h
C~~O   I     wnHo  W  '                                                                                                                                           n                      o' w 
xo c ô co > 1u Q \~~~~~, k    -w-                                                                  oi                          b- koooôc°o        .
.-~h-l- 
gOeoflhee ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~'  t,    h                                                                                -~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 15
Tabe 3
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Farm Budget B
Cash Flvm for Farm under Ox-1ravis Cultivation Y
I Cash Outflow                                                            _____________--- - - -Years----- - - - - - --- - - - - -
0            1            2            3           4            5            6            7           8            9           10
- Production inputs   14,228         8,238        9,748       11,407       22,942      11,557       11,557       11,557       22,942      11,557       11,557
- Equipme-t/ Draft p2 70,000        53,500        5,000        5,000      40,000       40,000       23,500        5,000        5,000      40,000       40,000
Animais
- Taxes                 2,800               2,800        2      .800  2,800       2      .800 2,8   2J89Q         2,800        2.800       2J800        2.800
Slb-total            87,028       64,538       17,548       19,207       65,742      54,357       37,857       19,357       30,742      54,357       54,357
/3
Oown Paymient-      16 ,166         -                        --------
/4
Seasanai Credit      12,79n         5,200       6,500        7,800       19,185       7,800
repayment
Medioe Tenu Credit    -            16,167      16,167                                               -                  -
repayisen t---
Total Outflo.       '15,984        85,905      40,215       27,007       84,927      62,157       37,857       19,357       30,742       54,357      54,357
T1 ' ashi Infini.
/5
Slaes (net)        75,935        74,575       90,925      117,660     139,065      129,165      129,165      129,165      139,065     129,165      129,165
lth.  Incomes/    50,000            -           -            -         50,000       50,000         -            -            -         50,000       50,000
Seasonal Crndit    12,963         5,200        6,500        7,800       19,185       7,800
Mediun Term Credit   -                                                    _            - -  -  -   -
Total Inflnw        138,898       112,109      97,425      175,460      208,250      186,965     129,165      129,165      139,065      129,165     129,165
JII Cash Balance
Annual            22,914       26,204       57,210       98,453      123,323     124,808       91,308      109,808      108,323      74,808       74,808
CuIulative        22,914       49,118      106,328      204,781     328,104      452,912      528,035      637,843      746,166     820,974      895,782
/L  Basic assh-ptions see   ANNEX 3.
12  Purchase of a pair ef oxen in year 0, repla.ement in years 4/5 and 9/10, purchase uf mnitieultivator and
-   seeder in year 1; purchase of spare parts the following years.
/3  One-third of total cost of eqoipent.
/4  Ioput and implement price cents include financial charges and delivery cout.
/5 Excloding home consumption, animal feed and seeds.
/6  Savings froi previo.s year in Year 0, proceeds nf ox sales for years after Year 0.
August 31, 1973






MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Impact of Project on Consolidated Govermnaent Finance   1/
(MF Million)
Year:         1            2            I            4            S            6            7            8            9            10           il        12 - 21         22 - 51
Yr 1973/74   1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84       1984/85-       1994/95-
1993/94        2023/24
INFLOWS
Proceeds from taxes on groundnuts  2/   553.7           827.1       1,147.7      1,639.6      1,700.3      1,649.8       1,535.3      1,346.4      1,346.4      1,346.4      1,346.4      1,346.4         1,346.4
Duties and taxes on project
expenditure                                78.0        233.0         169.5         84.7          81.6         53.6         53.6         35.0         32.0         28.9         24.9         24.9            24.9
FAC Grant                                  454.0        244.8          235.7        161.0        163.9          -            -            -            -            -            -             -              -
IDA Credit                                  -         1,350.8       1,151.1        725.8         772.4          -            -            -            -            -            -
Farmers' contribution to increaiental
farm inputs costs  3/                      34.7        209.6         343.8        524.9        734.2        482.2        389.8         309.1        309.1        309.1        309.1        309.1           309.1
Total Inflows                               1.120.4      2.865.3        3.047.8      3,136.0      3,452.4      2.185.6      1.978.7      1,690.5      1,687.5      1.684.4      1.680.4      1.680.4         1.680.4
OUTFLOWS
Incremental farm inputs cost
(unsubsidized)  4/                       212.4        348.8         478.5        619.1        732.7        324.7        329.8        329.8         329.8        329.8        329.8        329.8          329.8
Project administration  5/                 644.3      1,636.8       1,251.9         685.4        665.1        292.3        292.3        225.1        197.9        170.4        139.9         139.9          139.9
Revolving fund for blacksmith and
extension workers' vehicles                24.2         14.0           4.7           8.9        (27.6)       (18.8)        (5.4)         -            -            -            -             -              -
Contingencies                              103.0        353.5          383.4        455.9        631.0          -            -            -            -            -             -            -              -
Total Outflows                                983.9      2,353.1        2,118.5      1,769.3      2,001.2        598.2        616.7        554.9         527.7        500.2        469.7        469.7          469.7
Net Flow before Application of
Debt Service                                136.5        512.2          929.3      14,366.7     1,451.2      1,587.4      1,362.0      1,135.6      1,159.8      1,184.2      1,210.7       1,210.7        1,210.7
Debt Service (service charge + repayment)    -               28.1          28.1         28.1         28.1         28.1          28.1         28.1         28.1         28.1         28.1         65.6           140.6
Net Cash Flow                                  136.5        484.1         901.2      1,338.6      1,423.1      1,559.3      1,333.9       1,107.5      1,131.7      1,156.1      1,182.6      1,145.1         1,070.1
Cumulative Cash Flow                           136.5        620.6       1,521.8      2,860.4      4,283.5      5,842.8      7,176.7      8,284.2       9,415.9    10,570.0    11,754.6    23,205.6          55.308.6
1/  Government Budget, Stabilization Fund, Operation Arachide and SCAER.
2/  Levies on the proceeds from taxes and levies on groundnuts - see Table 2.
3J  Inputs supplied through SCAER and Operation Arachide only:  includes cash purchases, down payaent and repayments.
4/  Governaent expenditure for farm inputs including credit and subsidies.
5/  Project, capital and operating costs.
April 26, 1974                                                                                                                                                                                                        -



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Impact of Proiect on Consolidated Government Finance
Detailed Proceeds from Taxes and Levies on Groundnuts
(MF Million)
1         2            3           4          5        6          7           8           9           10           11 - 15
I.   Marketed Output  1/
(tons undecorticated)
- vith project                        55,000    64,600       79,200      96,800    105,830   108,740   111,120   111,120   111,120   111,120                 111,120
- vithout project                     47.840    50,850       54,500      55.530      56,230    56,230    56,230    56.230    56,230    56,230                 56,230
Increment                            7,160    13,750       24,700      41,270      49,400    52,510    54,890    54.890    54,890    54,890                 54,890
II.   Proceeds
Value at market  2/                   768.5      1,239.6    1,888.7    2,877.7   3,182.3   3,225.1   3,182.0   2,993.1   2,993.1   2,993.1                   2,993.1
Paid to producer   3/                 214.8        412.5       741.0    1,238.1   1,482.0   1,575.3   1,646.7   1,646.7   1,646.7   1,646.7                  1,646.7
Accruing to Government                553.7        827.1    1,147.7    1,639.6   1.700.3   1,649.8   1,535.3   1.346.4   1,346.4   1,346.4                   1,346.4
TII,   Allocation of Proceeds   4/
To Government Budget
-  Export taxes                        44.9         86.1       154.8       258.6      309.5      329.0      343.9      343.9      343.9      343.9             343.9
- Taxes on Marketing
Operations                          3.9          7.6        13.7        22.8       27.3       29.0       30.3       30.3       30.3       30.3              30.3
To OA & SCAER                          68.7        132.0       232.1       396.2      474.2      504.0      526.9      526.9      526.9      526.9             526.9
To Stabilization Fund                  50.1         96.3       172.9       288.8      345.8      367.6      385.7      385.7      385.7      385.7             385.7
To SOMIEX (profits retained)          386.1        505.1       574.2       673.2      543.5      420.2      248.5       59.6       59.6       59.6              59.6
TOTAL                              553.7        827.1    1,147.7    1,639.6   1.700.3   1,649.8   1,535.3   1,346.4   1,346.4  1346.4                   1.346.4
1/  Marketed output without project is assumed to decrease from 61% (current ratio before project) to 53% as larger areas without adequate marketing
facilities are considered. Inversely, marketed output with project will rise to 64% and after a decline in Year 2 and 3 (60 and 62%) will
level off at 65%.
2/  Projected value at farm gate plus costs of transportation from farm to market place see Annex 14.
3/  Prices to producer are assumed at MF 30/kg undecorticated groundnut (present official price at market).                                                                     eX
4/  Based on existing levies (Bareme 1973/74) Rate of taxes for Government budget assumed unchanged.



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Benefits 1/
(MF Million)
Year:         1            2            3            4             5            6            7           8           9            10           11 - 15
Foreign Exchange Benefits
from Croundnuts    1/                      836.6       1,369.6    2,119.7       3,257.2       3,643.3      3,691.9       3,669.8    3,480.7    3,480.7        3,480.7         3,480.7
from Millet/Sorghum  2/                    126.8         441.7       771.6      1,181.6       1,610.0      1,985.2       1,883.8    2,001.4    2,001.4        2,001.4         2,001.4
Total Benefits                               963.4       1,811.3    2,891.3       4,438.8       5,253.3      5,677.1       5,553.6    5,482.1    5,482.1        5,482.1         5,482.1
Foreign Exchange Costs   3/                  560.9       1,337.1    1,209.8       1,020.7       1,175.4        322.4         325.1       290.2       276.0        261.7            245.9
Net Foreign Exchange Benefits                402.5         474.2    1,681.5       3,418.1       4,077.9      5,354.7       5,228.5    5,191.9    5,206.1        5,220.4          5,236.2
1/  Based on ineremental marketed output and value at Malian border from Annex 14, Table 4.
2/  Based on net incremental output and value at Malian border derived from Annex 14, Table 9.
3/  See Annex 12.
April 26, 1974.






ANNEX 17
Page 1
MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN CALCULATION
1.        Table 1 shows details of Benefits and Expenditures used in
calculating the economic rate of return for the project.
2.        The following assumptions have been used in the calculations
(a) Project life. The economic life of the project is assumed
to be 15 years from project year 1 (1973/74). This takes
into account the useful life of the major investments
of the project.
(b)  Project Benefits.  (see Table 2)
(i) Yields and outputs used in the calculations are shown
in Annex 3.  Requirements for seeds and grains for
animal feed have been deducted from production.
(ii) Prices used in the calculations are the economic prices
at farm gate shown in Annex 14, Tables 4 & 8. They are
based on international prices forecast by the Bank's
Economic Analysis and Projections Department. Benefits
from groundnuts have been computed on an export basis,
no account being taken of any benefit from processing
into oil. Benefits from millet and sorghum have been
computed on an import substitution basis.
(iii)  Benefits from the project road improvement component
have been treated on the basis of direct transport and
vehicles operating cost savings. For return on the
road improvement alone see Annex 4.
(c) Project costs.
(i) All costs used in the calculation exclude identified
direct taxes, import duties and price contingencies.
(ii) The full unsubsidized cost of farm inputs and implements,
including adequate distribution costs, has been charged
to the rate of return.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
(iii)  Incremental farm labor requirement and cost are shown in
Table 3. The wage rate of MF 200/manday used in costing
labor represents the estimated average earning of the
"Navetane," a seasonal migrant farm worker; the "Navetanat"
is a major source of hired farm labor in Mali.  This
rate is regarded as a fair compensation for the disutility
involved in the additional effort required from farmers
in the project.  It compares with the return to labor for
a farmer using almost no modern inputs (see Annex 15)
and represents 57% of the official daily rate for casual
laborers in rural areas (MF 350).
(iv)  Project administration costs include costs of supporting
services provided through the ancillary subprojects.
The main subproject costs have been adjusted to include
the proportion of ongoing project extension staff and
operating costs which would have been given other
development assignments in the absence of the new
project. This proportion is estimated to 2/3 of
1972/73 extension staff and operating costs.
3.        Under the foregoing assumptions the estimated economic rate of
return of the project is 91.2% over 15 years and 91.3% over 20 years. The
senisitivity has been tested over wide varieties of conditions and the
ftol1owinç are considered the most representative.
Costs                         Benefits from                    R/R
Groundnuts              Mfillet Sorghum       (%)
110                   100                     100               69
120                   100                     100               54
130                   100                     100               44
100                    90                      90               67
100                    80                      80               49
100                    75                      50               30.
110                    90                      90               53
130                    90                      90               33
120                    80                      80               29
110                    75                      50                22



MALI
TINTEGRATED RURAL DEVELO0PMENT PROJECT
Project Economic Cash Flow
(MF Million)
Year 1   Year 2        Year 3        Year 4       Year 5        Year 6       Year 7        Year 8        Year 9      Year 10   ïear 11-15
1983/84-
1973/74  1974/75       1975/76       1976/77      1977/78       1978/79      1979/80       1980/81       1981/82      1982/83       1987/88
I Project Benefits
Value of' incremiental production
Groundnut                               758.1   1,024.7        1,773.9      2,873.9       3,229.5      3,335.7       3,326.9      3,125.0       3,125.0       3,125.0      3,125.0
Millet/Sorghum                           115.6      402.5        703,2      1,068.6       1,456.1      1,795.5       1,680.0       1,784.9      1,784.9       1,784.9      1,784.9
Total T                                 873.7   1,427.2        2,477.1      3,942.5       4,685.6      5,131.2       5,006.9      4,909.9       4,909.9      4,909.9       4,909.9
II Project Expenditures
a) Project Administration Costs
Developsient expenditures 2              68.5   1,,605.8       1,256.6         694.3        665.1         292.3        292.3         225.1        197.9         170.4         139.9
OA expendltures -3/                      193.2      193.2        193.2         193.2        193.2         193.2        193.2         148.8        1-30.8        112.6          92.5
Subtotai         861.1&   1,799.0      1,449.8         887.5         858.3        485.5        485.5         373.9         328.7        283.0         232.4
Taxes on project expenditure ~-'         78.0       233.0        169.5         84.7          81-.6         53.6         53.6          35.0         32.0          28.9          24.9
Taxes on OA expenditure  ~/14.5                      -4. 5        î4.5         14.5          14.5          14.5         14.5          11.2           9.           8.4           6.9
Subtotal          92.5      247.5         184.0         99.2          96.i         68.1          68.1         46.2          41.8          37.3         31.8
Total administration cost                769.3   1,551.5       1,265.8         788.3        762.2         417.4        417.4         327.7        286.9         245.7         200.6
b) On Farsi Costs
Incremsental farm labor 5/76.0                     327.6         517.4        790.0         927.0      1,026.0       1,037.8       i,042.8      1,042.8       1,042.8       1,042.8
Incremental farm inputs and equip-
ment 6/                               211.8      348.3         480.3        639.1         766.4         360.4        365.5         365.5        365.5         365.5         421.5
Sondry expenditures                       8.6        22.2         38.9          59.4         84.2          92.3          95.7         96.           96.          9689
Su.bto+&i       296.4       698.1      1,036.6       1,488.5      1,777.6       1,478.7      1,499.0       1,505.1       1,505.1      1,505.1       1,561.i
c)  Physical Contingencies                  44.8      101.1          88.4         67.6         72.2             -            -             -            -             --
Total II                              1,110.5   2,350.7        2,390.8      2,344.4       2,612.0       1,896.1      1,916.4       1,832.8      1,792.0       1,750.8       1,76i.7
TII Net Economic Benefits                     (236.8)   (923.5)          86.3      1,598.1       2,073.        3,235.1      3,090.5       3,077.1      3,117.9       3,159.1       3,148.2
Econoniic Rate of Return:  15 years; 91.2%;  20 years; 9 1.S
1/  See Table 2.
See Annex 12.
2/3 of ongoin'g CA staff and operating costs see Annex 12.
About 20% of operating costs.
<P       Tabliemt for seeds having been deducted fromi production, this includes only production and. distribution costs of im2proved seeds.                                                     F
February 14, 1974HH



MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Cash Flow Calculation
Project Berefits
A. Quantities (Tons)
Groundnuts            Year:         1             2              3            4             5              6             7             8
Incremental Production            7,470        13,520        26,830        46,480        56,430        61,215        64,885        64,885
Incremental Seeds                   283         1921          3100          4.316159                    5,748         6199           6,199
Net Increment                     7,187        11,599        23,730        42,164        51,271        55,467        58,686         58,686
Millet
Incremental Production            1,905         7,020        12,215        20,020        27,255        33,135        36,355        38,635
Incremental Seeds                    10           425           484           566           625           663           710            735
Animal Feed  /L                      66           226           604         1,092          1,610        1,622          2,508         2,694
Net Increment                     1,829         6,369        11,127        18,362        25,020        30,850        33,137         35,206
B. Vlalue (MF'000,000) /2
Groundnuts                           758.1       1,024.7       1,773.9       2,873.9       3,229.5       3,335.7       3,326.9       3,125.0
Millet/Sorghum                       115.6        402.5          703.2       1.068.6       1,456.1       1,795.5       1.680.0       1,784.9
Total            873.7       1,427.2       2,477.1       3,942.5       4,685.6       5,131.2       5,006.9       4,909.9
/1   See Table 3.
/2   Economic farm-gate prices used for computation are in Annex 14, Tables 4 anc 9.
December 28, 1973                                                                                                                                         |x



o                                                                    MALI
g                                                   INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Farm Labor
'-o                Year:                  1          2           3            4            5            6             7            8
Labor Requirement 1/
('000 of Mandays)
Groundnuts                   303        841        1,594        2,620        3,054         3,413        3,342        3,342
Millet/Sorghum                77        797          993                      1,330        1,720
Total             380      1,638        2,587        3,950        4,635         5,133        5,189        5,214
Value (F'O000,000)
(Using MF 200/manday)           76      327.6        517.4        790.0        927.0         1,026.6      1,037.8      1,042.8
Oxen Feed Requirement
Incremental Working Days (000)
Groundnuts                    30         77           165          283          427          497          670           670
Millet/Sorghum                 3         36           137          263          378          314          584           677
Total              33        113           302          546          805          811        1,254         1,347
Feed Requirement 2/
(Tons of grains)                66        226          604        1,092         1,610        1,622        2,508        2,694
1/ Net increment, taking into account saving due to ox-powered cultivation.
2/  2 kg of millet/sorghum/pair of oxen/working day.
@,Iz
>i






MALI
INTERGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
PRODUCTION MINISTER
r        General Directorate                   Insti tu te of
of Agriculture                    Rural Economy
I                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN
Board of        _   _   _            Project General Manager       _        _   _Evaluation Unit
Di rectors                                        /
Deputy General Manager
Chief of Personnel
Technical Manager                                               Chief Accountant                            and social matters
Head         Dy.Technical                      Credit         Accounts              O             Training
STR              ODC-:1            Manager
Sector _ _  _  0.D.C._  _  _Sector  .__ .    .    .             __       Sector   _   _
Road             Agents           Chief                                Bookkeeper
Gangs
_`2SubSector_ __                          _ SubSector
Chief                               Bookkeeper                       _     
Basic Sector Chiefss-                                -   -          -
FARM E-                                        =_
ANCILLARY SUB PROJECTS
A. Research                    Jointly with Directorate of Agricultural Research of l.E.R.
B. Rural track improvement                  Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics (DNTPi
C. Functional literacy                      Direcorate of Functional Literacy
D. Medical Assistance                       Directorate of Medical Service
E. Veterinary Assistance                    Service de le levage et de la Sante Animale (SESA)
STR = Service des Travaux Routiers
2/ ODC = Ox Drawn Cultivation
World Bank-8320






>)           12-    ~~~~~~M    A    U    R '°  I     T   A    N    1 8-  A6                                                         j                     2_    11=X                               '
%                         ..        .` ..                                                                    . . . .                                                                  , ...
MAURITANIA  | REPUBLIC  >   >/  z )                    KolondseboO                    /                           [                    . -- 1967~~~~REPULIC O   MAL
SENEGALX ~ ~        ~        ~        ~        A                                                                                                                         INTGRTE               RURALILNI          .R////16
814»-     ----                                               °              <°                    --   ! Kodoloo;                                                      noooooc Cv
GU ;NEA Srrk    [ ULX        `      '__      ;/' - t       z   /         j   WJ       \.^                                           DEVFLOPMENT               PROJEC
o  iEoNEy7 5 IVORY !    }~ot3   NIGE RIA   g -10'               i                                                                                       0        50     100              200     ° 
9;   } CASTfGHNArÇEN*iU JA,IVORY                                                                                                                                  @KtMT2  
/ - AMERooN T71e IlhzzoxM7rhs s1~~~~~~~~R                                                                                               O J E  T r1 5 t ;1 Ii 11A R E At12i  ,J<
O  ce    n ' t lollRl sIBak /     (eZzil e 1      8        ; B                                                5tMAKO4                                            2« 






112.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
m  A  U  R  1  T  A  N  1  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-14'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
ui                                                                                                                                        14,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
4                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC 0F MALI
INTEGRATED RURAL
13                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
RAINFALL
sTrArE CAPITAL
12'                                                                                     (4j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~@ REGIONAL CAPITAL12
o    ADMINISTRATIVE CENTER 0F CERCLE
7H'AR'A~~~~~~~~-  ALGERIA                                                                                               - - - - ~~~~~~~~~ 4o6  SREGIONAL BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOIUNDARIES
MAURITANIA   REPUBLIC                                   III                                                                      - ANNUAL RAINFALL IN MILLIMETERS
ALI   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~RIVERS
ALI  N 1 G E R                                                                                      L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COLOGICAL ZONES
\A REiA                                  cjSAHELIAN
r~~ VOLTA                                                                                                                                               SOUDANIAN
NIGERIA                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GUINEAN 
~Oy.            NIGRIAJ-/                                                                                                                 O0                           200 
COAST /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANAi1okj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   «~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  h>     50    îoe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
IBk<    'I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V                                                     )A                                                      ILMTR
""PI          I~~~~~~~'                                                                                                              - NI~~~~8






t~~~P ,        '           --0   
:                                ` ) .    . ~~~ ~             ~       ~     ~~~m rfnk  
8                                     a               <    *-*~~~~~~~~~~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------------
)\  r    c ,F    u °e--   ---  < i   i  a                f           i       ]~~~~~~~~~~-------
.,./t   de 
90zol~~~ C  d`>2XtZ' ` 



