CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 491 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Integrated Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 1, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 491 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Integrated Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 1, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF MALI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "OA" means the Borrower's "Operation Arachide" an Op&ration de
Developpement Rural established and operating within the Borrower's Ministry of
Production pursuant to the Ordonnance No. 22/CMLN of March 24, 1972, Decree
No. I 16-PG-RM of September 16, 1972, and Decree No. 33/PG-RM of March 25,
1972, including any successor thereto;
(b)   "SCAER" means "Societe de Crddit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural"
a Socidtd d'Etat established and operating under the laws of the Borrower pursuant
to Ordonance No. 16/CMLN of May 10, 1971 and Decree No. 62/PG of May 28,
1971, including any successor thereto;
(c)   "OSRP" means Office de Surveillance et de Rdgulation des Prix, an
Etablissement Public established and operating Linder the laws of the Borrower
pursuant to Law No. 68-42 DL-RM of June 20, 1968, including any successor
thereto;
(d)   "MF" means Mali Francs in the currency of the Borrower;


﻿4
(e)   "Reciprocal Service Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between OA and SCAER as provided for under Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(f)   The term "Bareme Arachide" means the schedule of estimated costs
per ton to be incurred from the groundnut producer level up to the delivery of
such products CIF Europe for the various transactions and operations in respect
to groundnut products (including producer price, collecting costs, sale, purchase,
treatment, handling, bagging, shipment, payment of taxes and levies and other
miscellaneous costs with respect to such products) as this schedule is determined
annually by the Groundnut Legislation;
(g)   The term "Groundnut Legislation" means the Borrower's decree issued
each year by the Borrower for purposes of regulating the marketing and prices
of groundnut products for each such year;
(h)   The term "Producer Price" means the price to be paid, in respect of
groundnut products, to the groundnut producer, as this price is determined annually
by the Groundnut Legislation; and
(i)   The term  "Special Account" means the account referred to under
Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2,02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
(b)   Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
the Association shall, promptly after the Effective Date, withdraw from the Credit


﻿5
Account and deposit in the Special Account an initial amount in the currency
of the Borrower not exceeding $200,000 equivalent and shall thereafter, at the
request of the Borrower, further withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to reimburse the Borrower
for payments made out of the Special Account for expenditures for the Project
eligible for financing under the Development Credit Agreement but only to the
extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of $200,000.
(c)   Notwithstanding the foregoing no further deposit shall be made to
the Special Account and no other withdrawal shall be made from the Credit
Account when the total amount theretofore withdrawn from the Credit Account
pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, together with the amount of
any special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall have reached in the aggregate the equivalent of
$7,800,000.
(d)   The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section the unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit in excess of $7,800,000, if and only to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all payments were made by the Borrower out of
the Special Account for expenditures eligible for withdrawal from the Credit
Account.
(e)  If the Association shall have determined that payments have been made
by the Borrower out of the Special Account for expenditures not eligible for
withdrawal from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall, upon notice from the
Association, deposit in the Special Account an amount equal to the amount of
such payments.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants and groundnut seeds to be produced
by OA) required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be procured on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿6
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January I
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January I and July 1 commencing
July 1, 1984 and ending January 1, 2024, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1994, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with the assistance
of OA, SCAER and of the Borrower's departments specified in the description
thereof in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate sound administrative, agricultural, engineering and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause OA and SCAER, to enter into a
reciprocal service agreement under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association for purposes of defining the responsibilities of OA and SCAER in the
purchase and distribution of farm inputs and equipment, tht. provision of credit
and the management of stocks.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, for purposes of execution of the Project,
open a special account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
in a bank in the territory of the Borrower acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.04. No later than six (6) months from the date of this Agreement,
(or such other date as the Association may agree) the Borrower shall:
(i)         cause OSRP to assume under arrangements satisfactory to the
Association all OA's obligations incurred by OA towards SCAER


﻿7
in respect of any transaction related to the purchase, resale and
distribution of seed products;
(ii)        entrust OA with exclusive responsibility in the Project area for
procurement of, supply and distribution of, and extension of
Credit for, groundnut seed products; and
(iii)       cause OA to establish a revolving fund for purposes of financing
OA's credit extension operations for groundnut seed products.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A, C
and D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair ;uch goods.
(b)   Exrept as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents, work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in


﻿8
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained,
records, including separate accounts, adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower, including OA, OSRP and SCAER, responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of the foregoing
paragraph the Borrower shall cause OSRP to maintain separate accounts, adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices,
its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of its groundnut operations.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause: (i) OA to have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) OSRP to have its accounts (including the accounts referred to
under the foregoing paragraph (b)) and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by the
Borrower's audit services; (iii) OA and OSRP to furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of their respective financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv) furnish to the Association such other information concerning their respective
accounts and financial statements of OA and OSRP and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause OA to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.


﻿9
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on any new policies or measures
which may affect prices, rebates or any other subsidy on farm inputs and
equipment, including seeds.
(b)   For the purpose of encouraging cash sales of farm     inputs and
equipment, including seeds, in the Project area, the Borrower shall, no later than
six (6) months from the date of this Agreement, (or such other date as the
Association may agree) take all action as may be necessary to ensure that in the
Project area discounts are granted to purchasers of any such inputs, including seeds,
sold for cash, in an amount to be determined with due regard to the service charges
applicable to the purchase on credit of any such products.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower: (i) each year on its proposed
Groundnut Legislation, and (ii) on its proposed new Producer Price, before enacting
any changes with respect to the Producer Price.
(b)   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary: (i) to enable OSRP
to accumulate in the price stabilization fund maintained within OSRP, reserves
sufficient to enable OSRP to stabilize prices paid, in respect of groundnut products,
to producers of such products; and (ii) to cause OSRP to submit annually to the
Association for approval a proposed schedule of estimated payments to be made
for that year in respect of groundnut products, to and from such price stabilization
fund.
Section 4.05 The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all action as
may be necessary:
(i)         to appoint, no later than six months from the date of this
Agreement (or such other date as the Association may agree),
to OA's Board of Directors, the manager of OSRP; and
(ii)       to invite, as and when needed, for the purpose of ensuring
coordination of the execution of the Project, representatives of
the Borrower's departments responsible for carrying out any Part
of the Project, to attend the meetings of OA's Board of
Directors;
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to cause: (i) OA
to employ and maintain a manager, a manager of technical operations and chief
accountant, all with qualifications and experience and under terms and conditions


﻿10
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) its Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics
within its Ministry of Public Works to second, to OA a road inspector and not
less than four trained road gang leaders, all experienced and qualified.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall take all action as may be necessary
to fix, no later than November 30, 1974 (or such other date as the Association
may agree) the producer price applicable, in the Project area, on millet and sorghum
products at not less than MF25 per kilogram.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall:
(i)         no later than August 15, 1974 (or such other date as the
Association may agree) carry out the study referred to under
Part D(b) of the Project;
(ii)        no later than April 30, 1975 (or such other date as the
Association may agree) exchange views with the Association on
the recommendations of such study; and
(iii)       no later than May 31, 1975 (or such other date as the
Association may agree) establish on the basis of said
recommendations a plan of action to be satisfactory to the
Association, and thereafter implement such plan of action.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development: Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of OA, OSRP and SCAER, respectively, and, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and


﻿11
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of OA, OSRP, SCAER, respectively, and, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Lny
part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from       any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thcreo',
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effec         in its
territories.


﻿12
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02-. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified, namely, that the Borrower's (i)
Ordonnance No. 22/CMLN of March 24, 1972, (ii) Ordonance No. 16 CMLN of
May 10, 1971, (iii) Decree No. 116-PG-RM of September 16, 1972, (iv) Decree
No. 33/PG-RM of March 25, 1972, (v) Decree No. 62-PG of May 28, 1971, or
(vi) Law No. 68-42/DL-RM of June 20, 1968 shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as materially and adversely to affect
the ability of OA, SCAER or OSRP, respectively, to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in this Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in
Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  OA and SCAER have executed and delivered the Reciprocal Service
Agreement and such agreement has been duly authorized and ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action (including without limitation,
authorization and approval by the Borrower's Minister of Finance and Minister
of Production); and
(b)  The Borrower has opened the Special Account.


﻿13
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Reciprocal
Service Agreement has been duly authorized and approved by the Borrower's
Minister of Finance and Minister of Production and has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, OA and SCAER, and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of OA and SCAER in accordance with
its terms.
Section 8.03. The date September 30, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article 4 of this
agreement and the provisions of Section 7.02 of this Agreement and those of
Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 7 years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.0 1. The Minister responsible for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bamako, Koulouba
Republic of Mali
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Bamako


﻿14
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By /s/ H.E. Seydou Traor6
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / E. Peter Wright
Director, Country Programs Department
Western Africa Regional Office


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.          Vehicles and               795,000            100% of foreign
graders required                               expenditures or
for the purposes                              66% of total
of the Project                                expenditures
II.         Incremental cost           208,000            18% of total
of groundnut im-                              expenditures
proved seeds
III.        Construction of          1,352,600            80% of total
buildings and                                  expenditures
Project facili-
ties
IV.         Expatriate staff,        1,721,000            85% of total
salaries and                                  expenditures
consultants'
services
V.          Consultants'                90,000            100% of foreign
services under                                expenditures
Part D(b) of
the Project
and account-
ing services
VI.         Incremental                807,000            75% of total
local staff                                   expenditures
salaries
VII.        Incremental              1,637,400            80% of total
operating costs                               expenditures
of Project
VIII.       Unallocated              1,389,000
TOTAL         8,000,000


﻿16
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower;
(c)   the term "incremental cost of groundnut improved seeds" means for
any kind of groundnut improved seeds such amount as the Association shall
reasonably determine to be needed by OA from time to time to finance purchases
of that kind of groundnut improved seeds in quantities sufficient to meet Project
demands, over and above the amounts already available to OA for that purpose;
(d)   the term "incremental local staff salaries" means such amount as the
Association shall reasonably determine to be needed by the Borrower to meet
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) for local
staff salaries required to meet Project demands, over and above the amounts already
available to the Borrower for that purpose; and
(e)   the term  "incremental operating costs of the Project" means such
amount as the Association shall reasonably determine to be needed by the Borrower
to meet operating expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) for the Project, over and above the amounts already available to the Borrower
for that purpose.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and
(c)   any expenditures in respect of any Category of the table set forth
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Borrower's request for authorization


﻿17
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be supported by contract,
shipping and other appropriate documents satisfactory to the Association, provided
that, in case of withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account under Categories
II, VI and VII of the table set forth in paragraph I of this Schedule, requests for
authorizations to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, on account of
expenditures in respect of any such Category shall be supported by statements
certified by OA that such amounts to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) in connection with eligible expenditures under said Category.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Categories I,
II, III, IV or VI shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the second phase (March 1973 - March 1978) of the Borrower's
"Operation Arachide" and under this second phase, OA's activities will be:
(i)         intensified in the area it covers at present in the administrative
units of Kouliboro, Bamamba, Bamako, Kolokami, Nara, Kita,
Kayes, Bafoulabd, Kenieba;
(ii)        extended to new areas in the Administrative units of Segou,
Niono, Macina, San Tominian and the eastern part of Kenieba;
and
(iii)       diversified to promote in addition to groundnuts, all principal
farming activities, especially the production of basic cereals, and
livestock.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
Staffing, equipping and operating OA for the administration of agricultural
extension, credit and marketing services in the project area; construction and
furnishing of housing, office, storage, garage and workshop facilities; and provision
of technical assistance for Project management.
Part B:     Rural Track Improvement Program
Improvement and spot repair of about 1500 km of track located in the
Western and Central Sectors of the Project Area to be carried out by OA's Services
des Travaux Routiers.
Part C:     Functional Literacy Program
Studv and evaluation of past and ongoing functional literacy programs and
establishing, constructing, staffing and equipping of about 500 functional literacy
program centers during an initial 3 year stage and of about 200 additional functional
literacy programs, the establishment of which is to be contingent upon the results
of the study mentioned above, all to be carried out in consultation with OA by
the Directorate of Functional Literacy within the Borrower's Ministry of Education.


﻿19
Part D:     Research Program and evaluation
(a)   Carrying out by the Directorate of Agricultural Research of the Institut
d'Economie Rurale within the Borrower's Ministry of Production of a research
program consisting of:
(i)         applied studies on diversification of agricultural production in
the Project area by the introduction of crops such as cotton,
maize, cowpeas and fodder crops;
(ii)        continuation of work on improved groundnut varieties and
pesticides and fertilizers to be applied to groundnut farming;
and
(iii)       carrying out of soil surveys;
(b)   study on marketing of, and on producer prices applicable to, millet
and sorghum products.
(c)   Carrying out by an autonomous evaluation unit attached to, and in
coordination with, the Institut d'Economie Rurale within the Borrower's Ministry
of Production, of an evaluation of the effects of the Project on the population
in the Project area and on the economy of the Borrower.
Part E:     Improvements of Medical Facilities Progran!
Provision of additional staff, vehicles, equipment, medicines and construction
and equipping of dispensaries in the Project Area to improve, under the supervision
of OA and the Directorate of Medical Services within the Borrower's Ministry of
Public Health, the activities and quality of existing health services in the remotest
parts of the Project Area.
Part F:     Improvement of Veterinary Services Program
Strengthening of existing veterinary services through p;ovision of additional
staff, dips, vehicles, equipment, veterinary medicine, and carrying out of veterinary
programs to be established jointly by OA and the Services de l'Elevage et de la
Sante Animale within the Borrower's Ministry of Production.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1978.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.   With respect to any contract for vehicles and graders, estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for vehicles and graders, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,


﻿21
if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison for goods included
in Category I of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the
evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For goods included in Category I of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower may grant a margin
of preference to goods manufactured in Mali in accordance with, and subject to,
the following provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Mali if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Mali equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: bids offering goods manufactured in Mali, other
than bids classified in Group A.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes in goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine


﻿22
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
C.    Preferences for Domestic Civil Works Contractors
1.    With respect to any co. tract for civil works included under Category III
of the table set forth in Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors, as determined
by the Borrower, in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. Applicants applying for preference shall be asked to
provide such information, including details of ownership, as the Borrower shall
require to determine whether according to the Borrower's established classification
a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. A list of
prequalified bidders identifying those eligible for preference, together with a
statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification or eligibility for preference, shall be furnished by
the Borrower to the Association for its comments and the Borrower shall make
such additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request before the applicants are invited to bid.
(b)   Before bids are invited the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.


﻿23
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
(d)   After bids have been evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.


