Document of                F"              COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2853-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
November 18, 1980
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perforumnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witout World Bank authorintion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
September 30, 1980
Currency Unit   =      Argentine Peso ($a)
US$1             *     $a 1,935
US$1 million           $a 1,935 million
$a 1 million    =      US$517
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
tce - 1 ton of coal equivalent (7,000,000 kcal)
tpy - ton per year
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
GdE       -      Gas del Estado
(State Gas Company)
YCF       -       Yacimientos Carboniferos Fiscales
(State Coal Company)
YPF       -       Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales
(State Oil Company)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



ARGENTINA                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Argentine Republic
Beneficiary:           Yacimientos Carboniferos Fiscales (YCF)
Amount:                US$10 million.
Terms:                 10 years, including 4 years of grace at 9.25% per annum.l/
Projiect               The project would evaluate coal reserves in the most
Description:          promising area of the Austral basin.  The project
consists of: (a) a drilling program; (b) high resolution
seismics; (c) geological reconnaissance; and (d) pre-
feasibility studies. The project carries the normal
risks associated with coal exploration. Economically
viable coal production at a later stage would depend on
rational energy pricing policies and improved transport
infrastructure.
Estimated Cost:                            Local        Foreign        Total
----(US$ Million Equivalent)----
Equipment                               0.2           1.8           2.0
Drilling contract                       1.6           2.9           4.5
YCF operation costs                     4.9            -            4.9
Consultants                             0.4           2.4           2.8
Base Cost                           7.1           7.1          14.2
Physical Contingencies                  0.4           0.5           0.9
Price Contingencies                     2.5           2.4           4.9
Total Project Cost                 10.0          10.0          20.0
Financing Plan:                            Local        Foreign        Total
----(US$ Million Equivalent)----
Government                              3.0            -            3.0
YCF                                     7.0            -            7.0
IBRD                                      -          10.0          10.0
Total                                10.0          10.0          20.0
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY                   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual                                  0.8    2.5    2.1    2.2    2.4
Cumulative                              0.8    3.3    5.4    7.6   10.0
Rate of Return:        Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:      No separate report.
1/   This loan would be refinanced if, as a result of this project, a loan were
to be made to the Argentine Republic or YCF for a subsequent project.
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC FOR A COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for a coal exploration project. The loan would have a term of 10 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest of at 9.25% per annum. The loan
would be refinanced if a Bank loan for a subsequent project were to be made as
a result of this exploration project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.        An economic mission visited Argentina in November 1979 and its
findings are reported in the Economic Memorandum (No. 2988-AR), distributed to
the Executive Directors in August 1980. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.        Argentina is a semi-industrialized country with a per capita income
of US$2,280 as of 1979, a sizeable middle class and a fairly even distribution
of income. Postwar GDP growth has averaged 3.5% in an economy which has
been subject to strong cyclical fluctuations. Sharp swings from expansionary
fiscal, monetary and wage policies to restrictive stabilization programs have
occurred five times since 1950. During the early 1970s when Argentina's
external situation was favorable, the Government pursued an ambitious public
investment program. Large increases in public expenditures, nominal wages and
credit resulted in strong growth of domestic output, while maintenance of
fixed exchange rates led to rapidly increasing imports. In mid-1974, poor
weather, falling world grain prices, and an EEC ban on beef imports halted
export growth. Deterioration of the foreign sector coincided with an intensi-
fication of domestic social and political conflict. Acceleration of the
wage-price spiral propelled inflation to over 300% in 1975 and an annual rate
of about 800% in early 1976. A rapidly increasing foreign debt and a drastic
fall in foreign exchange reserves brought the country close to defaulting on
its external obligations.
Stabilization Efforts 1976-1978
4.        The new administration, which took office in March 1976, had as
its initial objectives strengthening the balance of payments, restructuring
the external debt and preventing hyper-inflation. Policies such as lowering of
export taxes and raising interest rates had an immediate positive effect on
the balance of payments. Monetary and fiscal policies, supported by wage
controls, succeeded in bringing down the rate of inflation from 780% during
1/   Updated and slightly modified version of the section in the President's
Report on the Vocational Training and Technical Education Project
(No. P-2880-AR), dated September 18, 1980.



the year ending in April 1976 to 150% a year later. No further progress was
made, however, in reducing inflation during the remainder of 1977 and 1978.
Output fluctuated greatly. After recovering rapidly from the 1975-1976 reces-
sion, growth came to a halt in late 1977 when credit restrictions and record
high interest rates resulted in a drop in investment.
5.        External sector policies introduced in 1976 immediately produced
favorable export results while imports were held down by two recessions.
As a consequence, the resource balances registered surpluses of US$1.9 billion
and US$2.8 billion in 1977 and 1978 respectively. Surpluses on current
account were accompanied by substantial net capital inflows. At the begin-
ning, the public sector was the primary borrower, but starting in 1977, high
domestic interest rates induced the private sector to borrow abroad on an
increasing scale. Although the authorities introduced some controls in 1978,
long-term capital continued to flow into Argentina, and by the end of that
year gross foreign exchange reserves stood at US$5.8 billion, equivalent to
14 months of imports. Net reserves amounted to US$5.0 billion. This reserve
growth permitted a new approach to inflation control in the framework of an
open economy.
The 1979 Program
6.        In late December 1978 the Government announced the following
program: predetermined schedules for adjustment of (i) exchange rates;
(ii) prices of fuels and public sector services; (iii) wages; and (iv) the
monetary base of internal origin, combined with a five-year import tariff
reduction schedule and the formal reopening of the capital market to inter-
national transactions. Most of the adjustments were to follow a declining
trend, designed to dampen inflationary expectations and to limit price increases
of domestic producers. Foreign competition was to reduce the rate of price
increase of domestic tradeable goods to the level determined by: (a) the rate
of price increase abroad; and (b) the rate of depreciation of the peso. It was
recognized, however, that possible tariff redundancy and lags in the adjustment
of imports would delay this "convergence" of domestic and foreign inflation
rates.
7.        The new import tariff schedule provides for major reductions in
tariffs on goods produced in Argentina. By the end of 1983 the level of
import tariffs is to be reduced to 20%, compared with 10%-85% at the
beginning of 1979. Shortly after the announcement of the 1979-84 liberaliza-
tion schedule, the Government started a supplementary program of temporary
tariff reductions for goods whose domestic price increases substantially
exceeded increases in international prices and the rate of devaluation. In
addition, tariffs for all capital goods were eliminated temporarily in order
to facilitate the re-equipment and modernization of Argentine industry.
8.        One notable feature of the current stabilization strategy is the
secondary role of monetary policy. The pre-fixing of the peso/dollar rate,
along with the elimination of capital controls, allow the monetary authorities
to influence only the monetary resources originating from domestic sources.



- 3 -
By setting quarterly targets for this variable, the monetary authorities
warted to limit internal public sector borrowing and ensure an adequate supply
of credit to borrowers who had no access to foreign credit sources. Fiscal
policy is also viewed to be of secondary importance insofar as short-term
stabilization objectives are concerned. To mitigate inflationary expectations,
however, and to reach the long-run goal of decreased state intervention, the
authorities were able to decrease the central government's overall deficit from
2.1% of GDP in 1978 to 1.5% in 1979. The overall public sector deficit was
expected to be reduced significantly from its 1978 level of 5.0% of GDP to
3.3% in 1979.
Results of the Program
9.        Most of the policies outlined above were implemented during the
course of 1979. The key variable, the exchange rate, was moved according to
plan; the tariff reform was applied; public sector prices and tariffs were
adjusted as envisaged; monetary resources of internal origin expanded only
slightly more than projected. However, total money supply expanded rapidly,
because the elimination of capital controls and the maintenance of the schedule
for exchange rate devaluation, despite high internal inflation, led to heavy
capital inflows amounting to over US$1.5 billion in the first nine months.
With a tight labor market prevailing throughout 1979, nominal wages increased
more rapidly than scheduled. As a consequence, the Government eliminated the
legal limitations on wage increases in September.
10.        Through the first eight months of 1979, the new approach did not
affect wholesale and consumer prices, which rose at the same rates on an
annual basis as in 1977 and 1978. Among the factors explaining the continued
high rate of inflation in the first half of 1979 was the unusually rapid rise
in international prices, particularly of primary products exported by Argentina.
The external price component of the wholesale price index, important for deter-
mining internal prices, increased at about two to three times the average
rate of increase during 1978. Another part of the divergence between actual
and expected price behavior can be explained by lags in private sector recog-
nition of import opportunities, combined with organizational problems and an
initial lack of confidence in the durability of the system. As a result,
possible excess demand was not fully met by imports, at least in the first
three quarters of 1979. Several indicators also point at demand-pull factors.
Unemployment was reduced from 2.8% in 1978 to 1.5% in 1979, with labor scarcity
occurring both for skilled and unskilled workers. Wages were adjusted more
frequently and rose by about 12% in real terms. Similarly, aggregate real
consumption expenditure expanded by 10%.
11.        Since September 1979, wholesale and consumer price increases have
*        begun to decelerate.  The general wholesale price index, which rose at an
average rate of 8.3% per month from January to August, increased by an average
of only 3.6% per month from September 1979 to September 1980, the lowest monthly
rates since early 1974. The deceleration in inflation led to a real depreciation
of the exchange rate, higher real wages and positive real interest rates during
the last three months of 1979. While the lowering of domestic price increase
in September and October can be attributed in large part to decreasing price
rises of primary products, the impact of increasing exposure of manufacturers
to international competition became discernible in November and December.
As expected, the branches most exposed to foreign competition are those showing
price deceleration most clearly.



- 4 -
1980 Developments and Short-term Prospects
12.       In accordance with the preannounced schedule, the peso was devalued
by 2.8% in January 1980 with a 0.2% decrease in the rate of adjustment in each
of the following months.  Effects of the past appreciation of the peso in real
terms and tariff reductions, which are only now being felt in the economy, have
led to a continuous deceleration in inflation as reflected in the wholesale
price index. With prices of traded goods decelerating for the reasons
mentioned above, the wage transmission mechanism now has a decelerating impact
on the prices of non-tradeables as well.
13.       With imports booming by the end of 1979 aSxd exports slowing down, the
current account surplus of recent years turned into a deficit of US$493 million
for the year as a whole. Preliminary projections indicate a deficit on current
account of US$2.5 billion for 1980. Some fears have oeen expressed that a
growing perception of the peso's being overvalued could trigger expectations
of devaluation, resulting in capital outflow. The authorities have reiterated
their determination to make whatever internal adjustments in output and employ-
ment may be necessary to avoid large-scale devaluation and the new round of
inflationary impulses it could start. Moreover, the high level of exchange
reserves (close to US$9 billion) provides a strong support for the continuation
of the government program.
14.       A temporary critical situation arose in April and May 1980 when
Argentines shifted deposits from private domestic banks to public and foreign
banks after the failure of one of the most important private banks in March.
Besides increasing depositors' insurance and providing ample rediscount
facilities, the monetary authorities increased the interest rate of Treasury
bills and raised reserve requirements by one percentage point. Although the
short-term crisis was successfully contained, the weak financial situation
of an industrial sector facing serious external competition has affected the
portfolios of banks negatively. It is only because of increased support of
the Central Bank and the major official banks that in most cases firms were
rescued through large scale debt-rescheduling arrangements.
15.       During the second semester of 1980 several new measures were
announced and implemented, the most important of which affected the exchange
rate and with it the incentives for imports and exports. First, the monthly
rate of devaluation, which reached 1% in October and was to decrease to zero
by March 1981, is to remain at 1% for the coming months. Secondly, a recent
change in the tax structure lowers business' labor taxes and increases the
rate of the value added tax. The industrial firms will now be reimbursed the
value added taxes when exporting, whereas before they did not receive reimburse-
ment for labor taxes. As a consequence, the tax change is equivalent to a
de facto devaluation for exports equivalent to between 8 and 15%, depending on
the relative labor costs of each enterprise. As regards industrial imports,
the substitution of domestic payroll taxes by value added taxes, which aro,paid
by importers as well as by domestic producers, amounts to a devaluation
equivalent to the increase in the value added tax.
Medium- and Long-Term Development Prospects
16.       With trade liberalization measures beginning to take effect,
industrial and overall economic growth are expected to be relatively slow
in 1980 and 1981. In addition, business failures of weak or overexpanded



firms may become more widespread and unemployment could increase--albeit
from extremely low levels. The scope of readjustment could be reduced if the
small real depreciation of the currency continues, reestablishing export and
import substitution incentives. Availability of long-term credit for re-
equipment and modernization will be a crucial requirement for supporting the
restructuring of industry. Since the private sector is also expected to take
on a number of tasks previously undertaken by the public sector, considerable
flexibility and efficiency will be required of the Argentine financial
system. While agricultural-production is expected to decrease in 1980 and
1981 because of unfavorable weather conditions, growth in agricultural output
subsequently should continue on the expansion path started in 1976/77.
Exports of agricultural products and investment incentives for agriculture
should rise given the expected deceleration in domestic industrial price
increases and favorable prices of Argentine products in international markets.
17.       Exports in current prices have grown over the past three years (1976-79)
an average rate of 25% per year, a rate which will be difficult to sustain.
Although export prospects have weakened in the short term, they appear to be
excellent over the longer term. Since the outlook for world prices of
Argentina's export products is favorable, total export earnings are projected
to increase by an average of 12% annually during 1982-1987 (5% in real terms).
About 85% of that increase would be generated by agriculture and agro-
industry and about 15% by the manufacturing sector. Although Argentina
is currently supplying 90% of its petroleum domestically and expects to be
self-sufficient by the mid 1980s, the ongoing import liberalization process,
as well as the need for modernization of infrastructure and industry implies
that imports in current prices could increase at about 14% per annum through
1985 (6% in real terms). With the current account balance turning negative
from 1980 onward and reaching a deficit of some US$5.7 billion by 1985,
gross inflows of medium- and long-term capital including direct foreign
investment are projected to increase from US$3.1 billion in 1979 to US$9.4
billion in 1985. The bulk of these capital flows should be available from
bilateral arrangements, export credits, world capital markets, and direct
private investments. Official multilateral sources, however, may play an
important role by providing financial support combined with technical
and organizational assistance and by stimulating capital flows from other
sources.
18.       Argentina's medium- and long-term external public debt amounted to
US$8.3 billion at the end of 1979. Medium- and long-term private external
debt expanded more rapidly to US$5.4 billion. External public and total
debt service ratios were 20% and 26% in 1979.  Since the Central Bank earned
interest on its large foreign exchange reserves, the total net debt service
ratio was only 23.7%. The Bank's share of the external public debt was 5% and
its share in debt service was 3%. Given the relatively modest anticipated
external borrowing of the public sector, the public debt service ratio is
expected to remain below 20%, with the Bank's share not expected to rise above
1979 levels. Private indebtedness will probably increase more rapidly, and
the overall net debt service ratio is projected to rise to 30% in the mid-1980s.
In view of these prospects with continuing prudent economic policies, Argentina
is considered creditworthy for loans on conventional terms.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
Bank Operations
19.       Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of periodic
macroeconomic difficulties and unsatisfactory sector policies, along with
delays and problems in complying with specific project conditions. After
a hiatus of five years, lending was resumed in September 1976.  Since that
date, the Bank has made loans for nine projects amounting to US$876.0 million.
A US$60 million loan for an agricultural credit project was recently cancelled.
Projects financed by the Bank before 1971 are practically completed.
20.       To assist Argentina through the initial stabilization effort, Bank
lending during the past four years focussed on major infrastructure projects
and credit provision to productive sectors. A grain storage project was
designed to enable Argentina to export agricultural products in a more orderly
manner throughout the year and obtain better prices; an industrial credit
project supports modernization and expansion of export oriented industries,
and the projects for power, highways and railways provide part of the infra-
structure necessary to facilitate agricultural and industrial expansion.
Disbursements of Bank loans have been slower than expected. Persistent high
rates of inflation, the need for fiscal austerity and inertia of the private
sector did not provide a conducive environment for progress of Bank financed
projects. Following improvements in the economic situation of Argentina, as
discussed in paras. 9 to 11, the pace of disbursement has picked up consid-
erably over recent months. The marked slowdown in the rate of price increases
and stricter budget procedures augur well for further progress. Provisions
have been made to ensure satisfactory disbursement of the proposed loan.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of August 31, 1980,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       The Bank's approach to assisting Argentina in recent years was to
participate in a limited number of relatively large loans. Now that the
Government has broadened its policies beyond stabilization to address struc-
tural and institutional constraints, its task has become more complex.
Continued Bank lending would support Government efforts to modernize the
economy, which has been characterized by high cost industrial production,
inefficient public sector enterprises and vintage capital stock. Future bank
assistance would be directed to achieving the following objectives: (i) up-
grade public sector enterprises and rationalize sector policies; (ii) restruc-
ture the industrial sector to increase efficiency and improve export perfor-
mance; (iii) help the Government in its efforts to promote private sector
participation in industrial development; and (iv) transfer responsibilities
from the Central Government to provincial authorities.
22.       Within the framework for proposed assistance, the oil and gas sector
offers promising possibilities for Bank participation. The recently approved
Oil and Gas Engineering loan is a first step that could be followed by a
proposed refinery conversion project to help the country meet its demand for



light petroleum products and operations for production, processing and trans-
portation of oil and gas. The proposed coal exploration project to measure
coal reserves would complement efforts in the petroleum sector. Argentina's
ample hydropower potential, shared with riparian neighbors, represents another
attractive field for Bank assistance. In the transport sector, the Bank is
helping with the preparation of a ports project and plans to continue support-
ing other modes of transport.
23.       To help modernize the industrial sector, the Government is reducing
tariffs to encourage domestic efficiency. Discussions between Bank and Govern-
ment to strengthen human and financial resources in support of industrial
development have led to the formulation of the recently approved Vocational
Training and Technical Education project which could be followed by Research
and Development and further Industrial Credit projects.
24.       The present administration has taken long strides toward opening up
areas for the private sector or joint ventures which traditionally have been
the exclusive domain of the public sector. New mining legislation has cltared
the way for the exploration and exploitation of Argentina's substantial mineral
reserves by the private sector. Possible Bank participation could help ratio-
nalize sector policies, attract foreign investors and promote domestic private
sector participation. The Government has also expressed interest in Bank
support for promoting private sector participation in the exploration and
development of the hydrocarbon sector by providing needed capital through the
National Development Bank as financial intermediary for projects presently
being prepared by private Argentine companies in cooperation with the state
oil company.
25.       The Government has embarked on a major revision of the revenue
sharing system and the distribution of Government responsibilities/expenditures
to reduce bureaucracy, synchronize the supply of services more closely with
demand and provide services more effectively at lower cost. The Bank would
support these policies in the water supply and sewerage sector to help develop
provincial institutions, consolidate sector finances and effectively expand
service coverage. Bank participation in energy conservation, pollution control,
regional water development and flood control are additional possibilities that
are under study.
IFC Operations
26.       As of September 30, 1980, IFC had made 14 loans to borrowers in
Argentina totalling US$99.4 million and two equity investments of US$2.5
million, of which US$48.5 million have been repaid, cancelled or sold. A
summary of IFC's investments up to September 30, 1980, is shown in Annex II.
III. THE COAL SECTOR
Background
27.       Argentina is well endowed with energy resources consisting of crude
oil, natural gas, coal and uranium, as well as a sizeable hydroelectric
potential. Total energy reserves have been estimated at about 7,300 million



tons of coal equivalent (tce), of which the exploitable hydropower potential-jf
represents about 60%. Proven oil and gas reserves amount to 330 million tons
of oil (500 million tce) and 430 billion m3 of gas (560 million tce), equiv-
alent to 6.8% and 7.7% of the total energy reserves, respectively. Measured
coal reserves, presently estimated at 224 million tons (180 million tce),
account for 2.5% of the total. Uranium (8.2%), various forms of vegetable
fuels (7.7%) and shale (7.1%) account for the balance.
28.       Energy consumption is currently at an annual level of about 65
million tce. Petroleum products and natural gas contribute about 86.1% of
total requirements; about 88% of this contribution comes from domestic sources.
Hydro/nuclear power combined account for 6.8%; coal 2.5% and vegetable fuels
for the remaining 4.6%. The consumption pattern of energy resources does nlot
reflect their relative potential. The Government, aware of this situation,
attempts to diversify and rationalize the use of energy resources and, at the
same time, reduce and possibly eliminate the dependence on imports.
Geology and Reserves
29.       Coal is found in sedimentary basins that have been formed in the
carboniferous/triassic, jurassic and tertiary periods. However, little 4.s
known about coal characteristics. There are approximately 16 coal and lignite
prospects for which exploration and assessment work has been sporadic and
limited. Indicative figures for contained resources, 2/ not including the
Rio Turbio area (see below), have been estimated at about 7,300 million tons
of lignitic coal and about 5 million tons of hard coal.
30.       The most promising coal bearing area is the tertiary Austral Basin
in Santa Cruz province, where the only coal mining operation in Argentina, an
underground mine, has been developed at Rio Turbio and where the only reliable
coal reserve 3/ estimates have been made. These reserves have been estimated
at 424 million tons, of which 224 million tons can be classified as measured 4/
1/   The hydropower potential has been defined as the energy that can be
generated measured over a period of 50 years and converted to tce at
2.5 kcal/kWh.
2/   Coal resources include known coal occurrences that may acquire
an economic value in the future.
3/   Coal reserves are defined as coal occurrences which are deemed exploitable
under current economic and technical conditions.
4/   Measured reserves are those for which tonnage is computed from dimensions
revealed in outcrops, trenches, mine workings, and drill holes. The
points of observation and measurement are so closely spaced, and the
thickness and extent of the coal so well defined, that the computed
tonnage is judged to be accurate within 20% of the true tonnage. Although
the spacing of the points of observation differs according to the charac-
teristics of the deposits, they are normally no more than 500-800m apart.



- 9 -
and 200 million tons as indicated. 1/ In addition, another 26 million tons
have been reported as inferred 2/ reserves. This coal is classified as a high
volatile bituminous steam coal. After washing, it has a calorific value of
5,600 kcal/kg and contains 34% of volatile matter, 14% ash and 1.0% of sulphur.
Institutional Structure
31.       Development of oil, gas, and coal resources is mainly carried out
by two state-owned entities: Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales (YPF) and
Yacimientos Carboniferos Fiscales (YCF). Another public enterprise, Gas del
Estado (GdE), distributes gas. All three organizations report to the Secretariat
of Energy, within the Ministry of Economy, through the Director General for
Fuels. The Secretariat of Energy regulates fuel prices and has authority to
direct the planning and investment activities of YPF, GdE and YCF. It also
has direct control over the three major state-owned power utilities.
32.       YCF was created in 1946 as a government department for developing
the Rio Turbio mine. In 1958 its status was changed to that of a state enter-
prise, thereby increasing its autonomy; nevertheless, it is still heavily
dependent on the Secretariat of Energy, especially for investment decisions.
YCF is responsible for exploration and exploitation of the Rio Turbio coal
deposit as well as for transport and sale of the coal produced. The company
is also responsible for carrying out exploration activities for solid fuels in
other regions of the country.
33.       YCF did not grow from the late 1950s to the early 1970s.  While the
company is a technically competent enterprise, it has produced poor financial
results and continues to rely on heavy government subsidies. In 1979, YCF
covered only 40% of its operating expenses through revenues from coal sales.
A serious problem is excessive transport cost. The obsolete equipment of the
railroad to the Atlantic coast and the limited capacity of the Rio Gallegos
port facilities, where only small vessels can operate, continue to impose a
heavy burden on YCF's operations. In 1979, transport costs alone represented
45% of operating expenses. Also, for most of the past, the Government kept
coal prices substantially below world market levels, thus further deteriorating
YCF's financial performance. During the early 1970s a modernization program of
1/   Indicated reserves are those for which tonnage is computed partly from
specific measurements and partly from projections of visible data for a
reasonable distance on the basis of geologic evidence. In general, the
points of observation are about 1,500-2,500m apart.
2/   Inferred reserves are those for which quantitative estimates are based
largely on broad knowledge of the geologic character of the bed or region
and for which few measurements of bed thickness are available. The
estimates are based primarily on an assumed continuity in areas remote
from outcrops of beds. In general, inferred coal lies more than 3,000m
from points for which information is available.



- 10 -
the mining operations was carried out; currently, the mines are adequately
mechanized and appear to be reasonably well managed. However, there remains
room for further improvements in the productivity of YCF as a whole mainly
because its non-operational departments appear overstaffed.
Coal Consumption and Supply
34.       Argentina's coal consumption in 1979 reached a level of 1.6 million
tce, equivalent to 2.5% of the estimated national energy consumption. Domestic
production contributed about 37% of total requirements. The main consumer is
the steel industry, using about 900,000 tpy of metallurgical grades of coal,
equivalent to 63% of total consumption, most of which is imported from the US
and Poland, with Colombia supplying the remainder. Power generation is the
second major consuming sector, representing 31% of total consumption. Miscel-
laneous industrial users accounted for the remaining 6%. Coal consumption
during 1970-79 showed a moderate increase at an average annual rate of
1.8%. This trend is likely to be maintained until 1982-83 when the new Bahia
Blanca power plant comes into operation. Since this 620 MW power plant is
being designed to burn either natural gas or coal, it could represent an
additional coal demand of up to 1.5 million tpy.
35.       During 1970-79, supply from Rio Turbio has remained static at an
average level of 600,000 tpy. About 80% of Rio Turbio's output is shipped to
the Buenos Aires area, where it is used mainly for power generation. The
balance is consumed locally for power generation, heating and by the railway
connecting the mine with the port at Rio Gallegos. An expansion to increase
the output from Rio Turbio to 1.5 million tpy has been proposed by YCF to
supply, at least partially, the requirement of the new Bahia Blanca power
plant. However, the capacity of the Rio Gallegos port is limited to handle
only about 1.0 million tpy. An expansion above 1.0 million tpy will imply a
relocation of the port facilities. For this reason, a study is being carried
out about the feasibility of relocating the port to a more suitable site.
Sector Development
36.       To improve energy resource use and achieve self-sufficiency in oil
and gas, the Government attempts to increase and diversify domestic energy
supply. An important strategy component is the large scale expansion of the
power sector; installed capacity is to double by the mid 1980s. About 80% of
the capacity expansion will be in the form of hydropower. In addition, the
Government has now begun to embark on an ambitious program to increase oil and
gas supply and promote more efficient fuel utilization. An important step in
these efforts is the recently approved Oil and Gas Engineering Project.
37.       Until now, insufficient knowledge of coal reserves, resulting from
YCF's lack of exploration efforts, prevented that coal be included in
Argentina's long-term energy planning. Past price increases in hydrocarbons,
however, expected to continue in the future, have pointed at the need for
developing additional energy resources. While coal is not likely to alter
the domestic energy consumption pattern fundamentally, it could play a comple-
mentary role to hydrocarbons and contribute to energy self-sufficiency.



- 11 -
New, financially viable coal mining operations could be developed if the
proposed project delineates sufficient reserves, if domestic energy prices
are kept in line with world market levels and if transport costs are lowered
through more efficient port and railway facilities or pipelines to be financed
by the revenues of the mining operation. The Government is aware that future
exploration of existing coal reserves would require the definition of an
overall price policy for available energy resources.
IV. THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
38.       The proposed project was identified during the visit of a Bank
mission to Argentina in November 1979 and it was appraised in April 1980.
The project was prepared by the Exploration Department of YCF with the assis-
tance of a coal exploration consultant retained by the Bank. Negotiations
were held in Washington from September 30 to October 1, 1980. The Argentine
delegation was headed by Mr. Carlos Calcagno, Undersecretary of Hydrocarbons.
Since this is an engineering project, no separate staff appraisal report has
been prepared. A supplemental project data sheet is presented in Annex III.
39.       The objective of the proposed project would be to evaluate the coal
reserves in the most promising areas of the Austral Basin. The proposed
project would be aimed at providing the Government with a basic coal reserves
inventory, thus enabling it to establish investment priorities and define
policies for the long term development of the Argentine energy sector. Given
the long lead time required to achieve an increased level of coal production
needed in the 1990s, the exploration program should be carried out as soon as
possible.
Project Description
40.       Over a period of four years (September 1981-April 1985), the fol-
lowing activities would be carried out:
(a) a drilling program, involving approximately 60 boreholes
with a total length of 32,000 m;
(b) high resolution seismics, with a total line length of about
600 km;
(c) geological reconnaissance, including mapping, trenching
an5 sampling over an area of initially up to 30,000
km , which will be reduced as the work advances;
(d) prefeasibility studies, including conceptual and basic
engineering design, for specific projects which may be
identified as a result of the exploration campaign.



- 12 -
The project would define coal reserves in the Rio Turbio area, located at the
Southern rim of the Austral Basin (Map IBRD 14997), by transferring indicated
and inferred coal reserves into the measured category. Furthermore, coal
prospects along the Northeastern and Northwestern rim of the same basin in the
areas of Rio Lista, Lago Cardiel, Man Aike, Rio Chalia, Rio Santa Cruz and the
Bajo de San Julian (Map IBRD 14996) will be examined.
41.       The study area encompasses the southern half of Santa Cruz Province
in Southern Argentina between south latitudes 480 and 520. The topography
ranges from steep ridges in the western section near the Andes on the Chilean
frontier, to rolling hills, mesas and terraces in the broad plains eastward to
the Atlantic Ocean. Elevations range from below sea level in the Gran Bajo de
San Julian area to 1200 meters in the Rio Lista area. Temperatures range from
a maximum of 20 C in the summer (November to April) to -30 C in the winter
with a mean annual reading of about 4 0C. Average wind speed is 50 km/hr;
gusts up to 140 km/hr are common. Annual rainfall is estimated at 375 mm.
These climatic conditions limit surface exploration to six months annually.
Numerous dirt roads connect the Atlantic coast paved highway with the Andes
highland area. Roads are dry and well-maintained during the six month work
season (October-March), but most are not usable in the winter.
42.       Geologic knowledge of the Austral Basin is mostly based on sub-sur-
face information generated from YPF's oil well data. The sediments are
Cretaceous and Tertiary in age with the major coal-bearing formation of early
Tertiary time. Oil well data reveal the overall structure of the basin to be
a south plunging assymetrical syncline 1/ (trough) with steeper western flank
(250) near the Andean uplift, and shallow dips on the eastern side. The
major coal-bearing formation is the Rio Leona of tertiary age composed mostly
of claystones and shales, with occasional sandstone layers. This formation
generally erodes easily and does not outcrop 2/ very well. However, the
overlying Patagonia formation, containing several layers of highly resistant
marine fossil horizons, is used as a marker bed for locating the Rio Leona
beds throughout the basin.
43.       The Rio Turbio and Rio Lista areas are an exception to the above.
In these areas the Rio Leona formation outcrops prominently and the coal seams
are exposed. The only well known mineable coal seams in the entire basin
1/   Syncline:  A fold in which the strata dip inward from both sides toward
the axis.
2/   Outcrop:  Surface showing of a geological formation or mineral deposit.



- 13 -
occur in the Rio Turbio area. Two coal groups with a 250 meter interval
between them are known to occur in the Rio Leona formation in this locale.
The lower group is made up of two seams "Inferior" and "Superior". They occur
about 10-15 m apart and the mineable portions of each averages 1.40 m in
thickness. Both are high ash seams with many thin shale partings separating
the coal benches. The upper group is made up of three seam horizons, B, A and
Dorotea. Dorotea seam is the more highly developed in areal extent and thick-
ness. Present mining activities are in this seam and average thickness is
about 1.80 m. Average mining depth is between 400 and 600 m and the mine is
developed by horizontal tunnels above valley elevations.
44.       The envisaged exploration campaign has been designed based on
information from drilling programs and surface mapping carried out by YCF
and it will concentrate on the following areas, which are listed below in
order of priorities and expected coal potential:
a) Rio Turbio Area
The proposed YCF drilling program in the Rio Turbio area is a continua-
tion of previous programs at an accelerated rate. The purpose of the addi-
tional drilling is to upgrade the reserves to more reliable categories and to
increase the known reserve base. This area is the most promising target; so
far, only 50% of the total reserves, estimated at 424 million tons, are
measured and there are excellent prospects for considerably increasing these
figures. Approximately 27 drillholes with a total depth of 17,300 m. are
planned. The holes will be cored through the coal bearing zone and logged
electrically by geophysical methods throughout their length. High resolution
seismics will complement the drilling program.
b)   Austral Basin
The geological and structural characteristics and the coal resource
potential of the Northwestern and Northeastern rim of the Austral Basin will
also be explored. Geological reconnaissance and mapping will be carried out
over the whole area, from Rio Lista in the West to the Bajo de San Julian in
the East. Five geology teams are required for this purpose throughout the
implementation period of the project. Drilling and seismic requirements will
be determined as this work progresses. There are four sub-areas with identi-
fied coal potential where initial drill programs have already been laid out.
These, in order of decreasing potential are:
(i)  Rio Lista.  This is an area of well defined outcrops of the Rio
Leona formation. Surface study groups have mapped the outcrop zones showing
shale beds containing a series of coal seams up to 3.5 m in thickness.
Selected outcrop samples indicate the coal quality to be comparable to that
being mined at Rio Turbio. Since this is an area of known coal occurrence,
exploratory drilling will be conducted here on a priority basis. The proposed
scout drilling program of six holes is sufficient to determine whether a
promising coal zone exists.



- 14 -
(ii) Lago Cardiel. The Rio Leona formations shows outcrops in this
area, and oil wells indicate carbonaceous zones of both Tertiary (Rio Leona)
and Upper Cretaceuos age. Three deep scout holes penetrating both zones will
be drilled.
(iii) Rio Chalia/Man Aike. Oil well data indicate carbonaceous zones
at depths ranging from 100 m to 800 m, dipping easterly and suggesting a
subcrop 1/ zone a short distance westward. Initially, three drill holes will
be drilled which, depending on the results, will be extended up to a total of
seven.
(iv) Rio Santa Cruz. Oil well data indicate a carbonaceous zone at
depth of 450-675 m. Six holes were drilled during the 1977-78 work season.
Two low quality lignite coal seams, the thickest averaging 4 m, were found at
an average depth of 470 m. Three drill holes are programmed to investigate
the possibility of finding coal of better quality and at shallower depth
toward the eastern flank of the basin.
Implementation
45.       The borrower would be the Government; it would enter into a Subsidiary
Financing Agreement with YCF and would pass along the loan proceeds together
with the local funding to YCF in the form of equity (Section 3.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement). Because of its technical experience and capacity, YCF would
act as executing agency for the proposed project and would enter into a Project
Agreement with the Bank. As a state enterprise, YCF's accounting systems and
procedures follow the Government's budgetary system, and its financial state-
ments are audited by the Sindicatura General de Empresas Publicas which is
considered qualified and independent. For the proposed project, YCF would
establish special project accounts within its normal budgetary system.
46.       Execution and management of the project would be carried out by YCF
through its Exploration Department; the necessary mineral exploration permits
would be issued to YCF by the appropriate authorities (Section 3.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement). During the last five years the YCF Exploration Department has
conducted several campaigns for coal and oil shale exploration throughout
Argentina and is currently engaged in a limited drilling campaign in the
immediate surroundings of the Rio Turbio mine. YCF's managerial and technical
staff have shown a high degree of competence and efficiency in preparing the
project. The company owns a well equipped coal laboratory which will do most
of the required analytical work. Its Exploration Department has the staff and
organization required for carrying out the project, provided it receives
technical assistance in certain fields. YCF has indicated its desire to
obtain such assistance.
47.       YCF would contract the services of a General Consultant to:  (a) manage
the project activities; and (b) assume the responsibility of interpretation
and quality of the results. For this purpose, the consultant, who should be
1/   Subcrop:  A zone where a geological formation or a mineral deposit
reaches top of bedrock, but remains hidden by alluvial deposits.



- 15 -
a mining engineering firm with strong capabilities and experience in coal
exploration, would provide three geologists, a drilling engineer and other
support services from their headquarters. One of the geologists would be the
project manager. The consultant will also carry out the prefeasibility
studies mentioned in para. 40.  Total technical assistance manpower required
is estimated at 146 man-months. The Exploration Department of YCF, comprising
a staff of nearly 50 persons, including 10 geologists, would be fully assigned
to the project. The project manager, from the General Consultant, would report
to the head of the Exploration Department.
48.       Project preparation is well advanced.  YCF has already initiated
the prequalification process for equipment and is initiating the selection
process for the General Consultant who would assist in equipment procurement
and selection of sub-contractors for drilling and geophysical work. As shown
on the attached implementation schedule (Annex IV), physical field work would
start in October 1981 and continue for four full field seasons, to be com-
pleted in 1985. Equipment procurement is on the critical path, and orders
should not be placed later than January 1981.
Cost Estimates and FinancinR
49.       The total cost of the project has been estimated at US$20.0 million,
including a foreign exchange component of US$10.0 million (50Z of total project
cost). The General Consultant services have been estimated at an average cost
of US$13,500 per man-month. This estimate has taken into account the special-
ized skills required, the seasonal nature of the field activites and the high
cost of living in Argentina. The cost estimates for equipment and drilling
contract have been based on recent quotations for similar work in South
America and adjusted for local conditions. The estimated project cost includes
US$5.8 million in contingencies, of which physical contingencies have been
estimated at US$0.9 million, representing 6.3% of base project costs. Price
contingencies have been estimated at US$4.9 million, assuming an annual rate
of 10.4% in 1980, and decreasing from 9.0% in 1981 to 6.5% in 1985.
50.       About 70% of the US$10 million of local financing required would be
contributed by YCF, including provision of personnel, operating expenses and
overheads. As the project would be carried out with staff already on YCF's
payroll, these costs will not represent any additional burden on the Government.
The balance, about US$3 million, would be required to finance the local portion
of various contracts. The Government would finance this local portion out of
the National Energy Fund.
51.       The Bank loan of US$10 million would be lent at 9.25% per annum
interest for ten years including a grace period of four years. If, as result
of this project, a loan were to be made for a subsequent project, the proposed
engineering loan would be refinanced out of such loan.



- 16 -
Procurement
52.       The project will contain three groups of procurement packages:
equipment and vehicles, the drilling contract, and the General Consultant
contract. Equipment will include drilling rigs with accessories and spare
parts, as well as auxiliary equipment like bulldozers and vehicles. Equ-ipmeut
contracts costing more than US$50,000 will be procured through international
competitive bidding. Items costing less than US$50,000 will be procured by
international shopping, whereby YCF would solicit four quotations from at
least three countries abroad; procurement under this procedure would, in the
aggregate, not exceed US$400,000. Proposals for service contracts would also
be sought internationally. It would be preferable to include in the General
Consultant contract the in-hole geophysical logging 1/ and the seismic services.
If the selected firm, however, could not provide these specialized services,
they would be procured as sub-contracts.
Disbursement
53.        Disbursements for equipment and vehicles would be made against 100%
of foreign expenditures or 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
goods. Disbursements for the drilling contract and the General Consultant
contract would be made against 100% of foreign expenditures. The loan would
be disbursed over a period of five years because the harsh weather conditions
in the project area allow exploration activities only during six months of the
year. The closing date of the loan would be December 31, 1985.
Benefits and Risks
54.       The project's main benefit is the generation of information on coal
reserves that would improve sector knowledge and contribute to the formulation
of a long-term energy plan. The project would intensify the dialogue with the
Secretariat of Energy on the role of coal as a supplement to other energy
sources. The development of the exploration program would also strengthen
the technical and specialized capabilities of the Exploration Department of
YCF through technical assistance in specific fields of expertise presently
not available. The participation of consultants in the project is expected to
make an important contribution to the evaluation of potential uses of coal
through the knowledge of present and future technologies such as coal gasifi-
cation and liquefaction, assisting in the definition of the most effective use
that could be made of the coal resources.
55.       The risk of not finding coal deposits is that normally involved in
an exploration project of this kind. However, coal exploration generally
carries less risk than exploration for other minerals; also, the Rio Turbio
area has an excellent potential for finding additional reserves and here the
risk is minimal. It increases, however, in the other areas, where the coal
deposits are less known.
1/   In-hole geophysical logging:  a bore hole logging method whereby a sonde,
lowered into the hole, measures electrically certain characteristics of
the rock strata.



- 17 -
56.       The risks associated with the carrying out of the project are
minimal and refer mainly to delays and possibly related extra costs be-
cause of abnormal weather conditions which could limit field activities to
substantially less than the six months envisaged for each season. Another
risk relates to the quality of the geological data that would be obtained,
but gathering and interpretation will be made by specialized and experienced
consultants.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between The Argentine Republic and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between YCF and the Bank, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section II of Annex III.
Additional conditions of effectiveness are that: (a) a Subsidiary Financing
Agreement, on behalf of the Government and YCF, respectively, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(ii) a contract for the services of the general consultant, acceptable to the
Bank, has been properly executed (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
November 18, 1980



- 18-                                            Annex I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
ARGENTINA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ARGENTINA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVECAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EKM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            2766.9
AGRICULTURAL    1786.0                                    MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    600.0       1050.0    2280/d                     1384.1                     2381.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1129.0         1703.0    1873.0                     1055.9                     1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, hID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        20.6        23.7       26.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 73.6            78.4      81.6                      63.4                        53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          33.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            41.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          7.4          9.0        9.5                      28.1                       77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       12.0         13.0       15.0                      81.7                      129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           30.7         29.3       28.9                      41.4                       30.6
15-64 YRS.                           63.7         63.7       62.8                      54.7                       61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     5.6          7.0        8.3                       3.9                        8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.8          1.4        1.3                       2.7                        1.6
URBAN                                2.6          2.0        1.9                       4.1                        3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        24.0         22.0      21.0                      34.8                       22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         9.0          9.0       8.0                       8.9                        8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 1.5          1.5        1.4                      2.5                         1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ALCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            96.0        101.0      122.0                     106.9                      113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    122.0        130.0      126.0                     107.4                      125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           104.0        109.0      109.5                      65.6                       91.0
OF WHICH ANIhAL AND PULSE         65.0         69.0       71.2                      33.7                       39.6
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         6.0          4.0        3.0                      8.4                        4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    65.0            67.4      71.0                      63.1                       67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..         59.0        ..                      66.5                       55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF'
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        56.0       66.0                      65.9
URBAN                                  ..        69.0       76.0                      80.4
RURAL                                 ..         12.0       26.0                      44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         85.0       97.0                      62.3
URBAN                                  ..        87.0      100.0                      79.4
RURAL                                  ..        79.0       83.0                      29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN             660.0        500.0      530.0                    1849.2                     1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..       980.0         ..                    1227.5                      929.4
POPULATION PER NOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              160.0        179.0         ..                     480.3                      289.7
URBAN                                  ..       144.0
RURAL                                  ..       989.0
ADMISSIONS PER hOSPITAL BED              ..          ..         ..                        ..                        17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                3.7          3.8
URBAN                                3.5           ..
RURAL                                4.3           ..
AVERAGE  NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                1.4          1.4
URBAN                                1.3          1.4
RURAL                                1.7           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF OWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               69.0         76.0       79.0/c
URBAN                               84.7           ..
RURAL                               19.0            ..



- 19 -
Annex I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  2  of  5
ARGENTIN  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SREET
ARGENTINA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- HOST RECENT ESTMATEr
HOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOHE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE          LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS                                   10
PRIhARY.     TOTAL                  98.0        106.0      110.0-                     99.7                     105.9
MALE                  98.0        106.0      110.0                     101.0                      109.3
FEMALE                99.0        107.0     111.0                       99.4                      103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  23.0         32.0      41.OLe                     34.4                      64.0
hALE                  23.0         30.0       38.0                      33.5                       71.1
FEMALE                24.0         35.0      44.0                       34.7                       56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  50.0           59.0       63.0                      38.2                       28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             22.0         19.0      18.0  -                    30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                            7.0          7.0       8.0                       14.5                      26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         91.0         93.0      94.0  -f                   76.3
CONSUWPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          24.0         61.0       81.0                      43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER ThOUSAND
PoPULATION                         170.0        379.0      838.0                     245.3                      192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          22.0        147.0      177.0                      84.2                      118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
ThOUSAND POPULATION                  155.0        179.0      147.0                      63.3                       93.0
CINE!A ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0            2.0        3.2                        .                         5.7
LABOR FORCE
TUTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8131.7       9213.2   10140.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    21.4         24.7       26.0                     22.2                       30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               20.0         16.0       14.0                      37.1                       37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  36.0         32.0       29.0                     23.5                       29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.5         38.8       38.6                      31.5                       40.9
MALE                                  61.0         58.1       57.3                      48.9                       55.9
FEMALE                                17.2         19.3       19.8                      14.0                       26.2
ECONOMIC DLPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          0.9        1.0                       1.4                        1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECLIVED BY
HIGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HUUSEhOLDS   27.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9           50.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF hOUSEHOLDS    6.9            4.4
LODEST 40 PERCENT UF HOUSEHOLDS   16.6           14.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                        .                 .                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  .                   653.0                    474.0
RURAL                                                      577.0                    332.5                      385.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                              .
RURAL                                                                                   .
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-wetghted arithmetic means.  Coverage of Countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Percent of population.
td 1979
/a   Net primary end secondary enrollment rates in 1978 vero  89S and 31: respectiwly.
/1f Pupil-TYaelier Ibtio and Adult Literacy Rate in 1978 were 17.0 and .93.0 respectively.
April 1980



-20 -Annex I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL I7901CATIRS
Act--   Although the data  r  drawn free sou-e  gene.rally judged the. centauheritative and reliable, in should aso he noted that they nay nut ho lone-
-acltnaly c.....hl  heoeofte look of on-n-rdl-d daflnititoe   and c--opte used hy diffteren   cuiste  in -11-ecitg the dote.  The dune ore ..0....
thIou,u      Ie  oderieoders of stanitade, indicate trends, and uh...aftarlee cetain stalr diffreece  hoen....e..u.trim..
Tlhe  eeet   uop   r     the ea           - outry group of the subject country and (2) a toutry grop etch somehat higier average inon  than she coustry groP
of  he  uhjct  ounry  exeptforCaptalSurlu  Oil Owpofen  grop whose'  "iddle o1    North Afrlna and MIddle tEnt" is ch.... because s.stf                 se
ucrc-clcru  oititaf   C  rho  e asr  group data she ssrgs    r  popuaIton  sightedarishsent  eaafor eah indicato  and show  only whew as
leat  alfofthecentiasi     ruphsdt Ifarithen inditates.  Stt  asnveaes-tn t                       riesI amog the ledio-tos  depends us the erllehlity o
data and is out uniform   ouionmus  e                       -eoiedinsiasi   average  efoeldinotas to see        ,the,   lesavre  are sly ucefa1 in oumpartg the value
cfooind icatoranI ties aceng the runtnry end referents greups.
L.AND AR".  (thos..o.d  q.ke.)                                                               sslatltoqn,perj Phyccen-  Fupalstlon diVeasd bp sUmer at practlicin  PlY-
T.te1 - Tonal nerfeso area reeprtiag land area and inlnnaee                                 n'iou   qualifd -re         _ ndical school an naersity local.
Agoic-Itura1 - Estimate of Isgri_ltul ores used seposartly or p-'meeiiy                    Pegolatian  sat NursingPwa   PPopuation divie   ynae   fpetcn
icr croPs, pataras. marker and hitohse gardens or to lie follow; 1977 dota.                male and female gredatnane.  retla n             ursee, ti.I end a*sist-a  flsss
qN GNP Per .-Pit .."-t::.k A .. -k bp. e) 1~6 urban,and rcral) dendadb p-thei-r esapttdocomboslof hospital beAm
colored hy sass converion nthd am Woi   ahAta   lbTNhas    91,                               oaibe  optsad  priot  gnealea  aernIledhopiala   r
190, aod 197N  at.hahilitetion retes.NoPitei  are aetebl  Iwhett  persneely staffed
(91011 CONIISIYTION FIR CAPITA - Aen.o.  coemta1f --oeraaii.  energy (nusi                     by  t isa   aepyIoded.  Renabhpitlebsepesdn   priodsh.ipoh cudtodiat.1
and ligoito, petrolon. n            I,rl  a  asd hyd ro-, soolear Ind gscnherml also-        roter  son pesmeately staffed by a physfotias (but by a medical assistant.
tricity) to kilogram   ef c-e  equlvalent per  -apita; 1960, 170, sod 197Nsarse, sid-iff.. etc.)  hfoth  ffer in-petleat aeesdtton osd protde a
datei.ietted range of madloa1 fertlirteeo.  Pus etotiteit   porp.mes utb.e hepi-
ruIn. in-lude sees pli-tipal genera  au.     yctld       hospitals, andcat
POPULATION All VITAL STATISTICSh. th- t.                                                                                                  .    ni-.d   t..i           t
Tncl  or1 oio.  id-Year feillion.f.   As If July 1; iN6O, 1970, end 197N8                    dtuie   Ianoal   ld Ttel nebee uf ednisti... no us discharges
Udata,                                                                                      free heopitols dtvided hy the somber of buds.
rbanfcuaoo   (erceet of total) -Rotie of ashes to ttotl populatte;
different defteitiens  Ef -sbw eseco ma yffeon  -emps-billty of dote                   HOUSING
anongocotfee; 1960, 1970, and 1978 data.                                             Avaro.. lime of geaed(esn   o   oshll-ntl   ra,aditl
Pnrola5iocPoSrisaA  I,e...ehold ceaslte  fagoso   aiisl  sets share lisg questers.
Pncneotn-   1  yes  000- Cureot pepuletian psuJenties are base.d on 1980                   land their main meets   A b...der sr ledge  may cc map ao  hr included to
total  cpuPlotien by sgs end men a-d thwir  -ersaity.as  furtility ras.ttehushl    o   stttclpupss
leve, adfem            liespsonauf stbhilting.  at 77. 'yar.          .h pare-           dwellings,  r,epeotinsy.  Tw_llings e..a.  eca .-parcast etrectrur.esnd
frttlitVectrdies no lecem  lana  and past fruity pla-sing pesfaosea-s                Ao...renoRceinv(secoNAahss-rta.uacadrrl-
Eact o..utry Na thtnasaelgnsd ens of abase ales cohl-tantn  of cortallny                     Ceetional dee11iags wit et erlyinlvngIaters as Perc...tag
and fertility  trends inf pajoia   pupssIf sta.t1  urban, and rura  dwellings r-Peot-lvlp
St.,ionasy  opgulati-a- .Ieestairsry  pspulatios there Is ne gr-bs cire
thr bi-ch rtst is oqus1 to ths death ren, and also the  e  enun ra                   EDUCATION
males~ . tontat,  Thia is ochiev-d ealy aftse festtiya rose  doolto  to                 dae  EOnrlimeet Ratisa
the reylecomet level of oafstnet r-p-cda-ti   sets, when .s.h genera:tto                 Pis  so l-ttlGaaadgml-r.es tota.1  mas and fends
of'.enstncplaces ittsf e_anly.  The atattna.ry popolatisa  liosea                          osroliet oNsl  ages at  th   prmay levl Ton  eos           Igs f rrp-otine
esImafed on2ts. bwia of the projected  ceatrs Icof the  .paplatte-                         primary aohs-l-agSppuatoe;               IIma, isudes shildro aged h-Ili
in the year 200, and the rena of denies af f-rtilipy cats o tssplac-                       Veers bus adjutd for diffesrent lengihe of petary adu..stln; fat
lon-  tr nsr  sruair  Os ..e...bod - Th. yas when statica..ry pepale.tto                      icierppl.aeblwc   bv   heofca   colae
.i.: h.. b..                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sceedasy  a-he-oli- itarl. male ead femlsl  - Computed am .V .hoe; ..oeda-y
PeculatIds laoeitv
Per ee. km. - Mid-yeas pspulatise per sqear  kilosnter (1)0 hnotmrsa) f                      edecatiee roqirsa at leas.tfesyeese sf appresd piaytsroi
Pa  a.o in  cioult.ra1 load - ComPeted ao  bhsn  f or  gr      1atra      -ad               enoldad.
only.                                                                                      sotes  s-ilstferetof secends-n  - Vo..stirn..l itasttittons
PurulanIIe doe Stouctor  (er-net) - Childrse )0-14 yer)*nrbing-aga  ll(sloe1rbfa.  sunra,s  ehepraa  wthoprt  idyo
hIt yers,,  ad atre   fIyeasan ve)a  pe targes of mid-yeas pPOPO                             dently or me deportee.e  e f sa...ndary intisttn in.-
lno;190.  90, sod 1976 data..                                                          Poal-nerhdrsti,           _rmr. sad a.ecadary - Total stud ats eroldIt
PPoplation Arosth Rate (per-t)   tonal1 - Asta..l greeth races sO total sld-                    primay   i1-1day  evl  dinided by numbers nf teahers in the
yeas popu1atices far 1950-hi 90       -0  and 1970-TN8.                                     rc-repoodinS lsr-l..
Population trooth Ra te  (enees  -rhen - Anscol grnth rate  of ethos pepn-                   Adult literay rate (per-et) - Litertet adults (able no read Ied write)
1acto.. fos 191)-NI, 1960-70. and 1970-78.                                                   ae a per-ennage of ntal. adult popalatios aged 151-yers and o-re.
Crude Birth Ruse fear thousand) - A-1ea live births per thousand of mid-year
pp.ylatton; 1960. 1970, and 1970 data.                                                 CONSUMIJPTION
Cruds te-th Rane fIrert(ho-!and) - Ae....al deat.hs per tha.....d of eli-yea               Pamser  ar t(e  a...s.d P.solteaf    P:aseger~ crs temprics stsr
ycpultin;190,  1970  and 1978 date.P~.. cr   eseglt   hc  ih   oaon;acae   muao                                                                               erc   n
Aros  Ocdu-ton R       -A"vs..sge number of dasghtsrsaI coa seol bear iaetosr  vehiclesl 1". M     ih                                     .      bI     .   ...    .
Itr  rise; u-aally    .i. fis-ea  h.ram   aed.ig ...Inp 1960  1970  saI 97             raneet   aea   eIepr  teado   auate   a  e                               n
fail   looan-     yar  fesenea r ofmarign,endingo   -  essngoif arid                     ootis  e laedlaintg
Iloil, 1 .. i.rt.' "oel (th....d. - A...1 ..mb.fae-e-noree Ciau.te fee touan reelaaa - Show r.it.tia rOragdi. II
iode  ofPuo  prdocien      o see .C.ite .19i9-1a1 .0  -  loden ef par naytt  aangnl     tia  of dslyfesa  interest  secaapt defne   wep    pridicllub
tucod  f  ufs  wh1-,,ich.9 are    44dyib re aed    tat   btirtth   (e.g. t os1 fee.. end  Ciem  Annual A,j(,nPteiom.. ad  Car.itsre  ls -    Nosed..   enr fto bahss of
te   r   nldd)-i.. Agegt  prdciso   so             cr   ebae   nnceaaddc                                     h  year, including  deisiraiton driVe-in         . tinema
nentocolenerage produces preneIweights;-1961-65, 1970. anddlift data
per loa dsy    A ...hi boppile C n.ydisoi emasi  produncto       g.imot  lane.            t.b. .iy Toaltr for   itrhoasesief  . - troef-sl  ative  person.  oudg
qurtitta  used,d  in foodt ~proted  tins   n  lse  in dihencihut1ienb..  Raot-         licefstiest .Id   arngths cntri          se   ato  arba t. th,1971 and-
esnOn nos   esImtd hriPA  baenh an phystolagisal         nedae  macma a- ti-         1979 data. ni
sod erdietethutton of-Ptlopulatin. ad a...otise.    peod canfo  rst  a                 Ageicuiture.(.sTesif-Ltbho f....   Eoene tifaring,t peeary., beatingan
hop-oehold lrl  ihth.   I, 1970,I end 1977li. dan.jdfIshing asodpesogatage. of totalh.y                                    late  fue;190..T   n 197fndote.
Per ii .  . doccsescl   ofpdpe ... aer   esdy -.:   P dtis  otacbti of pa.r  is        uD.fiti.. f irona -1Labo  fo-rc  in mmti tonetrubies 60aaufattusio
cotyndspl hcitfoh     e   ay    a   upl   rfo  tode..d.ahvid.erad  lstrniy  woeran- asauresoisge- ef- natal labrfre   90
quroeow  oral  ccoric  oa     enchd  by1USiA1 proviep f or -totun                 971  nd  970  ana
hnorh.Fod  Ontrey; 1961-65, 1970   and 1977 dat.fihna.                                   190.g   f  ..   Ibr  ...  90, 1970,  n   9)dta    naIs Llssntpnda 19to8 deletig
fa   ccrarott   crly   inns. anima  ad. cu-Pronsi.   .u.pl  o f  feed is-             ag-IInuduno   h   wplto,adlogtm    eed        e   s
tre    aadsrd  Ero latife  table;lihI,d 197 s'APIi.frin-17 d 197P asd.SC tNPESTIOT
Inola             onrcto ona 5 Mb  (     rea thl   A rldagosomber   dfeay  AOf life ch.maindg 1 percent  .dscs  207 derten.  po..orest 70  psnetj.ipsod yeran t !hecet i
at birh; 190,91970and  f9N dana
blent it P _oclty  Rat  foesl fthouan)i-A" oa  deats.oIt. ants. 'Pl unde  oned year         .....l .TAOO fr-OUPS     I    -I
ofigope f hcusand Ice bir1..Jt-hardy  16-5   17    d197dt.                               Est..imat eednAbolut  Rotisry  Income tene p (.iS n pecapita -5 e rhd a5  rural -
Access  in Sept-' Wa~~.ter(acu   oftdcopulation) -rtotel,  urban, sod  th ....l    1 -        Ahauthtetporeby  fooelee   s  hnicrslve   ee  wiha   ia
toler nuc  us ritd fromlf   tb.; 90 ysce7rd   er     ndle. 1psiga   adset nar  wIs n      fNC sne _ DSRelaTIvePvrONom    ee   f7er   aio       ra   n   ea 
pcrcsnoue ofohclrespcnta peolatoss.IoaeshassoaFchlu   Rael rlante proct  incme lvel  s ce-n-ed -o a                       bysge iectapin
IcoArTH ltr topertode rtmoepaol..ara ro    oesm)'bteroa40os  fsh   eonp   Ihnleeri eirdfrmte                                                                          tua
tartlh'  canon oIseddt.
rural -Ourher hP people (tonal   uran  ad.rural) earnedthyndcreta       Y-       OETYTRETGOP
;rpua  au peredtgIeI   riotsth   ropa      tinecouli lb,n.   n Ouracadta                                              loo  mi,an  moel  etsRirato
poel m   Inlud  th  cllciio  an  Aboad  nth   at      ....o . troarsc                                     ost   elaeadPoetoaip ec
A_ hrarccao    saecceb   ae- ore  yu  '   s.ho.n  o                                                      .bnt.18
plc combo end ulsllec tosnullaricra.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
E C O N O M I C   D E V E L O P M E N T   D A T A
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS a                            Actual                        Projected
1970-    1979-
1976        1977        1979Y       1980        1985       19-76     198-5     1976       1979      1985
Annual Growth
Millions of US$ at 1978 Prices and Exchange Rate                 Rates             As Percert of GDY
Gross Domestic Product             53,484      56,240      59,886       60,906      77,004       3.3       4.3      100.?      99.3      98.8
Gains from Terms of Trade ()         -385        -293          400         720         923        ..        ..        -.)        .7       1.2
Gross Domestic Income              53,099      55,947      60,286       61,626      77,927       3.3       4.3      100.0    100.0    100.0
Import Goods and NFS                3,837       4,456       7,922       9,854      13,213       13.1       8.9        7.2      13.1     17.0
Export Goods and NFS               -4,996      -6,841       7,871      -8,209      10,812        9.7       5.4       -9.4    -13.1    -13.9
Resource Gap                       -1,159      -2,385           51       1,645       2,401                  -        -2.2       0.0       3.1
Consumption Expenditures           41,157      41,847      46,491      49.248      6Z,557        3.3      3.1        77.7      77.1     6u.3
Investment Expenditures            10,685      11,720      13,846      14,023      17,770       5.0       4.3       20.2      23.0      22.8
Domestic Savings                   11,844      14,022      13,795      13,378      15,370       4.5        1.8      22.3      22.9      19.7
National Savings                   11,440      13,535      13,300      12,072      14,157        3.6       1.0      21.4       22.1      18.2
MERCHANDISE TRADE                        Annual Data at Current U8$                                                    As Percent of Total
Impor ts
Capital Goods                      500        874       2,241        2,922       6,433        -         -        18        33.6      33.7
Intermediate Goods               1,870      2,402        3,418       4,292       9,159         -        -        61.3      51.2      48.0
Petroleum & Products               560        584          617         868       1,466        -         -        18.4       9.2       7.7
Consumption Goods                   70          98         398       1,103       2,010         -        -         2.3       6.0      10.5
Total Merch. Imports (r,i.f.)       3,050       3,958       6,674       9,186      19,068         -         -      100.0    100.0    100.0
Exports
Primary products                 2,807       3,842       6,778       7,760      15,560        -         -        74.6      86.8      87.9
Manufactured goods                 956       1,495       1.027       1,158       2,136         -        -        25.4      13.2      12.1
Total Merch.Exports (f.o.b.)        3,763       5,337       7,805       8,918      17,696         -         -      100.0    100.0    100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                        Average 1978 = 100
Cxport Price Index                     83          91         127        145         213
Import Price Index                     83          97         118        130         192
Terms of Frade InBde.                 9I           09         109        111         111
VALUE-ADDED B. SECTOR              Annual Data at 1978 Prices and Exchange Rate
Agriculture                         6,365       6,7!9       7,235       7,452       9,512       3.0        4.7       11.9      12.1      12.4
Industry and Mining               20,805      23,621       27,677      28,230      36,363       6.9        4.7      38.9      46.2       47.2
Services and others               26,314      25.870       24,974      25,224      31,129        .5        3.7      49.2      41.7      40.4
Total                             53,484      56,240       59,886      60,906      77,004       3.4        7.3   IOO    100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                     Annual Data at Current Prices                                                        As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)                     billions of $a
Current Receipts                  ,984       3,040      18,319                                          -        12.3      13.1
Current Expenditures               903       2,183      15,089                                          -        11.3      10.8
Budgetary Savings                   81         857       3,230                                                    1.0       2.3
Transfers (net)                   -483        -724      -1,641                                          -         6.1       1.1
Investment                         343         920       3,840                                          -         4.3       2.7
SELECTED INDICATORS                  1965-       1970-       1975-       1980-
(Calculated from 3-yr. av. data)  1970           1975        1980        1985
Average ICOR                          4.4         6.9         6.8          3.7
Import Elasticity                     1.1         0.9         1.4          1.3
Marginal Domest.Ss6iigs RataL(%)  26.7           10.6        43.7        24,5
Marginal Nat'l Savings Rate (7.)   23.2          16.2        44.5         24.9
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER                     LABOR FORCE                                     VALUE-ADDED PER WORKER IN 1975  PRICES
WORKER                                                                                         AND EXCHANGE RATE
In millions  In 7. of Total   Annual Growth Net           In US$         Percent of Av.    Growth
1970    1975   1970   1975           1970/75              1970   1975    1970   1975         1970/75
Agriculture                      1,474   1,420       16     14          - 0.7              3,357  3,575        81      79         1.2
Industry                         2,948   2,941      32      29            0.0              5,407  6,842       131    150          4.5
Services                        4,790   5,779       52      57             3.8             4.140  3,618       100      80        -2.4
TOTAL                            9,213  10,140    100    100               1.0             4,133  4,551       100    TOU          1.9
MONEY AND PRICES                     1975        L976        1977        1978             1979
(billions of $a)
Money Supply (Ml)                   330.6    1,259.9    3,080.0    7,742.9                18,545.0
M1+ time deposits (M2)              409.7    1,838.4    6,254.2   17,169.3                49,604.0
Mb as   of GDP                       23.3        15.8        14.5         14.8                15.0
M, as do of GDP                      28.9        23.0        29.4        32.8                 37.0
CPI Index (1974=10C)                270.6    1,472.2    4,o63.7   11,873.8                29,474.5
E change CPI index                 619.6       444          176         192                  148
a/ The Argentine Central Bank has undertaken a major revision of the national accounts. Data in this table are based on
preliminary estimates and are not fully comparable to those presented in Report 2988-AR, dated July 10, 1980.
b/ The 1977-1979 changes reflect to a large extent the, real appreciation of the exchange rate during 1978/79.
November 7, 1980



-22                                                                         ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at curres,t prices)
Actual                                              Estimated              Projected
SUMMARY BALANCE OP PAYMENTS             1972        1973        1974        1975       1976        1977        1978              1979              1980         1985
Exports (itcl. NFS)                 2,389       3,799       4,761      3,669       4,668       6,769       7,689             9,279           10,315        20,536
Imports (incl. NFS)                -2,222      -2,633     -4,218      -4,517      -3,584      -4,892      -4,901            -9,211          -12,449       -24,071
Resource Balance                          167      1,166       1,543        -848       1.084      1,877       2,788                6R          - 2.134        -3,535
Net Interest Pyepnts                 -323       _382        -388        -425        -464        -370        -381              -526             -203        -1,935
Direct Investment Income              -60        -77         -35         -16         -28        -208        -292               -30             -170          -220
Other Factor Service Income            -3          4            7           1          2         -40        -136               -55              -60           -R5
Net Factor Service Income               -386       -455         -416        -440        -490       -618        -815              -611             -433         2,240
Current Transfers (net)                    -4        10          -             5          18         31          48                 50              5              68
Balance on Current Account              -223        721          127      -1,283         611      1,290       2,021              -493           -2,517        -5,70
Private Direct Investment                  10         10         10          -           -           146        290               350              500            805
Official Capital Grants                    10        26          17            9           8        -           -
Public M&LT Loans (net)                  205        364         228          -66      1,319         356       1,350               207              241           260
Disbursements                         522        832         776         448       1,908       1,064       2,910               340             415            610
A-ortization                         -317       -468        -548         -516       -590        -7108     -1,560              -133             -174          -350
Other M&LT Loans (net)                     51       -29          28           -3       -159         519         309               951              317           688
Disbursements                         101         71         244         405         268       1,059       1,328             2,489           2,071          8,013
Amortization                          -50       -100        -216        -408        -427        -540      -1,019            -1,538          -1,754         -2,325
Short-term Capital and
Transactions n.e.i.                    82       -444        -339         275       -1,814         31      -1,558             3,282               -
Change in Reserves
(- = increase)                       -135      -648        - 71        1,D70           17                                   __ 92.412  _,297  1,459       -1,046
Level of Gross Reserves                   465     1,330       1,286          432        1,589     3,816       5,814            10,111            8,540         8,959
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Granti & Grant-Like          -           -           -           -
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD 9                                         -          -           -            115        205         165              306
Other Multilateral                  92         57          1          177          165        148        230               323
Bilatera'                           82        42         519           42          146        117          74               41
Suppliers                          118        116        535          307          196        363        339               542
Financial Institutions             390        156        488          126          970        754      1,445             1,770
Bonds                              120         65        290          200          207         93        146               104
Total Public M&LT Loans            802       436       1,833          852        1,803      1,680      2,399             3,086
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
public Debt Outstanding &           2
Dis horsed                          2,368     2,792       3,046        2,901        4,251     4,836       6,791             8,088
Interest on Public Debt               156        199        233          250          258        308        512
Repayments on Public Debt             317        468         548         516          589        708      1,5767
Total Public Debt Service             473        667         781         766          847      1,016      2,088             16587
Other Debt Service                    174        244         408          626         659        602      1,369
Total Debt Service                    647        911      1,189        1,392        1,506      1,618      3,457
BURDEN ON EXPORT EARNT?rMS (%)
Public Debt Service                    19.8       17.6        16.4        20.9         18.1       15.0       27.2              20
Total Debt Service                     27.1       24.0       25.0         37.9         32.3       24.0        38.6             26
TDS + Dir. Inv. Income                 29.6       26.0        25.7        38.4         32.9       27.0       42.4              29
AVERAGE TERMS OF PUBLIC DEBT
It. as 7 Prior Year DO&D               8.3        8.4         8.3          8.2         8.9       11.6        11.8             10
Amort. as 7, Prior Year DO&D           16.9       19.8        19.6         16.9        20.3       36.7        19.7             14
'IBRD Debt Outst. & Disbursed          256        302         340         341          342        342         352              363
IBRD as. % of Public Debt O&D          10.8       10.8        11.2         11.8         8.0        7.1         5.7              4
IBRD Debt Service as % of
Public Debt Service                   5.1        4.6        4.5          5.6          5.1        2.2         3.2              3
EXTERNAL  DEBT  (Disbursed  Only)       Actual  Debt Outstanding  on Dec.  31.  1978          Estimated  Debt Oustanding on Dec. 31. 1979
Disbursed Only                 Percent                  Disbursed onlY              Percent
IBR1                                       352                         5.2                        363                       4
Other Multilateral                         552                         8.1                        619                       8
Bilateral                                  728                        10.7                        796                     -10
Suppliers                                1,575                        23.2                     I,S55                       19
Financial Institutions                   2,618                        38.5                     3,858                       48
Bonds                                      966                        14.3                       897                       11
Iocal Public M&LT Debt                      6,791                       100.0                      8,088                      100
November 11, 1980



ANNEX II
- 23 -                    Page I of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of August 31, 1980)
Amount less    Undis-
Loan No.   Year         Borrower           Purpose         Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
Fully disbursed loans                                         466.1
505       1968         Argentina          Livestock           15.3          0.7
1330       1977         SEGBA, S.A.        Power              115.0         63.5
1384       1977         Argentina          Highways           105.0         92.5
1463       1978         Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo       Credit           100.0         70.8
1521       1978         Argentina          Grain Storage      105.0        104.1
1677       1979         Ferrocarriles      Railways
Argentinos S.A.                       96.0         96.0
1761       1979         Argentina 1/       Yacyreta Power    210.0         210.0
1880       1980         Yacimientos
Petroliferos
Fiscales 1/                           27.0         27.0
Total                                            1,239.4
Of which has been repaid                           175.6
1,063.8
Amount sold                       12.8
Of which has been repaid           8.1               4.6
Total now held by Bank                           1,059.2
Total undisbursed                                              664.6
1/   Not yet effective.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                                 Amount in US$ million
Year       Obligor               Type of Business      Loans      Equity   Total
(US$ million)
1960    Acindar Industria          Steel Products         3.7        -        3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960    Papelera Rio Parana, S.A. Pulp and Paper         3.0         -        3.0
1961    Fabrica Argentina de       Automotive             1.5        -        1.5
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.       Transmission
1962    PASA, Petroquimica         Petrochemicals        3.0         -       3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/
1972   Celulosa Argentina, S.A.  Pulp and Paper        12.5         -      12.5
1969/
1975   Dalmine Siderca, S.A.      Steel Products       17.0         -      17.0
1969    Editorial Codex, S.A.      Printing and          5.0        2.0      7.0
Publishing
1971/
1973   Calera Avellaneda, S.A.   Cement                 5.5         -       5.5
1977    Alpargatas S.A.I.C.        Textiles & Fibers    7.0          -       7.0
1977    Soyex S.A.                 Soybean Processing   9.0          -       9.0
Plant
1978    Massuh, S.A.               Pulp and paper        8.0         -       8.0
1978    Juan Minetti, S.A.         Cement and
Construction
materials             9.0        -        9.0
1978    Ipako-Industrias           Chemicals and
Petroquimicas              Petrochemicals
Argentinas S.A.                                 10.0         -      10.0
1979    Alpesca S.A.               Fisheries             5.2        0.5      5.7
Total Gross Commitments                         99.4        2.5    101.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                            46.5        2.0     48.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC               52.9        0.5     53.4
Total Undisbursed                               21.3          -     21.3



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of September 30, 1980)
Loan 505-AR    Balcarce Livestock Project, US$15.3 million loan of July 31.
1967; Effective Date: August 31, 1967; Closing Date:
July 31. 1980.
Lending to ranchers was slow from loan effectiveness until 1970,
then accelerated as cattle prices increased and technical services improved.
From 1970 to 1973, project performance was satisfactory and a substantial
amount of the loan was disbursed but implementation slowed down again in 1974.
After the change in Government in 1976, conditions for beef cattle development
in Argentina improved for some time but recently the agricultural investment
climate has deteriorated as a result of the Government's foreign exchange
policies. The Bank loan is expected to be fully disbursed by November 15, 1980.
Loan 1330-AR   Electric Transmission and Distribution Program. US$115.0
million loan of November 1, 1976; Effective Date: January 10,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Mainly because of budgetary constraints on the funding of local cost
requirements during 1978 and 1979, the overall execution of the project has
been delayed by about 15 months.  This delay, however, does not significantly
affect the economic viability of the project. The project is proceeding
according to a revised schedule prepared in December 1979.
Loan 1384-AR   Fourth Highway Project; US$105.0 million loan of May 16, 1977;
Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The civil works component has been delayed by about two years
because of the Government's efforts during 1978 and 1979 to reduce public
expenditures. All 48 civil works contracts have been tendered, 47 have
been awarded and work has started in most of them. Other project components
are being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan 1463-AR   Industrial Credit Prolect; US$100.0 million loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: November 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31. 1982.
The credit component of the project is proceeding somewhat behind
schedule because of a lag in overall industrial investment. Commitments
increased recently; so far about US$50.0 million have been committed;
subprojects corresponding to another US$20.0 million are under review.
BANADE's financial condition remains sound and management has begun taking
important steps for further strengthening of its organization and procedures.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1521-AR   Grain Storage Pro-ject; US$105.0 million loan of June 29, 1978,
Effective Date:  November 28, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30,
1983.
Consultants for project execution were contracted in October 1978
and preliminary designs for the project silos have been evaluated. In June
1979, the Government requested that the responsibility for project silo
construction and operation be transferred from the public sector to the
private sector and also that silo capacity be reduced from 100,000 tons to
about 50,000 tons to make silos more attractive to the private sector. A new
project proposal is being prepared by the Government for Bank review; project
implementation has been suspended in the meantime. Based on additional
studies to be undertaken by the Government on effective demand for construc-
tion of the silos by the private sector, a decision would be taken by December
1980 whether to implement the project as a private sector credit project, or
as originally designed.
Loan 1677-AR   Second Railway Project, US$96.0 million of November 8, 1979;
Effective Date: May 6, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Despite delays in loan effectiveness, project implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily. A detailed procurement schedule has been agreed on
between the Railways and the Bank; it should result in loan disbursement on
schedule. Although financial ratios have deteriorated, the Railways has
exceeded virtually all of the agreed-upon operating targets.
Loan 1761-AR   Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project; US$210.0 million loan of
November 6, 1979; not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30,
1987.
Project execution is proceeding about three months behind
shedule. Bids for main civil works, turbines and generators have been opened
and are being evaluated. The loan is expected to be made effective soon
pending finalizing of changes to be made in the financial covenants included in
the Loan Agreement.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
ARGENTINA
COAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
Supplementary Pro_ect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           3 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:           Yacimientos Carboniferos
Fiscales
(c)  First presentation to Bank:              November 1979
(d)  First mission to prepare the project:  January 1980
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:          April 1980
(f)  Completion of negotiations:              October 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           April 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        The Bank has obtained assurances that:
(a) the Government and YCF would enter into a Subsidiary Financing
Agreement under which the proceeds of the Bank loan as well as
the Government's financial contribution to project costs would
be passed on in the form of equity (para 45); and
(b) the appropriate Argentine authorities would issue the necessary
mineral exploration permits to YCF (para 46).
2.        Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a)  a Subsidiary Financing Agreement, on behalf of the Government
and YCF, respectively, has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action (para 57);
and
(b) a contract for the services of the general consultant, acceptable to
the Bank, has been properly executed (para 57).



ARGENTINA COAL EXPLORATION - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
tt
HD H
o lb
0
rf                                                       1980         1981          1982       1983         1984          1985
I II III I    II III I  I        II III I  I II I   III III IV         1 IV
2 A) Project Preparation
Procurement of Equipment & Contractors
rt
Prequalifications
Bidding Process
Contract Awards & Delivery
Transport to Site
Consulting Services
Selection
Intermittent Assistance during Project
Preparation
B) Project Execution                                                                          .        .             -
Project Management                                                    _ .                                         -
General Consultant's Services
Geological Reconnaissance Work
Drilling
Geophysical



/   ~~-  2 [a toga Ba/gi-oaa        T, Ra~ MAlya            7                                                                  a oroor tiaao 
,-'->-\    '1                                                   ~~~~~~~~~ARGENTINA
A                       ~~~~COAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
8   C      H    IL   E                                                                                      Austral Basin  Priority Sub-Areas
f*   A  ~ ~    ~        ~       ~       ~      ~      -~~~--~~-- Approxinose limits of Austral Rosin
Aproximote lmits of priority s.b-areas
V                                                                    - - - ']App,oxiieose oLtcrop/sibcrop Rio Leono formation
/    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~ ~~~Proposed drill holes (except Ric) T,rbio Siboarea 1)
Sr   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~6() Completed drill holes
Sr                                                  -     M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%o'n lr-ighmay
Sr  ~~~~~~.  L ~~~~~- Secordory vnned roads
~~ Qtitggans     I                                           >'~~~~~~~~Gobernodor  -,--. Railroad
I                                 O~~~~~~~~~~~re ors  '-'<-   Rivers
LSoa     LCa,-oIvI                                         aCZ22~~~<:L    Lakes
Moor,,,                         r~~~~~~~~~ r                              International boundary
~~'-,R                              an~~~~~
V.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S   -  A  N    T          \A                                                   U~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IANr ZC    5Q3A /
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLMTM0 2    0 6                                                                                           o
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MU   o2  04  06
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VYE"
5AA  0
Sr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilT
fL,'R  V/N            7~                                                                                               ANTA.J CRJAZI
CT     aae     /i lI/   )                                                  t~<ro2> \ _ /A   L N/                                                C A
F  <7//t~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ '~~~~~n"  <7    7'  >  7      so                                I~~~~~~~~~~~UUCA,
S  jy    ~~~~~  1//i1~~~~~~s~~ 11~~~~e~~17  ~~~~'   -                                C00M55505 0      20     oe      en      on      en~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q
RIO        R~~   '        iLLEGOS20              5     0      0     2
-at
j _A'~'~IAN     teIN
~  'ENAASOO
~~~   ~~~~~                                                                GS~~~~~~~~~;,~~~~~~~ ~~ An KuTCn~
-BellaVistafa                                                   CC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~srn EA S0IV
- - - - - - \I--                         52.~~~~~~~ias          ob 7  '  '.  
5~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~o                      nOGA
%:V 6~~~~~~1 b- 11~~~~~~~~-d b, aI'RIO3ALEMadoinaa H Bono
Paer                                                                 ~                                                                        ~ A TPANt/
0005180 ~ ~   ~    ~     xz                                                                    A-otar 00   ,S tnollWO>oo0






KILOMETERS 0             I             2             3               i                                                                                      -J-A_
MILES 0                      I                     2            F1                                                                                                        I/  /  _ _ _     80m
Thss~~~~~~~~~~-  -a avhe                                                                                                                           lsmlb  h 0rd 9@NT  --  Sl! .-UISFt.ternsnec t$ Ih / 00sewm
NOAApT,A,ATOIAFIAAWIOAEIE.FA    A               . FTA/A                                k. _. ....__ ,-, ___
TOWN                                                                                                                                         5- .... S.- 1.40
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IO
t                            6h        //4/    ~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~D-49/     
mW / /   //     S
Am~~                   ~ \8Z I                                                        /    3                        |          )tg3
0~~~~0 
1 /D50/                    /        1      *.AA-         /              /D- 44
4,>,,,-:tl.,l   ;t <9z |    j              ,> D-43                           /                          **3 /        iD-46@/
;_ _ _L  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    \c i      /  C     
t7 Z -
i                           |       |            <              \         D-55_     /          yF6 D-45
,PAA  RA  IS
is,                                                                       / .\   ,D-56 /<9  \   10                 \
-.    NA==GtJAYD i5 I 
(C      I             A%O  F/C       =       =' yo'.5)                                                                                                       1-60//D-6 /5OC-
/ '- (-'Yoiooo~       A                                  )       ~          /                D-60
RIARA  OF -    AS                      , =CA-a
(TAN        FE  A,TIC
lOA,y AN
IA ~          ~           .        =   =N N= T                        , ''i'
0.E=        SAN     >,  - -Interntionul boundury   0   = 1              1        /        4D            /.C
S :X\                   BIR,OE mEXs              S   k              /                               /         1ARGENTINA
F I, RAA ELER =IES>                                /'            /                                                 COAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
0/ iN ; > ,0 ,X,,,, _ha, T , 05 / /@o\ |Rio Turbio Mine Exploration Sub-Area
/  A    R  G    E  N    T   I _',sjA                                                                            - - - ---Outcrop Do,otea Seem
-A5),F  I l         SANTA                                           /               A                         /      -/ 60/St,ct.,ecZou,s-baseofDoroteSm(meters)
\HURUF            OC -.EAN.                                                                         /             / fr-    ndiuted faul f     trace
\   i tQ  t     C R UZ         /'Cr ncF         =                                                                         Proposed rotary/core drill holes <600 meters
;Xo'1          ~            ~~~~ ~~ .  ir                                                                               Completed rotary/co,e drl hhoes>60mfr
A'IA   F ''-      /'-  .d62o (. == 31                                                                         \&;&  M            ouf oreo -   rMn oaeSeam
=   ,  1'.s/;igr   %'            0,    5    O                                                                             Main paved roads                                     i
AREA                                                                                                                 Secondry unpved mining rods
A 1   INSET MAR  II ~ ~ ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       R    oc
wg@5g'  2    8    sc 19 I L E ~ ~                s -  <   9  L    FAAE =SF.A --IBAS SnterSh ora! boundary
C4j7t.E  A    '~~~~~~~~~~RIARSE ~ ~ ~ ~



