Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.13716
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
FIFTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(LOAN NUMBER 3025-CO)
OCTOBER 11, 1994
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
1990 US$ 1 = Col$ 508
1991 US$ 1 = Col$ 614
1992 US$ 1 = Col$ 684
1993 US$ 1 = Col$ 789
Fiscal Year of Borrower
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CFs          Financial Corporations
CFD          Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo (SME development bank
post-privatization)
CFP          Corporacion Financiera Popular (State-owned development
bank; became CFD in 1992)
DTF          Interest Rate Index
ESOP         Employee Stock Option Plan
FFI          Fondo Financiero Industrial (State directed credit line)
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IFI          Instituto Financiero Industrial (State-owned financial
institution)
PFIs         Participating Financial Intermediaries
Proexpo      State-owned export promotion agency
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SMEs         Small and Medium Enterprises



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page
Preface   ..................................................                                                           i
Evaluation Summary                .....................                    .....................                      H
Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
A. Project Objectives   ....................................                                                1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives   ..........................                                           I
Disbursement Profile   ..................................                                              2
Sector Policy Objectives   ................................                                            2
Participation of Financial Intermediaries .......................                                      2
Loan Processing and Technical Assistance to Subborowers  ....                          .......         3
Impact of the CFD  ....................................                                                3
Financial Objectives  ...................................                                              4
Portfolio Characteristics .................................                                            4
Impact on Subborrowers  ................................                                               4
Rate of Return   ......................................                                                5
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  ...                          .....        5
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control .................                                      5
Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control  .................                                      6
D. Project Sustainability  ...................................                                              6
Continuation of SME Lending  .............................                                             6
CFD  Operations   .....................................                                                6
E. Bank Performance .....................................                                                   7
F. Borrower Performance  ..................................                                                 7
G. Assessment of Outcome  .................................                                                 8
H. Future Operation   .....................................                                                 8
I. Key Lessons Learned   ...................................                                                8
Part 11: Statistical Annexes  ......................................
Appendices:
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire   .........................
B. Borrowers Contribution to the ICR   ...................
C. Misc.    .....................................
D. Map   ......................................
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
Eofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banks authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
FIFTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT [LOAN NUMBER 3025-CO]
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fifth Small and Medium Enterprise
Project in Colombia, for which the amount of US$80.0 million equivalent was approved on March 14,
1989 and made effective on January 25, 1991.
Final disbursement took place on June 16, 1993. The amount of US$ 2.90 million was canceled
as of February 15, 1994, and US$ 0.88 million canceled as of August 26, 1994, at which time the loan
account was closed, several months earlier than the original closing date (6/30/95).
The ICR was prepared under the leadership of Susan Goldmark of the Public Sector
Modernization and Private Sector Development Division of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
with the assistance of Adrienne Taptich and Natalia Gomez, and reviewed by Krishna Challa, Division
Chief, and Elsie Garfield, Acting Project Advisor. The Borrower -- the Central Bank of Colombia -
provided comments that are included in an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission, July 18-25, 1994. It
is based upon material in the project file, discussions with Central Bank managers, interviews with
representatives of all participating financial intermediaries and 14 subborrowers, and financial data
provided by the Central Bank, financial intermediaries, and subborrowers. The borrower contributed in
the preparation of the ICR during the completion mission by: (i) discussing all major points included in
this report; (ii) providing a diskette with subloan information; (iii) assisting in the collection of other
data; and (iv) producing its section of the report.






- ii -
COLOMBIA: FIFTH SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
[Loan number 3025-CO]
Evaluation Summary
Introduction:
1.     Four Bank loans totalling US$92.5 million had been made to small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in
Colombia during the thirteen years preceding this project. All were intermediated solely by the Corporacion
Financiera Popular (CFP), the state development bank established to support SMEs. While these projects
succeeded in stimulating growth in employment and improving the quality of CFP's development banking
services, they made little progress towards reducing the high administrative cost and low efficiency of CFP
services and tackling policies to promote the intermediation of SME loans through a wider network of private
and state-owned financial institutions.
Project Objectives
2.     Objectives: The development objectives of the Fifth Small and Medium Enterprise Project were to
increase SME value-added and employment creation by: (i) making changes in public policies and institutional
mechanisms influencing SME access to long-term credits; (ii) expanding the number of financial
intermediaries making SME long-term loans and the volume of their resources mobilized for this purpose;
(iii) simplifying loan processing and increasing technical cooperation to SMEs; and (iv) preparing sector-wide
industrial studies and recommendations during Project implementation on policies influencing capital intensity,
business establishment, and operations to help promote a neutral policy environment for SME development.
The project aimed to support 2,500 SMEs and 2,000 microenterprises. Its objectives were clear and well-
focussed.
3.     Components and Covenants: The project had three main components: (i) a US$77 million line of
credit destined for SMEs; (ii) a US$3 million microenterprise component; and (iii) an SME policy study.
Important loan covenants included: (i) a maximum 10% arrears rate on 3025 subloans per financial
intermediary; (ii) CFP net profits/average assets not less than 1.6%; (iii) CFP administrative costs/average
assets not to exceed 5.5%; and (iv) Guarantor to make equity contributions to ensure that CFP debt/equity not
exceed 7.5%. The Central Bank was the Borrower of the loan.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.     Achievement of Objectives: The project achieved its stated objectives of policy change, commercial
financial institution participation, and simplification of loan processing -- all required as loan effectiveness
conditions. Sector policy issues included changes in credit regulations to eliminate interest rate subsidies1,
extend maturities, expand eligible expenditures, adopt substantially higher automatic rediscount ceilings,
simplify documentation, and adopt repayment performance as the key ex-post monitoring criterion. The
Central Bank streamlined SME processing and improved its speed in approving loans--from 50 days under the
fourth SME loan to 1 day at the time of the completion report. Although the interest rate conditionality
delayed loan effectiveness by 18 months, once all policy and processing changes were made, the main project
component--the US$77 million line of credit--moved quickly. The line was more than fully committed
1/     The interest rate structure of directed credit was amended so that the Central Bank rediscounted the funds to financial
intermediaries at the value of an index of commercial bank deposit rates (DTF) and allowed the intermediaries to onlend
the funds to SMEs at rates up to DTF+6.



- iii -
(US$94 million) about 1.75 years after loan effectiveness.v Almost 96% of the line was fully disbursed less
than two years after loan effectiveness. Thirty-two financial intermediaries tapped the 3025 credit line. The
collection rate for almost all participating financial intermediaries was high, ranging from 97% to over 99%.
Based in part on its experience with this project, in May 1994, the Central Bank eliminated all caps on
directed credit programs.
5.     Portfolio Characteristics: A total of 2,188 subloans with an average value of US$34,800 were issued
to SME's with average assets of US$23,277. About 42% of subborrowers were classified as new firms that
were legally incorporated immediately prior to the subloans. The credit line was used by enterprises in 26
regions throughout the country. Of the firms granted subloans, 80% had asset levels of under US$150,000 at
the time of the subloan, and 28% had assets less than US$20,000. As many as 45% of all subloans issued
were for less than US$20,000. These indicators appear to demonstrate that the project satisfied its goal of
reaching smaller enterprises. Almost 80% of subloans carried the maximum allowable interest rate of
DTF+6%. A review of the files and surveys conducted during the completion mission indicate that the
credit has had a significant positive impact on employment and sales of participating SMEs.
6.    Impact on CFP: CFP, which was the main financial corporation lending to small end medium
enterprises, was unable to meet the performance indicators that were set (as a legal covenant) for participating
in the project. This helped precipitate the decision to privatize this public sector development bank in April
1992 and change its name to the Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo (CFD). Authorized capital was
doubled from US$7.3 to 14.6 million and, in 1993, the CFD issued an additional US$0.63 million in shares.
This increase in equity also caused an improvement in the institution's financial indicators. CFD management
has been changed; a new strategy and procedures for lending are being designed and field offices are being
fully computerized. In the regional offices, there has been a depoliticization of staff.
7.     Other Project Components: The two project components that were not as successful were the
microenterprise development facility and the SME sector policy study. The US$3 million originally set aside
for the microenterprise component (US$2.9 million for subloans and US$100,000 for technical assistance for
microenterprise subloan administration) were moved into the general credit line fund (by amendment letter
5/7/93). Colombian non-governmental organizations designated to use these resources were able to obtain
funds on more favorable terms through an Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) project -- in this sense,
the corresponding project objective was pursued. By contrast, the preparation of the SME sector policy study
required under the loan had no impact on the policy environment. The Central Bank had low ownership of
the study since not responsible for the non-financial policies this study was intended to examine and address.
8.    Bank Performance: Bank performance in all stages of the project cycle was highly satisfactory. The
Bank team designed a project that succeeded in catalyzing improvements in CFD performance, following four
projects that were unable to reform the institution. The strategy of introducing competition among financial
institutions to improve the efficiency of a Government-owned development bank was an innovative approach
which contributed significantly to the achievement of the project's basic development objective (SME sector
development) and the success of the project. The inclusion of potential participating financial intermediaries
in the preparation phase, through focus groups, contributed to successful implementation. Risks and benefits
of the credit were adequately appraised and borrower commitment established. The CFD was appraised
thoroughly and eligibility criteria were established for other financial intermediaries. Supervision missions
took place once a year, and supervision reports presented salient issues and changes.
9.    Borrower Perfornance: The Borrower's performance was highly satisfactory in the various
components of loan preparation and implementation. The Central Bank participated extensively in the
j /    Commitments exceeded the total line amount of US$77 million to take into account potential cancellations.



- iv -
preparation phase and demonstrated commitment to the project. It verified financial intermediary compliance
with eligibility criteria, disqualifying one institution when necessary. Significant improvements in operational
procedures were made by the Central Bank. It sought, as well, to collect data required from financial
intermediaries regarding subborrowers on an annual basis.
10.    Project Outcome: The project's outcome has been highly satisfactory. The line of credit provided
small and medium enterprises in Colombia with access to credit through the commercial branch network as
the country was opening its economy, thereby giving these firms resources to take advantage of the new
opportunities emanating from the apertura. The policy dialogue on interest rate policy related to this loan,
and the conditionalities developed, contributed to Central Bank movement towards reduced rate-setting and
increased market-determination of interest rates for all segments of the real sector.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
11.   Future Operations and Sustainability: In early 1994, the Government decided that the Central Bank
should no longer engage in rediscounting of credit lines. The unit established to oversee such lines has been
largely disbanded, and only a few staff members continue to attend part-time to management of credit line
paperwork. Colombia may engage in future line of credit operations through IFI and BANCOLDEX.
12.    Continuation of SME Lending: The sustainability of main project achievements is likely. All but two
of the financial intermediaries interviewed asserted that they would continue to lend to SMEs out of their own
resources.2' Further, one commercial institution has established a line of credit for SMEs from its own
resources that would give loans of up to 10 years. The Government-owned financial institution, IFI, has
established a US$2.5 million guarantee fund that will guarantee from 30-50% of SME loan amounts. In
addition, in 1993, IFI rediscounted about US$20 million through first tier financial intermediaries to SMEs
and plans to expand this practice in the future. As financial sector policy reforms undertaken since 1990 have
contributed to more competition in the banking sector, financial institutions are likely to expand lending from
own resources to SMEs. Many institutions indicated, however, that they will not lend to microenterprises
since they believe that these loans carry an unacceptably high level of risk and administrative costs.
13.    CFD Operations: CFD viability has increased as a result of the reforms undertaken since its
privatization. The institutional culture is changing--both through changes in management, training of
personnel regarding new procedures and service orientation, and personnel attrition and turnover. However,
arrears remain high and levels of efficiency and profitability remain below industry standards.
14.   Lessonsfor Future Projects: The four main general lessons learned from this project include: (i) all
key elements needed for project success should be accomplished prior to project effectiveness; (ii) those
responsible for implementing a project component must feel ownership; (iii) coordination with multilateral
and other funding agencies and the Government on sector policy is important to ensure consistent approaches
and avoid duplication of effort; and (iv) maintaining the focus of supervision on achieving broad development
goals combined with a degree of pragmatism regarding conditionality can improve project outcome. Important
lessons regarding SME sector development include: (i) credit projects can help enable SME's to take
advantage of liberalization of the business environment; (ii) fostering a competitive credit environment can be
an effective technique to improve the performance of a Government-owned development bank; (iii) heightened
competition in the financial sector can lead to greater private sector interest in lending to SME's; and (iv)
financial intermediaries should have maximum flexibility to set the appropriate terms, conditions and
amortization schedules of SME subloans; more frequent, smaller payments are an important factor to increase
repayment rates among smaller enterprises.
3/     The two banks that will not pursue SME lending have developed strategies and procedures to target large firns.






PART I -Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Project Objectives
1.    The development objectives of the Fifth Small and Medium Enterprise Project (SME5) were
to increase small and medium enterprise (SME) value-added and employment creation by: (i) making
changes in public policies and institutional mechanisms influencing SME access to long-term credits;
(ii) expanding the number of financial intermediaries making SME long-term loans and the volume of
their resources mobilized for this purpose; (iii) simplifying loan processing and increasing technical
cooperation to SMEs; and (iv) preparing sector-wide industrial studies and recommendations during
Project implementation on policies influencing capital intensity, business establishment, and operations
to help promote a neutral policy environment for SME development. The three main project
components were: (i) a US$77 million line of credit destined for SMEs; (ii) a US$3 million
microenterprise component; and (iii) an SME policy study. It was anticipated that the project would
support 2,500 existing and newly-created SMEs and 2,000 microenterprises.'
2.    The operation's fundamental goal of increasing SME value-added and employment by
expanding their access to long term credit was clear. Objectives (i)-(iv) were well-defined and
targeted to achieving this goal. Promoting SME investments in productive assets by easing financing
constraints was fully consistent with the growth-oriented country assistance strategy. The success of
the four previous SME credits and domestic directed credit programs in increasing the employment
and value added of SMEs suggested that the project's goal was realistic. Further, the strategy to
expand the number of participating financial intermediaries (PFIs) reflected a highly realistic view of
the weak capacity of the Corporation Financiera Popular (CFP). The CFP had continued to perform
poorly despite attempts at institution-building and improving efficiency under the previous four SME
credits. The SME5 credit, consequently, sought to encourage commercial financial intermediaries to
lend to SMEs, rather than relying only on CFP.
3.    The SME5 project design was highly focussed. Only the preparation of a broad study
regarding the policy environment for SME development was not directly related to the fundamental
objective of the credit. The project was more complex than its four predecessors since several
financial intermediaries were involved in the SME lending component and a microenterprise lending
component was added. However, because the Borrower (the Central Bank) and participating
financial intermediaries had developed a strong capacity to administer such credits, the project's risk
of failure was low and no undue implementation burden was created.
4.    This project had two significant modifications during project implementation. First, the Bank
and the Borrower agreed in 1992 that the privatization of the CFP would be substituted for complying
with institutional performance covenants, which CFP was unable to meet, as a condition for
disbursement. Second, the US$3 million originally set aside for the microenterprise component
(US$2.9 million for subloans and US$100,000 for technical assistance to increase capacity for
administration of microenterprise subloans) were moved into the general credit line fund. Colombian
non-governmental organizations designated to use these resources were able to obtain funds on more
favorable terms through an Inter-American Bank (IDB) project.
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives
5.    The project succeeded in achieving its stated objectives of policy change, commercial financial
institution participation, and simplification of loan processing. These were attained as part of the $77
million SME credit line which was the main project component. The two project components that
were not as successful were the microenterprise development facility and the SME sector policy



Page 2
study. As mentioned above, the microenterprise component funds were reallocated to the general
credit line fund. In addition, the preparation of the SME sector policy study required under the loan
did not have any noticeable impact on the policy environment. The Central Bank--which was the
implementing institution for this study--was not responsible for the non-financial policies that this
study was intended to examine and address. This contributed to low ownership of the study and its
lack of impact.2 However, broad policy reforms implemented 1990-91 improved the environment for
small and medium business.3 (see para 23)
6.     Disbursement Profile: The credit was committed and disbursed very rapidly. The Staff
Appraisal Report anticipated that the loan would be fully committed within two years after loan
effectiveness and fully disbursed about 4.5 years after effectiveness. Instead, the line was more than
fully committed (US$94 million) about 1.75 years after loan effectiveness.4 Almost 96 percent of the
line was fully disbursed less than two years after loan effectiveness. The line of credit moved quickly
due to: (i) attractive intermediation margins, which encouraged financial intermediary participation
and promotion; and (ii) long lending terms (4-10 years), which subborrowers were otherwise unable
to obtain. A Government line of credit offering long term credit for enterprise development (FFI)
was closed mid-1991, which increased demand for the Bank loan.
7.     Sector Policy Objectives: The project did achieve its sector policy objectives with respect to
changes in public policies and institutional mechanisms influencing SME access to long term credit.
Loan effectiveness conditions stipulated that the Government would put into effect certain financial
policies and institutional changes. These included changes in regulations governing Central Bank
development credit rediscount facilities to: (i) eliminate interest rate subsidies and expand financial
margins to PFIs; (ii) extend maturities and grace periods; (iii) expand eligible expenditures to include
imported used equipment; (iv) adopt substantially higher automatic rediscount ceilings and simplify
documentation to reduce loan processing time and cost; (v) adopt repayment performance as the key
ex-post monitoring criterion; (vi) relax capitalization and production target requirements; and (vii)
eliminate the discretionary bases for the cancellation of already approved rediscounts.
8.     Further, the interest rate structure of directed credit was amended so that the Central Bank
rediscounted the funds to financial intermediaries at the value of an index of commercial bank deposit
rates (DTF) and allowed the intermediaries to onlend the funds to SMEs at rates up to DTF+6.5
The prior rate structure provided an insufficient spread to attract PFIs to lend to smaller clients,
which were considered to have relatively higher administrative costs and carry greater risk. The
policy changes and attractive terms contributed substantially to the rapid disbursement of the line of
credit. Based in part on its experience with allowing market defined interest rates within a specified
range this project, the Central Bank eliminated all interest rate caps on subloans issued through
directed credit programs in May 1994.
9.     Participation of Financial Intermediaries: The SME5 credit did achieve its institutional
development objective of expanding the number of financial intermediaries making long-term loans to
SMEs. A condition of project effectiveness was that the Central Bank would execute participation
agreements with at least three PFI's, whose aggregate indicative commitments would exceed at least
40 percent of the loan amount, and with one managing institution for the microenterprise component.
The structure of the credit led to a strong increase in the number of participating financial
intermediaries in the credit line compared to previous SME credit lines in Colombia--32 banks and
CF's used the credit. This meant that SMEs had ready access to this credit line through an extensive
network of bank branches throughout the country.



Pag 3
10.   It is less clear whether the loan succeeded in increasing the volume of resources mobilized for
SME lending since the participating financial intermediaries do not keep records of portfolio
development according to client size. However, in the survey of participating financial
intermediaries undertaken for this report, two-thirds of the participating banks and financial
corporations (CFs) reported that over 80% of SME subborrowers were new clients. Only one bank
indicated that most subborrowers (95%) were previous clients. The intermediaries reported that they
would have issued loans to these clients, but that the line enabled them to offer funds at longer terms
than they would have out of their own resources. At the time of the completion report, most
intermediaries' representatives stated that they were willing to use their own resources for SME
clients, but only for a 3-5 year term.
11.   Loan Processing and Technical Assistance to Subborrowers: Institutional development
goals regarding the Central Bank were met. The Central Bank streamlined SME processing and
improved its speed in approving loans--from 50 days under the fourth SME loan to 7 days as of the
first supervision report. At the time of the completion report, the Central Bank had a one day
turnaround. In addition, the loan agreement created a "free limit subloan" procedure, under which
financial intermediaries would be allowed to issue subloans for up to US$400,000 without prior
approval from the Central Bank. The financial intermediaries were also able to give subloans for
restructuring or investing based on financial plans duly submitted without Central Bank approval for
amounts of US$250,000 for CFD and experienced CFs, US$120,000 for smaller CFs, and
US$80,000 for commercial banks.
12.   Commercial financial intermediaries reported that they did not change their own procedures
for dealing with SMEs. No steps were taken to decrease paperwork demands or expedite SME loan
processing and no changes occurred in the amount of time necessary to approve a loan. However,
interviews with a sample of subborrowers indicate that the amount of time taken to process and
approve a loan--on average one month--was regarded to be reasonable. Subborrowers and
participating financial indicated that in order for the small firms to complete the financial analysis and
project documents, the banks would have to provide some guidance in project preparation. No other
formal technical assistance was provided to subborrowers.
13.   Impact on the CFD: The CFD made important steps forward in institutional development
under the loan. When unable to meet the performance indicators that were a legal covenant for
participating in the project, CFD was in danger of losing a predominant source of financing. This
situation helped to precipitate the decision to privatize this public sector development bank in April
1992 and change its name to the Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo (CFD). Authorized capital
was doubled from US$7.3 to 14.6 million and, in 1993, the CFD issued an additional US$0.63
million. Main investors include the IDB's International Investment Corporation (24.6%), Corferias
(0.4%), and the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Small Industry, an Ecuadoran private
bank and other private investors, and various other foundations and cooperatives involved in
microenterprise development (total of 33.7%). The government now holds 23% of the shares, and of
the seven current CFD board members, only one represents the Government. As a result of the
privatization, return on the institution's portfolio has received increasing emphasis. CFD management
has devised a new strategy and procedures for lending.
14.   The increase in equity caused an improvement in the institution's financial indicators:
administrative costs/total assets declined from over 8 percent in 1990 and 1991 to 4.1 % in end July
1992 and 5.39% at end-1993. Net profits to average assets were 0.9% in 1990 and 0.8% in 1991
versus a loan covenant target of 1.6%. This percentage improved to 2.2% in 1992 because (i) CFP
dramatically increased deposit taking and own resource lending; (ii) the capital injected through



Page 4
privatization yielded interest returns since not yet relent; and (iii) the institution made financial gains
on sale of property. In 1993, as the effects of these extraordinary circumstances subsided, the ratio of
net profits to average assets was 1.03, reflecting operational improvements since pre-privatization.
The indicator jumped in 1994 due to generalized credit restrictions that inhibited CFD loan issuance.
15.   Financial Objectives: The project achieved its financial objectives with regard to financial
intermediaries. Thirty-one participating financial intermediaries met and sustained the eligibility
criteria.6 These criteria were that intermediaries sign participation agreements, maintain project
accounts under sound practices and provide audited financial statements, adhere to subloan terms on
rate, maturity, and grace period specified, and maintain a collections rate of 90%. The collection rates
for participating financial intermediaries, except CFP, were high, ranging from 97% to over 99%.
Non-performing loans were approximately 1% of the CO-3025 portfolio at year end-1993.
16.   The quality of the CFD portfolio of World Bank SME5 loans was considerably lower than
that of CFD's general portfolio. Arrears for the credit line were 22%, compared to 7.4% for the
overall portfolio in 1993, including 3.2% overdue more than 90 days. (The total arrears rate shows
improvement, but continues below industry standards.) Since the credit line drew from the same pool
of borrowers as other loans, the explanation provided by CFD management is that the SME5 loan
amortization schedule was inappropriate for the scale of subborrower. CFP works mainly with
microenterprise and smaller-scale clients, who normally repay CFP loans on a monthly or quarterly
basis. This repayment schedule fits the cash flow structure of smaller enterprises and the discipline of
more frequent, smaller repayments has been found to improve collection rates. Central Bank
regulations established for the SME credit line, however, required all PFIs to collect repayments from
subborrowers on a semiannual basis to match their own repayment schedule to the Central Bank.
17.   Portfolio Characteristics: During the course of the project, a total of 2,188 subloans with an
average value of US$34,800 (C$30.81 million) were issued to SME's with average assets of
US$23,277 (C$19.20 million). About 42% of subborrowers were classified as new firms that were
legally incorporated immediately prior to the loan.' The credit line was used by enterprises in 26
regions throughout the country. Areas of concentration include Santafe de Bogota (658), Antioquia
(252), Santander (188), Cudinamarca (125), and Valle de Cauca (125). The financial intermediaries
that issued the greatest number of loans were CFD (810), Caja Agraria (481), Banco Ganadero (200),
Banco Cafetero (145), and Banco Popular (155). The Banks tended to issue smaller loans than CFs.
The agricultural development bank, Caja Agraria, disbursed loans of by far the smallest average value
($19,326), while CFD issued the smallest average loans of all other institutions on average
(US$41,527). Several CFs made subloans with values totalling over US$1 million, including
Corfigan, CF de Santander, CF Colombiana, and CF Suramericana.
18.   Of the firms that granted subloans, 80% had asset levels of under US$150,000 at the time of
the loan, and 28% had assets less than US$20,000. A large number of loans were small: 45% of all
loans issued were for less than US$20,000. These indicators appear to demonstrate that the project
satisfied its goal of reaching smaller enterprises. Almost 80% of subloans carried the maximum
allowable interest rate of DTF+6%. Approximately 14% of loans carried rates of 3-5%. The 5% of
loans with an interest rate of DTF represent loans to enterprises located in frontier areas (Amazonas,
Norte de Santander, Nario, Cesar) in accordance with national law that requires that preferential
treatment be given these regions.
19.   Impact on Subborrowers: Survey results indicate that the credit has had a significant positive
impact on employment and sales of participating SMEs.8 A sample of 53 enterprise subborrowers
that initiated operations with subloan proceeds had a combined annual salary expense of US$1.7



PeW s
million in the year following the credit. This result may be used to infer that every loan dollar helped
to generate 35 cents in salaries in the short term. As the firms were new and did not have regular
employees before the loan, the expense represents payment of salaries to employees hired as a direct
consequence of the credit. Sales by these firms were also a direct result of the credit. Total 1992
sales of these sampled enterprises were US$19.8 million, averaging US$388,609 per loan. For every
dollar of loan to these new firms, US$3.56 in product was sold in the first year of operation. Of this
sample, only 3 had no sales in that year. Thus, in general, it appears that the subloans did contribute
to production.
20.   Another sample of 93 new and existing Bogota firms that received loans with a total value of
US$5.55 million from the CFD, selected randomly from CFD files, created or sustained a total of
2,997 jobs-or an average of 32 jobs per firm. Employment creation was higher than projected by
loan analysts in conjunction with the entrepreneurs. Annual sales by these firms in were US$28.7
million, with average sales of US$308,576 per enterprise. This implies that each loan dollar helped to
support US$5.17 in sales. On average, actual sales were equivalent to sales projected in the financial
plans drawn up by the entrepreneur and CFD. Enterprise performance varied due, in part, to the
impact of lowering tariffs on the industry or sector.
21.   Finally, interviews conducted by Bank staff with 14 subborrowers in Bogota and Cali also
indicate that the loan program had, in general, a positive effect. All except three enterprise managers
believed that the loan had a direct positive impact on employment.' The 13 functioning enterprises in
total, according to managers, had created 323 additional full-time jobs specifically due to the 3025
loan-an average of 25 new jobs per enterprise. Only two enterprise managers said that employment
stayed the same or decreased. These 13 enterprises had a total of 485 employees at the time of
receiving their loan (37 per firm on average) which grew to 808 employees due to the loan (62 per
firm on average). Many of these enterprises had continued to grow after the first impulse of the loan;
as of July 1994, the total employment of these 13 enterprises had grown to 1,041. All except one
enterprise manager believed the 3025 loan contributed to a significant increase in their production
levels, number of buyers, sales, profits and taxes paid. However, many stated that profits did not
increase as fast as sales since margins were squeezed through increased competition from imports.
The Government lowered tariffs from an effective rate of 70 percent to about 30 percent during 1990-
91.
22.   Rate Of Return: The SAR stated that SME loan approvals would require at least an 11
percent financial rate of return. Information on the actual rate of return of subprojects was available
in the Central Bank of financial intermediary files only for subloans over US$100,000, which
represented 11% S of subloans. However, since subloans were disbursed at a market rate of interest
and the portfolio of SME loans is of very high quality, it appears that the financial rate of return on
subprojects was adequate.
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
23.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control: A major economic policy change
occurred during the first year of project implementation. Colombia undertook a broad economic
liberalization and modernization plan in 1990, known as the apertura, which dramatically changed the
business environment in which SMEs were operating. The apertura brought competition from
imports, access to capital goods at lower cost, and the potential for export development. The changes
resulted in increasing absolute and net entry by SME's. Effects on existing SME's varied by sector.
Small and medium firms seeking to take advantage of new market entry opportunities or needing to
restructure to improve efficiency in the face of increased competition were able to obtain credit



Page 6
through this project. In 1991, the appreciation of the peso and an increase in interest rates hurt
business, particularly exporters or those gearing up to export.
24.   Extensive financial sector reforms affected the operations and strategy of participating
financial intermediaries. Financial institutions, particularly CFs, were able to offer a wider range of
products and competition among types of institutions was increased. The liberalization of the current
account gave some large firms access to international financial markets, in which many Colombian
banks could not compete. Increased competition for prime clients caused many financial institutions
to seek new, smaller-scale clients at the same time that the 3025 credit line became available.
25.   Perhaps the most significant factor affecting implementation within the Government's control,
which led to an 18 month delay in project effectiveness, was a delay in implementing the financial
sector policy changes agreed to during negotiations. However, once these policy changes enabling the
project to become effective were enacted, the line of credit was committed very rapidly.
26.   The microenterprise component of the project was not implemented because the Government
decided to pursue instead a US$15 million IDB microenterprise project. Under the line, the
intermediary could borrow funds at DTF-3 and relend to microenterprises at DTF+3. In addition, the
intermediary would receive a subsidy of Col$200,000 from the Government for each loan provided
through this credit. Consequently, the World Bank line was less attractive than the IDB alternative.
27.    Factons Subject to Implementing Agency Control: The high level of commitment of the
Central Bank to the project was a major factor in project success. The Central Bank allocation of
personnel to a new department created to manage external credit lines facilitated financial
intermediary use of the credit line. The newly created external credit line division of the Central
Bank, the implementing agency, undertook to streamline paperwork and change procedures to
facilitate rapid processing of applications. The improvements reduced financial intermediary
administrative costs and enabled the intermediaries to respond more quickly to SME subloan
applications by eliminating delays caused by Central Bank processing of loans.
D.    Project Sustainability
28.    Continuation of SME Lending: The sustainability of main project achievements is likely.
All but two of the financial intermediaries interviewed asserted that they would continue to lend to
SMEs out of their own resources'" because they can earn bigger margins due to SMEs weaker
negotiating ability and position. The smaller CFs will continue to work with this market segment
since their equity limitations prevent issuing the size of loans large enterprises may need. One
commercial institution has established a line of credit for SMEs from its own resources that would
give loans of up to 10 years. The Government-owned financial institution, IFI, has established a
US$2.5 million guarantee fund that will guarantee from 30-50% of SME loan amounts. Several banks
and CF's indicated that they were looking to guarantees, like Proexpo or IFI, to alleviate concerns
about inadequacy of SME collateral. In 1993, IFI rediscounted about US$20 million through first tier
financial intermediaries to SMEs and plans to expand this practice in the future. As financial sector
policy reforms undertaken since 1990 have contributed to more competition in the banking sector,
financial institutions are likely to expand lending from own resources to SMEs. Many institutions
indicated, however, that they will not lend to microenterprises since they believe that these loans
carry an unacceptably high level of risk and administrative costs.
29.    CFD Operations: CFD viability has increased as a result of the reforms undertaken since its
privatization. As of June 1994, the institution had disbursed US$87.8 million from its own resources,



Pag 7
representing approximately 73% of its total portfolio. In 1991, the CFD (then CFP) issued only 22%
of its loans out of own resources, relying mainly on multilateral and domestic credit line facilities.
The institutional culture is changing, both through changes in management, training of personnel
regarding new procedures and service orientation, and personnel attrition and turnover. The average
tenure of personnel has decreased from approximately 10 years in 1990 to 6.23 years in 1994, and the
current staff numbers 340. Three of the four vice presidents and 22 of 27 managers are new, hired
from private sector financial institutions. In the regional offices, there has been a depoliticization of
staff. The automation of all offices is 90% completed, and when completed is expected to lead to a
further decrease in staff by 33%.
30.   The privatization included an employee stock option plan (ESOP), in which a large number of
personnel participated through very small purchases. This employee stake in CFP performance,
combined with sale of shares to other major stakeholders in the institution (chamber of commerce,
foundations, trade associations) should help institutional sustainability. In addition, with the capital
infusion through privatization, institutional finances became adequate to continue operations in the
short to medium term. Long term viability will depend on sustained good management of the
institution. The management has adjusted its strategy, moving away from financing loans too small to
cover costs by setting a minimum loan amount of 50 times the national minimum monthly wage. The
maximum loan issued will be US$600,000. The institution intends to create an effective
administration to capture savings, further increasing intermediation of loans from savings.
E.    Bank Performance
31.   The Bank performance in all stages of the project cycle was highly satisfactory. The Bank
team designed a project that succeeded in catalyzing improvements in CFD performance, following
four projects that were unable to reform the institution. The strategy of introducing competition
among financial institutions to improve the efficiency of a Government-owned development bank was
an innovative approach at the time of the project. The loan was well-designed and an appropriate
instrument to support SME growth. The inclusion of potential participating financial intermediaries
in the preparation phase, through focus groups, that led to modifications in subloan processing and
documentation requirements contributed to successful implementation. Risks and benefits of the credit
were adequately appraised and borrower commitment established. The CFD was appraised
thoroughly and eligibility criteria were established for other financial intermediaries.
32.   Supervision missions took place about once a year, phone contact and correspondence with
the implementing agency from headquarters was frequent, and supervision reports presented salient
issues and changes. Supervision 590 forms provided an accurate assessment of project implementation
progress and problems were realistic and gave appropriate views. Performance indicators were
appropriate and facilitated evaluation of project implementation. During supervision, CFD inability to
meet performance covenants led to its privatization. A pragmatic approach to applying project
conditionality led to a positive outcome in a situation that could have caused loan cancellation. In
general, loan covenants were enforced, and Central Bank and World Bank officials exchanged
information regularly.
F.    Borrower Performance
33.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory to highly satisfactory in the various
components of loan preparation and implementation. The Central Bank participated extensively in the
preparation phase and demonstrated commitment to the project. In its role as implementing agency,
the Central Bank verified financial intermediary compliance with eligibility criteria, disqualifying one



Page 8
institution when necessary. Significant improvements in operational procedures were made by the
Central Bank. It sought, as well, to collect data required from financial intermediaries regarding
subborrowers on an annual basis. The Central Bank complied with all major loan covenants. As the
implementing agency, the Central Bank was responsible for the study of policies affecting SMEs and
undertook the study internally, as it did not want to use Bank loan proceeds to fund a study that
would not necessarily be operationalized. The Central Bank covered mainly those issues under its
own purview and within its areas of expertise, such that the document did not have the intended
impact.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
34.   The project's outcome has been highly satisfactory. The line of credit provided small and
medium enterprises in Colombia with access to credit through the commercial branch network as the
country was opening its economy, thereby giving these firms resources to take advantage of the new
opportunities emanating from the apertura. The policy dialogue on interest rate policy related to this
loan, and the conditionalities developed, contributed to Central Bank movement towards reduced rate-
setting and increased market-determination of interest rates for all segments of the real sector.
H.    Future Operation
35.   Not applicable. The Government of Colombia intends to prepay the loan in its entirety, so
that there will not be relending to new subborrowers from reflows from maturing loans. Colombia
currently enjoys excess foreign reserves and is prepaying some of its World Bank loans. In addition,
the Government has decided to phase out the practice of rediscounting credit lines through the Central
Bank. The unit established to oversee such lines has been largely disbanded, and only a few staff
members continue to attend part-time to management of credit line paperwork.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
36.   The four main general lessons learned from this project include: (i) all key elements needed
for project success should be accomplished prior to project effectiveness. While project effectiveness
was delayed significantly until conditions were met, these policy changes resulted in quick
disbursements and project success; (ii) those responsible for implementing a project component must
feel ownership. The Central Bank did an excellent job of managing the SME rediscount facility;
however, since it did not have the authority to implement the SME policy study recommendations, it
took less interest doing this analysis; (iii) coordination with multilateral and otherfunding agencies
and the Government on sector policy (e.g. microenterprise lending programs) is important to ensure
consistent approaches and avoid duplication of effort; and (iv) maintaining the focus of supervision on
achieving broad development goals combined with a degree of pragmatism regarding conditionality
can improve project outcome.
37.   Important lessons regarding SME sector development include: (i) credit projects can help
SME's take advantage of liberalization of the business environment; (ii) fostering a competitive credit
environment can be an effective technique to improve the performance of a government-owned
development bank; (iii) heightened competition in the financial sector can lead to greater private
sector interest in lending to SME's; and (iv) financial intermediaries should have maximum flexibility
to set the appropriate terms, conditions and amortization schedules of SME subloans; more frequent,
smaller payments are an important factor to increase repayment rates among smaller enterprises.



page 9
1.      See Colombia. Fifth SmaU and Medium Scale Enterorise Proicct, Staff Appraisal Report No.
7493-CO, February 9, 1989.
2.      The Central Bank has indicated disagreement with this conclusion, asserting that the study
found the environment was favorable to SME development and therefore no actions were
needed.
3.      For analysis of business environment reforms and remaining private sector constraints, se
Colombia: Private Sector Assessment, World Bank Report No. 13113-CO, August 5, 1994.
4.      Commitments exceeded the total line amount of US$77 million to take into account potential
cancellations.
5.      In frontier areas, FFIC directed credit funds were rediscounted to financial intermediarics at
DTF-4 as the Borrower's law required preferential treatment for these areas. This was not
offered under CO-3025.
6.      In 1992, Caja Agraria transferred their 3025 loans to other financial intermediaries, repaid
the Central Bank and withdrew from the project because it could not meet the reporting
requirements of the line and was undergoing reorganization.
7.      This includes firms newly incorporated that had been operating in the informal sector and
offshoots of existing enterprises.
S.      Several methods were used to try to determnine the impact of subloans on small and medium
enterprises. First, Central Bank and World Bank staff reviewed over 200 files of new firms
that were established at the time of their 3025 subloan; financial statements of 53 of these
enterprises were examined to reveal their sales levels and salary expenses after the loan. The
other files were discarded since they lacked financial statements of years after the loan.
Second, the team examined 93 of the supervision reporting forms of the Bogota branch office
of the Corporation Financiera de Desarrollo. These forms include information on: (i) the
subloan amount and use; (ii) the loan officer's and subborrower's estimate of the number of
jobs to be created and sustained by the loan; (iii) five year projections on the estimated
impact of the loan on sales levels; and (iv) actual number of jobs and sales levels created and
sustained by the loan determined through supervision visits by the CFD loan officer. Third,
the team conducted interviews using a prepared questionnaire with 14 fairly representative
subborrowers in Cali and Bogota to gain more in-depth information on the impact of the 3025
subloan on their operations. Results from all three sources indicate that the subloans did have
a very positive effect on sales and employment levels.
9.      One firm was under Chapter 11, but since this firm had received loans from 33 different
financial institutions at the same time (including the 3025 line), its employment data was
excluded from the results.
10.     The two banks that will not pursue SME lending have developed strategies and procedures to
target large firms.






Statistical Tables                      Page 1 of I
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives         Substania        artial aNegligible    Not plaicabhln
Macro policies                          El
Sector policies                                                                    [1
Financial objectives                                                 [] 00
Institutional development                0                           LI 0I0
Physical objectives                      Fl            0]            0l
Poverty reduction                        El            El            El
Gender issues                            El            FL            0l
Other social objectives                  El            L             El
Environmental objectives                 El            LI            0]
Public sector management                               El            El            El
Private sector development                             El 0          0       
Other (specify)                         L                  [                       [I
(Conbinued)



Page 2 of 8
B. Project sustainability              Likely           Unlikely          Uncertain
(/y         ~~(/)              (/)
Highly
C. Bank performance                  satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
(/)         ~~(v)              (V)
Identification                           eti'
Preparation assistance                   [l                L                 L
Appraisal                                itI               L                 L
Supervision                              [Ai]                                L]
Highly
D. Borrower Performance              satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
(n          ~~(/)              (b/)
Preparation                                               LI                LI
Implementation                                            LI 0 
Covenant compliance                     [] 2l
Operation (if applicable)               [n                                 LI
Highly           .                        Highly
E. Assessment of outcome             satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory unsatisfactory
(/t           (/)           (/)           (/)
M~L                      LI OO



Page 3 of 8
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                 Purpose                  Year of approval                    Status
Preceding operations
Accelerate small scale industry   1984                      Fully disbursed; PCR Report
1. Fourth Small Scale Industry   employment creation and value-                           No. 10152 dated 12/9/91
Project                      added by increasing access to
(Loan CO-2464)               credit
2. Development Banking        Make longer term financing for   1984                       Pully disbursed; PCR Report
Project                       subloans available to                                       No. 10620 dated 4/30/92
(Loan CO-2477)               participating financial
intermediaries and strengthen
institutions implementing
financial sector reforms
3. Third Small Scale Industry  Accelerate small scale industry   1980                     Fully disbursed; PCR Report
Project                       employment creation and value-                              No.6469 dated 10/31/86
(Loan CO-1834)                added by increasing access to
credit
Following operations
1. Industrial Restructuring and   Increase international    1991                         In implementation. Approx 40%
Export Development Credit    competitiveness of industry                                  committed, 8.5% disbursed.
(Loan CO- 3321)              through a private sector credit
program to finance investment
and TA at the enterprise level
2. Financial Markets Technical  Increase efficient operation of    [est. 1994]            Appraised 12/93
Assistance Credit (Task      fuiancial markets and foster
CLMPA205)                    more effective financial
intermediation
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                         Date planned                     latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)           November 1986                    November 1986
Preparation                                          May 1987                         1986 and June 1988
Appraisal                                            October 1987                     July 1988 (SAR 2/9/89)
Negotiations                                         November 1988                    January 25, 1989
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                                   March 1989                       March 14, 1989
Signing                                              May 1989                         September 22, 1989
Effectiveness                                        June 1989                        January 21, 1991
First tranche release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if applicable)
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)
Project completion                                   June 1994                        July 29, 1994
Loan closing                                        June 1995                         August 26, 1994



Page 4 of 8
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY 89    FY 90              FY 91          FY 92          FY 93         FY 94
Appraisal estimate            0.3           10.0           28.0          58.0           73.0           80.0
Actual                        0.0           0.0            8.0           60.2           75.0           77.0
Actual as % of estimate       0%            0%             29%            104%           103%          96.25%
Date of final disbursement    6/16/93
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key implementation
indicators in SARI                                   Estimated                                 Actual
President's Report
1. Number of participating financial      4 PFI's                                 32 PFI's
intermediaries (PFl's)
2. Number of subproject investments by PFI,  # = 2500 SME, 2500 microent.         2144 SME, 0 microenterprisw
value of SME subprojects, and interest rates   Value = USS 178 millions           USS 137 million
on subloans                              Interest Rates = DTF+6.0 max             DTF + 3.0 to 6.0
3. Average Central Bank subloan processing   Decrease from 50 to 7 days           1 day
time
4. SME portfolio annual earnings          (not defined in SAR)                    (data not available from PFI's)
performance
98.6% including CFD
5. SME portfolio collections performance  Minimum 90% collections for each PFI    99.3% excluding CFD
CFD collections = 71 %
II. Modified indicators                   (not applicable)
Ill. Other indicators (if applicable)
' In the SAR, this value included USS57 that was to be cofmnanced by the Fondo Financiero Industrial (FFI). As the Government eliminated the
FFI in 1991, this quantity has been subtracted from the number given.



Page 5 of 8
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not defined with client at the time the project was designed and negotiated,
since not standard procedure at the time. Not defined at project completion as
Borrower is going to prepay the loan and operations will not continue.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study              at appraisal/redefined            Status                 Impact of study
1. SME policy environment    to analyse policy changes to    completed by Central Bank,    negligible
rcrate a neutral policy   1991
envirnment for SME's



Page 6 of 8
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                      Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
Local          Forign                           Local          Foreign
costs           costs           Total           costs           costs           Total
Item         _     _     _    _    _     _    _     _     _     _     _                          _     _
I.Credit Program        154.9            80.0           234.9            59.7            77.3             137
2.Technical              0.2                              0.2             0.0                             0.0
Cooperation                        I               I_I
TOTAL                    155.1           80.0            235.1           59.7            77.3             137
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                  Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
Local         Foreign                       Local         Foreign
costs         costs          Total          costs          costs          Total
Source                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _
IBRD/IDA                                      80.0           80.0                          77.3           77.3
Cofinancing institutions       97.8                          97.8           59.7                          59.7
Other extenal sourcs
Domestic contributions         57.3                          57.3
TOTAL                          155.1           80            235.1                                         137
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The FRR defined in the SAR as a prerequisite to PFI issuance of subloans was 11 %. Financial plans
prepared by each of the subborrowers at application showed an FRR of 11 %. Ex post data regarding FRR are not
available for subloans. The high collections rate (>99%) on the subloans, most of which carried an interest rate of
DTF+6, indicates that the FRR was at least 6% (based on the assumption that the DTF, an index of time deposit
rates, approximates the inflation rate.)



Page 7 of 8
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Colombia
CO-3025
Agree    Section       Covenant      Present      Original         Revised       Description of covenant
ment                    type         status    fulfillment date  fulfillment date                         Comments
Loan    2.03                        C          1/31/93         6/30/95         closing date              amendment
lettcr 1/14/91
3.01(b)     Studies/TA      CD         9/30/91                         SME policy environment
study
3.01(c)     Project         C          (throughout)                    Central Bank (BR) second
Implementation                                             tier functions
3.01(g)     Project         C          6130/91         12/31/92        Subloan applications to   amendment
Implementation                                             Bank                     kuer 1/14/91
3.03        Procurement     C          (throughout)                    Goods and services
procured at reasonable
price, timely delivery
3.04        Monitoring      C          (throughout)                    BR to suspend participation
of PFI if collection < 90%
3.06        Monitoring      C          bi-annually                     BR prepare semi-annual
project execution report
3.07        Monitoring      CD         annually                        BR monitor CFP admin      CFP privatized
cost targets of 5.5%  of  since did not
avg assets               meet targets
4.01        Accounts/       C          (throughout)                    PFPI's maintain Project
Audits                                                     accounts under sound
practice
4.02(a)     Accounts/       C          annually                        PFI's project accounts
Audits                                                     audited by acceptable
independent auditors
4.02(b)     Accounts/       C          (throughout)                    BRlPFI's maintain records
Audits                                                     and retain I yr after audit
4.06(b)     Institutional   NC         (throughout)                    CFP net profits/ avg asss   CFP was
not less than 1.6%       privatized.
5.01(d)     Institutional   C          (throughout)                    PFI compliance under
Participation Agreement
5.01(e)     Sector Policy   C          (throughout)                    No changes in FFI
conditionality:                                            regulations adversely
regulation                                                 affecting Project
Schedule 4,  Institutional  C          (throughout)                    BR lend to CFP min
part 2.1                                                               US$25 mill and max 35%
CFP totl commitments 91-2
Schedule 4,  Subproject/    C          (throughout)                    Procedures, terms,
other       subloan criteria                                           conditions of subloans
Schedule 5   Subproject/    C          (throughout)                    Criterial characteristics of
subloan criteria                                           SME's
Guar-  3.02         Institutional   C                                           Guarantor make equity    CFP
antee                                                                           contributions to CFP to  privatizaton
ensure CFP debt/ equity    led to
ratio <7.5%             capitalization



Page 8 of 8
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Indicate any significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual statement (OD or
OP/BP):
Statement number and title                         Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. None
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                    Planned                          Revised                            Actual
project cycle         Weeks             US$             Weeks             US$             Weeks             US$
Through appraisal   n/a                                                                  71.1
Appraisal through   n/a                                                                   13.3
Board approval
Board approval        n/a                                                                2.8
through
effectiveness
Supervision           22                                                                 22.9
Completion            10                                                                  10
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Specialized staff
Stage of project cycle            Number of                   skills represented   Implementatio   Development   Types of
Month/      persons    Days in field                         n status      objectives    problems
year
Through appraisal     5/87        5           n/a            financial analyst    n/a            n/a
banking expert
SME expert
Appraisal through     10/87       2            12            financial analyst    n/a            n/a
Board approval                                               banking expert
Board approval                     1          0              financial analyst/   n/a            n/a
through effectiveness                                        task manager                             _
Supervision           4/91,12/91   2           12            private sector       1-2
6/93                                   dvelopment expert,
I___________________   ____________   financial  analyst
Completion            7/94        3           8              private sector       1
dvelopment expert,
financial analyst



COLOMBIA
FIFTH SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE PROJECT (LOAN 3025-CO)
COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.   Introduction: A mission of the World Bank composed of Mmes Susan Goldmark,
Adrienne Taptich and Natalia Gomez de Pizano visited Cali and Bogota from July 18-25, 1994
to collect information needed to prepare the Implementation Completion Report for the above
project. Mission members held meetings with representatives of the Banco de la Republica
(BR), all 33 currently participating financial intermediaries (PFI) and some branch officers in
Cali and 14 subborrowers. The mission would like to thank Mme Lorena de Moreno, Director
of External Credit Lines and Mr. Jesus Prieto Soloraza, Chief of External Lines of the Banco
de la Republica (BR) as well as the numerous PFI and enterprise managers who gave generously
of their time.
2.   Implementation Completion Report: The mission discussed the format and content of the
new Implementation Completion Report with Banco de la Republica representatives. We
reviewed a draft version of the Banco de la Republica's section of the report as well as the
World Bank team's preliminary conclusions on the design, implementation and impact of the
credit. No major differences of opinion on these issues were found. The mission also
conducted interviews using a structured questionnaire with managers of PFIs to attempt to
determine the impact of the project on their operations. The BR agreed to send their section of
the report by end-July 1994.
3.    Methodology to Determine Project Impact: The mission used several methods to try to
determine the impact of subloans on small and medium enterprises. First, BR staff and mission
members reviewed over 200 files of new firms that were established at the time of their 3025
subloan; financial statements of 53 of these enterprises were examined to reveal their sales levels
and salary expenses after the loan. The other files were discarded since they lacked financial
statements of years after the loan. Second, the team examined 220 of the supervision reporting
forms of the Bogota branch office of the Corporation Financiera de Desarrollo. These forms
include information on: (i) the subloan amount and use; (ii) the loan officer's and subborrower's
estimate of the number of jobs to be created and sustained by the loan; (iii) five year projections
on the estimated impact of the loan on sales levels; and (iv) actual number of jobs and sales
levels created and sustained by the loan determined through supervision visits by the CFD loan
officer. Third, the team conducted interviews using a prepared questionnaire with 14 fairly
representative subborrowers in Cali and Bogota to gain more in-depth information on the impact
of the 3025 subloan on their operations. Results from all three sources indicate that the subloans
did have a very positive effect on sales and employment levels.
4.    Loan Closing: Prior to the end of the mission, the Banco de la Republica submitted the
outstanding documentation needed to close the project to be fowarded to Bank headquarters.
This includes a justification for the funds used in the Special Account and the cancellation of the



remainder of these funds. The mission agreed to process these materials in an expeditious
manner and consult with management on determining a closing date for the project.
5.    Completion Mission Findings: Annex One presents a draft of the mission's preliminary
findings on the design, supervision and impact of the project. We request that the Banco de la
Republica provide comments on this report by early September 1994
Jusu      mark
July 29, 1994                                      Task lager



FROM:BIRF-B.MUNDIRL BOG  TO:      202 676 0367   SEP 20. 1994 9:38AR 4381 P.02
NCO t DE LA UIUDlUCA
o!UI. 21685
Eurtst de Dog@t&.   Ipt   15 de 199
NrALA X PIZM
mISnBRR       dolu1~   la 1L   SVY 3025.
; - S.
Om rulaal&i al 1-    c ilatlimt  Is t,aluma& de is Line UZ1 w  3025
t-     Ie sig.mkti  m b M     I
1.      k&   i  shI @1 tmto m at In  qwm *I Mftdi* aectLal s
is     d     a no        to   LdtoO am    .1 oW1t mt,
tgLzwtam   qua  au bajo 4         -  dew  .1  J*  de  a    u
1m""znDb    .l  rwo dea  UmMite q4imi so tlWW z -U sI 4         l 
. l 1amt4   u fSn        a.
A mmtro juici, lo qm el istdl dMmO s  qse 3A  poiltl4m  tm
finuici.,n      de G  d'i        m  wct  de 1  psqwAiY  nadlaon
__t.ili   al  omt=wAfo  de  fmomw    u dmu=llo.  par
rgient  en onto m  q1a o               Is  mmin. de ugt_fi=  el
4wt-   Ieol., an  l  cuin2, we  miol'vlm. Al. camavro  an la purte
f1nm mcia    r staba daUrtsumncia de Io   utzmirc  a tbuuitaw
a   tito de mp   lr mu  sJativa alto Coto w1.Adutrsat.vo,
.Wvnm   z..gm  y  ui        sstacia.  da   9w  IC  agemb
finmmim wm tami ur tomlogL dUiLwa gs= amalisar y bww3a
el1m am.idtr a los difsrinit  t- a:m  Ga  pmipm. Sets cuumto es
v2io takn pma  ma                 (I LI).
2.  l        S   .=. s *Sti. 91  la >   u*mm de G  rtoetno   on
muwtzu a .Eel. sComL    80ms.Lwa qw  el oblcul de _w
nicadc, a1igGe i  o   Us .J*'tmw M*1am  a ,W$J100 mu so
a    dtwo an ros zuup va  ruospgs q   rsu   an k  aiLvae d.1
diac e la kAPMA1C.



FRCM:BIR-B.PM.IDI AL BOC:      T         202 676 0367    SEP 20. 1994 9:38pM #381 P.03
&     9USIA UVlWC ECA 
~~~              @1 w    * oobS  dectdih xzmucLr el eqma~ de
,}~ ~ ~~~d ,. 'mLee                        dea    i*'sws    L
m2a    -  .L mm delam1          de 1   fpb1ias  Lea dod   mnt1ad   de
JAI    SdLVA   Og M  C
Ytmt   Lie. tDm   y Cw~~
ill/Cia.
1  -



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
Departamento de Lineas Externas y Cartera
Secci6n de Lineas Externas
INFORME DE EVALUACION DEL PROYECTO LINEA BIRF 3025-CO
Santaf6 de Bogota, Julio de 1994



I N DIC E
INTRODUCCION
1.       CARACTERISTICAS GENERALES DE LA LINEA BIRF 3025-CO
11.      TIPOS DE PROYECTOS FINANCIADOS
Ill.    INTERMEDIARIOS FINANCIEROS
A.  SISTEMA BANCARIO
B.  CORPORACIONES FINANCIERAS
IV.      POLITICAS DEL SISTEMA FINANCIERO
CONCLUSIONES



INTRODUCCION
Con el fin de mostrar el desarrollo, implementacion y resultados de la Linea BIRF
3025-CO y las repercuciones de las politicas financieras sobre los Intermediarios
Financieros durante la colocacion de los recursos, se analizan en primer lugar las
cifras de aprobacion y los tipos de proyectos presentados.
A continuacion se comenta la evolucion de los Intermediarios Financieros -
Bancos y Corporaciones- y por ultimo se senialan las principales medidas
adoptadas para el Sistema Financiero por el Congreso de la Republica, el
Gobierno Nacional y la Junta Directiva del Banco de la Republica.



1
I - CARACTERISTICAS DE LA LINEA BIRF 3025-CO.
El 25 de Septiembre de 1.989 se celebro un contrato entre el BANCO
INTERNACIONAL DE RECONSTRUCCION Y FOMENTO (BIRF) y el BANCO
DE LA REPUBLICA, por el cual el BIRF concedio para el quinto proyecto de la
Pequehia y Mediana Industria inclusive microempresas, un prestamo en canasta
de  monedas  equivalente    a  OCHENTA  MILLONES  DE  DOLARES
(US$80.000.000), de los cuales Setenta y Siete millones de dolares
(US$77.000.000) destinados a la Pequefha y Mediana Industria; Dos Millones
Novecientos Mil d6lares (US$2.900.000) para Microempresas y Cien Mil Doiares
($100.000) para Asistencia Tecnica a los microempresarios. Este componente de
Microempresas podria ser trasladado para prestamos ordinarios, sin ninguna
modificacion al contrato.
Las negociaciones estipularon un monto de Cuatrocientos Mil Dolares
(US$400.000) como Limite Libre para el Banco de ia Republica.
El credito fue canalizado a traves de las Corporaciones Financieras y los Bancos
Comerciales. Adicionalmente, la Corporacion Financiera Popular (Hoy
Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo) y la Caja Social de Ahorros, podian actuar
como Instituciones Administrativas, para represtar los recursos redescontados, a
las Organizaciones No Gubernamentales (ONG), las cuales a su vez emplearian
tales recursos para financiar proyectos de inversion de microempresas.
Se establecio un Limite Libre por categoria de intermediarios asi:
Categoria "A"   US$250.000
Categoria "B"   US$120.000
Categoria "C"   US$ 80.000
Categoria "D"   US$ Sin Limite Libre
Con los recursos de la Linea, se financiaron proyectos desarrollados por
Pequehas y Medianas Empresas Privadas de los sectores manufacturero, minero,
agroindustrial y de servicios relacionados cuyo nivel de Activos a Diciembre 31
del aho inmediatamente anterior al de la solicitud fuese inferior a la cifra
establecida para definir ia pequeha y mediana industria, de acuerdo con la Ley 78



2
de 1.988. Como caracteristica especial, para los proyectos ubicados en Santafe
de Bogota, Medellin, Cali y sus zonas de influencia, el valor de los activos se
calculo sumando a los del solicitante, los de los socios cuya participaci6n fuese
del 50% o mas en el capital de la sociedad beneficaria del credito.
Adicionalmente, se financiarian las ONG tales como: Asociaciones, Sociedades y
Cooperativas con mas de 10 miembros en el mismo subsector y Compahias
Comerciales que suministraran unicamente insumos para microempresas y/o
efectuaran el mercadeo de sus productos. Asi mismo la Linea financiaba a los
intermediarios financieros y personas naturales o juridicas, la compra de nuevas
emisiones de acciones y/o bonos obligatoriamente convertibles en acciones y/o
cuotas de capital social de Empresas que desarrollaran programas de
reestructuracion o proyectos de inversion.
Los beneficiarios de los recursos de la Linea podian recibir una financiacion
maxima por proyecto hasta de US$ 500.000 o su equivalente en pesos
colombianos, teniendo en cuenta que por razones de limite de endeudamiento
para acceder al credito, no se podian superar los topes del 80% si eran empresas
antiguas o del 70% si eran empresas nuevas.
Es importante destacar que para la gestion del prestamo, el procedimiento fue
claro sinembargo, por politicas institucionales, el tiempo de iniciacion de
operaciones de la Linea, present6 un atraso de aproximadamente un (1) aho,
debido a la diferencia de criterios con el Banco Mundial, respecto a las tasas de
interes y de redescuento que deberian fijarse para las diferentes zonas del pais,
toda vez que el Banco de la Repuiblica tenia tres (3) tasas de acuerdo con la
ubicacion del proyecto y el Banco Mundial proponia que no se diera un
tratamiento preferencial; esta decision que dependia de la Junta Monetaria qued6
finalmente en las siguientes condiciones:
Los prestamos se denominaron en pesos colombianos, a unas tasas de
redescuento asi:
Zonas de Frontera                            DTF - 4
Demas ciudades y regiones del pais          DTF



3
Las tasas de interes a la fecha de efectividad de la Linea (Enero 25/91) se fijaron
como variables asi:
Zonas de Frontera                           DTF
Demas ciudades y regiones del pais          DTF + 6
Los puntos adicionales sobre la tasa de redescuento fueron de libre concertaci6n
entre el intermediario financiero y el usuario hasta un maximo de 6.
Respecto a los plazos se fijaron asi:
Activos Fijos y Participacion Accionaria    Minimo 4 y Maximo 10 ahos
Capital de Trabajo                          Minimo 1 y Maximo 5 ahos
Periodo de Gracia:
Activos Fijos y Participacion Accionaria   Hasta 3 ahos
Capital de Trabajo                         Hasta 1 aho
I I - TIPO DE PROYECTOS FINANCIADOS
El Cuadro No. 1 muestra la colocacion de la Linea por Actividad Economica y el
valor de las solicitudes aprobadas tanto para Activos Fijos como para Capital de
Trabajo, en sus modalidades de Credito Ordinario y Limite Libre.
Contra los recursos de la Linea se aprobaron US$106.000.000 que con un
margen de redescuento del 80% representan aprobaciones netas de
US$85.583.000 de los cuales se redescontaron efectivamente US$76.218.000,
para una utilizaci6n del 95.3% considerada aceptable puesto que solo da un
margen de cancelaciones y/o desistimientos del 4.7%, sobre los US$80.000.000
contratados.
Dentro de los Recursos Ordinarios se aprobaron 2.104 operaciones de las cuales
el sector que mayor numero de proyectos present6 fue el de vestuario excepto



4
calzado con 334 que equivalen al 15.40%, seguido del de alimentos excepto
bebidas con 293 proyectos para un 13.93%  de participacion.  Entre las
actividades que presentaron menor movimiento se tienen las de explotacion de
minas de carbon, servicios conexos del transporte y servicios personales diversos
con un 0,05% de participacion cada una.
Con recursos de Limite Libre se tramitaron 84 solicitudes de credito y el sector
que mas numero de proyectos presento fue el de vestuario excepto calzado,con
13 operaciones que equivalen al 15.48%.
El Cuadro No. 2 muestra la distribucion geografica de las aprobaciones. Los
recursos se colocaron principalmente en Santafe de Bogota (31.27%), Antioquia
(11.98%), Santander (8.94%) y Valle del Cauca (5.94%). Al igual que con los
demas recursos de fomento, se puede colegir que el subsidio implicito en el
credito a largo plazo, no es suficiente incentivo para inducir cambios en la
distribucion regional de ia produccion toda vez que el mayor numero de proyectos
se concentro en las grandes ciudades.
Por otra parte, dentro de las aprobaciones de Limite Libre el Valle del Cauca
muestra una mayor colocacion al presentar 65 proyectos que equivalen al
77.38%, seguido de Bogota con 13 operaciones equivalentes al 15.48%.
Lo anterior nos permite visualizar la importancia de la financiacion de proyectos
con creditos inferiores a US$250.000 para el desarrollo de ia Pequefia y Mediana
Empresa del Valle del Cauca, puesto que de 84 empresas financiadas a nivel
nacional, 65 de ellas se situaron en este Departamento.
La Linea BIRF 3025 fue colocada entre 32 intermediarios financieros, pudiendose
observar en el Cuadro No. 3 que en Recursos Ordinarios la Corporaci6n
Financiera de Desarrollo fue la entidad que mas utilizo esta Linea de Credito al
obtener 810 aprobaciones, equivalentes al 38.5% seguida de la Caja Agraria con
481 aprobaciones correspondientes al 22.86% y el Banco Ganadero con 200
operaciones, el 9.51 %.
En cuanto a Limite Libre, tambien fue la Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo la
que mas proyectos presento con 74 operaciones (88.1 %) del total. Se evidencia,



5
que con excepcion de esta Corporacion los demas Intermediarios Financieros
dejaron que el Banco de la Republica emitiera su concepto previo, aun estando
las solicitudes de credito por debajo de su monto fijado como Limite Libre.
En el Cuadro No. 4, se observa la clasificacion de los prestamos segun el nivel de
activos de las empresas, y muestra que de los 2.104 proyectos con Recursos
Ordinarios, 200 (9.98%) se otorgaron a empresas con activos totales de 20.0
Millones a 30.0 Millones de pesos, 174 (8.27%) a empresas con activos entre
10.0 millones y 15.0 millones de pesos y 141 empresas (6.70%) con activos entre
100.0 millones y 150.0 millones de pesos.
En cuanto a los creditos aprobados como Limite Libre, las empresas con activos
totales de 2 millones a 3 millones de pesos representaron el 50.85% de los
prestamos, mientras que las de 4.1 millones a 6.0 millones correspondieron al
26.67%.
Segun las tasas de interes para Recursos Ordinarios, las de mayor utilizacion
fueron las correspondientes a las de DTF mas un margen de intermediacion entre
5 y 6 puntos, lo cual representa 80.28% tal como lo seniala el Cuadro No. 5.
Para Limite Llbre se mantuvo la misma tasa, pero ia equivalencia fue del 82.59%,
lo cual muestra la tendencia hacia la tasa maxima fijada por las autoridades
monetarias.
Respecto al plazo mas utilizado por los intermediarios para el pago de las
obligaciones, fue de 5 anos que representan el 38.29% de las aprobaciones,
seguido de las operaciones a 3 anos equivalentes al 13.9%   para Recursos
Ordinarios como lo podemos observar en el Cuadro No. 6; en cambio para las
aprobaciones de Limite Libre el plazo mas utilizado fue el de 3 at)os con el
50.85% del total seguido por el de 5 afios con 26.67%.
La tendencia de los plazos hacia los 5 ahos tanto para Recursos Ordinarios como
para Limite Libre esta influenciada por los mayores recursos colocados tanto en
Activos Fijos como en Capital de Trabajo, recordando que el plazo maximo para
este ultimo se fij6 precisamente en 5 arhos.



6
Como se puede observar en el Cuadro No. 7 con Recursos Ordinarios, la linea se
coloco entre Enero de 1.990 y Noviembre de 1.992, siendo el anio de mayor
numero de operaciones aprobado 1.991, con 1.345 solicitudes que equivalen al
63.93% del total, seguido por 1.992 con 753 operaciones (35.79%) y finalmente
1.990 con 6 aprobaciones que equivalen al 0.29%.
En cuanto a Recursos de Limite Libre el afio con mayores aprobaciones fue
1.991 con 60 solicitudes (71.43%) del total, seguido por 1.992 con 24
aprobaciones (28.57%).
En total se atendieron 2188 subprestamos de los cuales 2.104 (96.1%) fueron
para la financiacion de proyectos con Recursos Ordinarios y 84 solicitudes (3.9%)
como Limite Libre.
Con relacion al impacto sobre el empleo, este fue altamento positivo, tomando en
consideracion que el del total de empresas beneficiarias del credito (2.188), 876
(40%) corresponden a empresas nuevas -consideradas como tales las que aun
no iniciaban operaciones al momento de ia solicitud de prestamo- en nuestra
opini6n por tratarse de pequehas y medianas empresas y a que los principales
sectores hacia los cuales se dirigio la financiacion son intensivos en mano de
obra.
Se debe tener presente ademas que las empresas antiguas, iniciaron procesos
de reestructuracion en sus plantas, lo cual implica que no necesariamente un
proyecto adicional represente mayor generacion de empleo.
La Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo, coloc6 el 24.8% del total de los
recursos aprobados por la Linea, siendo el principal Intermediario Financiero
tanto en numero como en el monto global de solicitudes, pero dado que ha tenido
problemas recurrentes para colocarse dentro de los parametros exigidos por la
Resolucion Interna No. 02 de 1992, basicamente en lo relacionado con el
endeudamiento sobre el Patrimonio Tecnico, fue suspendido su acceso al
redescuento de las Lineas de Credito del Banco de la Reptiblica, situaci6n
vigente hasta la fecha. Ahora bien, la privatizacion de esta Corporacion present6
un impacto positivo en el desarrollo de la misma, pero su atencion principal esta



7
centrada en operaciones con Bancoldex y Cartas de Credito que le generan una
mayor utilidad.
Es necesario aclarar que para Microempresas, tan solo se presento y aprobo una
solicitud por $ 300.0 millones a traves de la Corporacion Financiera de
Desarrollo, para Actuar Bogota, prestamo que posteriomente fue cancelado por el
intarmediario financiero.
Finalmente valga anotar, que no se presentaron solicitudes ni para Asistencia
Tecnica a los Microempresarios, ni para represtar a las Organizaciones No
Gubernamentales, debido a la existencia de una linea especifica para este tipo de
proyectos.
III - INTERMEDIARIOS FINANCIEROS
A.- SISTEMA BANCARIO
Como un hecho para resaltar se tiene que por primera vez, para la colocacion de
los recursos de las Lineas del Banco Mundial, se dio acceso a los Bancos
Comerciales como intermediarios financieros, lo cual se tradujo en una mayor
demanda del credito.
A partir de la iniciacion de los redescuentos de ia Linea en 1.991 y hasta el cierre
de los desembolsos por parte del Organismo Internacional en 1.993, los Bancos
del pais mostraron una tendencia ascendente en cuanto a sus Activos Totales lo
cual se refleja en un incremento del 97.9%, al pasar de $7.2 Billones de pesos a
$14.2 Billones de pesos, siendo considerado este como uno de los periodos de
mayor crecimiento en la banca colombiana.
Respecto al Patrimonio, la tendencia se mantiene, aunque en menor proporcion
que los activos, al presentar un incremento del 78.36%  entre los dos ahos
comparados.



8
En cuanto a la Cartera del Sector Bancario, entre 1.991 y 1.993 presenta un
incremento del 122.54%, bastante representativo del movimiento crediticio del
pais.
Mientras tanto, los indicadores de riesgo descienden asi: los Activos
Improductivos pasan de 1.40 a 0.78 es decir se reducen en un 44%; la
exposicion patrimonal paso de 11.44% a 5.95% con reduccion del 47.99%; el
endeudamiento global paso de 8.88 a 8.30 veces y los activos de riesgo de 8.25
a 7.29 (Junio/93).
De otra parte la rentabilidad patrimonial descendio en un 38.26% al pasar de
36.20% a 22.35% aun teniendo en cuenta que las perdidas acumuladas por ia
Caja Agraria, el Banco Mercantil, el Banco Latino y el Cafetero, se excluyeron del
total del sistema para el calculo respectivo.
Al medir la eficiencia laboral y administrativa, como menores gastos en relacion
con el volumen de operaciones tanto activas como pasivas, se establece que
mejoro la eficiencia bancaria en un 4.86% al pasar de 9.67% a 9.20% siendo mas
beneficiada la parte laboral.
Las utilidades del sistema bancario se incrementaron de $104.7 Miles de Millones
a $247.5 Miles de Millones lo cual muestra la dinamica del Sector en este
aspecto.
En terminos generales, puede concluirse que durante el periodo de colocacion y
desembolso de los recursos, los bancos comerciales en su gran mayoria
intermediarios de la Linea BIRF 3025, presentaron resultados positivos
especialemente en lo que respecta al crecimiento de los activos, patrimonio y
utilidades.



9
B.- CORPORACIONES FINANCIERAS
De las cifras que se muestran en el Cuadro No. 9, indicadores financieros del
Sistema de Corporaciones, se pueden establecer los siguientes parametros:
Al igual que el Sistema Bancario, las Corporaciones Financieras mostraron una
tendencia ascendente en cuanto a sus Activos Totales, que se reflejo en un
incremento del 101.41% al pasar de $1.0 billon de pesos a $2.1 billones de
pesos.
Con relacion al Patrimonio este tambien presento un incremento del 37.86%, con
lo que se mantiene la tendencia del crecimiento del Sistema Financiero.
La Cartera de Creditos presento un incremento del 93.55% entre 1.991 y 1.993 lo
que indica que el movimiento de los creditos otorgados por las Corporaciones
Financieras practicamente se duplico. Estas Cuentas por Cobrar pasaron de
$786 mil millones de pesos a $1.5 Billones de pesos.
Por otra parte, los indicadores de riesgos presentaron una importante reducci6n,
asi:  Los Activos Improductivos del 69.81 %, la Exposicion del Patrimonio
75,71%, el Endeudamiento del 25.49% y el Endeudamiento con el Banco de la
Republica del 70.89%.
En cuanto a la rentabilidad del Patrimonio, presento un incremento del 33.49%, al
pasar de 22.90 a 30.57% durante este periodo, y los Activos mostraron un
importante aumento en la rentabilidad (71.21 %).
Midiendo la eficiencia laboral como mayores gastos en relacion con el volumen
de operaciones se establece que disminuy6 la eficiencia de las Corporaciones en
un 8.06% al pasar de 2.73% al 2.95%.
Las utilidades de las Corporaciones Financieras, presentaron un incremento del
209.87% al pasar de $30.644 millones a $94.957 millones que demuestra su
fortalecimiento dentro del Sistema Financiero.



10
Como podemos ver, al igual que el Sistema Bancario, las Corporaciones
presentaron un balance positivo en lo que respecta al crecimiento de Activos,
Patrimonio y Utilidades.
IV.- POLITICAS DEL SISTEMA FINANCIERO
Con Resolucion interna No. 5 del 13 de Noviembre de 1.991, Ia Junta Directiva
del Banco de la Republica fij6 las politicas para la administracion de las Lineas
de Credito Externo que intermedia el Banco; Clasifico los Intermediarios
Financieros segun su capacidad tecnica para evaluar proyectos y les dio
autonomia para aprobar automaticamente (Limite Libre) creditos.   Para los
Intermediarios Clase A, hasta por US$5.0 millones, para los de Clase B hasta por
US$3.0 millones y los de Clase C hasta por US$1.5 millones o su equivalente, la
asignacion individual de los prestamos a los usurarios quedo en manos de los
Intermediarios autorizados. Se establecio como margen de redescuento el 70%
del prestamo y el beneficiario deberia aportar el 30% del proyecto. Tambien
excluy6 la financiacion de Instituciones Financieras y el Sector de Vivienda, con
los recursos de Lineas Externas.
Los prestamos podrian ser desembolsados en pesos o en dolares, a escogencia
del beneficiario.
Como condiciones financieras, fijo que la tasa de interes al usuario no podria
superar en mas de 6 puntos la tasa de redescuento; El Intermediario y el
Beneficiario acordarian libremente la periodicidad del cobro de intereses, en
forma vencida. La tasa de redescuento seria calculada periodicamente para
prestamos en pesos o en dolares, para aplicarla a nuevos redescuentos. Con
posterioridad se reglamento que su calculo se efectuaria trimestralmente.
Para los plazos, la Resolucion establecio un maximo de 12 ahos incluyendo
hasta 3 ahios como periodo de gracia.



11
Posteriormente, con la Resoluci6n No. 2 de Noviembre 6 de 1.992, la Junta
Directiva del Banco estableci6 el nivel maximo de endeudamiento para cada
Intermediario con el Banco de la Republica, de la siguiente forma:
Clase A                2.5 veces el Patrimonio Tecnico
Clase B                1.5 veces el Patrimonio Tecnico
Clase C                1.0 veces el Patrimonio Tecnico
Con esta misma Resolucion se autorizo que todos los Intermediarios Financieros
tendrian una autonomia para aprobar creditos automaticamente hasta por US$5.0
millones, a partir de Junio 1 de 1.993.
Valga comentar, que las politicas contenidas en la Resolucion 5 de 1.991, de la
Junta Directiva se aplicarian a todas las Lineas Externas que aun tuviesen
recursos por desembolsar. Sin embargo, para la Linea BIRF 3025-CO y de
acuerdo con el BIRF no se modifico el contrato, en razon al tipo de proyectos
financiados, relacionados en ia pequeina y mediana empresa, inclusive ia
microempresa, se mantuvo el Limite Libre maximo hasta US$250.000 pactado en
las negociaciones, asi como el criterio de cupo maximo de US$ 500.000 por
proyecto.
Sinembargo, con las nuevas medidas implementadas tanto por el Gobierno
Nacional como por la Junta Directiva del Banco de la Republica, que dan mayor
responsabilidad a los intermediarios, se redujo considerablemente el tiempo de
tramite de las operaciones, pasando de aproximadamente 50 dias en promedio
registrado en ahios anteriores a un promedio de 2 a 3 dias llegando incluso a la
fecha a dar respuesta a las operaciones de Limite Libre, el mismo dia de su
presentacion al Banco.
El Congreso de la Republica aprob6 la Ley 31 de 1.992, en la que dicto las
normas a las que deberia sujetarse el Banco de la Republica para el ejercicio de
sus funciones e igualmente ordeno el traslado de los Fondos de Fomento al iFI;
ademas, dispuso que entre sus funciones podria intermediar Lineas de Credito
Externo para su colocacion a traves de los establecimientos de credito, funcion
que hasta el momento ha venido desarrollando.



12
La Ley 35 de Enero 5 de 1.993, seflal6 los objetivos y criterios para que el
Gobierno Nacional regulara la actividad financiera, bursatil y aseguradora del
pais, entre otros aspectos determinando la cuantia o proporcion minima de los
recursos que como prestamos o inversiones deberian destinar los
establecimientos de credito a los diferentes sectores o actividades econ6micas
cuando existan fallas del mercado con el prop6sito de democratizar el credito.
Mediante el Decreto 663 de Abril 2 de 1.993, se actualizo el Estatuto Organico de
todo el Sistema Financiero, quedando estructurado de la siguiente manera:
a) Establecimientos de Credito - Bancos, Corporaciones Financieras,
Corporaciones de Ahorro y Vivienda, y Compahias de Financiamiento Comercial.
b) Sociedades de Servicio Financiero
c) Sociedades de Capitalizaci6n
d) Entidades Aseguradoras
e) Intermediarios de Seguros y Reaseguros
Estableci6 a su vez, los capitales minimos de las Instituciones Financieras asi:
$8.000 millones para los Bancos, $2.500 millones para las Corporaciones
Financieras, $2.000 millones para las Corporaciones de Ahorro y Vivienda,
$1.500 millones para las Aseguradoras y $500 millones de pesos para las demas
Entidades Financieras, reajustando estos montos anualmente de acuerdo con el
indice de precios al consumidor.
Los Establecimientos Bancarios debian acreditar un monto de capital pagado y
reserva legal de $4.000 millones de pesos al 30 de Abril de 1.992 y $6.000
millones al 30 de Abril de 1.993. Las Corporaciones Financieras  deberian
demostrar $1.300 millones al 30 de Abril de 1.992 y $1.900 millones al 30 de
Abril de 1.993.
Los resultados de las capitalizaciones e incrementos en las reservas obligados
por el Decreto 663, se observan claramente en los considerables aumentos
registrados en los Balances de las diferentes Entidades Financieras, durante los
anos de 1.992 y 1.993, los cuales permitieron mejorar las relaciones de solvencia,
rentabilidad y liquidez, asi como la calidad de la cartera de todo el Sistema.



CONCLUSIONES
La Linea BIRF 3025-CO permiti6 que un mayor numero de beneficiarios utilizara
el credito toda vez que se aprobaron 2.188 operaciones, para una colocacion
bruta de recursos de US$106.0 millones lo cual arroja un promedio de US$ 48.4
millones por credito. En cifras netas es decir al 80% y con el monto total
redescontado de US$ 76.218.000, se ofrece una cifra promedio de US$ 34.8
millones por proyecto, atendida directamente por el BIRF siendo los sectores mas
dinamicos los de vestuario excepto calzado y alimentos excepto bebidas.
Debido a las medidas de politica financiera establecidas por el Congreso de la
Republica, el Gobierno Nacional y la misma Junta Directiva del Banco de la
Republica, los Intermediarios Financieros -Bancos y Corporaciones- presentaron
un incremento considerable en su patrimonio, cartera y un mejoramiento de sus
relaciones financieras, no registrado en epocas anteriores.
A raiz de la expedicion de la Resolucion Interna No. 05 de 1.991 por parte de la
Junta Directiva del Banco de la Republica, los intermediarios financieros
adquirieron una mayor autonomia para el manejo de los recursos de credito
llegando a tener un limite libre por proyecto de US$5.0 millones, limitandose el
Banco a calificar como redescontable una operacion que supere este monto.
Esta medida permitio en gran parte, reducir el tiempo de tramite de las
operaciones, dando con ello mayor beneficio a los usuarios de los prestamos.
Como resultado relevante para el futuro, se tiene que los cambios de politica
hacia el final de colocacion de la Linea trajeron beneficios, por cuanto permitieron
agilizar la tramitacion de los prestamos, volviendose el Banco de la Republica
mas eficiente en el suministro oportuno de los recursos a las empresas que
adelantaron proyectos de inversion.



Se debe tomar como una lecci6n el hecho de que los responsables de los
compromisos adquiridos, deben ser los mismos de los cuales dependa
directamente el ordenamiento de las medidas, por cuanto dictar politicas cuando
no se tiene la delagaci6n o autoridad para hacerlo, entraba y complica el
cumplimiento de las clausulas contractuales.
Finalmente, se debe argumentar que la eficiencia y agilidad en la tramitaci6n
tanto de las operaciones como de los diferentes informes por parte del Banco de
la Republica ha sobrepasado las expectativas y exigencias del mismo Banco
Mundial, creadas al rededor de las Lineas de Credito Externo.
S-CEB



AN^O DlE LA (tEUOUCA
LIN LAS IXTLRNAS Y CARTUtA
CREDITOS APRODADOS - SEOUN ACTIVIDAD ECONOMICA
TOTAL LINEA BIRF 302S - ORD[NARIOS
ENERO DE 1.990 A NOVIEMBRE DE 1.9S2                              1
(NILLONES 0)
[CLASIFICACION   - C I I U -                    TOTALES
Activos  Capital de
C6diqo               Nombre                    No    Part.%    Valor    Part.%       Fijos    trabaio
210 EXPLOTACIONDEMINASDECAIBON                   1  0.05%        3.0    0.00%                    3,0
230 EXTRACCION De INERALES METAuCOS             3  0.14%       125.0    0.19%      114.3        10.7
290 EXTRACCION DE OTROS NOERALES               1 1  0.52%      751.5    1.15%      656 4        95.1
311 AusENTos ExccTo BEBDmAS                   293  13.93%0   9,059.3   13.90%    6,341.1    2,718.2
312 ALiMENqosCONCENTMDOSPARA  N>uLS.           42   2.00/o  2,058.1    3.16%    1,839.0       219.1
313 BEBmAS                                     12   0.57%      342.5    0.53%      182.9       159.6
321 i Xmujs                                   125   5.94%    5,593.1    8.58%    3,088.0    2,505.1
322 vEsruAIo ExcbcAE zo                      324  15.40%    6,355.8    9.75%    2,627.3    3,728,5
323 CUERO Y SUS PROD.(EXC.CALZADO Y VESflARIO)  74   3.52%    1,986.7    3.05%     938,8    1,047 9
324 CALZADOODCCDECAuCHOOoL.ASTICO)             90   4.28%    1,3944    2.14%       577.3       817 1
331 SMADLPA.COnCliOYSUSPROD.(EXC.MIUEBLES)     96   4.56%o   1,666.7    2.56%      939.6       727 1
332 M1'EBLES(EXC.LOSMETAUCOS)                 113   5.37%    2,202.8    3.38%    1,046.4    1,156 4
341 PAPELYSUSPRODUCTOS                         23   1.09%    1,856.0    2.85%    1,178.3      677,7
342 ugRENTAsY mrroRU,Es                       151   7.18%    7,145.5   10.97%    5,489.0    1,656.5
351 PRODUCrOSQUUOCOSINDUSTRIALES               19   0.90%    1,183.6    1.82%      777.7      405 9
352 OrROS PRODUCTOS QUIMCOS                    44   2.09%    1,872.3    2.87%      7584    1,113 9
353 REENERASDEPEfROLEO                          5  0.24%       165.0    0.25%       80.0        85 0
354 DERIVADOSDELPETROLEOYDELCARBON              4   0.19%      207.5    0.32%       85 0       122 5
355 CAUCIIo                                    24   1.14%      987.7    1.52%      598 3       389 4
356 PLAsIcos N.EP.                            122   5.80%    4,299.5    6.60%    2,800.9    1,498.6
361 OBjuTOSDEIBARRO,LOZAYPORCELANA             14   0.67%      230.4    0.35%      124.0       106 4
362 VMRIO Y SUS PRODUCTOS                       9   0.43%      585.5    0.90%      523.0        62.5
369 OTROSPROD.DE UNERALESNOMETALCOS           106   5 04/o   3,517.0    5.40%    3,136 6       380 4
371 INDS.BASICASDEHIERROYACERO                 20   0 95%      821.0    1.26%      456 2       364 8
372 rNDS BASICAS DE METALES NO FERROSOS        12   0.57%      157.7    0 24%       84.2        73,5
381 INiDS mETALIcAs(Exc..AQurNAIuAYEQUIPO)    142   6.75%    3,769.8    5.79%    2,264,9    1,504 9
382 MAQUINARlANOELF.C1UCA                      81   3.85/o  2,618 1    4 02%    1,566 2    1,051 9
383 MAQUTNArIUAIECVjCA                         40   1.90%    1,036.3    1.59%      593.3      443 0
384 NATERIALDETRANSPORTE                       52   2.47%    1,566.5    2.40%      995.6       570 9
385 LQULJOPROrESIONALYCIENTaICO                 7  0.33%       206.0    0.32%      109.0        97.0
390 OTRAS NDUSTRIASMANUFACTURERAS              43   2.04%    1,172.1    1.80%      658.6       513.5
719 SERVICIOS CONEXOS DE TRANSPORTE             1  0.05%       212.8    0.33%      212 8         0.0
959 SERVICJOS PERSONALES D[VERSOS               1  0.05%         7 3    0.01 %/       7 3        0 0
TOTAL                    2,104    100%/o 65,156.5    100%vo 40,8504   24,306 1
Sa7taf6 de Bogota. Junio 8 de 1.994
AGP - 3025



BANCO DE LA REPUBU1CA
UNEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS APROBADOS - SEOUN ACTlVIDAD ECONOMICA
TOTAL LINEA BIRF 3025 - LIMITE LIBRE Y MICROEMPRESA
MAYO DE L.991 A NOVIEMBRE DE 1.99'                                1
(MB.IONES Si
CLASIFICACION   - C I I U -                      TOTAL ES
Activos  Capital de
Cbdiqo                 Nombre                   No      Part.%/    Valor    Part.%O    Fiios     trabato
210 E'XLO lIACION DE MNAS DL CARBON                  0.00%/0              0.00%SD
230 EXTRACCION DE MINEKALES METAuCVS                 0.00%                0.00%
290 EXTARACCION DE OTROS MINERALES                   0.00%                0.00%
311 ALMENTOSEYXCEPrOBFBWAS                       7   8.33%o     155.5    687%         89.3        66.2
312 AIIMENTOS CONCENTkADOS PARA ANLMALEs          1   1.19%       12.1    0.53%       12.1         0.0
313 BEBIDAS                                      2   2.38%        14.3    0.63%        7.1         7.2
321 TFXTE1LLS                                    2   2.38%        58.3    2.58%       43.3        15.0
322 vEsTuAR1o ExCo cALzAIDo                     13  15 48%      294 3   13.00%        63 6       230 7
323 CUEROYSUSPROD(EXC.CALZADOYVESTUARO,          1   1.19%         5 0    0.22%        0.0         5.0
324 CALZADOIEKC.DECAuCHOoPLAPSfCOi               5   5.95%o       97 9    4.32%       31.5        66 4
331 MADEKA. CORCHO Y SUS PROD. (EXC.MUEBL,       4   4.76 %o    140 0    6.18%        62.0        78.0
332 MUEBLES XC.LOS METAUCOSI                         0.00%                0.00%
341 PAPELYSLISPRODUCTOS                          3   3.57%o    108 5    4.79%         38.5        70.0
342 MRE-tAsYEDrIToRLuiEs                         5   5.95%      150.2    6.64%        91.7        58.5
351 PRODUCTOSQUIMICOS[NDUSTRIALES                 1   1.19%       10.0    0 44%        7.2         2 8
352 OTROS PRODUcros ouIMucos                     6   7 14 /o    120.5    5 32%        77.8        42.7
353 RERIAS DE PETROLEO                               0 00%               0,00%
354 DERJVADOS DEL PETROLEO Y DEL CARBON               0.00%               0 00%
355 CAUCHO                                        2   2.38%      107.0    4.73%       77.3        29 7
356 PLASnCOS N.E.P                                7   8.33%      155.8    6.88%        4.6       151.2
361 OBIFIOSDEBARRO. LOlA Y PORCELANA                  0.00%               0.00%
362 VIDRIOY.SUSPRODUCTOS                          1   1.19%       40.0    1.77%        16.0       24 0
369 OTROSPROL) DENUNERA1ESNOMETAIJCOS             1   1.19%       42 5    1.88%       42.5         0 0
371 rNDS BASICAS DF lHTFRIR() Y ACFR(o            3   3 57%       35 3    1 56%       27.8         7 5
372 INDS BASICAS DE METALES NO FERROSOS           1   1.19%       20.0    0.88%        6.0        14 0
381 INDS. METALCAS (EXC.MAQUINARIA Y EQUIPoi    4   4.76%        78 CG    3 45%      35.0        43.0
382 MAOUINARJA NOFi.FrTRR(A                      8   9.52%       175.8    7 77%       49 8       126 0
383 MAOlINARAELECTWCA                             1   1 .19%      60.0    2 65%       37.0        23 0
384 MATERIALDETRANSPORTI                          3   3.57%       54 7    2.42%       35.7        19.0
385 EQUIPO PROFESIONAL Y CEENTIFICo                   0.00%               0.00%
390 OTPRAS1NDUsTR.LS MANUrACT`URAS                2   2.38%       28.0    1.24%        12.0       16.0
719 sERNiCos CONEXOS DEL TRANSPORTE                   0.00%o              0.00%
930 OTRASACvTrvDADESDESERVICIOS                   1   1.19%      300 0   13.25%      300.0         0.0
TOTAL                       84    100%/o  2.263 7      100%    1.167 8    1.095.9
Santafe de Bogota. Junio 9 de1  9
AGP - 3025



IDANrCO DE L'v REPUI3UCA
L1NEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS APRODADOS - SEGUN LOCAl IZACION DlFL PROYI2CTO
TOTAL LrNEA DIRF 3025 - ORDINARIOS
ENERO DE 1.990 A NOVIEMBllL DE 1,992                       2
(MILLONES S)
LOCALIZACION DEL PROYECTO                T O T A L E S
Activos Capital de
C6digo          Departamento           No.    Part.%    Valor   Part.%     Fijos   trabaio
5 ANTIOQULA                       252   11.98%  10,246.1   15.73%   6,621.1  3,625.0
8 ATLANTMCO                        87    4.13%   1,949.4   2.99%    1,072.9    8765
11 SANTAFE DE BOGOTA               658   31.27%  28,525.2  43.78%  17,909.5  10,615.7
13 BOUVAR                           22    1.05%     823.5   1.26%      562.3    261.2
15 IJOYACA                          26    1.24%     361.6   0.55%      258.2    103.4
17 cALDAs                          101    4.80%   1,897.7   2.91%      930.4    967.3
18 CAQUErTA                          4    0.19%      87.2   0.13%       80.8      6.4
19 CAIDAS                           44    2.09%     387.4   0.59%      264.7    122.7
20 CESAR                             9    0.43%     872.0   1.34%      462.5    409.5
23 CORDOBA                          33    1.57%     217.6   0.33%      138.4      79.2
25 CUNDINAMARCA                    148    7.03%   4,260.6   6.54%    3,340.6    920.0
27 cHoco                             1   0.05%       10.0   0.02%        6.7       3.3
41 HUnA                             36    1.71%     578.0   0.89%      409.9    168.1
44 LAGUAJIRA                         4    0.19%     106.0   0.16%       91.2      14.8
47 MAGDALENA                         8    0.38%     292.5   0.45%      225.6     66.9
50 META                             33    1.57%   1,951.4   2.99%    1,688.5    262.9
52 NARIO                           115    5.47%   1,038.7   1.59%      743.3    295.4
54 NORTEEDESANTANDER                46    2.19%   1,100.6   1.69%      672.8    427.8
63 QUrNDIo                          23    1.09%     249.5   0.38%      107.6    141.9
66 RISARALDA                        60    2.85%   1,345.0   2.06%      557.3    787.7
68 SANTANDER                       188    8.94%   2,487.9   3.82%   1,001.1  1,486.8
70 sucRu                             5   0.24%       97.2   0.15%       49.7     47.5
73 TOLIMA                           48    2.28%   1,402.1   2.15%      837.8    564.3
76 VALLE                           125    5.94%   4,477.9   6.87%   2,489.8  1,988.1
81 ARAUCA                            1   0.05%        8.0   0.01%        0.0       8.0
85 CASANAR                          11    0.52%     259.0   0.40%      256.9       2.1
86 ruruMAyo                          4    0.19%      39.0   0.06%       24.4      14.6
91 AMAZONAS                         12    0.57%      85.4   0.13%       46.4      39.0
TOTAL               2,104  100.00%  65,156.5  100.00%  40,850.4  24,306.1
Santafe de Bogota, Junio 8 de 1.994
AGP - 3025



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
LINEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS APROBADOS - SEGUN LOCALIZACION DEL PROYECTO
TOTAL LINEA BIRF 3025 - LlMrIE UIBRE Y MICROEMPRESA
MAYO DE 1.991 A NOVIEMBRE DE 192                             2
(mnaLONW S )
ILOCALIZACION DEL PROYECTO                 T O T A L E S
Activos Capital de
C6digo          Departamento            No.    Part.%     Valor    Part.%     Fiios    trabajo
5 ANTIOQULA                                0 00%              0 00%
8 ATLANTICO                                0.00%              000%
11 SANTAFEDEBOGOTA                   13   15.48%      555 1  24.52%       131.7    423.4
13 BOLIVAR                                  0.00%              0.00%
15 BOYACA                                   0.00%              0.00%
17 CALDAS                                   0.00%              0.00%
18 CAQUFIA                                  0.00%              0.00%
19 CALDAS                                   0.00%              0.00%
20 CESAR                                    0.00%              0.00%
23 CORDOBA                                  0.00%              0.00%
25 CUNDrNAMARCA                        1    1.19%      30.0   1.33%        22.0       8.0
27 CHOCO                                    0.00%              0.00%
41HLA                                       0.00%              0.00%
44 LA GUA.IRA                               0.00%              0.00%
47 MAGDALENA                                0.00%              0.00%
50 META                                1    1.19%        9.7   0.43%        9.7
52 NARIO                               1    1.19%        7.5   0.33%        2.1       5.4
54 NORTE DE SANTANDER                 2    2.38%       22.9    1 01%        7.9      15.0
63 QUINDIO                                  0.00%              0.00%
66 RISARALDA                                0.00%              0.00%
68 SANTANDER                           1    1 .19%     20.0   0.88%        20.0       0.0
70 sucRE                                    0.00%              0.00%
73 TOLIMA                                   0.00%              0.00%
76 VALLE                             65   77.38%    1,618.5  71.50%       674.4    944.1
81 ARAUCA                                   0.00%              0.00%   -
85 CASANARE                                000%                0.00%
86 PUTUMAYO                                 0.00%               0.00%
91 AMAZONAS                                 0.00%              0.00%
TOTAL                  84  100.00%    2,263.7  100.00%      867.8   1,395.9
Santafe de Bogota. Junio 9 de 1.994
AGP - 3025



BANCO DE LA RUPUDLUCA
UNLAS DEArENAS Y CARThfPA
CREDITOS APROBADOS - SEOUN CLASE DE INTERMEDIAJUO FINANCIERO
TOTAL LINEA BIPY 3025 - ORDINARIOS
ENERO DE 1.990 A NOVIEMBRE DE 1.992                            3
(MaLLONES S)
IICLASIFICACION INTERMEDIARIO             TO TAL  E S                                             d
Activos   Capitalide
C6diQo          Intermediario          No.    Part.%       Valor     Part.%     Fijos     trabaio
1 BOOCTA                           12      0.57%      878.1     1.35%       724.8     153.3
2 ,opuLAR                         155      7.37%    6,698.4   10.28%      4,787.0    1,911 4
3 COLOMBIA                         47      2.23%    1,999.0    3.07%      1,418.0     581 0
4 coMERCo                           4      0.19%      260.0    0.40%         42.0      218 0
5 cA--mERo                        145      6.89%    5,364.3    8.23%      3,674.7    1,689 6
6 DANCOQUIA                         6      0.29%      467.7    0.72%        376.2      91 5
11 CAJAAORARIA                     481    22.86%     5,595.4    8.59%      3,602 0    1,993 4
13 OANADERO                        200      9.51%    8,924.4   13.70%      5,327.8    3,596 6
14 DECREDITO                          1     0.05%       15.0    0.02%          0.0       15 0
17 SANTANDER                          1     0.05%       30.0    0.05%          0.0       30 0
18 DECALDAS                           2     0.10%      120.0    0.18%        107.5       12 5
20 DELESTADO                         38     1.81%     1,815.0    2.79%     1,411.4      4036
22 UNION COLOMBIANO                   1     0.05%       50.0    0.08%         35.0       15 0
29 TEQUENDAMA                         1     0.05%        17.0    0.03%        17.0        0 0
110 C.F.COLOMBIANA                    15     0.71%     1,949.0    2.99%.   1,403.2       545.8
115 C.F.DE CALDAS                      2     0.10%       66.7    0.10%         39 8       26 9
118 c.r.cUNDINAMARCA                  10     0.48%      476.7    0.73%        237.4      239,3
121 INDUFNANCLERA                      1     0.05%       56.8    0.09%         48.0        8,8
124 coRJGOAN                         37      1.76%     2,497.4    3.83%     1,735.8      761 6
133 LATINcoRP                         19     0.90%      680.0    1.04%        420.8      259.2
136 C.F.DESANTANDER                   28     1.33%     1,080 4    1.66%       684.4      396 0
138 PROGRESOC.F.                       4     0.19%      606.1     0.93%       558.5       47 6
151 c.r.DEL NORTE                      6     0.29%      662.1      1.02%      299.6      362 5
154 C.F.DELTOLIMA                      7     0.33%      380.0    0.58%        275.2      104 8
160 cF.DELvVALE                        8     0.38%      810.1     1.24%       673.1      137,0
165 C.r.SURAMERICANA                   8     0.38%      868.6     1.33%       617.6      251.0
172 C.F.UNION                          3     0.14%      220.6    0.34%        t22 7       97.9
174 C.F.DeDoYACA                       1     0.05%        15.0    0.02%        13.8        1.2
175 C.F.SURAMERICANA                  13     0.62%     1,259.2    1.93%     1,181.0       78.2
180 C.F.DE DESARROLLO               810    38.50%    20,246.7   31.07%    10,375.9   9,870 8
190 LF.L                      -        2     0.10%      409.2    0.63%        279.7      129 5
209 CAJASOCLALDEAJSORROS              36     1.71%      637.6    0.98%        360.5      277 1
TOTAL               2104   100.00%   65,156.5  100.00%    40,850.4  24,306.1
3ntafe de Bogota, Junio 8 de 1.994
AGP - 3025
.) 



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
LINEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS APROBADOS - SEGUN CLASE DE INTERMEDIARIO FINANCIERO
TOTAL LINEA BIRF 3025 - LIMrrE LIBRE Y MICROEMPRESA
MAYO DE 1.991 A NOVIEMBRE DE 1.99'                               3
(MILLONES S)
>CLASIFICACION INTERMEDIARIO                T O TA L E S
Activos   Capital de
_C6digo             Intermediario          No.      Part.%      Valor     Part.%      Fijos      trabalo
1 BOGOTA                                     0.00%                 0.00%
2 PoPULAR                                    0.00%                 0.00%
3 COLOMBIA                                   0.00%                 0.00%
4 coMRcio                                    0.00%                 000%
5 CAFTERO                             1      1 19%         7.5     0.33%         2.1         54
6 BANCOQUIA                                  0.00%                 0.00%
11 CAJAAGRARIA                                0.00%                 0.00%
13 GANADERO                                   0 00%                 0 00%
14 DE CREDiTO                                 0.00%                 0 00%
1 7 SANTANDER                                 0.00%                 0 00%
18 DE CALDAS                                  0.00%                 0 00%
20 DELESTADO                            1     1.19%        29 7      1 31%        29.7        00
22 UNION COLOMBLANO                           0.00%                 0.00%
29 TEQUENDAMA                                 0.00%                 0.00%
110 C.FCOLOMBLkNA                       3      3.57%       110.2     4.87%        88.3        21.9
115 CFDECALDAS                                 0.00%                 0 00%
118 C.F CUNDINAMARCA                           0.00%                 0 00%
121 rNDLFNANCIERA                              0.00%                 0.00%
124 coRFGAN                             1      1.19%        10.0     044%           7.2        28
133 LATrNCORP                                  0.00%                 0 00%
136 C.F.DE SANTANDER                           0.00%                 0 00%
138 PROGRESOC.F.                        1      1.19%/o      50 0      2.21%         0 0       50 0
151 C F DEL NORTE                              0.00 /o               000%
154 C F.DEL TOLIMA                             0.00%                 0.00%
160 C.F.DEL VALLE                              0.00%                 0.00%
165 C F SURAMERICANA                           0.00%                 0 00%
172 C F UNION                                  0.00%                  0 00%
174 C.F.DE BOYACA                              0.00%                  0.00%
175 C.F.SURAMERICANA                     1     1.19%        12.1      0.53%        121         0.0
180 C F.DE DESARROLLO                  74    88.10%      2.024.2    89.42%        711.4    1,312 8
190 LF.L                                       0.00%                  0 00%
209 CAJA SOCLAL DEAHORROS                2     2.38%        20.0      0 88%        17.0        30
TOTAL                   84   100.00%      2.263.7   100.00%       867.8    1.395 9
Santafe de Bogota. Junio 9 de 1.994
AGP - 3025



AMCO DE LA    JCA
LINEAS IrUK4NS Y CAZIUA
C UEFrC6 AF.OSADOS2 -   SCALA DE ACTIVOS
TOTAL LDEA US 3125 - LUI! LU Y MKCtOWh3SA
MAYO DE 1."1 A NOVUhG3 DEI :32                     4
(MELLON= Si
ESCALA DE ATIVOS                    TOTALES
Activos  Capdtal de
JEscala en Mill. de Pesos                 valor    Part.%     Fiios    trabaj
HASTA                   1                            000%
MAS DE    1 1  A        2                   74.7    3.30%                  74.7
MAS DE    21  A         3                 1.151.1   50.85%               1.151.1
MAS DE    3 1  A        4                  258.5   11.42%       185.8      72.7
MAS DE    4 1  A        5                  603.8   26.67%       5064       97.4
MAS DE    5 1  A        6                  141.5    6.25%       141.5
MAS DE    6 1  A        7                    2.1    0.09%         2.1
MAS DE    7 1  A        8                   32.0    1.41%        32.0
MAS DE    81   A        9                            0.00%
MAS DE    9 1  A       10                            0.00%
MAS DE   10 1  A       15                            0.00%
MAS DE   15 1  A       20                            0.00%
MAS DE   20.1   A      30                            0.00%
MAS DE   30.1   A      40                            0.00%
MAS DE   40 1  A       50                            0.00%
MAS DE   50 1  A       60                            0.00%
MAS DE   60.1   A      70                            0.00%
MAS DE   70 1  A       80                            0.00%
MAS DE   80 1  A       90                            0.00%
MAS DE   901   A    100                              000%
MAS DE  1001   A    150                              0.00%
MAS DE  150 1  A    200                              0.00%
MAS DE  200 1  A    250                              0.00%
MAS DE  250 1  A    300                              0.00%
MAS DE  300 1  A    400                              0.00%
MAS DE  4001   A    500                              0.00%
MAS DE  500.1   A    600                             0.00%
MAS DE  600.1   A    700                             0.00%
MAS DE  700.1   A    800                             0.00%
2.263 7  100.00%      867.8   t.395.9
Santafe de Bogota. Junio 9 de 1.994
AGP- 3025



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
LINEAS 1EP.NAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS APROBADOS - SEOUN ESCALA DE ACTIVOS
TOTAL LINEA DIUUr 3025- ORDINAIUOS
ENERO DE 1.990 A NOVlEMBlRE DE 1.992                 4
(KIILONES S)
|ESCALA DE ACTIVOS           T O T A L E S
Activos  Capital de
IEsCala en Mill. de Pesos   No.   Part.%      valor_    Part.%O    FUos    trabajo_
HASTA                   1    16    0.76%        20.0    0.03%         0.4      19.6
MAS DE    1.1  A        2    46      2.19%     228.8    0.35%       106.0     122.8
MAS DE    2.1  A        3    62      2.95%     209.0    0.32%       108.0     101.0
MAS DE    3.1  A        4    51    2.42%        172.1    0.26%       75.9      96.2
MAS DE    4.1  A        5    75      3.56%     239.5    0.37%        75.8     163.7
MAS DE    5.1   A       6    81      3.85%     431.8    0.66%to     216.5     2153
MAS DE    6 1  A        7    38      1.81%     236.2    0.36%0'o    133.6     102.6
MAS DE    7.1  A        8    58    2.76%       405.5    0.62%       215.8     189.7
MAS DE    8.1   A       9    39    1.85%       279.3    0.43%       167.4     111.9
MAS DE    9.1  A       10    50    2.38%       424.1    0.65%0Xo    201.1     223.0
MAS DE   10.1  A       15   174    8.27%    1,638.1    2.51%        776.8     861.3
MAS DE   15.1  A       20   132    6.27%    1,707.3    2.62%    1,030.4       676.9
MAS DE   20.1   A      30   210      9.98%    3,367.3    5.17%    1,811.9   1,555 4
MAS DE   30.1   A      40   162    7.70%    2,922.0    4.48%    1,553.1   1,368.9
MAS DE   40.1  A       50   117      5.56%    3,121.2    4.79%    2,02C.2   1,101.0
MAS DE   50.1   A      60    91      4.33%    2.531.0    3.88%    1,623.3     907.7
MAS DE   60.1   A      70    75      3.56%    2,359.8    3.62%    1,412.4     947.4
MAS DE   70.1   A      80    69      3.28%    2,424.5    3.72%     1,321.5   1,103.0
MAS DE   80.1   A      90    50      2.38%    1,810.8    2.78%     1,119.5    691.3
MAS DcE   901   A    100    37       1.76%0'o   1.533.4    2.35%    1,044.5   488.9
MAS DE  100.1   A    150   141       6.70%    6,476.2    9.94%/o   4,104.5   2,371.7
MAS DE  150.1   A    200    89       4.23%    5,942.9    9.12%so   3,718.0   2.224.9
MAS DE  200.1   A    250    47       2.23%    4,007 1    6.15%    2.998.3   1,008.8
MAS DE  250.1   A    300    37       1.76%    3,069 4    4.71%    2,004.4   1,065.0
MAS DE  300.1   A    400    65       3.09%    7,555.3   11.60%    5,157.0   2,398.3
MAS DE  400.1   A    500    45       2.14%/o   5.830.7    8.95%    4,074.8   1,755.9
MAS DE  500.1   A    600    29       1.38%    3,382.1.   5.19%    1,699.6   1,682.5
MAS DE  600.1   A    700    14    0.67%    2,327.6    3.57%    1,609.6         718.0
MAS DC  700.1  A    800        4     0.19%      503.5    0.77%      470.1       33.4
2,104   100.00%/'o  65,156.5  100.00%o  40,850.4  24,306.1
Santafe -e Bogota, 3unio 8 de 1.994
AG? - 3025



DA.NCO DE LA PJE'UBUCA
UNEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS APROBADOS - SE3OUN TASA DE INTERES
TOTAL LINA DDIF 3025 - ORDINAIUOS
ENERO DE 1.990 A NOVIEMBRE DE 1.992                          5
(MILLONES S)
Activos      Capital de
ITASA  DE  INTERES                     Fijos        Trabajo          Total     Part. %
DTF       +     (0.0 a 2.0)          2,048.1         1,052.3       3,100.4     4.76%
DTF       +     (2.1 a 3.0)           113.2            77.8          191.0     0.29%
DTF       +     (3.1 a 4.0)          2,468.2         1,582.3       4,050.5      6.22%
DTF             (4.1 a 5.0)          4,067.6         1,437.6       5,505.2     8.45%
DTF       +     (5.1 a 6.0)         32,153.3        20,156.1      52,309.4    80.28%
TOTAL                       40,850.4        24,306.1       65,156.5   100.00%
Santaf6 de Bogota, Junio 8 de 1.994
AGP - 3025



BANCO DE LA REPUBUCA
LWEAS EXTElRAS Y CARTElA
CREDTrOS APROBADOS - SEOVtN TASA DE OTrERES
TOTAL LINEA BDIR 3025 -LDMTE LIBRE Y MICROEMPRESA
MAYO DE I.W9I A NOVIEMBREDE 1.992                             5
(MILLONES S)
Activos      Capital de
TASA  DE  INTERES                      Fijos         Trabajo           Total     Part. %
DTF             (0.0 a 2.0)             10.0            20.4           30 4      1 34%
DTF             (2.1 a 3.0)                                             0.0      0.00%
DTF             (3.1 a 4.0)                            300.0          300 0    13.25%
DTF             (4.1 a 5.0)             41.8            21.9           63.7      2.81%
DTF             (5.1 a 6.0)            816.0         1.053.6        1,869.6    82.59%
TOTAL                          867.8          1.395.9        2.263.7  100.00%
Santaft de Bogota. Junio 9 de 1.e4
AGP - 3025



BANCO DE LA REFUBUCA
LINEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS APROBADOS- SEOUN PLAZO
TOTAL UNEA BE 3025- ORDINARUOS
ENERO DE 1.990 A NOVUIMIRE DE 1.992                     6
(MILLONES S)
|                       ~~~~~~~~~~Activos  Capital de
|  PLAZO EN ANOS              Fijos        Trabajo        Total    Part. %
1.0                   0           0.6           0.6    0.00%
2.0                 9.3          94.5         103.8    0.16%
2.5                   0          24.8          24.8    0.04%
3.0                81.1        8,909.0       8990.1   13.80%
3.5                   0         247.1         247.1    0.38%
4.0              1529.6        4,663.1       6192.7    9.50%
4.5                   4         148.9         152.9    0.23%
5.0             14732.1       10,218.1      24950.2   38.29%
5.5                 116           0.0           116     0.18%
6.0              8113.5           0.0        8113.5   12.45%
6.5                 190           0.0           190     0.29%
7.0              7690.7           0.0        7690.7   11.80%
7.5                 9.4           0.0           9 4     0.01%
8.0              5171.1           0.0        5171.1    7.94%
8.5                   0           0.0             0     0.00%
9.0                   9            0.0            9     0.01 %
9.5                   0            0.0            0     0.00%
10.0              3194.6           0.0        3194.6    4.90%
TOTAL                40,850.4      24,306.1      65,156.5  100.00%
Santafe de Bogota, Junio 8 de 1.994
AGP - 3025



BANCO DE LA REPUBUCA
LUNEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDrTOS APROBADOS - SEGOUN LAZO
TOTAL LINEA BIRF 3025 - LIMTE LBRE Y MICROEMPRESA
MAYO DE 1.991 A NOVIEMBRE DE 1.992                      6
(MILLONES $i
Activos     Capital de
PLAZO EN ANOS              Fijos       Trabajo        Total    Part. %
1.0               185.8                        185.8    8.21%
2.0                               74.7          74 7    3.30%
2.5                                               0     0.00%
3.0                            1,151.1        1151.1   50.85%
3.5                                               0     0.00%
4.0                               72.7          72 7     3.21%
4.5                                               0     0.00%
5.0                506.4         97.4          603.8   26.67%
5.5                                               0     0.00%
6.0                141.5                       141.5    6.25%
6.5                                               0     0.00%
7.0                  2.1                         2.1    0.09%
7.5                                               0     0.00%/
8.0                 32.0                        32.0    1.41%
8.5                                               0      0.00%
9.0                                               0      0.00%
9.5                                               0      0.00%
10.0                                               0     0.00%
TOTAL                   867.8       1,395.9       2.263.7  100.00%
Santaft de Bogota. Junio 9 de 1.994
AG? - 3025



BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
LINEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS APROBADOS - FOR ANO
TOTAL LINEA BIRF 3025 - ORDINARIOS
ENERO DE 1.990 A NOVIEMBRE DE 1.992                         7
(MILONES S)
CLASIFICACION  - POR ANO
I,                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Act ivos   Capital deI
ANO                   No.      Part.%      Valor     Part.%      F;;s_  traba;o
1990                    6      0.29%      845.9      1.30%      592.1      253.8
1991                 1345    63.93%   41,988.4   64.44%    27,238.3   14,750 1
1992                  753    35.79%    22,322.2    34.26%    13,020.0    9.302.2
TOTAL        2,104      100%   65.156.5       100%   40,850.4  24.306,1
Santafe de Bogot;. Junio 1 de 1.994
AGP - 3025



BANCO DE LA REPttUBCA
LINEAS EXTERNAS Y CARTERA
CREDITOS APROBADOS - POR A9O
TOTAL LDIEA BW? 3025 - LrMIT LIBRE Y NOCROEMPRESA
MAYO DE 1.991 A NOVIEMBRE DE 1.992                          7
04LONES T
|CLASIFICACION   - POR ANO -
Activos   Capital de
ANO                   No.      Part.%      Valor     Part.%      Fiios     trabalo
1991                   60    71.43%      1,524.2   67.33%       483.0    1,041.2
1992                    24    28.57%      739.5    32.67%       384.8      354.7
TOTAL           84       100%    2.263.7      100%       867.8    1,395.9
Santafe de Bogota. Junio 1 de 1.994
AGP - 3025



-<,.-lCA- S.G.M.R
CUADRO No e
SISTEMA  BANCARiO CONSOU DADO NACIONAL *
INDCADORES FNANCIEFOS                D I C I E M B R E   J U N I 0    DICIEMBPE
1.991    1.902     1.993     1.993
TOTAL ACTIVOS (Millones de $)        7,192,191 9,847,506 11,656,649 14.233,025
INCCADORES DE CFECIMIENTO
AC7TVO                      1/          20.45     36.92      18.37     44.53
PATFIMONIO.                2/           33.22    53.31       18.16     59.25
PATRMONIO SIN SUPERAVAT  3/             39.78     84.72     23.87      81.79
INDCADORES DE RiESGO
PACT1VOS IvPRODUCTIVOS           41       1.40     1.07       0.99      0.78
IEXPOSICION DEL PATRIMONK)        51     11.44      0.36      7.72       5.95
IENDEUDAMIENTO GLOBAL(veces)   6/         8.86     8.50       8.53       8.30
AC71VOS DE RESGO (veces) **       7/     8.25      7.67       7.29
MAF1.OPERBRUTO/ACTV.PROM. 8/             3.22      2.50       1.41      2.87
RENTABiUDADDELACTiVO             9/      1.61      2.04      0.96       2.08
RENTABIUDADPATFIMONIAL  **  101         36.20     27.72      12.27     22.35
INDCADORES DE EFICIENCIA
EFICIENCIA LABROAL           11/         5.41      5.0        2.69      5.09
EFICIENCIAADMINISTRA1lVA   12/           4.27      4.08       2.04      4.11
ITOTAL E P.C.LABORAL Y ADIVA              9.67     9.74       4.73       9.20
* incluye Bancos: Cooperabvo, Uconal y Labno a diciembre/92, y Superlor a partir de Junlo1s93
e Intercontnental a partir de dic. de 1G03. Incluye Caja Agrara en todos los periodos
Incluye Capital Garanta: Caja Agraria dic/91 y dic192 ($108.209 Milones), Junio/92 ($ 154.200
Miliones) y cic/93 ($79.460 rillones). Banco de Colomnbia dic.91 (S68.040 mnllones
dc/92 ($68.787 Millones), Junlo y dclembre /93 (S 63.787 rnillones).
Por p,rdida acumulada a diciembre/93 se excluyeron en todos los periodos los bancos: Caja
Agaria, Mercantil, Labno y Cafetero para efecto del cWlcLio de los indicadores de rentabilidad.
Ajuste por infliacl6n desde Enero 1/92.
1_/ Acbvo Diciembre 93 / Actvo Diciembre 92.
2_/ Patrimonio Diciembre 93 / Patrimonio Dic./92
3_/ Patrimonio sin Superavit dic.93 / Patrimonio sin Superavit Dic./92
4_/ (Cartera vencida mas de seis meses neta+ B.RP.netos)/ActivoTorl
5_1 (Cartera vencida mas de seis meses neta + B.RP.netos)/ PalrimornoTotal
6_/ (Total pasivo + contngentes)/ Patrimonio total
7 / Actvos de nesgol PatrimonioTecnico
87/ Margen Operativo Bruto / Actvo promedio
o_/ Utilidad anual/ Actvo promedio
10 /Ublidadanual /((Patrim - Ublidad ejerc.- Boceas) + (Patrim. t-1 - Boceast-1)yt-2)pronm.
11 / Gastos Laborales! Acbvo Promedio'
12 1 (Gastos Admnnlstal:vos y Laborales - Gaslos de Personal)/ Activo Promecio



* j  t- LiUnidad Tecnica
u,tiones de J y (%)                     CUADRO No 9
SISTEMA DE CORPORACIONES FINANCIERAS PRAIVADAS
INDICADORES FINANCIEROS
DICIEMBRE 1993
INDICADOR               I      DIC             DIC             JUN              DIC
1991            1392            1993             19 3
-OTAL ACTIVO($  M)                          1518 8                           I 817 657             
NDICADORES DE CRECIMIENTO (%)
,kctfvo                                        25.14            42.75           19.67           41. it
'ntrimonio Total                               41.00            65.64           47.24           56.5:
'atrin:onio Sin Valorizaoiones                 35.59            72.21           85.16          !09 2:
4OICADORES DE RIESGO (%)
kctuvos Improductivos   1/                      0.53            0.35             0.28            0. i
:xpos.dol Patrimonio   2/                       3.17             1.85            1. 19           C 7;
ndeudumiento (veces)   3/                      5.61             4.74            3.66            4 I
nrdeudamiento B 9ep, (veces) 4/                1.58             1.24            0.42            0. 4
,ctivos do Riesgo (Veces) 5/                    B. 67           9.52             5.85            n d
!DICADORES DE RENTAB.(%) --
I 0 B tACT Prom                                 3.49            3.08            2.59             3.32
entabilidad del Activo  61                     3.23             3.12            5.02            5.53
ent,Patrimonial 7/                            22.90            18.56           25.92           30 577
DICADORES DE EFICIENCIA (%)
iciencia Laboral                               1.37            1.49            0.75             1.46
iciencia Administratrva 9/                     1.35            1.47            0.71             1.50,
,tal Eficien.Admitiva y Laboral                2.73            2.96             1.47            2 95i
a Los indicadores parn dici-mbr- eon anuales y para junio srmestreles
No incluye Corfidesarrollo
r Pare junio y dio./93 no inoluys Corfidesarrollo an raz6n de quo esta *ntidad gener6 perdidas
durante el ejerCiCbo.
Cart veric.mas de seis moses nota + be reab en pago notos de provisiones)/Activos
Cart venc.mas do seis manes nota + be recb en pago netos de provisiones)/Patrimonib Total
'otal Pasivos + Contingentes/ Patrimonio Total
;r6ditos BRep. M/L y M/E J P. T6cnico, para jun. y dicJ93 (an ambos casos s- toma el PT a jun/93)
2ra los domas periodos *I denominador as Ia sum& de capital, reserva legal y boceas.
ctivos de Riesgo/Patrimonio Tecnico
tilidad Anual/Activos Promedio
til.del per,/C(Patrimonio.t, -boeers.t. 4 Patrimonio t - 1 --booeas.t -1. - Util. d-l Periodo)/2)* 100
o incluye los gastos laborales






New Enterprise Suborrowers:
Net Sales and Salary Expense in the Fiscal Year After the Loan
Loan                           Salary
Amount    Yr of    Net Sales  Expense
Date       (pesos   Income    (pesos    (pesos
Suborrower           Disbursed   millions) Statement  millions)  millions)
Pasabocas Margarita Ltda          6  90         86        91      3513.5     164.7
Fibrexa S.A.                      6  90        32         91      2402.0     100.0
CodExpo Ltda                      9  90         70        91        18.3       0.0
Deposito de Maderas Mademar      10  90         15        91        24.7       1.4
lndustrias Jabco Ltda            10  90         25        91        39.9       0.0
OceanClubULda                    11  90         13        91       144.4       5.2
Texpoldeas                        11  90        40        91         4.4        0.0
Alas Aeroimpresores de Colom      11  90        35        91       119.1      43.0
MiraAguilaryCiaLtda              12  90          5        91         9.0       0.9
Poliform Uda                     12  90       290         91       979.5       5.1
Transportes Multigranel Ltda       1 91        250        91         0.0       14.0
Productos de Gas Ltda             1 91         168        91        64.7      28.9
Manufacturas Bettino Ltda         1 91          12        91       174.8      28.0
lndustrias Vartel Ltda            2  91         15        91        51.0       5.4
Lizcano Plast Ltda                2  91         10        91         9.2       1.1
Impromer Ltda                     2  91         14        91        14.5        1.8
Auto Partes Jaivi y Cia Ltda      3  91         32        91        54.6        5.0
Marfil Blanco LUda                4  91         16        91        29.4        1.0
Productora Colombiana de Aze      5  91        60         91        40.8       9.3
Union Colors Ltda                 5  91         10        91         8.9       2.4
Tropix Sport Ltda                 6  91         20        91       266.8       3.2
Plaspacheco Ltda                  6  91        20         91         7.1       1.5
Uma y Limon Ltda                  6  91        22         91         5.3       0.0
Danfer Lda                       11  90        20         92        89.3      11.9
Concentrados Baru Ltda           11  90       290         92         0.0       0.0
Colombiana de Tubos y Tablet     11  90         90        92        53.8      14.0
Ladrilleras Bamo Blanco Ltda      2  91        80         92       151.9      23.8
Continental de Plasticos Ltda     2  91         10        92         8.4       2.3
Henry Guevara Forero              3  91        20         92        15.4       1.1
Exhimetal Ltda                    3  91        50         92       153.0      16.3
Plasticos Poga Ltda               4  91        30         92        92.9       2.8
Ladrillera los Olivares Ltda      4  91        60         92        37.3       9.5
Confecciones Pinker Ltda          4  91         35        92       144.9      48.3
Maderas y Porvenir Ltda           4  91         32        92        89.8       9.6
A.D.R. Textiles                   5  91         20        92       211.3       3.2
Guerrero y Mejia Constructora     6  91         20        92        17.2       5.2
Dossi Dosso Ltda                  6  91        30         92       197.2      56.5
Hamat Hemandez LTda               6  91        40         92       115.8       9.0
Caritas y Partes Plasticas Ange   6  91         30        92        14.0       1.3
Papegraficos Impresores Indus     6  91         27        92        41.2      15.3
Tejidos Goyin Ltda                6  91         90        92        70.9       17.2
Texitalia                         8  91        160        92       554.2      49.8
Industrias Praviplast Ltda        8  91         25        92        45.9       0.2
Impregnados de Colombia Ltda      8  91        100        92        89.3      26.7
Apertura LTda                     9  91         50        92        49.8       2.0
Toralfel y Cia Ltda              11  91         50        92       177.8      37.8
Tropical Leather Ltda              1 92         40        92       258.8      132.0
Creaciones Blue Bird Ltda          1 92         20        92        35.9        7.8
Creaciones Castro Ltda            2  92         10        92        26.2        3.9
Disenos Silphide Ltda             5  92        21         92        37.3      14.4
Laminas y Cortes Bogota Ltda      6  92         60        92        47.7      14.4
Calcareos Industriales & Agrico   9  92        200        93       465.1      161.6
Zagres Ltda                       10  92       200        93         0.0        1.8
TOTAL                                        3,167                11,274      1,121
AVERAGE                                         60                  213         21
8/1/94   EMPLSME5.XLS



New Enterprise Suborrowers:
Net Sales and Salary Expense In the Fiscal Year After the Loan
Loan     Yr of               Salary
Date      Amount  Income   Not Sales Expense
Suborrower          Disbursed    (USS)  Statement   (USS)    (USS)
Pasabocas Margarita Uda          6  90  169,291         91  5,722,295  268,195
Fibrexa S.A.                     6 90   62,130         91  3,912,016  162,831
CodExpo Ltda                     9 90   137,795         91     29,738       0
Deposito de Maderas Mademar     10 90   29,528         91      40,221    2,288
Industrias Jabco Ltda           10  90   49,213        91      64,906       0
Ocean Club Ltd.                 11  90   25,591         91   235,103    8,414
Texpoideas                      11  90    78,740        91      7,168       0
Alas Aeroimpresores de Colom    11  90   68,898         91    193,938   70,101
MiraAguilaryCiaLtda             12 90    8,858         91      14,578    1,391
Poliform Uda                    12 90  570,866          91  1,595,301    8,296
Transportes Muftigranel Ltda     1 91  407,166          91         0   22,808
Productoa de Gas Uda             1 91  273,290         91    105,451   47,129
Manufacturas Bettino Ltda        1 91    18,893         91   284,663   45,673
indutiras Vartel Ltda            2  91   24,430         91     82,985    8,801
Uzcano Piast Lida                2 91    16,287         91     14,907    1,795
Impromer Ltda                    2 91   22,801          91     23,694    2,857
Auto Partes Jaivi y Cia Ltda     3 91   51,303          91     88,873    8,085
Marfil Blanco Uda                4 91   26,059         91      47,922    1,614
Productora Colombiana de Aze     5  91   97,720        91      66,463   15,179
Union Colors Uda                 5 91    16,287        91      14,480    3,932
Tropix Sport Ltda                6  91   32,573         91    434,450    5,228
Plaspacheco Ltda                 6  91   32,573        91      11,617    2,363
Uma y Limon Ltda                 6 91   35,831          91      8,684       0
Danfer Ltda                     11  90   39,370        92    130,537   17,427
Concentrados Barn Uda           11  90  570,866         92         0        0
Colombian. de Tubos y Tablet    11  90  177,165         92     78,611   20,412
Ladrilleras Bamo Blanco Ltd.     2 91   130,293         92    222,132   34,811
Continental de Pbasticos Ltda    2  91    16,287        92     12,224    3,345
Henry Guevara Forero             3  91   32,573         92     22,589    1,580
Exhimetal Ltda                   3  91   81,433         92   223,827   23,895
Pbasticos Poga Uda               4 91   48,860          92    135,820    4,022
Ladrillera los Olivares Ltda     4 91   97,720         92    54,517   13,909
Confecciones Pinker Ltda         4  91   57,003         92    211,849   70,595
Maderas y Porvenir Ltda          4  91   52,117         92    131,320   14,031
A. D.R. Texiles                  5  91   32,573         92   309,088    4,674
Guerrero y Meiia Constructor.    6  91    32,573        92     25,208    7,664
Dossi Dosso Ltda                 6  91   48,860         92    288,446   82,597
Hamat Hemandez LTda              6 91   65,147          92    169,424   13,163
Cartas y Partes Plastica. Ange   6 91   48,860          92    20,421    1,88
Papegraflcos Impresores Indus    6  91   43,974        92      60,205   22,397
Tejidos Goyin Ltda               6  91  146,580         92    103,693   25,193
Texitalia                        8 91  260,586          92   810,521   72,879
Industrias Praviplast Ltda       8  91   40,717         92    67,125      250
Impregnados de Colombia Uda      8  91   162,866        92    130,535   39,000
Apertura LTda                    9  91   81,433         92     72,876    2,997
ToraUfel y Cia Ltd.             11  91   81,433         92    260,066   55,235
Tropical Leather Uda             1 92   58,501          92    378,505  192,996
Creaciones Blue Bird Uda         1 92   29,250          92     52,532   11,365
Creaciones Castro Ltda           2 92   14,625          92     38,305    5,771
DisenosSilphide Ltda             5 92   29,982          92    54,555   21,044
Laminas y Cortes Bogota Ltda     6  92   87,751         92     69,692   21,103
Calcareos Industriaies & Agrico  9  92  292,505         93   680,168  236,316
Zagres Ltda                     10 92  292,505          93         0    2,668
TOTAL                                  5,410,531           17,814,246 1,710,185
AVERAGE                                  102,085              336,118   32,268
8/1/94  EMPLSME5.XLS                                                  2



Sample of CFD Subborrowers:
Projected and Actual Employment and Sales
EMPLOYMENT DATA
Loan Amount    Number of                   Number of
Loan Auth         (millions of   Employees                 Employees
Enterprise Name                   Date             pesos)      Projected Year of Data       Actual
1     Postes Medina Muloz Mnos Uda                      4  91          $33.0             10        1992            34
2     Montes y Mora Impresores Publicitarlos            7  91          $38.0              7        1992            14
3     Caritas y Partes PlastUcas Angelita               7  91           $30.0             6        1992            10
4     lndustria Americana de Colchones                  7  91         $200.0             49        1992            33
5     Rapidoffset                                       9  91          $10.0            21         1992            22
6     Punto y Unea Fotomecanica                         9  91          $25.0             18        1992            17
7     Talleres Jose de la C.Castro e Hijos              9  91         $100.0            37         1992            34
8     Mex Minerales Exclusivos y Cia                    9  91           $60.0           39         1992            65
9     Inversiones Forestales el Guayacan Ltda.          9  91           $40.0            15        1992            14
10     Graciela Eslava de Silva                         9  91           $31.4            26        1992            30
11     Armando Ballen Guativa                           9  91           $20.0            1 4       1992             3
12     Secuencia Uda.                                   9  91           $16.4            18        1992             38
13     Berba                                           10  91           $13.5            39        1992             37
14     Industria Editorial Lltocomercio                10  91           $35.0            53        1992             61
15     Sigraf                                          10  91           $25.0            33        1992             41
16    Inma Bol Uda                                     10  91           $39.9           343        1992            391
17     Maincol S.A                                     10  91           $27.7            76        1992             56
18    Indavimar Uda.                                   10  91           $25.0            29        1992             31
19     Inversiones A.C.Ay Cia. Uda.                    10  91           $34.0            12        1992             10
20     Cia Industrial de Carrocerias                    11  91          $74.4            43        1992             45
21     TercerMundo Editores                            11  91           $41.0            58        1992             97
22     Fabrica Nal Mut)ecos de Felpa                    11  91          $40.0            51        1992             36
23     Ediciones Antropos                               11  91          $20.0            28        1992             31
24     Bobadilla Pardo Jorge Arturo                     11  91          $16.5            10        1992              1
25     Disefo Los Pinos S en CS                         11  91          $25.0            22        1992             30
26     Industrias el Hombre Caiman Ktda.               11  91           $35.0            18        1992             25
27     Ejes y Pifones Macias Ltda.                      11  91          $70.0            23        1992             19
28     Maquinaria Electronica Industrial Col            12  91          $34.0            30        1992             34
29     Servl Scanner                                   12  91           $41.0            19        1992             14
30     Confecciones Tres Estrellas                       1  92          $13.0            36        1992             35
31     Inversiones Ucarmo                                1  92          $20.0            26        1992             22
32     Linotipia MarUnez Ltda                            1  92         $157.0            43        1992             45
33     Lider Productos Publcitarlos Ltda.                1  92          $25.0            13        1992             21
34     Tropical Leather Ltda.                            1  92          $40.0            24        1992             38
35     Relieves Roland Impresores Ltda.                  1  92          $18.0            10        1992             11
36     Textiles Calidad Uda                             2  92          $100.0            26        1992             33
37     Refriacero                                        2  92          $50.0            30        1992             33
38     Plastimed Uda                                     2  92          $40.9            32        1992             32
39     Magneplast Ltda                                   2  92           $8.0            28         1992            35
40     Maquipan Ltda                                     2  92          $45.0            27         1992            28
41     Silplas lndustrias Plasticas Ltda                 2  92          $60.0             5         1992            10
42     Rojas Vigoya Aurora                               2  92           $2.6             3         1992             2
43     Martin Sport y Cia Ltda.                          2  92          $20.0            14         1992            25
44     Magneplast Ltda.                                  2  92           $8.0            28         1992            35
45     Torres de Santos Socorro Ines                     2  92          $15.0            20         1992             7
46     Textiles infanUles Rocios                         2  92          $50.0            19         1992            48
47     Maquipan Kda.                                     2  92          $45.0            27         1992            28
48     CurUembres el Reno Ltda.                          2  92          $41.0            44         1992            40
49     implementos y Formas ContUnuas                    3  92          $52.0             9         1992            14
50     Tejiseda Ltda                                     3  92          $87.5            17         1992            17
51     Editora Geminis                                   3  92          $50.0            33        1992             30
52     Ingeniena y Disefo Armet Ltda.                    3  92          $15.0            10        1992              7
8/1/94 1



Sample of CFD Subborrowers:
Projected and Actual Employment and Sales
EMPLOYMENT DATA
Loan Amount    Number of                     Number of
Loan Auth          (millions of    Employees                 Employees
Enterprise Name                    Date             pesos)       Projected Year of Data        Actual
53     Industrial de Papeles Ltda.                        3   92         $100.0             32         1992             17
54     Orotex Ltda.                                       3   92           $12.4            17         1992             17
55     Papeleria Lancol Ltda.                             3   92           $10.0             7         1992             12
56     Editora Geminis                                    3   92           $50.0            33         1992             30
57     Industrias Rodripan Ltda                           4   92          $20.0             25         1992             25
58     Productos Lumaju Ltda.                             4   92          $12.0             13         1992            20
59     Disenos Silphide                                   5   92          $18.7             13         1992             11
60     Preimpaq                                           5   92          $21.0              5         1992             8
61     Torres Chaves Luis Antonio                         5   92          $10.0              5         1992              3
62     Fabrica de Yesos Titan Ltda.                       5   92          $25.0             16         1992             12
63     Reconstructora Trenes de Rodaje                    6   92          $45.0             40         1992            50
64     Peralta Perfileria y Cia. Ltda                     6   92          $50.0             43         1992             36
65     Reconstructora Trenes de Rodaje Ltda               6   92           $45.0            40         1992             50
66     Red Green Ltda,                                    6   92          $11.1             12         1992             10
67     Marin Guillermo Alfonso                            6   92          $12.5              9         1992             30
68     Fabrica ColombianadeZapatos                        7   92          $15.0             21         1992             18
69     Roa Caucali Carlos Alberto                         7   92          $25.0             19         1992             12
70     Pharmaster Ltda.                                   7   92           $15.5            23         1992             20
71     Cartoneros Ltda.                                   7  92          $200.0             55         1992            58
72     Graficas Europa Ltda                               8   92           $65.0            27         1992            26
73     Esmegatex Ltda                                     8   92           $32.0            74         1992            44
74     Luis Eduardo Dominguez                             8   92          $15.0              8         1992             12
75     Betaprint Ltda                                     9   92          $39.7             12         1992             10
76     Confecciones Montini Ltda                          9   92           $10.0            28         1992            24
77     A y P Ltda                                         9   92          $55.0             39         1992            75
78     Comestibles la Ochenta Ltda                       10   92          $50.0             97         1992            95
79     Borditejidos Ltda.                                10   92          $20.0             18         1992            19
80     Tintasy Pinturas Especiales Ltda                  11   92          $30.0             15         1992            15
81     Electroceldas Ltda                                12  92           $40.0             38         1992            41
82     Casa del Diccionario Impresores                   12   92           $30.0            11         1992             8
83     Eris Maria Floriany Cia Ltda                       4   92          $35.0             28         1993            16
84     Colombiana de Especial Tecnicas                    7   92          $48.0             25         1993            35
85     Confecciones y Disefos Tagus Ltda                  9  92           $24.0             14         1993            14
86     Delicias del Maiz                                  9   92          $16.0             50         1993            71
87     Hilados Maldonado Hnos                             9   92         $155.0             57         1993            39
88     Impresores Litoflex                                9   92            $6.0            14         1993             15
89     TTR Transf, Tecnol y Reparaciones Ltda             9   92           $21.0            12         1993             22
90     Hilesco Ltda                                        1  93           $50.0             9         1993             19
91     Industrias de Maderas Mendez Sanchez               4   93          $35.0             42         1993            50
92     Soluciones Deportivas y de Temporada Ltda          5   93          $10.0              8         1993             9
93     Proferro Fernandez y Cia Ltda                      3   93          $25.0             30         1994            30
TOTAL                                                            $3,674           2,755                      2,997
AVERAGE                                                            $39.5            30                          32
ActuaUProjected Employment                                         1.088
8/1/94    2



Sample of CFD Subborrowers:
Projected and Actual Employment and Sales
SALES DATA (millions of pesos)
Sales
Loan Amount       Projected               Sales Actual
Loan Auth         (millions of   (millions of               (millions of
Enterprise Name      Date              pesos)        pesos) Year of Data        pesos)
1     Postes Medina Mufooz Mnos Ltda                     4   91          $33.0        $146.3        1992         $206.0
2     Montes y Mora Impresores Publicitarios             7  91           $38.0         $82.2        1992         $133.1
3      Caritas y Partes Plasticas Angelita               7  91           $30.0         $36.0        1992          $14.0
4      Industria Americana de Colchones                  7  91          $200.0        $607.0        1992         $742.8
5      Rapidoffset                                       9  91           $10.0         $73.3        1992         $125.5
6      Punto y Unea Fotomecanica                         9  91           $25.0        $115.8        1992         $129.5
7     Talleres Jose de la C.Castro e Hijos               9  91          $100.0        $256.0        1992         $239.9
8      Mex Minerales Exclusivos y Cia                    9   91          $60.0        $452.0        1992         $595.6
9      Inversiones Forestales el Guayacan Ltda.          9  91           $40.0         $66.7        1992         $134.7
10     Graciela Eslava de Silva                          9  91           $31.4         $110.0        1992         $175.6
11     Armando Ballen Guativa                            9  91           $20.0         $121.3        1992          $44.1
12     Secuencia Ltda.                                   9  91           $16.4         $147.5        1992         $431.9
13     Berba                                            10  91           $13.5         $120.0        1992         $106.0
14     Industria Editorial LUtocomercio                 10  91           $35.0         $346.3        1992         $471.9
15     Sigraf                                           10  91           $25.0         $284.6        1992         $415.3
16     Inma Bol Ltda                                    10  91           $39.9         $893.8        1992         $855.0
17     Maincol S.A                                      10  91           $27.7         $340.0        1992         $177.8
18     lndavimar Ltda.                                  10  91           $25.0         $140.7        1992         $174.2
19     inversiones A.C.Ay Cia. Ltda.                    10  91           $34.0         $212.8        1992         $149.6
20     Cia Industrial de Carrocerias                    11  91           $74.4         $314.4        1992         $372.8
21     TercerMundo Editores                             11  91           $41.0         $512.9        1992         $782.6
22     Fabrica Nal Munecos de Felpa                     11  91           $40.0         $307.0        1992         $247.0
23     EdicionesAntropos                                11  91           $20.0         $170.0        1992         $227.5
24     Bobadllba Pardo Jorge Arturo                     11  91           $16.5          $31.7        1992           $7.6
25     Disetlo Los Pinos S en CS                        11  91           $25.0          $60.0        1992          $61.9
26     Industrias el Hombre Caiman ftda.                11  91           $35.0         $122.6        1992         $195.0
27     Ejes y Pifones Macias Uda.                       11  91           $70.0         $145.0        1992          $62.0
28     Maquinaria Electronica Industrial Col            12  91           $34.0         $251.0        1992         $200.9
29     Servi Scanner                                    12  91           $41.0          $91.4        1992          $34.3
30     Confecciones Tres Estrellas                       1  92           $13.0         $189.8        1992         $209.8
31     Inversiones Ucarmo                                1  92           $20.0         $226.7        1992         $195.7
32     Linotipia Martinez Ltda                           1  92          $157.0         $509.2        1992         $528.6
33     Lider Productos Publicitarlos Ltda.               1  92           $25.0         $189.3        1992         $320.1
34     Tropical Leather Ltda.                            1  92           $40.0         $216.0        1992         $258.8
35     Relieves Roland impresores Ltda.                   1  92          $18.0          $65.6        1992          $62.3
36     Textiles Calidad Ltda                             2   92         $100.0       $1,134.7        1992         $901.9
37     Refriacero                                        2   92          $50.0         $386.7        1992         $426.8
38     Plastimed Ltda                                    2   92          $40.9         $279.7        1992         $338.7
39     Magneplast Ltda                                   2  92            $8.0         $263.6        1992         $368.3
40     Maquipan Ltda                                     2  92           $45.0         $106.9        1992         $162.6
41     Silplas Industrias Plasticas Ltda                 2  92           $60.0         $133.8        1992         $144.4
42     Rojas Vigoya Aurora                               2  92            $2.6          $13.6        1992          $21.3
43     Martin Sport y Cia Ltda.                          2  92           $20.0         $320.0        1992         $257.6
44     Magneplast Ltda.                                  2  92            $8.0         $263.6        1992         $368.3
45     Torres de Santos Socorro Ines                     2  92           $15.0          $65.0        1992          $22.5
46     Textiles Infantiles Rocios                        2  92           $50.0         $100.8        1992          $41.1
47     Maquipan Itda.                                    2  92           $45.0         $106.9        1992         $162.6
48     Curtiembres el Reno Ltda.                         2  92           $41.0         $731.5        1992         $522.8
49     Implementos y Formas Continuas                    3  92           $52.0         $120.0        1992          $80.2
50     Tejiseda Ltda                                     3  92           $87.5         $246.8        1992          $89.5
51     Editora Geminis                                   3  92           $50.0         $567.8        1992         $604.2
52     Ingenieria y Disefo Armet Ltda.                   3  92           $15.0          $50.0        1992          $14.1
8/1/94    3



Sample of CFD Subborrowers:
Projected and Actual Employment and Sales
SALES DATA (millions of pesos)
Sales
Loan Amount       Projected               Sales Actual
Loan Auth         (millions of   (millions of              (millons of
Enterprise Name      Date             pesos)        pesos) Year of Data        pesos)
53     Industril de Papeles Ltda.                       3  92          S100.0        $600.0        1992         S224.1
54     Orotex Ltda.                                     3  92           $12.4         $84.2        1992          $97.6
55     Papeleria Lancol Ltda.                           3  92           $10.0         $86.3        1992          $82.4
56     EdRtora Geminis                                   3  92          $50.0        $567.8        1992         $604.2
57     Industrias Rodripan Ltda                         4  92           $20.0        $196.7        1992         $169.3
58     Productos Lumaju Ltda.                           4  92           $12.0         $72.3        1992          $46.3
59     Disenos Silphide                                 5  92           $18.7         571.8        1992          537.3
60     Preimpaq                                         5  92           $21.0        $115.7        1992          559.3
61     TorresChaves Luis Antonio                         5  92          $10.0        $210.8        1992         5142.1
62     Fabrica de Yesos Titan Ltda.                     5  92           $25.0         571.0        1992          557.5
63     Reconstructora Trenes de RodaJe                  6  92           545.0        $374.2        1992         $364.5
64     PeraKta Perfileria y Cia. Uda                     6  92          550.0         $489.6       1992         5446.7
65     Reconstructora Trenes de Rodaje Ltda              6  92          545.0         $374.2       1992         5364.5
66     Red Green Uda.                                    6  92          511.1          $61.6       1992          $76.9
67     Marin GuillermoAlfonso                            6  92          $12.5          538.0       1992          $34.8
68     Fabrica Colomblana deZapatos                      7  92          S15.0        5123.7        1992          565.6
69     Roa Caucali Carlos Alberto                        7  92          $25.0         591.7        1992          559.0
70     Pharmaster Ltda.                                  7  92          $15.5        5101.6        1992          $83.5
71     Cartoneros Uda.                                   7  92         $200.0        $807.6        1992         $626.5
72     Graficas Europa Ltda                             8  92           565.0        5238.0        1992         5267.7
73     Esmegatex Ltda                                   8  92           532.0        $170.0        1992         5107.0
74     Luis Eduardo Dominguez                           8  92           $15.0         $30.0        1992          531.1
75     Betaprint Ltda                                   9  92           $39.7         562.4        1992          S55.8
76     Confecciones Montini Ltda                        9  92           $10.0         573.0        1992          $58.7
77     A y P Ltda                                       9  92           $55.0        $503.1        1992         $508.2
78     Comestibles ia Ochenta Ltda                     10  92           $50.0        5726.7        1992         $443.5
79     Borditejidos Ltda.                              10  92           $20.0         $70.0        1992          $54.7
80     Tintas y Pinturas Especiales Ltda                1 1  92         $30.0        $350.0        1992         $589.4
81     Electroceldas Ltda                               12  92          $40.0        $526.0        1992         $949.2
82     Casa del Dlccionario Impresores             #N/A     92          $30.0        $132.0        1992           54.6
83     Ers Maria Florian y Cia Ltda                     4  92           $35.0         $84.0        1993          $65.2
84     Colombiana de Especial Tecnicas                  7  92           548.0        5410.0        1993         $282.9
85     Confecciones y Disefos Tagus Ltda                9  92           $24.0        $120.9        1993          $44.8
86     Delicias del Maiz                                9  92           $16.0        $354.1        1993         5541.6
87     Hilados Maldonado Hnos                           9  92          $155.0        $449.5        1993          $88.9
88     Impresores Ltoflex                               9  92            56.0         554.0        1993          $81.8
89     TTR Transf, Tecnol y Reparaciones Ltda           9  92           521.0         $82.8        1993         S191.2
90     Hilesco Ltda                                      1  93          $50.0        $579.0        1993         S412.9
91     Industrias de Maderas Mendez Sanchez             4  93           535.0        $861.4        1993         $832.2
92     Soluciones Deportivas y de Temporada Ltda        5  93           S10.0         $67.7        1993         5221.6
93     Proterro Fernandez y CIa Ltda                    3  93           $25.0        $364.5        1994         $408.9
TOTAL                                                          S3,674       523,694                    523,500
AVERAGE                                                          S39.5        S254.8                     $252.7
ActuaVProjected Sales                                            0.992
8/1/94   4



Sample of CFD Subborrowers:
Projected and Actual Employment and Sales
SALES DATA (US$)
Loan Auth       Loan Amount                    Sales Actual
Enterprise Name      Date              (USS) Year of Data             (US$)
1      Postes Medina Mu8oz Mnos Ltda                     4   91       $53,746         1992         $250,095
2      Montes y Mora Impresores Publictarios             7  91        $61,889         1992         $161,610
3      Caritasy Partes PlastcasAngelita                  7  91        $48,860         1992          $16,951
4      Industria Americana de Colchones                  7  91       $325,733         1992         $901,687
5      Rapidoffset                                       9  91        $16,287         1992         $152,367
6      Punto y Linea Fotomecanica                        9  91        $40,717         1992         $157,202
7      Talleres Jose de la C.Castro e Hijos              9   91      $162,866         1992         $291,205
8      Mex Minerales Exclusivos y Cia                    9   91       $97,720         1992         $723,026
9      Inversbones Forestalesel Guayacan Uda.            9   91       $65,147         1992         $163,545
10     GracielaEslavadeSilva                             9  91        $51,140         1992         $213,116
11     Armando Ballen Guafiva                            9  91        $32,573         1992          $53,589
12     Secuencia Ltda.                                   9  91        $26,678         1992         $524,269
13     Berba                                            10  91        $21,987         1992         $128,717
14     lndustria Editorial LRtocomercio                 10  91        $57,003         1992         $572,841
15     Sigraf                                           10  91        $40,717         1992         $504,155
16     Inma Bol Ltda                                    10  91        $65,041         1992        $1,037,879
17     Maincol S.A                                      10  91        $45,138         1992         $215,819
18     Indavimar Ltda.                                  10  91        $40,717         1992         $211,454
19     Inversiones A.C.Ay Cia. Ltda.                    10  91        $55,375         1992         $181,659
20     Cia Industrial de Carrocerias                    11  91       $121,163         1992         $452,531
21     Tercer Mundo EdRtores                            11  91        $66,775         1992         $950,033
22     Fabrica Nal Muflecos de Felpa                    11  91        $65,147         1992         $299,848
23     Ediciones Antropos                               11  91        $32,573         1992         $276,160
24     Bobadilla Pardo Jorge Arturo                     11  91        $26,873         1992           $9,226
25     Diset)o Los Pinos S en CS                        11  91        $40,717         1992          $75,190
26     Industrlas el Hombre Caiman ftda.                11  91        $57,003         1992         $236,722
27     Ejes y Piflones Macias Ltda.                     11  91       $114,007         1992          $75,211
28     Maquinaria Electronica Industril Col             12  91        $55,375         1992         $243,828
29     Servi Scanner                                    12  91        $66,775         1992          $41,592
30     Confecciones Tres Estrellas                        1  92       $19,013         1992         $254,720
31     Inversiones Licarmo                               1  92        $29,250         1992         $237,539
32     Linotipia Martinez Ltda                           1  92       $229,616         1992         $641,679
33     Lider Productos Publicitarios Ltda.               1  92        $36,563         1992         $388,612
34     Tropical Leather Ltda.                            1  92        $58,501         1992         $314,178
35     Relieves Roland Impresores Ltda.                  1  92        $26,325         1992          $75,678
36     Textiles Calidad Ltda                             2  92        $146,252        1992        $1,094,865
37     Refriacero                                        2  92         $73,126        1992         $518,118
38     Plastimed Ltda                                    2  92         $59,817        1992         $411,228
39     Magneplast LIda                                   2   92        $11,700        1992         $447,143
40     Maquipan Ltda                                     2   92        $65,814        1992         $197,425
41     Silplas Industrias Plasticas Ltda                 2   92        $87,751        1992         $175,295
42     Rojas Vigoya Aurora                               2  92          $3,759        1992           $25,906
43     Martin Sport y Cia LIda.                          2  92         $29,250        1992          $312,731
44     Magneplast Ltda.                                  2  92         $11,700        1992          $447,143
45     Torres de Santos Socorro Ines                     2  92         $21,938        1992           $27,314
46     Textiles infantiles Rocio's                       2  92         $73,126        1992           $49,894
47     Maquipan Kda.                                      2  92        $65,814        1992          $197,425
48     Curtiembres el Reno Ltda.                          2  92        $59,963        1992          $634,696
49     Implementos y Formas Continuas                    3  92         $76,051        1992           $97,315
50     Tejiseda Ltda                                     3  92       $127,971         1992          $108,624
51     EdRtora Geminis                                   3  92         $73,126        1992          $733,487
52     Ingenieria y Diseno Armet Ltda.                   3  92        $21,938         1992           $17,059
8/1/94    5



Sample of CFD Subborrowers:
Projected and Actual Employment and Sales
SALES DATA (US$)
Loan Auth       Loan Anount                   Sales Actual
Enterprise Name      Date              (USS) Year of Data           (US$)
53     Industrial de Papeles Ltda.                       3  92      $146,252         1992         $272,079
54     Orotex Ltda.                                     3  92        $18,135         1992         $118,449
55     Papeleria Lancol Ltda.                           3  92        $14,625         1992         $100,022
56     Editora Geminis                                   3  92       $73,126         1992         $733,487
57     Industrias Rodripan Ltda                         4  92        $29,250         1992         $205,583
58     Productos Lumaju Ltda.                           4  92        $17,550         1992          $56,183
59     Disenos Silphide                                 5  92        $27,384         1992          $45,283
60     Preimpaq                                          5  92       $30,713         1992          $71,942
61     Torres Chaves Luis Antonio                        5  92       $14,625         1992         $172,498
62     Fabrica de Yesos Titan Ltda.                     5  92        $36,563         1992          $69,751
63     Reconstructora Trenes de Rodaje                  6  92        $65,814         1992         $442,464
64     Peralta Perfileria y Cia. Ltda                   6  92        $73,126         1992         $542,243
65     Reconstructora Trenes de Rodaje Ltda             6  92        $65,814         1992         $442,464
66     Red Green Ltda.                                   6  92       $16,161         1992          $93,360
67     Marn Guillermo Alfonso                            6  92       S18,282         1992          $42,230
68     Fabrica Colomblana de Zapatos                     7  92       $21,938         1992          $79,601
69     Roa Caucali Carlos Alberto                       7  92        $36,563         1992          $71,624
70     Pharmaster Ltda.                                  7  92       $22,669         1992         $101,331
71     Cartoneros Ltda.                                 7  92       $292,505         1992         $760,588
72     Graficas Europa Ltda                             8  92        $95,064         1992         $325,029
73     Esmegatex Ltda                                   8  92        $46,801         1992         $129,944
74     Luis Eduardo Dominguez                            8  92       $21,938         1992          $37,805
75     Betaprint Ltda                                   9  92        $58,062         1992          $67,717
76     Confecciones Montini Ltda                        9  92        $14,625         1992          $71,257
77     A y P Ltda                                       9  92        $80,439         1992         $616,883
78     Comestibles la Ochenta Ltda                     10  92        $73,126         1992         $538,347
79     Borditejidos Ltda.                               10  92       $29,250         1992          $66,375
80     Tintas y Pinturas Especiales Ltda                11  92       $43,876         1992         $715,455
81     Electroceidas Ltda                               12  92       $58,501         1992       $1,152,302
82     Casa del Diccionario Impresores             #N/A     92       $43,876         1992           $5,530
83     Ers Maria Florian y Cia Ltda                      4  92       $51,188         1993          $82,577
84     Colombiana de Especial Tecnicas                   7  92       $70,201         1993         $358,578
85     Confecciones y Disenos Tagus Ltda                 9  92       $35,101         1993          $56,828
86     Delicias del Maiz                                 9  92       $23,400         1993         $886,381
87     Hilados Maldonado Hnos                           9  92       $226,691         1993         $112,697
88     Impresores Litoflex                               9  92         $8,775        1993         $103,613
89     TTR Transf, Tecnol y Reparaclones Ltda            9  92       $30,713         1993         $242,343
90     Hilesco Ltda                                      1  93       $63,371         1993         $523,352
91     Industrias de Maderas Mendez Sanchez             4  93        $44,360         1993       $1,054,752
92     Soluciones Deportivas y de Temporada Ltda        5  93        $12,674         1993         $280,907
93     Proferro Femandez y Cia Ltda                     3  93        $31,686         1994         $518,200
TOTAL                                                      $5,548,919                   $28,697,655
AVERAGE                                                      $59,665.8                    $308,576.9
8/1/94   6



Colombia Fifth Small and Medium Enterprise Credit
Distribution of Subloans by Location
100%
90%
..0%..
...0% ....
60%   ..OT....ER
50%                                                       fOLA
60% -                                                      CUNO IAMAE  C
* SANTANE
MATANTICQOI
20%                                                        CLA
e         Value~~~~~~0VAL
7/26/94....



Colombia Fifth Small and Medium Enterprise Credit
Distribution of Subloans by Financial Intermediary
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
022 OTHER PFI's
E C.F.DE SANTANDER
40%                                     E~~~~~~~~~~~~0CAJA SOCIAL DE AHORROS
* CORFIGAN
E DEL ESTADO
30%                                                   0 COLOMBIA
M~ CAFETERO
E UPOPULAR
20%                                               '  EGANADERO
0 CAJA AGRARIA
*C.FDE DESARROLLO
10%
0%
By Volume                By Value
7/27/94



Number of Subloans
o    o0o0o0o  o9o o9o                              3o 
-                         2'~~~~~~~~~-
V  -   :   : f   .-    :-.-  X   .:  -   - -,   D  --   -    1   D  CD
o                                  3
-4                   S80,000499,999 S                                                                                                                       M
$ S100,0004149,999                                                                  c F
a.                                 CD
*                                                                                                                      0                                   0.150,0CC199,999  A)
=1                        ~~~~~~3
(A                                hM
$200,000-S249,999 _CcD=
250,0004299,999                                                                  a.
CD
$350,006X$39,999 
$400,000SS49.999 4



Colombia Fifth Small and Medium Enterprise Credit
Average Subloan Amount by PFI
$80,000-                                                      $7 
$70,000-
$60,000 -
$50,000 -
'30,000~~~~~ -/t.   ..                                               . . .............. ...   .......
S$40,000
$30,000 
$20,000
$10,000                                               i
Caja            CFD            Banco          Banco           Banco
Agraria                        Cafetero       Ganadero         Popular
7/26/94    *



Number of Loan (%M
o   0    to 8 S                                                                              8
n ~~~~~~..          ..   a-9......   ...      .............................. 
..                                         , < ,,   v                                                          ED                                              o~~~~~~~~~~......
0~~~~~ ~~0
0              . ..... a2aE.. .....                                                    ........:. :....  -.             :L
"                                                      .. .    R.   R: ::B Z:: :s,:::::::::::,-' .:g _.:_ ..................... ::) : :: :$ :.- ..... . .. . . .. . .....  -... . ..7
B 'B 'B'B "~~~~~~-'                                                                                       B          B           '          "0 a RR9_
t ~~~~~~o                                                                                                                                                                                 0.a....'  .........................
t : :\- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..............................  
~~t ==g= .................................................. = Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~............
@& ... i ................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...............                     ......
sn                                          ~~~~~~~~~~D.
o~~~~~~l                                                                                                            -
CoC8C
0*~~~~~~~~~~O
*                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CD
0  13                              a)                                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~
A C: V                                0)                                                           8~~~~~~~
AC   V C)                                                                                                                            -'
CII0    01
oA 0 0
C~    



Colombia Fifth Small and Medium Enterprise Credit
Share of Loans to Very Small Enterprises
30
28%
25
20          19%
D
w
$                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~16%
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                                           ........
Banks                 CF's                  CFD                  All Fl's
7/26/ 94   *



Colombia Fifth Small and Medium Enterprise Credit
Share of Sub-Loans to New Companies
45%
40%
35%
30%   w   :'''   'f'   ',0  '-'''''',4ESCa .3_
25%                        ......
20%
15%
10%
5%
0% ,
By Number                            By Value
7/22/94   *



Colombia Fifth Small and Medium Enterprise Loan
Interest Rate Distribution of Subloans
5.1 -6%C
7/27/94   *



IBRD 18370R1
78'                                           74-                                             CUBA
JAMAAICA  HAITI  DOMINICAN REP
HONDURAS
-12                  COLOMBIA                                                                     12 - NICARAGUJA
\ _ t~~~~~ICA .         "   '  VENEZUELA zT  I 
GFR UIANA
COLOMB A              -L   j
I 0 ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ I(              (
ATLANTICO )                t                                            CAO7 
BRAZIL
PERU      1
B/ OLIVIA t
PANAMA                                                                                                               ARGENTINA             
-8-        /      /C     O     R    v        t   )~~~~~ ~ SNOF1E\\      CO             ru,- n,Z..        t  Ti. =    V.dFtM#kS;ri.,T iii
/coR 3                                    T )0c
:Af'9 I IOhQUI( l             S A NITAN  ERt .     APRA lJ(A                    .V EN E ZU ELA
8                  r      ~                         CASRA TA N D RE
Bue nosAntAro                TO  M                           A A
C H 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Li1i
C         A               /ME T A                                      |-     
3\ A;A          0     l                                                                    C. IJ A   ] ' 
v      ' .- /                 \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CU  A V I A R'                     
0 -s, Enc C                -38 ~           C A                                                 * U E T A  -O.
;;7t:   }   po  >                                    -; ~~~~V  A  U  P  E  S
-- E C  U  A  D O   R                        r                                                         '  L*
\    >          w \ % '\_                      ,                   K !                MILES
*e  X  j   0  50  100    150
Urban Populoanon of Center Towns    Elevctions (meters)                                                 /    (
5,000,000 persons m                                                                                0   50  100  150  200  250
---2,000,000                    3,000                                                               K)            I LOM E TEE RS
I'1000,000                   10                                AMAZONAS
;0_500,000      000                                                                                     R
@    Notional Coptal                             t _                                       !
o    Cties aond Towns w-th Populotion Over 40,000
- Moe Hishwys                                P    E    R    U
-   Department Boundaries
Internat.or,ol Boundaries                                               /         |
487                                            74- 4*\
JULY 1 993



