Page  1
April 16, 1993
Dr. Miguel Urrutia
General Manager
Banco de la Republica
Bogota, Colombia
Dear Sir:
Re:
Loan No. 3025-CO
Fifth Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project
Amendment
This is in connection with the Loan Agreement for the above Project between 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Banco de la 
Republica (the Borrower) dated September 25, 1989, as amended on January 14, 1991 (the 
Loan Agreement).
As has been discussed previously, with regard to the above Project, we are 
writing to you as legal representative of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement to 
record the Bank's agreement to the deletion from the Project of Part B thereof 
¦financing of Microenterprise Projects, as defined in Section 1.02 (q) of the Loan 
Agreementá.  Thus, the amounts equivalent to US$2,9000,000 and US$100,000 allocated 
originally to Parts B (i) and Parts B (ii) of the Project, respectively, should be 
either reallocated or cancelled.
We are pleased to inform you that we concur with your position of reallocating 
said amounts and thus we hereby propose that Schedule I to the Loan Agreement be 
modified to reflect the aforesaid by increasing the amount of the Loan allocated to 
the table in Category I (the Table) of said Schedule to a total of US$80 million 
equivalent.  All provisions and references in the Loan
Agreement, to the extent they related to Part B of the Project or Category 2 of the 
Table, shall be either deemed to apply to Part A of the Project or Category I of the 
Table, respectively, or, if
inapplicable thereto, deleted.
Please confirm your assent to this amendment on behalf of the Borrower by 
signing both of the. attached copies of this letter, that of the Republic of Colombia, 
the Guarantor, by obtaining the acknowledgment of its representative, H.E. the 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit, and returning one copy fully countersigned to 
the Bank.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
By /s/ Miguel Urrutia
General Manager
ACKNOWLEDGED
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Page  2
By /s/ Rudolf Hommes
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
