Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3025 CO
(Fifth Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 25, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3025 CO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 25, 1989, between THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Banco de la Republica (the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a 
loan in various currencies equivalent to eighty million dollars ($80,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the 
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan 
as provided and to undertake other obligations towards the Bank as set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, 
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower and to undertake such other obligations towards the Bank;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, (the General Conditions), as amended 
in Section 1.01 of the Loan
Agreement, constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
merely as surety, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, 
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower,
all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to 
believe that the funds
available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures 
required for the carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to 
the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with 
such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall take all action, including the granting of all 
necessary authorizations, import licenses, foreign exchange permits and all other 
approvals required under
the laws of the Guarantor, to ensure the timely procurement of the goods and services 
required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Unless the Bank and the Guarantor shall otherwise agree, the 
Guarantor shall make such equity contributions to CFP as shall be required to ensure 
that CFP maintain a ratio of debt to equity not exceeding 7.5 for the period 1989-1990 
which it is obliged to maintain under the CFP Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustin
Page  3
Bogota, Colombia
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Bogota
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the  District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Ximena Casalino
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
