Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23517
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39290)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$260.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHRNA
FOR
SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HEGHWAY PROJECT
March 21, 2002
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y1.00 = US$ 0.120:32
US$ 1.00 = Y 8.2768
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM{S
DF           -       Diversion Factor
E&M          -       Electrical & Mechanical
EA           -       Environmental Assessmen.
EAP          -       Environmental Action Plan
EIRR         -       Economic Intemal Rate of Return
FIRR         -       Financial Intemal Rate of Return
GOC          -       Government of China
ICB          -       Intemational Competitive 'Bidding
MOC          -       Ministry of Communications
NCB          -       National Competitive Biddling
NPV          -       Net Present Value
NR           -       National Route
NTHS         -       National Trunk Highway System
PCU          -       Passenger Car Unit
RAP          -       Resettlement Action Plan
RSP          -       Road Safety Program
SHE          -       Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
SPC          -       State Planning Conmuissicn
VOC          -       Vehicle Operating Costs
YEZTS        -       Yangtze Economic Zone Transport Study
ZPG          -       Zhejiang Provincial Goveinment
ZPTD         -       Zhejiang Provincial Transport Department
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-di Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:  Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Director:  Jitendra N. :Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team Leader:    Yasuhiro Kiwabata, EASTR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  7
6. Sustainability                                                                      8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    10
9. Partner Comments                                                                   11
10. Additional Information                                                           24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  48
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  50
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     51
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 52
Map 1: Transport System in Shanghai and Zhejiang (IBRD 25818R)
Map 2: Shanghai - Zhejiang Highway Project (IBRD 25819R)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003569                                      |Project Name: SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI
Team Leader: Yasuhiro Kawabata                            TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: March 21, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-39290
Country/Department: CHINA                                               Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   02/09/93                               Effective: 01/30/96           01/30/96
Appraisal:  10/22/93                                 MTR:
Approval:  08/01/95                                Closing: 06/30/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA/SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY and
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Russell J. Cheetam
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                               Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Manager:      Jitendra N. Bajpai                        Richard Scurfield
Team Leader at ICR:  Yasuhiro Kawabata                         Rita Pasi
ICR Primary Author:  Yasuhiro Kawabata; Ephrem
Asebe
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context. The objectives and design of the Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway project need to be assessed in the
context of China's long-term commitment to: (i) develop the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) and (ii)



reform its economy and transport sector. The main component of the Govemment strategy for the transport sector
remains the development of the NTHS, comprising some 35,000 km of iriterprovincial highways for the exclusive
use of motor vehicles. The need for high-speed highway links in the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor was identified
in the Yangtze Economic Zone Transport Study (YEZTS, April 1992). The study recommended priority areas for
transport investment, including a network of expressways linking the key regional cities of Shanghai, Nanjing,
Hangzhou and Ningbo. The Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway, a 130-km access-controlled four-lane divided
highway financed under the project, formns an important segment of the coastal route of China's NTHS. It also
links the most economically developed areas of Zhejiang Province with r3ajor regional ports and the commercial
and communications center of Shanghai.
Objectives. The objectives of the project were: (i) to increase hig3hway capacity in the
Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor in order to relieve existing congestion and promote economic development; (ii) to
improve road safety in northem Zhejiang, and (iii) to develop the highway sector institutional capability in
Shanghai and Zhejiang.
The objectives of the project were clear and were accorded a very high priority by the Govemment as part
of its long-term development target. The project objectives were also in line with the Bank's Strategy for Highway
Lending, detailed in Highway Development and Management: Issues, Options and Strategies (No.  181 9-CHA,
February 1994). The Bank strategy supports continued institutional development and sectoral reforms aimed at
modemizing the highway system and its management, as well as investment for high-priority links of the NTHS
and the provincial road network that feeds into it.
The safety program was designed as a pilot for road safety-conscious engineering design and
strengthening of road safety practices. At the time of the project launch, China's fatality accident rate was one of
highest in the world, with 43 deaths per 10,000 vehicles, which was about 20 times higher than those in USA, UK
and Canada. The project also addressed institutional issues, including staff training and strengthening of
institutional capacity through the provision of equipment.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives remained the same throughout project implerrentation. However, operations of the
Zhejiang section of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway (SHE) were harded over to Zhejiang Expressway
Company Ltd, a shareholding state-owned enterprise established princip ally to engage in investing in, constructing
and managing high-grade highways and other traffic infrastructure projects in Zhejiang Province. The
securitization of the Zhejiang section of the SHE assets, together with those of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway
(which is approximately 145 km long), and the listing of the company orn the Hong Kong H-share equity market
were supported by the Bank in line with the Board of Directors guidance of December 1997 titled, "Securitization
and other Capital Mobilization Transactions using Bank-IDA Financed Assets." The agreement was entered on
March 27, 1997. Given the limited resources for financing the transport sector and the enormous demand for new
transport infrastructure, the market financing of the high-volume expressway was a positive development. The
approach has helped the Govemment to raise large sums of new capital lrom foreign investors, particularly in the
Hong Kong, Shenzhen and Shanghai stock markets.
3.3 Original Components:
The following four components comprised the project:
(a) Construction of the SHE (US386.0 million). The largest component of the project was the
construction of a 130-km divided four-lane access-controlled highway. This component included the
construction of service facilities, the supply and installation of the electrical, electronic and
mechanical (E&M) equipment for tolling, traffic monitoring, telecommunications and lighting, and
the upgrading and construction of 56 km of linking roads at interchanges in Zhejiang Province to
improve access to the new expressway.
- 2 -



(b) Construction Supervision of the SHE (US$10.9 million).
(c) Road Safety Program (US$17.2 million). The road safety program was to be a pilot program in
northem Zhejiang to improve safety on highways in the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor after the
opening of the new expressway. This program included: (i) upgrading of 86 km of the National
Route (NR) 320 road sections and structures in Jiaxing Municipality, including construction
supervision; and (ii) technical assistance, training, and equipment to support the institutional aspects
of the Road Safety Program; and
(d) Institutional strengthening of the highway agencies in Shanghai and Zhejiang (US$13.3 million),
comprising, (i) a staff training program; and (ii) strengthening of technical capacity through the
addition of equipment.
The original IBRD loan to the People's Republic of China was for a total of US$260.0 million, and the
loan beneficiaries were Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang Province.
3.4 Revised Components:
The part of the road safety program component of the project was revised. The first phase of the road
safety program (segregation of motor vehicle traffic from bicycles and agricultural tractors) was declared
misprocured, and a total of US$7.75 million was canceled from the loan on July 12, 1996.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Project quality at entry is rated overall as satisfactory. The assessment was based on: (i) the consistency of
project objectives with the priorities of China for the sector; (ii) attention given during project preparation to
lessons of experience, including the past performance of the implementing agencies, particularly the weak
performance of Zhejiang Province in the implementation of ongoing Bank-financed projects, and to the sequencing
of institutional reforms; (iii) the importance given to Bank policies, particularly those related to environmental,
resettlement and road safety aspects; and (iv) technology transfer and quality assurance. It should be noted that
even though the main project component was construction of a toll expressway, the financial analysis was not
undertaken at appraisal.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Despite some shortcomings during implementation (such as misprocurement of the road safety program),
the Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway project objectives have been substantially met and achievement of the project
objectives is assessed as satisfactory.
A. Congestion relieved and economic development promoted
The completion of the SHE in 1998, the main component of the project, has increased the corridor's
highway capacity. The increased capacity has had a significant, positive impact on economic growth in the
Yangtze Economic Zone. The gross domestic product increased by about 10 percent per annum between 1998 and
2000. The additional road capacity was able to accommodate growing traffic, substantially reducing congestion in
the corridor. For example, a year after the opening of the expressway to traffic, travel speed on NR 320 has
increased from 36.8 km per hour to 46.8 km per hour. Traffic on the roads parallel to the SHE dropped from 9,690
vehicles per day (1998) to 6,787 vehicles per day (1999). The diversion factor has increased from 35.0-61.0
percent in 1999 to 39.0-69.0 percent in 2000 (depending on the road section), which is slightly higher than the
forecast for 2000 (35-60 percent). Traffic on the SHE grew between 19.0 percent and 22.0 percent in 1999-2000,
depending on the road section. Traffic is projected to grow significantly over the next 20 years-between 6.4
percent and 7.0 percent, depending on the road section-but less than the estimate made at appraisal (10.9-11.1
percent).
-3 -



B. Improved road safety in northern Zhejiang
Originally, key infrastructure improvements in two phases were included in the Road Safety Program:
Phase I, the segregation of motor vehicle traffic from bicycles and agricultural tractors, and Phase II, the
improvement of road junctions to ensure that minor road traffic can turn safely into and out of the main road.
Phase I works were canceled from the project, but the physical works were completed with local funds following
the misprocurement. Thus, the main purpose of physically segregating motor vehicle traffic from bicycles and
agricultural tractors was achieved. Phase II works were financed with a reduced number of intersections (27
intersections compared to a planned 37). As a result of the Road Safety Program, for example, on NR320, traffic
accidents involving fatalities declined from 2.4 to 2.2 per 10,000 vehicles in 1999. The successful completion of
the road safety program has significantly improved road safety in the S hanghai-Hangzhou corridor.
C. Highway sector institutional capability developed
Capacity of highway sector institutions in Shanghai and Zhejiang has improved. Through overseas
training, study tours and participation as a counterpart in the project implementation, the project staff has had
satisfactory exposure to new concepts and forms of incentives needed in adopting new practices and technology.
The technology transfer integrates the acquisition of modem equipment and operation helped to improve project
staff skills in modem methods of highway construction and management.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Construction of Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway (US$386 million, SAR; US$457.0 million, ICR)
Overall, this component is rated as satisfactory. The SHE was successfully completed and opened to
traffic as planned in December 1998. Field inspection at completion showed that the quality of the expressway
construction is above average-better than any other expressway in China. The Shanghai section of the SHE was
rated among the ten best projects by the Shanghai Municipal Govemrment in 1998. Finishing details, including
landscaping and environmental improvement along the route, received adequate attention.
Although the SHE component was financed by the Bank as one project, the implementation experience in
Shanghai and Zhejiang varies as discussed below.
Zhejiang Section
The Expressway and Interchanges. (US$240.0 million, SAR; US$281.3 million, ICR). The civil works
for the Zhejiang section (102.66 km) was subdivided into two sections, Pengbu-Wengmei and Wengmei-Fengjing,
and implemented through 10 contracts. The Pengbu-Wengmei section and the access road at the Wengmei
interchange were opened to traffic on December 28, 1995. The Wengmei-Fenjing section was opened to traffic in
December 1998, including its eight access roads. A management office and six tolling and service facilities were
completed in April 1999.
Supply and Installation of Electrical and Mechanical Facilities. (US$13.6 million, SAR; US$7.8
million, ICR). The contract for these works was signed in January 2001. Installation of E&M facilities is expected
to be completed by April 2002. The completion of supply and installation of E & M facilities was delayed due to
the changes in the design concept of the expressway network operations in Zhejiang following the transfer of the
expressway to the new expressway company.
Shanghai Section
The Expressway and Interchanges. (US$129.0 million, SAR.; US$160.3 million, ICR). The civil works
for the Shanghai section (27.6 km) commenced on January 20, 1996, ard it opened to traffic in December 1998.
Two interchanges (Shibudang and Xinbang) were added during implementation to provide access to the newly
improved major connecting roads.
-4 -



Supply and Installation of the Mechanical and Electrical Facilities. (US$3.3 million, SAR; US$7.6
million, ICR). In the Shanghai section, the supply and installation of the electrical and mechanical facilities were
completed at the same time as the civil works. Changes in the supply and installation of E&M facilities were made
to accommodate added interchanges at Xinbang and Shibudang. There were a few variations in the pipeline and
manhole works for power and telecommunications.
B. Construction Supervision of SHE (US$10.86 million, SAR; US$10.0 million, ICR)
Supervision of the expressway construction was satisfactory. It was carried out by a joint supervision team
of Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang Province and international consulting engineers. The joint supervision
team approach, with intemational consulting engineering firns playing catalytic role, proved to be effective in
improving quality. This arrangement helped the local counterparts appreciate the importance of quality control
and assurance. Overall performance of the supervisory team was satisfactory, as evidenced by the number of
improvements made through the initiation of variation orders in improving quality of infrastructure.
C. Road Safety Program (Civil works US$16.3 million, SAR; US$5.3 million, ICR)
There were originally two civil works components: (i) segregation of the main carriageway from the
parallel service roads and (ii) improvements of intersections. Despite the misprocurement of the civil works, this
component was completed as planned (see paragraph 5.3). Although the quality of works of Phase I was not up to
the Bank standards, the objective of improving safety was achieved. Under Phase II, the number of intersections
improved was reduced. Intersections in townships were improved by each township. In general, the original
objective was achieved, given that accident rate was reduced with improved travel speeds. The accident rate (in
number of accidents with fatalities per 10,000 vehicles) was reduced from 3.28 in 1995 to 1.15 in 2000.
D. Institutional Strengthening of Highway Agencies in Shanghai and Zhejiang (US$14.2 million,
SAR and US$ 11.1 million, ICR)
This component contributed to the strengthening of highway agencies by (i) supporting institutional staff
training, and (ii) financing purchase of equipment for supporting transfer knowledge and for central laboratories,
environmental management, research, and expressway operation and maintenance.
Staff training (US$2.6 million, SAR; US$2.6 million, ICR)
The training program proved very effective in transferring technology and management know-how, and
gave staff exposure to new concepts and modem construction procedures. Forty-five overseas study tours and
training groups (236.3 person-months) were organized by Shanghai, Zhejiang Province and the Ministry of
Communications (MOC). The training covered a wide range of subjects related to high-grade highways operations,
management and safety. Shanghai Municipality's training program was executed according to schedule. In
Zhejiang Province, training program experienced some delay.
Strengthening of Technical Capacity through the Addition of Equipment (US$ 11.6 million, SAR;
US$8.5 million, ICR)
In Zhejiang, the procurement of equipment was satisfactorily executed. Delivery was made in three
batches starting in February 2000. Due to procurement delays, the equipment list agreed to at appraisal was
revised, after the Bank was consulted, to reflect the changed needs. There was no adverse impact of the delay on
the operation of the SHE. In Shanghai, equipment for the central laboratory and research facility and pavement
management was procured in early stages of the project. There were three packages for the procurement of
highway operation equipment. The first package of equipment to be used for maintenance and operation of the
expressway was procured and delivered by August 1999. The second package was procured by April 2001. The
third package was signed in March 2001 and was delivered by November 2001, before the loan closing date. All
the equipment purchased under the project have been fully utilized.
- 5 -



E. Safeguard Policy
Environmental Protection. During construction, mitigating mreasures were implemented for air
pollution, noise, soil erosion and water quality, and soil pollution from lead emitted by motor vehicles. Measures
also were taken to minimize social disruption during the haulage of construction materials, the disruption of
communications and possible accidents. A survey undertaken in March 2000 (during the operation stage),
confirmed that: (i) the noise levels in the residential areas were lower thin the required standards both in daytime
and at night; and (ii) the air quality had not worsened and met the required standards; and (iii) the expressway did
not cause any significant negative impact on water quality in rivers along the expressway.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement. The land acquisition and resettlement activities were executed
satisfactorily. The project underwent extensive preparation and all actions were implemented basically according to
the resettlement action plan (RAP). Houses and enterprises were relocated as close as possible to their initial
locations, the housing quality and size were maintained or improved, faimland was replaced through the
readjustment within villages, and jobs in nearby enterprises were provided when farmland could not be replaced.
Some of the RAPs were executed before the Board presentation in anticipation of early project
effectiveness (Pengbu-Wengmei section). The resettlement activities were evaluated by independent monitoring
institutions: the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences for the Shanghai section and the Municipal Plan and
Design Institute of Hangzhou University for the Zhejiang section.
In the Shanghai section, a total of 2,406 people were affected: 1,593 people were assigned new jobs while
813 people were of retirement age. One hundred thirty-six households (509 persons) were displaced and were
compensated with a total of Y144.5 million. Thirteen enterprises also were removed, affecting 884 people. The
compensation for moving equipment, county/township property, and households, rebuilding, and providing
allowances to enterprises for work stoppage totaled Y34.0 million. A total of 2,870.68 mu of land was acquired,
about the same as estimated at appraisal.
In the Zhejiang section, a total of 6,559 people were resettled, about 134 more than planned. A total of
11,565.7 mu was acquired, compared to the appraisal estimate of 11,107.9 mu. A baseline of income levels and
socioeconomic conditions was established during the project preparation. Overall, the RAPs were considered to be
implemented satisfactorily. Independent monitoring of the project-affected persons indicates some improvement in
their living standards.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Shanghai-Zhejiang Expressway
The Economic Intemal Rate of Retum (EIRR) of the SHE is estimated to be 22.7 percent, compared to the
SAR estimate of 32.8 percent. The Net Present Value (NPV), at a discount rate of 12 percent (in constant
December 2001 prices), is estimated to be Y5.0 billion, compared to the SAR estimate of Y16.2 billion. The EIRR
and NPV are much lower than those estimated at appraisal, mainly because traffic on one of the three sections of
the expressway is much lighter than estimated, whereas total project costs had increased. The detailed analysis is
presented in Part I of Annex 3.
Road Safety Program
The EIRR for the Road Safety Program is estimated at 58.5 % versus the SAR estimate of 54.4%, and the
NPV, at a discount rate of 12% (constant December 2001 prices), is estimated to be YO.26 billion versus the SAR
estimate of Y 1.15 billion. The main reason for the higher EIRR is the reduced costs following the redesign of the
component. The detailed analysis is in Part II of Annex 3.
- 6 -



EIRR and NPV for the total Project (SHE and Road Safety Program)
The EIRR for the total project is estimated to be 22.9 percent and the NPV is estimated at Y5. 17 billion,
compared with the 33.4 percent and Y15.91 billion, respectively, estimated in the SAR. The detailed analysis is in
Part III of Annex 3.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The results of the financial evaluation show that the Financial Intemal Rate of Return (FIRR) for the
SHE, which constitutes 99 percent of total project investment, is expected to be 5.5 percent. The NPV, at a
discount rate of 4.9 percent (the weighted average financial cost of capital), would be Y284.6 million. The detailed
analysis is in Part IV of Annex 3. No financial evaluation for the expressway component was undertaken during
project preparation.
The entire SHE was open to traffic in December 1998. In March 1997, Zhejiang Provincial Govemment
established Zhejiang Expressway Company Ltd to be responsible for the day-to-day management, operation and
development of other highways. The company immediately took over the responsibility for operating the Zhejiang
section of SHE. Zhejiang Expressway Company bears the financial obligations for its own operation and for
repaying loans. Its main income source is the toll revenue from the users of the expressway, but the toll rate is
controlled by the Zhejiang Provincial Government. Toll levels were set to take into consideration the traffic
projections-a 15 percent increase every five years, or an average increase of 2.8 percent per year.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall the institutional development impact was positive. Significant knowledge and technology transfer
took place during project implementation. Significant numbers of staff have been trained through foreign and
domestic studies and tours. Local experts, jointly with foreign experts, supervised the construction of the
expressway. This implementation arrangement helped to raise the quality of the civil works and enabled the
transfer of know-how. Experience with competitive bidding was enhanced through the use of contracting firms.
In the financial area, the securitization of project assets has led to the exploration of private alternatives
for financing high-grade highways. The securitization experience would provide useful data in assessing the
efficacy of private financing infrastructure development in the future.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Adverse climate conditions. A 50-year storm affected the region in 1996. As a result, the contractors for
the Shanghai section claimed Y9. 1 I million (US$ 1.1 million) .
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The shortening of the work day. A new labor law required the working days per week to be reduced from
6 days to 5 days. The contractors claimed about Y28.82 million (US$3.5 million) in additional costs.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Misprocurement of theflrstphase of the Road Safety Program in Zhejiang Province. The Bank
cancelled US$7.75 million on July 12, 1996 and declared a misprocurement after its review of the Road Safety
Program. The review found that: (i) the final design of the works was inadequate because designs were incomplete;
(ii) completed works revealed design, construction, supervision and development problems; and (iii) the
documentation and procedures revealed flaws in the overall sequencing of events.
- 7 -



Delays in procurement. Because of delays in equipment procurement, the equipment list that was
prepared during project appraisal was revised to reflect current needs. To compensate for delays, the closing date
was extended by six months from June 30, 2001, to December 31, 2001.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$729.16 million, of which US$260 million
equivalent was from the Bank loan. The total actual cost of the project is -stimated at US$614.02 million. The
civil works for the SHE, including installation and E&M, were estimated to cost US$385.98 million at appraisal,
whereas the estimated actual cost is US$456.99 million-an increase of about 18 percent. The cancellation of
US$7.75 million of the loan because of the misprocurement of the first phase of the Road Safety Program in
Zhejiang Province contributed to the lowering of the total cost. Due to the timely implementation of the civil works
and the rationalization in procuring equipment and training activities, the anticipated price contingency resource
(US$175 million estimated at appraisal) was not utilized.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
It is likely that the benefits generated and those expected to be generated are sustainable over the life of
the project. Several factors contribute to the sustainability of the project benefits. All levels of government are
committed to the development of the Yangtze Economic Zone, and the sustainability of the SHE is key to this
development. The quality of the civil works of the SHE is satisfactory. The economic rate of return is high,
although not as high as anticipated at appraisal because the initial traffic-diversion rate is lower than expected. The
toll, although regulated, is set at a level adequate to generate revenue to cover total operating expenses, including
depreciation and financial obligations. With a positive financial rate of return and a strong cash flow, not only the
maintenance and operations expenses, but also the repayment of the loan are covered.
The Zhejiang section of the expressway was securitized by the granting of a concession to Zhejiang
Expressway Company. The existence of the company is expected to ensure that the toll rates for the expressway
are adjusted in a timely manner. Furthermore, the institutional capabilities in Shanghai and Zhejiang have
improved through various training programs, including overseas training and study tours. The trained staff is well
aware of the importance of maintenance. The implementing agencies also have acquired adequate equipment to
plan and manage the maintenance of the corridor. The reconstruction of the intersections and the segregation of
fast and slow modes in traffic (motor vehicles from bicycle and agricultural traffic) under the Road Safety Program
have been completed successfully, and overall road safety along the corridor has improved. With reduced risks of
accidents economic benefits will further increase in using the expressway than the existing highway, NR320.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The SHE has been open to traffic since December 1998. Shanghai and Zhejiang govenunents have set up
companies in their respective jurisdictions to operate the expressway. Those companies are responsible for the
day-to-day operation, maintenance, and development of the highways, including the repayment of the loans. As
noted above, resources-revenue, trained staff and equipment-are adequate to provide smooth operation and
maintenance. The Zhejiang Expressway Company manages and operates the Zhejiang section of the SHE
(approximately 102.6 km) and the Hangzhou-Ningbo expressway (145.0 km). The main performance
measurement of the project benefits would be the projected income statements of the companies operating SHE,
taking into consideration traffic volume, operating revenue and the returr, on shareholders' equity.
The securitization of the Zhejiang section indicates the potential for private financing. However, under the
current market conditions and legal framework, private sector financing iaces problems such as non-tariff barriers,
rigid toll-rate control, and competition from parallel roads (toll free) and railways (low tariff), among other things,
all of which affect the profitability of such operations.
- 8 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The identification phase of the project was satisfactory. As noted earlier, the project was a top
Govemment priority in the transport sector. At the time of project identification, the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor
was experiencing rapid economic growth, and traffic was growing at 20 peicent per year. Timely completion of
the project was an immediate concern of the central govemment and the two provinces.
Bank assistance in project preparation was satisfactory. The Bank assigned a highly qualified team to the
project with an appropriate skill mix of experts in civil works, environment, resettlement, road safety,
procurement, institutional development, training, and other specializations (see Annex 4). The preparation of the
project served to transfer technical knowledge to the Chinese counterparts. Bank staff, by raising the bar for
excellence, motivated Chinese staff and they responded extremely well.
Appraisal was satisfactory. The assessment of the Govemment's commitment to the project and of the
implementing agencies' capacity in the SAR and during negotiations was on the mark. The economic viability of
the project expressway was high. The main risks were correctly identified, stemming from the implementation of
the Road Safety Program, Bank safeguard policies, and measures to ensure adequate supervision resources.
Because of the weak implementation experience of Zhejiang Province identified under the previous Bank-financed
projects with respect to the quality of civil works, intemational experience was extensively introduced by foreign
consultants.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision performance during implementation was satisfactory. Supervision was carried out as
planned with high-level staff and an adequate skill mix (Annex 4). For most of the project implementation period,
the continuity of staff was maintained. Bank supervision staff was flexible with respect to design changes to
accommodate needed interchanges identified after project preparation. Many variation orders were allowed to
improve the quality of the infrastructure services.
The Bank raised concem over the nine contracts of the Road Safety Program which were issued and
construction had advanced before Bank supervision staff was informed. After a thorough post-review, the first
phase of the Road Safety Program was declared misprocured, and a total of US$7.75 million was cancelled from
the loan. This setback occurred in spite of forewaming. However, the original objective to segregate motor vehicle
traffic from bicycles and agricultural tractors were achieved, and safety on the existing roads was enhanced.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. Supervision team paid adequate attention to the compliance of
Bank policies on resettlement and environment. The project was considered to be one of the ten best projects in
Shanghai City. This recognition was largely due to the high quality of staff, skill mix, continuity of staff, and the
partnership that the Bank team established with its Chinese counterpart. The flexibility of Bank supervision staff
helped to enrich the quality of the project by allowing variations as needed.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower preparation was satisfactory. Both the central government and the implementing agencies were
highly committed to the project from the start. Despite complexity of the project, their commitment was evidenced
in their well-documented preparation work. The project staff reflected past experience in the design to meet
changing needs and technological progress. Key contributory factors to the success of the project were the sound
strategy behind the national trunk highway system, including the phasing of its development, and the associated
development framework.
-9-



7.5 Government implementation performance:
The central government was very supportive of the project throughout its implementation. MOC helped
implement capacity building measures by coordinating training activities, particularly overseas studies and tours. It
also paired local staff and foreign experts to optimize the transfer of knDwledge. MOC oversaw the coordination of
interprovincial activities, resulting in the coordinated operation of the expressway upon its completion. The
proactive role played by the Chinese project staff added significant value to the quality and timeliness of the civil
works of the expressway and the orderly execution of resettlement measures.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall, the performance of the implementing agencies was satisfactory, and the performance of Shanghai
Municipality was highly satisfactory. The handling of the Road Safety Program by Zhejiang province was an
unfortunate incident. Their desire to complete ahead of schedule led to the sacrifice of quality and incurred
additional costs in correcting the design errors.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. Both beneficiaries and the central government
have shown commitment and have followed through with the successful implementation and operation of the
project. One shortcoming was the misprocurement of the road safety component. Throughout the implementation
phase, they have been proactive and flexible. They have adapted to the challenges presented during the design and
implementation phases. The concession of the Zhejiang section of the expressway to Zhejiang Expressway
Company is yet another indication of a strong desire to experiment and to ensure the financial viability and
sustainability of the project.
8. Lessons Learned
(a)  Dynamic and Proactive Implementation Partnership. The successful outcome of the project can
be attributed to the stable partnership in the transport sector between Bank staff and the Borrower.
The project team-the Chinese, Bank staff and other experts-were well comnmitted and proactive in
dealing with all implementation issues.
(b) Misprocurement. Bank procurement policy is an important instrument of quality assurance and
good govemance. The Bank uses its procurement procedures and its supervision as vehicles for
ensuring the highest possible quality of construction, thereby reducing maintenance costs. The Bank
was forced to declare a misprocurement for the first phase of the Road Safety Program and cancel
that part of the loan. The ensuing dialogue between the Bank and its development partners
demonstrated the Bank's concems about quality, and these concems appear to have been well
received.
(c)  Traffic Diversion. The growth of the traffic diversion rate has been slower than anticipated at.
appraisal. This pattem has been observed in other Bank-:inanced expressways: Zhejiang
Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway and Anyang-Zhengzhou Expressway. Although traffic in this
transportation corridor generally has grown as fast as for,-casted or faster, the diversion of traffic
from the existing roads to the new has lagged behind the forecast. In the past decade China's
transport demand has been shaped more by market demand and less by govemment directive.
Several factors are known to affect the diversion of traffic to the new road. The factors affecting
traffic flow pattems must be determined by a thorough stady of the experience of the completed
expressways. The results of such a study would provide E trong basis for predicting traffic diversion
rates. Such a study would be critical to improve the assessments of the economic and financial
viability of new projects at appraisal.
- 10 -



(d) Private Sector Participation. Since Guangdong Province first used a Bank-financed expressway as
part of the capital of an expressway company that issued shares on the Shenzen stock market, several
other provinces have followed suite. The establishment of the Zheijang Expressway Co, Ltd. to
mobilize private capital through asset securitization (i.e., the sale of highway equity through initial
public offerings and private placement as a substitute for long-term debt financing) is an innovation
in infrastructure financing. The Bank should explore such innovations further to reach its objective
of greater private sector participation in infrastructure operations.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Zhejiang Province
A. General
1.     This report summarizes the implementation experience of the Zhejiang section for the
Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway, the second highway project financed partly by an IBRD loan. All information
provided in this report is based on the implementation of finished works covered in the SAR and Loan Agreement
except Contract No. I 1, E&M engineering works, which has not yet been completed.
B. Project Description
2.     Project Objectives:
(a) Build a high standard highway between Shanghai-Hangzhou to relieve the traffic congestion that
was restraining economic growth in the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor, and promote development in
the corridor;
(b) Carry out a testing program in north Zhejiang province to enhance road safety; and
(c) Develop capabilities, skills and maintenance through training and provision of updated equipment.
3.     The Project components of the Zhejiang section:
(a) Construction of a 102.66-kin, four-lane, divided access-controlled expressway, including service
facilities and the supply and installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical (E&M) equipment
for tolling, traffic monitoring, telecommunications and lighting;
(b) Improve and construct access roads of a 56-km section near interchanges to enhance the capabilities
of entering and exiting the expressway;
(c) Construction supervision of Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway;
(d) Road Safety Program;
(e) Staff training; and
(f) Equipment procurement.



C. Achievement of the Objectives
4.     The project has attained all major objectives through successful implementation of the project components
as follows:
(a) A full-graded highway of 102.66 km with four lanes, including toll station, service facilities, and
supply and installation of E&M equipment.
(b) Improved and constructed 54 km of access-road interchanges, enhancing the capabilities of entering
and exiting the expressway;
(c)  Completed the construction supervision of Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway;
(d) Completed Road Safety Program including improvement of 26 junctions and technical assistance;
(e)  Completed staff training; and
(f)  Completed equipment procurement.
D. Project Formulation and Preparation
5.     In November 1992, the World Bank mission visited the Shanghai-Zhejiang corridor. A project
identification was made based on discussions for seeking financing from the Bank for Shanghai-Hangzhou
Highway Project.
6.     In February 1993, the World Bank mission visited Zhejiang again for project preparation. Site visits were
made for sections of Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway, and its city entrance and exit information. The condition of
road safety of the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor in Jiaxing Municipality also was reviewed and investigated with
bilateral discussions. A full copy of the engineering feasibility study for SHE was provided by Zhejiang.
7.     The project proposal was approved by the State Planning Commission (SPC) in February 1993.
8.     The engineering design and bidding documents were reviewed by the experts from the HASKONIN
company, Netherlands, employed by the World Bank in June 1993.
9.     The Bank pre-evaluation mission in July 1993 discussed the project formation, contract section,
procurement, procurement program, supervision, staff training, equipment procurement, environmental protection,
land acquisition and resettlement and the road safety program of the Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project. The
document for contractor qualification was reviewed and it was agreed to carry out retrospective financing for
advanced implementation of LCB for the Pengbu-Wenmei section of the project.
10.    A formal appraisal was made by the World Bank mission in Ncivember 1993 for the Shanghai-Zhejiang
Highway Project. Thorough discussions were made for specific design is,sues and an agreement was reached.
Satisfaction was shown by the World Bank mission for the condition andl comprehensiveness of design. The
timetable for supplying and reviewing the qualification and bidding documents was discussed and agreed. Detailed
discussion and confirmation regarding project implementation, construction supervision, cost estimation,
equipment procurement, staff training, land acquisition and resettlement, environmental protection action plan,
road safety program and construction schedule were made and agreed.
11.    An additional appraisal mission was sent by the Bank to Zhejiang in May 1994. Components and ratios of
foreign and local financing were discussed. It was decided that the loan For the Zhejiang part would be US$200
million based on the proposal of project cost estimation and investment scale.
12.   The Engineering feasibility study was approved by the SPC in February 1995.
13.   The Preliminary design was approved by the MOC in March 1995.
- 12-



14.   Project negotiations were made in Washington between the World Bank and MOF of China, Shanghai
Municipality and Zhejiang Province, with the decision on the loan for Zhejiang being USS200 million (US$190
million for Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway and US$10 million for Road Safety Program) in June 1995.
15.   The loan agreement was signed in November 1995 and became effective January 31, 1996.
E. Project Implementation
16.    The total length of the SHE Zhejiang section is 102.66 km. The section between Hangzhou and Yuhang
(13.17 km) commenced in advance in 1994 and was completed and operated at the same time as the
Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway in December 1995 in order to relieve traffic congestion on both sides of the
Qiantangjiang River. The remaining section commenced in September 1995 and became operational from
December 12, 1998. There are 11 ICB contracts for expressway main route and traffic engineering for the project
in accordance with the agreement with the World Bank, 4 access roads contracts and 7 building works contracts.
All parts have been finished except Contract No. 11, which is under condition of installation and testing.
17.    Civil Works. ICB was used for the implementation of Contract Nos. 6-10 for the main expressway route
and Contract No. 11 for E&M. China Technical Import & Export Cooperation was authorized as the tendering
agent. Bidding was processed in accordance with the procurement guidelines of the Bank, with bidding documents
being reviewed and approved by the Bank. LCB was used for the remaining contracts. Optimized designing was
carried out for the assurance of project quality with local conditions taken into consideration during project
implementation. A number of feasible and practical means were taken to avoid bridge-approach bumping. A
positive effect has been observed since operation.
18.    Supply and Installation of E&M (Contract No. 11). The Spanish INDRA company was responsible for
project implementation, and the installation of E&M has been completed. The lump sum amount for this part in
Staff Appraisal Report was US$20.2 million, and the actual amount was 2.3182 million Euro and Y32.947 million
respectively in a signed contract.
19.    Road Safety Program. There were three work items in the program (civil works, technical assistance
and equipment procurement).
(a)  Civil works: The civil works for phase I were cancelled, and work items in phase 2 of the civil
works included the improvement of 37 major junctions. However, some junction improvement was
no longer possible due to rapid road side development and fast urbanization in some townships, and
11 junctions were cancelled. All remaining 26 junctions were improved by September 1999.
(b) The technical assistance items are as follows: developing the software package for accident
processing and analysis, compilation for road safety manual and safety review manual; development
of Zhejiang Provincial Geographic Information System (GIS) (additional item); local training and
overseas study tours. The French BCEOM was selected for the technical consultancy based on an
international shopping process. The road safety manual and safety review manual were completed in
June 1999, and the final report of technical assistance was completed in January 2000. The GIS for
Zhejiang Province has been completed.
20.    Consulting Services for Construction Supervision and Staff Training. The American company Wilbur
Smith Associates was responsible for the supervision consultancy for Contract Nos. 5-11. A two-layer supervision
organization was set up for SHE supervision, namely a supervision department and site engineers. There were a
chief engineer, engineer representatives and three deputy representatives (one sent by American WSA Company),
and some other supervision engineers. Site engineers were responsible for site work groups, and they were all
independent consultant companies selected based on LCB procedures. The sum for this part was US$11.2 million
in the SAR, including the Road Safety Program of US$0.8 million. The phase I Road Safety Program civil works
were canceled, and the corresponding supervision services were cancelled as well. The actual payment for civil
works supervision was US$5.33 million (including the fees for supervision training of US$1.89 million). The total
- 13 -



payment for foreign supervision of Contract No. 11 was US$0.39 million, and thus the grand total for supervision
was US$5.72 million.
21.    Equipment Procurement
(a) Equipment procurement for Shanghai -Hangzhou Expressway
The list of equipment procurement changed slightly for the enhancement of Chinese national technical
standards and equipment functions. Three packages of equipment were procured with the amount of US$4.528
million: Package 1-8 sets of 5 kinds equipment for maintenance and operation; Package 2-16 sets of 9 kinds of
equipment for maintenance and operation; Package 3-4 sets of 4 instrurnents through local shopping. All
procurement has been completed. The allocated sum for this part in the SAR was US$ 11.2 million. Actually
US$2.097 million and DM3.362 million were paid.
(b) Equipment procurement for Road Safety Program
Local shopping was used for the procurement of traffic-counting equipment and computer. It was
completed and became operational in April 1997. The sum for this part in the SAR was US$0.3 million, and
US$0.18 million was actually paid.
22.    Staff Training
(a) Staff training for Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway: the training program in accordance with the
SAR included: overseas study tours (40 people/0.75 month) and overseas training (46 people/1 8
months), and the estimated cost was US$980,200 or Y8,527,900. Domestic training involved 18
people/1.5 month with an estimated cost of US$320,200 or Y2,785,900. All training and study tours
have been completed. The total cost for domestic and overseas training and study tours was
US$982,000.
(b) The domestic part of the additional training of Road Safety Program was completed in December
1999, and the overseas training and investigation planned for 2000 was completed. The final cost
was US$299,000.
23.    Environmental Protection and Monitoring. All works related to environmental protection were carried
out strictly in accordance with the requirements specified in the Environrnental Action Plan for the SHE (Zhejiang
section) during the construction of the expressway. The executive committee invited contractors, supervision and
operation authorities to the environmental protection training from the initial phase of construction. About 220
people were trained. Effective means were used. The environment was piotected and improved during the
construction stage such as sending staff for site supervision. The air, noise and water quality in two rivers has been
monitored in two monitoring stations quarterly by the highway administration after operation. The requirement of
environmental protection has been met.
24.    Land Acquisition and Resettlement. Internal and external monitoring for land acquisition and
resetlement was made in accordance with the World Bank requirement. The Municipal Plan and Design Institute
of Hangzhou University was responsible for carrying out the external monitoring, and the internal monitoring was
carried out by ZEPEC and Zhejiang Provincial Land Administration Bureau. All the expected objectives were met,
illustrated by a fairly good implementation outcome. All the affected people were satisfied with the improved living
standard. So the World Bank expert made positive comments towards the land acquisition and resettlement. The
planned and actual land acquired was 11,107.9 mu and 11,565.7 mu respectively. The planned and actual resettled
house areas were some 323,848 square meters and 328,658 square meters, respectively. The planned and actual
compensation for resettlement was Y293.6 million and Y292.2 million, respectively. The planned and actual
resettled numbers of labor was 6,425 and 6,559 respectively.
- 14 -



F. Operation
25.    The operation of the expressway and the associated components are satisfactory with obvious social and
economical benefits. The problem of traffic bottlenecks was basically solved after the completion of Contract Nos.
1-4 sections by the end of 1995. The condition of traffic congestion of the Hangzhou-Shanghai corridor has been
greatly relieved after the completion of Contract Nos. 5-10 by the end of 1998. The number of traffic accidents has
also decreased due to the reduction in traffic mileage and travel time. The 26 junctions along National Road 320
have been improved under the Road Safety Program. The traffic condition has greatly improved, with a decreased
number of traffic accidents. The Zhejiang Expressway Limited Company is responsible for the operation and
maintenance of the expressway. The operational revenues and expenses of the expressway from 1997 to 2000 are
as follows:
1997: Operation revenue of Y83 million with operation expenses of Y23 million
1998: Operation revenue of YI 17 million with operation expenses of Y25 million
1999: Operation revenue of Y428 million with operation expenses of Yl 14 million
2000: Operation revenue of Y522 million with operation expenses of Y107 million
26.    The traffic volume of the SHE has increased dramatically since its opening. The traffic volume on the
Pengbu-Yuhang section increased from 12,400 car-equivalents in 1996 to 49,900 car-equivalents in 2000, with an
increasing rate of 60.1% annually. The traffic volume on the Yuhang-Fengjing section increased from 14,400
car-equivalents in 1998 to 21,900 car-equivalents in 1999, and to 27,000 car-equivalents in 2000, with an
increasing rate of 29.2% annually.
G. Works by Contractors and Consultants
27.    Constructors for the SHE were selected through competitive bidding, and the whole project was divided
into 11 ICB contracts, 4 other access road contracts and 7 building works contracts. All works are civil works
except No.1 1, an E&M contract. Main work quantities: Earth works of 9,795,700 cubic meters, 3 super-long
bridges of a total of 1,799.4 m, 8 long bridges of a total of 1,435.3 m, 81 medium bridges of a total of 4,250.6 m,
28 small bridges of a total of 860.3m, 6 interchanges, 20 grade separations, and 544,200 square meters of asphalt
pavement. There are six toll stations, one service area provided for the whole route (with plantation), separation
fencing, guard rails, road making and traffic signs. The operation of SHE started in December 1998.
28.   Works of Consultant. Training for construction supervision was carried out by three engineers of Wilbur
Smith Associates in accordance with the service scope and responsibilities specified in the contract for
"Supervision Consultant and Training Service." Their services were satisfactory.
29.    Works of Engineer. The Sino-foreign joint supervision was implemented for the project under the
leadership of a chief engineer. A two-level supervision setup was used as the organizational structure, namely the
engineer's office and a local engineer's office. There were one engineer representative and three deputies (one
foreign), with other specialized engineers in different technical fields (one foreign). LCB was used for selecting the
local engineers as an independent agency.
The project quality, working program and payment were controlled by the engineer in accordance with the
provision of FIDIC, construction contracts and supervision procedures and methods. All works were asked to be
redone without any payment if shown unqualified. The project quality and investment were effectively controlled.
30.    Working Experience. All the experience obtained through the implementation of the SHE are as
follows: (1) Setting up a strict supervision program is an effective method to reinforce the construction supervision
in order to ensure the project quality, progress, investment, and satisfactory construction working capability. (2)
Good progress with better quality standards can be achieved by helping the contractor improve its capability prior
to any work item in accordance with contract provision and technical specifications. (3) The site administration
should be reinforced, namely the site engineer on site should monitor the total process of construction. Inspection
by the engineer can ensure better quality meeting the requirements. (4) It is an effective method that inspection is
- 15 -



done before any consequent work items are carried out. (5) The employcr is an implementation organization center
by coordinating relevant parties to control the quality, progress and investment. (6) Compliance with World Bank
instructions and positive cooperation are key elements for smooth implementation.
H. Works Implementation.
31.    Project Preparation. Sufficient preparation works were done by the Zhejiang Provincial
Communications Department for the implementation of the SHE. The i hProposal of Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway Project och was submitted to the SPC and MOC in November 1989 and August 1992 respectively, and
approved by the SPC in February 1993. The -Project Feasibility Study for Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway och was
submitted to SPC and MOC in February 1993, and a feasibility study was approved by SPC in February 1995.
Preliminary designs were approved by MOC in March 1995. The project identification, pre-appraisal, appraisal,
and negotiations were smoothly done since November 1992. The loan agreement with the World Bank was signed
in November 1995.
32.    Project Design. The whole route was designed by the Zhejiang Provincial Design Institute of
Communications. The traffic engineering component was designed by the Highway Scientific Research Institute of
MOC.
33.    Environmental Impact Appraisal. The environmental impact appraisal of the Zhejiang section of SHE
was carried out by the Zhejiang Provincial Environmental Protection Science Research Institute. The
environmental impact appraisal report of the project was completed in October 1992, and was reviewed by experts
organized by MOC in October 1992. The letter No. 423 (1993) for approving the environmental impact appraisal
report was issued by the National Environmental Protection Bureau in January 1993. An environmental protection
implementation report was completed in November 2000 after the expressway completion. Supervision activities
were organized by the National Environmental Protection Supervision Center for the project with a report
completed. The final acceptance for environmental protection facilities of the project was made jointly by the
National Environmental Protection Bureau and MOC in January 2001.
34.    Project Implementation. The Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Executive Commission was primarily
responsible for the project guidance, coordination, supervision and services according to requirements of Chinese
central government and the World Bank. Local municipalities (county) were also involved in project construction
in accordance with the decision made by the Zhejiang Provincial Government.
35.    Experience from Construction of the SHE. The construction. and project administration capacity of
Zhejiang Province has been greatly advanced based on the successful implementation of the SHE. The World Bank
loan will be paid back by toll fees from highway users. Experience in highway administration, maintenance and
repair has also been accumulated. The teams for design, supervision and construction were trained and
strengthened through the implementation of the project.
I. Work of World Bank
36.    Project Preparation. The project identification mission of the World Bank visited Zhejiang Province in
November 1992. The project scope was based on the close cooperation among World Bank mission, SPC, MOC,
Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang Province. Missions were sent by the World Bank for discussions on technical,
organizational and economic issues since 1993 for project investigation and appraisal.
37.    Project Implementation. Missions from the World Bank visited Zhejiang Province during project
implementation with an interval of twice a year. A lot of practical and fiasible comments were given by the Bank
mission regarding the project quality, resettlement, environmental protection, financing, administration and
organization structure. The World Bank helped a joint supervision tearrt (Chinese and foreign engineers) carry out
the supervision of civil works and E&M project properly so that the construction quality and the local staff
capability improved.
- 16 -



38.    Cooperation Between the Implementation Agencies and the World Bank. It was deemed that the
fairly good cooperation existed between the World Bank and implementation agencies. The working staff of the
World Bank fully understood the urgent requirements to develop the transport infrastructure and full support was
given for Contract Nos. 1-4 of SHE and the Road Safety Program. Zhejiang Provincial Government and the
Zhejiang Provincial Transport Department would like to convey their sincere appreciation for the cooperation and
support of the World Bank.
39.    Experience. The main achievements are the experience in highway construction in Zhejiang based on
the implementation of competitive bidding procedures, provision of FIDIC and supervision systems, and
involvement of working staff in training programs in the highway design, plan, construction and administration,
financial administration, highway maintenance and traffic engineering. These helped their capability improve in
their works.
J. Planning
40.    The traffic congestion along the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor has been basically relieved after the
construction of SHE, but cannot fully meet the requirements of the dramatically developed local economy. The
traffic volume on the SHE increased by 30% annually from 1998 to 2000. It is certainly true that more traffic will
be generated with the completion and improvement of Zhejiang provincial highway network, and that the service
level of the highway will decrease. The decision of speeding up the expansion of the existing
Shanghai-Hangzhou-Ningbo expressway has been made by the government, and the expansion of the
Hangzhou-Ningbo expressway has already started.
Shanghai Municipality
A. General
1.     This report summarizes the implementation experience of the Shanghai section of the SHE, the first
highway project partly financed by an IBRD Loan.
B. Project Description
2.     Project Objectives:
(a) Build a high-standard highway between Shanghai and Hangzhou to relieve the traffic congestion
that was restraining economic growth in the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor, and promote agricultural
and industrial development in the corridor;
(b) Develop institutional capabilities, skills and maintenance through training and provision of
up-to-date equipment; and
(c) Gain new experience in project management by adopting the World Bank Loan and carrying out
bidding and contract management process, as well as through a supervision system for construction
and design.
3.     The project components of the Shanghai section:
(a) Construction of a 27.6-km expressway, four lanes initially, and reserve another two lanes in the
median for future expansion, with all embankment and bridges built as six lanes at once, including
one highway/railway overpass; six extra-large and large bridges; 18 medium and small bridges; four
interchanges; six grade separations; and afforestation.
(b) Ancillary works cover five overpasses, one underpass and a pump station, four toll gates and one
service area;
- 17-



(c) E&M engineering covers safety facilities, traffic surveillance system, telecommunications system,
tolling system and power supplying and lighting system for the whole route;
(d) Local and international consultant services for supervision work and training;
(e) Staff training (local and overseas)
(f) Environmental training and monitoring; and
(g) Provision of equipment for road test, pavement managemcnt, road maintenance and highway
operation.
C. Achievement of the Objectives
4.     The project has attained all major objectives through successful implementation of the project
components:
(a) The 27.6-km Fengjiang-Songjiang Expressway, its ancillary works and E&M works were
satisfactorily completed. After opening to public, both traffic and revenue increased. The actual
traffic volume for the year 2000 was 18,800 PCU compared to SAR estimate of 25,800 PCU and the
toll income was Y 117.94 million compared to the SAR estimate of Y88.95 million for the year.
Thus, the project has basically reached expected targets. In the course of implementation, it has
introduced and adopted FIDIC, which was popular in the world, for future project management. This
mode of management has been extended and adopted for other highway projects and reform in
Shanghai. It established the groundwork for highway construction in Shanghai to be
intemationalized.
(b) The international construction supervision services totaled 52.2 person-months and local supervision
services totaled 1,944 person-months. By inviting a foreign consulting company to review
preliminary designs and bidding documents, local designers' sight was widened, and the quality of
specifications and drawings was improved, which met the international standards.
(c) A total of 18 overseas study tours and training model totaling 80.1 person-months were
implemented. Through overseas study/training, the local managerial and technical staff gained
experience in expressway planning, design, construction, financing, financial auditing and
maintenance management in foreign countries.
(d) Environmental monitoring was undertaken eight times during the construction period and 11 times
during the operation period. The local environmental check for completion of the project has been
rated satisfactory by National General Environmental Bureau, Shanghai Municipal Environmental
Bureau, Environmental Protection Office of Ministry of C'ommunications and World Bank experts.
(e) The purchase of 11 pieces of equipment for a central laboratory and three for a pavement
management system by international shopping, and ICB fbr 17 pieces of equipment for maintenance
and operation was successfully completed. Through the procurement of some maintenance
equipment, the mechanized maintenance of expressways has been improved.
D. Project Formulation and Preparation
5.     Project formulation and preparation was a genuine collaborativa effort. Many state agencies participated
in the formulation and preparation of the project since commencement in the mid- 1 980s.
-18-



6.     A pre-feasibility study for the Shanghai-Hangzhou section was carried out by Shanghai Municipal
Engineering Administration Bureau and Shanghai Planning Bureau as early as 1983. The connecting location
between Shanghai section and Zhejiang section was coordinated at that time. The project was divided into two
stages and the Xinzhuang-Songjiang section, totaling 20.5 km, was commenced in May 1985 and opened to the
public on December 21, 1990.
7.     In order to speed up the economical development of the Yangtze River Delta, the State Planning
Commission organized comprehensive research on a development strategy for traffic and economy in the Yangtze
River Delta Area. In April 1990, the Central Party and the State Council made a decision to develop Pudong. The
Shanghai Municipal Government recognized that transport infrastructure is basic to develop Pudong and
invigorate Shanghai, and that it was essential to construct the Songjiang-Hangzhou Expressway, totaling 131 km,
to bring the new Xinzhuang-Songjiang Expressway into full play.
8.     Between 1989 and 1993, Shanghai and Zhejiang carried out a feasibility study and evaluation work
together for the Songjiang-Hangzhou Expressway. The alignment and connecting location at the boundary was
decided at that time. On February 5, 1993, the SPC approved the project proposal and the Ministry of Finance
listed the expressway project in the rolling plan to use the World Bank loan for 1993-1995 financial years. In
April 1995, MOC approved the preliminary design for the expressway.
9.     Starting with the Bank's identification mission in November 1993, the World Bank was involved in
providing preparation assistance to the Government project team. In February/March 1993, the World Bank
preparation mission reviewed the prepared Feasibility Study Report, Environmental Evaluation Report, City
Entrance and Exit Information, and Regional Traffic and Economical Information. In July 1993, the Bank's
pre-appraisal mission reviewed the Staff Training Plan, Equipment Procurement Plan, Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Plan, Environmental Action Plan, Supervision and Training Plan, Contract Division for Civil Works
and Qualification Evaluation Document.
10.    The Bank appraisal mission, in November 1993, further discussed documents provided during the
pre-appraisal mission. Also, specialists funded by the Dutch Consultant Trust Fund were invited to assist in the
review of the design and bidding documents. Information on the design scale and engineering cost analysis and
monitoring of the implementation of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan were reviewed. In May 1994, a
World Bank mission reviewed the information on project costs, construction supervision, land acquisition and
resettlement, project implementation, staff training, equipment procurement and bidding documents. This mission
also reviewed the Environmental Action Plan and Resettlement Action Plan carefully prior to project effectiveness.
11.    Shanghai and Zhejiang worked together to select a consulting company for construction supervision. On
the basis of ICB procedures, one consulting company out of the 17 that competed was selected.
12.    In June 1995, the loan was negotiated in Washington. The Loan Agreement for the Shanghai-Zhejiang
Highway Project for US$260 million was signed. Also project agreements for the two sections with US$60.0
million for Shanghai and US$200 million for Zhejiang were signed.
E. Project Implementation
13.    The loan became effective on January 31, 1996, and the project commenced on March 27, 1996. The
experience gained during the implementation of the Shanghai section is summarized below by component.
14.    Expressway and Ancillary Works. The construction of the 27.6-km expressway was implemented using
three ICB civil works contracts: HHOI for construction of 8.379 km; HH02 for 8.746 km and HH03 for 10.45 km.
Contracts were signed on November 2,1995, and the project was completed on schedule and opened to traffic on
December 12, 1998. During the construction, the employer paid much attention to important nodes and quality
control. The employer, together with the designer and foreign and local engineers, supervised and urged the
contractors to observe the embankment settlement speed periodically. New specifications issued by MOC were
- 19-



adopted for the embankment quality control. Two targets (CBR for the upper road bed, and density for the
embankment) were used to control quality. Eight major variation orders, such as for the treatment of saturated soil
and the upper road bed, optimizing of road base material grading, and changing of advanced expansion joints were
issued to ensure the engineering quality. Further, to reduce the hidden tr ouble of bumping at bridge approaches,
design was optimized by adjusting the road net and water system. Eight small bridges and 38 culverts (across the
road) were reduced. In addition, through variation orders, two interchanges were added, and eight ancillary works
covering grade separations, bridges, service area and toll stations were combined into three civil works contracts.
15.    Equipment Procurement. Based on the revised Equipment Procurement Plan, in 1995, the Executive
Commission procured 11 pieces of equipment for a central laboratory and three for a pavement management
system to serve for civil works and supervision works. Along with the adjustment of the general plan for the
Shanghai Expressway Network, (650 km of expressways will be constructed by 2010), the Executive Commission
requested to adjust and supplement highway operation equipment. In 1998, five pieces of equipment were procured
under contract HH06, seven pieces of equipment under HH07, and five pieces of equipment under HH08 in 2000.
16.    Tolling System and the Power Supply System. Unification of the tolling system and the power supply
system of the new 27.6-km expressway with the Xingzhuang-Songjiang Expressway was successfully undertaken.
A total of 27 variations took place. The main variations included: rebuilding a tolling and surveillance center;
cable laying at main routes and interchanges; new building of four tolling subcenters and lanes at Dagang,
Xinbang, Shihudang and Fengjing; and rebuilding three old tolling subc enters, tolling lanes and power supply
equipment at Xingzhuang, Xinqiao and Songjiang.
17.    The contract for E&M became effective on February 25, 1998. The tolling system passed the final check
in December 1999, and was accepted in December 2000 after a one-year defect liability period. The other three
systems passed the final check in March 1999 and were accepted in March 2000 after a one-year defect liability
period. The equipment has operated well since the defect liability period.
18.    Consulting Services for Construction Supervision and Training. The consultant was responsible for the
construction supervision for civil works contracts and E&M contracts, and training work. A 52.2 person-month
consultant service was provided, including four groups of overseas training for 20 trainee-months; foreign experts
trained local engineers in China with 2.8 person-months. The World Bank also agreed to finance local consulting
services for construction supervision. The contract price approved was Y19.96 million, while the actual payment
was Y16.67 million (equivalent to US$2.002 million). The payment was mainly for resident supervision services
for three civil works contracts. The service duration was from January 1996 to January 1999, with a total of 1,944
person-months.
19.    Staff Training. A total 18 overseas study tours and training models for 80.1 person-months were
organized by Shanghai Municipality or MOC. The total cost was US$664,256.23. The main training contents
covered embankment and soft foundation treatment of high-class highways, design and construction management;
expressway network plan; investment management mode; financial maragement; environmental management;
safety management; operation and maintenance management, etc. The training enriched staff with modem
management knowledge on design, construction, operation and maintenance for high-class highways.
20.    Environmental Training and Monitoring. Environmental protection was considered important to
expressways. Around 30 trainees from the employer, contractors, supervisors and operation management
authorities received three weeks of training under the project. The employer entrusted Shanghai Research Institute
for Environmental Protection to carry out environmental monitoring each quarter. A total of eight times during the
construction period and 11 times during the operation period, monitoring was undertaken. The World Bank also
sent a specialist to supervise the environmental conditions and monitoring report during the construction period.
- 20 -



21.    The National General Environmental Bureau organized an acceptance check group combining staff from
MOC, Shanghai Municipal Environmental Bureau, Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau,
Shanghai Environmental Monitoring Center, Shanghai Research Institute for Environmental Protection, and
Shanghai Municipal Engineering Design Institute to examine on-site and review relevant documents on October
21, 2000. The results were considered satisfactory with relevant environmental standards and passed the check.
22.    Land Acquisition and Resettlement. Land acquisition and resettlement was executed satisfactorily. In
accordance with the Bank requirements, external monitoring activities were carried out by Shanghai Academy of
Social Sciences. The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was implemented smoothly. The living conditions of the
affected people was improved and income increased with the contribution they got under the project. Experts from
the World Bank who inspected the site and monitored reports confirmed that implementation was satisfactory. For
the SHE as a whole, a total of 2,743.19 mu were acquired for highway construction. Some 2,406 persons were
directly affected, of whom 813 were old-age persons. The balance, 1,593 persons, were resettled with new jobs. The
total compensation for land acquisition and labor resettlement was Y144.4774 million. An additional 136 affected
households with 609 people were removed. The compensation was Y15.5026 million. Thirteen enterprises with a
total of 884 affected persons were removed. The compensation for rebuilding and removal of equipment was
Y15.5266 million. The compensation for removal of county/township collective property was Y7.6023 million. The
household removal allowance, enterprise non-stop work allowance, and living allowance prior to labor resettlement
were in total Y10.8459 million. The total actual payment for land acquisition and resettlement was Y316.17
million, a Y143.21 million increase from the estimated amount of Y172.96 million in April 1995.
F. Operation of the SHE, Shanghai Section
23.    Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway Project. The operation of the expressway is satisfactory. All 61 tolling
lanes, tolling stations, tolling centers, monitoring centers are in good condition and safe transportation on the
expressway is secured. The increase in traffic volume is obvious. Since opening to the public, the average traffic
volume on the Songjiang-Fengjing Expressway, which had 10,806 vehicles per day on December 12, 1998,
increased to the 15,800 PCU equivalent in 1999 and 18,800 PCU equivalent in 2000, indicating that the
expressway is producing high social and economic benefit. Also, the revenue collected from tolls is more than
expenditures in each of last two years. The revenue from the SHE, Shanghai section (48 km), was Y99.89 million
in 1999, while the expenditures was Y86.07 million (including depreciation amounting to Y53.65 million). The
revenue for 2000 was Y1 18.00 million, and the expenditures was Y98.23 million (including depreciation
amounting to Y53.61 million).
24.    Traffic Surveillance, Telecommunications and Tolling System. This contract covered the
reconstruction of facilities for the Xinzhuang-Songjiang Expressway (equipment installation and debugging) as
well. After one year of operation, it passed the completion inspection organized by Shanghai Municipal Highway
Quality Supervision Station on December 29,1999, and was delivered to Shanghai Hu-Hang Industrial Co. Ltd for
operation management.
G. Works by Contractors and Consultants
25.    Civil Works. The SSHE, Shanghai section was divided into three civil works contracts and procured
through ICB procedures. The contractors followed the contracts, specifications and design/construction drawings.
They self-inspected various parts and sections according to specifications and quality standards to ensure the
engineering was of good quality. They also carried out additional works ordered by the employer/engineer. The
final quantity of works were: 21.16 km of roads, 6.44 km of structures along the alignment (including
highway/railway overpass: I set/1,570 m, extra bridge; 6 sets/3,000 m medium/small bridges; 18 sets/690 m
interchanges; 4 sets/980 m; grade separation: 6 sets/200 ni; 5 places of rural roads over-crossing the expressway, I
separated tractor hole, 4 separated manholes, 7 box culverts (4 mx5 m), 6 pipe culverts of 1,400 mm diameter, 3
pipe culverts of 2,000 mm diameter, 803,200 m2 of planting, 4 tolling stations, I service area and expressway
facilities covering safety fences, barriers, traffic lines and markings.
- 21 -



26.    Electrical and Mechanical Facilities. A total of 32 variation orders were approved. The system for the
existing expressway and the new one had been debugged and operated together. After I year of trial operation, this
system passed the completion inspection organized by the Shanghai Municipal Highway Quality Supervision
Station on December 29,1999, and was considered stable. Data accuracy satisfactorily met design requirements. It
was put into operation together with the civil works.
27.    Through the efforts of the employer, engineer and contractors, this project was completed on time and met
the requirements of Shanghai municipal govemment. It was awarded as one of the top ten Municipal Engineering
projects.
28.    Consultant Service. The consulting firm fielded one civil works engineer (37.7 man/months) and one
E&M engineer (10.67man/months) worked together with local engineers and contractors. They inspected the site
frequently to ensure quality and progress, reviewed payment invoices and variation orders, and prepared
supervision monthly reports. The firm also conducted 2.8 man-months of local training and one man-month of
overseas training.
29.    Works by Supervision Engineers. Two levels of Sino-foreigrn supervision structures were adopted for the
SHE Shanghai section. Under the leadership of the engineer (local), and deputy engineer (foreign), a project
supervision department and site supervision groups for each contract were set up, with a total of 80 supervision
engineers. All these supervision engineers carried out all-round management and control for quality, progress,
measurement and payment based on FIDIC conditions, contracts and stipervision outlines. They paid special
attention to material test, embankment/pavement/bridge/culvert and E&M system. They issued rectification notices
to disqualified engineering. The payment was made only after rectification works were made satisfactorily. Their
management works for quality, investment and progress were valuable.
H. Works by Implementation Agency
30.    Project Preparation and Implementation Arrangement. Shanghai Municipal Government set up an
Expressway Construction Leading Group under the Vice Mayor to ensure that the project was completed smoothly.
After approval by the municipal government, Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway Engineering Construction
Executive Commission was set up with staff from the Shanghai Highway Management Department, leaders of
Shanghai Construction Commission, Municipal Engineering Bureau and Highway Management Department. The
Commission established a Chief Engineer Office, Pre-period Department, Finance Department and Administration
Office. The Commission was responsible for land acquisition and resettlement, bidding process, review of major
variations and claims, payment based on measurement confirmed by the Supervision Department, reports to the
World Bank and negotiation for major matters such as variations and loan allocations, supervision of works of
contractors and supervision engineers, control of progress, and investment as well as quality. This arrangement
helped the employer complete the project in good quality and open on time.
31.    Design. The SHE Shanghai section was designed by Shanghai Municipal Engineering Design Institute.
The E&M and building engineering were designed by Shanghai Tie Da:) University Survey and Design Institute.
During implementation of the engineering, design representatives were sent to the site to deal with drawing
clarification and variations.
32.    Environmental Impact Assessment. The EIS for the SHE Shanghai section was conducted by Shanghai
Research Institute for Environmental Protection, according to national environmental evaluation regulations and
environmental protection management methods that require environmental protection to be carried out during
design, construction and operation periods. In April 1993, the Environnient Impact Assessment Report was
prepared, and the Environmental Action Plan was sent to the World Bank. In January 1994, the World Bank
confirmed the EAP. The employer took environmental protection into consideration during the design stage,
covering alignment, crossing passage, culverts, navigation, embankment slope, and the afforestation layout. The
planting area was 803,200 m2. The contractors were urged to protect the environment for the construction period,
to borrow land for replanting and to carry out environmental monitoring during the construction period and
- 22 -



operation period. At present, the interchanges of SHE are managed and maintained by Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway Industry Co., Ltd according to highway laws and expressway management laws. After the completion
of the project, a national-class environmental facility check for design, construction and production was applied to
National General Environmental Bureau.
1. Main Factors Affecting the Project
33.    Soil Condition and Higher Cost. A soft foundation was one of the main problems affecting and
restricting the construction of the engineering, especially in Contract HH03. The thickness of the soft soil layer was
more than 30 m, and the settlement for this section was around 1.6 m. An intergradation pavement (8 cm of coarse
bituminous concrete plus 4 cm of anti-skid layer) was approved by MOC. After 2 years of operation, maintenance
is needed for the pavement.
34.    The total embankment filling was 3.3 million cubic meters. Shanghai belongs to a plain area. The
shortage of earth was restricting progress. After approval by the World Bank, the employer treated saturated soil,
and thus the cost increased accordingly.
35.    Adverse Climate. The rainfall in 1996 was much more than seen in meteorological history. The heavy
rainfall and its long duration caused difficulties in embankment construction. The contractors devoted more labor,
materials and machines on non-rainy days to ensure that important nodes were completed on time and that there
was sufficient time reserved for resettlement. The claims for adverse climate applied for by contractors were
approved by the employer.
36.    Trade-off Between Shortening Construction Period and Engineering Quality. The construction period
approved by MOC was 4 years, but it was decided to cut it down to 3 years. This caused conflicts between the
construction period and engineering quality. After an earnest study, the employer arranged the schedule to ensure
completion on time, and requested that the settlement rate of the embankment for 3 continuous months must be
less than 8 mm before unloading and notching roadbed.
37.    Procurement. According to the procurement guidelines of the World Bank, the lowest bidder won the
bids. It was considered not as suitable as expected to the situation of China. Some contractors lowered prices in
their bids to win projects but suffered from shortage of funds during construction.
38.    The E&M contract was procured by ICB procedures. The winner was a joint venture. The actual
construction period exceeded the contract period by 6 months due to the insufficient survey of existing equipment
during the joint design stage, especially for the aged power pipeline in the old Xinsong station and inconsiderable
reforming design of tolling system and prolonging of debug time.
J. Works by the World Bank
39.    Project Preparation. As noted earlier, the Bank, from November 1992 to January 1995, fielded five
missions to Songjiang-Fengjing-Hangzhou Expressway to assist in project identification, pre-appraisal and
preparation of evaluation. In July 1995, the Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 14034-CHA) was issued. This
report analyzed background information provided by Shanghai and Zhejiang covering traffic transportation,
development of industrial and agricultural economies, the existing highway road network and its plan, increase in
traffic volume, vehicle quantity and recent highway development, and clarified reasons to distribute the loan to the
project. The World Bank reviewed a Resettlement Action Plan and an Environmental Action Plan, preliminary
designs and bidding documents, provided procurement guidelines and model bidding documents to the Borrower,
reviewed the Qualification Evaluation Report and bidding documents, published civil works bidding advertisement,
and reviewed and confirmed outlines and bidding documents for goods procurement, supervision consulting
services, overseas training, environmental monitoring and training.
- 23 -



40.    Project Implementation. After the loan agreement became effective, the World Bank sent two missions
each year to the project to follow up the work of employer, Project Superiision Department and contractors, and to
know engineering progress, quality, contract implementation, finances, auditing, environmental protection and
resettlement, and was satisfied with the works.
41.    Cooperation of Implementation Agency with the World Bank. The World Bank cooperated well with
the implementation agency. The World Bank assisted and helped the employer to deal with variation orders and
claims (including civil works and E&M works). The World Bank agreed to add two interchanges and eight
ancillary works to the loan and add tnaintenance equipment, and confirmed a revised contract addendum and the
final loan allocation. Under the concern and direction of World Bank officers and the Beijing Mission, the project
was completed smoothly and satisfied the World Bank.
K. Planning
42.    Under the leadership of Shanghai Municipal Government, a new wave of Shanghai General Urban Plan
has been worked out. A fast, efficient, unobstructed highway transportation network framed by high-level highways
and trunk highways, together with county/township roads will be construczted to connect Jiangsu and Zhejiang
provinces and radiate to the whole Yangtze Delta. By the year 2010, the length of operated expressway in
Shanghai will reach 650 km, among which 343 km of expressway will be newly built, while another 220 km will
be reconstructed. After the expressway network is completed, a target of "153060" will be accomplished, i.e., 15
minutes of transportation is needed from any place in an important industrial area, important towns, vital
communication hub, or main passenger (cargo) distribution center to the expressway network; 30 minutes of
transportation is allowed between central cities and new towns (including county towns) or between central cities
and municipal boundaries; 60 minutes of transportation is needed between any two points in the expressway road
network.
43.    SHE is a tourist highway in Shanghai. Trees will be planted in a 30-50 m strip along both sides of the
expressway to improve the environment and to beautify the city according to relevant notices issued by the State
Council.
44.    By 2015, depending on the actual traffic volume, SHE will be expanded by 2 lanes on the reserved land.
(o) Cofinanciers:
No cofinancier.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
- 24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last SAR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Year 2000                           Year 2000
Increased Highway Capacity
Reduced traffic congestion on roads parallel
to the proposed road: traffic volume (PCU):         32,400                              35,100
Zhejiang Secion                                27,900                               39,470
Shanghai Secton
Expressway: traffic (PCU):                          28,700                              27,000
Zhejiang Section                               33,500                               18,800
Shanghai Sectbon
Increased average speed (km/hr) on:
Zhejiang Section                                60.0                                 66.8
Shanghai Section                                46.8                                 47.0
Promote economic development in the S-Z
corridor (GDP in Y billion):
Zhejiang Secton                                  604                                604.0
Shanghai Section                                444                                 455.1
Utilization of equipment for institubonal
strengthening (usage rate percent):
Zhejiang Secion                                 100%                                 100%
Shanghai Section                                100%                                 90%
Reduced numberof traffic accidents
involving fatalities on NR 320 (number of
accidents with fatalities per 10,000 vehicles):
Zhejiang Secion                                  1.16                                1.15
Shanghai Section                                1.90                                 1.80
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Year 2000                            Year 2000
Civil works (SHE) completed:
Zhejiang Section (102.66 km)                    100%                                 100%
Shanghai Section (27.6 km)                      100%                                100%
Number of person-months of completed
training:
Zhejiang Section                                156.2                                156.2
Shanghai Section                                 76.6                                 80.1
Indicators of traffic volume are mentioned in the SAR. Other indicators were established during the project implementation.
- 25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2a. Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             USI. million  US$ million
A. Construction of Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway:
A.l. Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway               369.09         441.61         119.65
A.2. E&M Supply and Installation                 16.89          15.38          91.06
A.3. Road Safety Program                         16.26           5.25          32.29
B. Equipment (operation & maintenance, laboratory,  11.55           8.52          73.77
environment research)
C. Technical Assistance:
C. 1. Construction Supervision of SHE:
Shanghai Section                              4.00           4.28            107
Zhejiang Section                              6.86           5.72          83.38
C.2. Institutional Development                    1.94           1.88          96.91
C.3. Road Safety                                  0.69           0.76         110.14
Total Baseline Cost                                427.28         483.30
Physical Contingencies                             41.33                            0
Price Contingencies                               1'5.36                            0
Total Project Costs            643.97         483.30
Land Acquisition/Resettlement and Tax  85.19         130.62
Total Financing Required            729.16         614.02
Exclude interests during construction.
- 26 -



Annex 2b-1 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
Procurement Method I
Expenditure Category       ICB          NCB         Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    483.40        96.70         0.00         25.40       605.50
(174.00)      (38.40)      (0.00)        (0.00)     (212.40)
2. E&M Supply and            24.00         0.00         0.00          1.80        25.80
Installation                (17.10)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (17.10)
3. Goods                     11.80         1.80         0.80          4.80        19.20
(8.50)       (1.30)        (0.50)       (0.00)      (10.30)
4. Consultant services:       0.00         0.00         17.10         0.00        17.10
Construction supervision     (0.00)       (0.00)       (17.10)       (0.00)      (17.10)
5. TA & Training              0.00         0.00         3.00          0.00        3.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (3.00)       (0.00)      (3.00)
6. Land acquisition &         0.00         0.00         0.00         58.60        58.60
other expenses               (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     519.20        98.50        20.90         90.60       729.20
(199.60)      (39.70)      (20.60)       (0.00)     (259.90)
Annex 2b-2. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
Procurement Method I
Expenditure Category      ICB          NCB         Other2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    335.88        60.81         17.40        32.77       446.86
(135.11)      (25.73)      (6.09)        (0.00)     (166.93)
2. E&M Supply and            12.68         0.00         0.96         1.74        15.38
Installation                (9.65)        (0.00)       (0.76)       (0.00)      (10.41)
3. Goods                     7.09          1.23         0.20         0.00         8.52
(7.09)       (1.23)       (0.20)        (0.00)      (8.52)
4. Consultant services:      0.00          0.00         10.00        0.00        10.00
Construction supervision     (0.00)       (0.00)       (9.62)       (0.00)       (9.62)
5. TA & Training             0.00          0.00         2.64         0.00         2.64
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.88)        (0.00)      (1.88)
6. Land acquisition &        0.00          0.00         0.00        130.62       130.62
other expenses              (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     355.65        62.04        31.20        165.13      614.02
(151.85)      (26.96)      (18.55)      (0.00)      (197.36)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through international and national shopping, and consulting services.
- 27 -



Annex 2c. Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of Appraisal
Component;. 
Bank     Govt.    CoF.    Bank     Govt.    CoF.    Bank     Govt.    CoF.
Civil Works (SHE)       203.60  376.00            165.00   276.50            81.0     73.5
E&M Supply and            17.10   8.70             10.40     4.97            60.8     57.1
Installation
Road Safety Program       8.80    17.10             1.84     3.41            20.9     19.9
Equipment                 10.40   8.70              8.52     0.00            81.9      0.0
Technical Assistance:    20.10    0.00             11.50     1.14            57.2      0.0
- Project
Implementation &
Institutional
Strengthening
- Land acquisition &     0.00   58.60             0.00   130.62             0.0     222.9
other expenses
Total Cost including  260.00  469.10           197.36   416.66             75.9     88.8
contingencies
-28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
ECONOMIC AND FINANCLIL EVALUATIONS
Preface
I.     The economic evaluation of the project covers the following two components:
(a)  construction of the SHE, including the 27.6-km Songjiang-Fengjing Expressway (SFE) in Shanghai
city and the 102.6-km Fengjing-Pengbu Expressway (FPE) in Hangzhou city, Zhejiang province;
and
(b) the Road Safety Program, a pilot program in northern Zhejiang to improve safety on highways in the
Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor after the opening of the new expressway.
2.     The economic analysis is based on the re-evaluation of data on traffic, operational performance, and costs
and benefits of project components. The methodology used was similar to that employed by the SAR and is
summarized as follows:
(a) capital investment and maintenance costs were revised to reflect December 2001 prices and are
included in the cost stream;
(b) the benefits stream, also reflected in December 2001 prices, were included and consist of savings in
vehicle operating costs (VOC), ship operation costs, reduced traffic congestion on existing routes, and
enhanced road safety; and
(c) a project life of 20 years has been assumed and the capital investment period for all components was
from 1994 to 2000, depending on the construction phases.
3.    During the project's implementation, approved by the Bank, some project components were modified. The
economic analysis reflects the final implementation of the project.
4.     This annex is comprised of four parts. Part I is the economic evaluations of SHE; Part II is the economic
evaluations of the Road Safety Program; Part III is the overall economic evaluation of the project, including the
probabilistic risk analysis; and Part IV is the financial evaluation of the project.
PART I: SHANGHAI-HANGZHOU EXPRESSWAY
5.     As in the SAR, the highway was divided into three sections for economic evaluation.
Length of the   Length of the New
Old Road (km)    Expressway (kmn)
FPE:   Section 1: Pengbu-Yuhang              31.0             14.5
Section2: Yuhang-Fengjiang           93.0              88.1
SFE:   Section 3. Fengjiang- Songiiang      41.0              27.6
Total                                165.0            130.2
Highway Corridor Traffic
6.     The expressway was partially opened for trial operation in early 1998 and fully opened in December 1998.
The highway corridor traffic for 1999 and its distribution between the existing and the new expressway are
presented in the following table, indicating the SAR forecast and actual traffic census data:
- 29 -



NUMBER OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PER DIAY (1998-2000)
Existing Road     Expressway       Total Traffic   Diversion
Total  PCU      Total     PCU     Total   PCU     Factor (DF)
AADT     (1)    AADT       (2)    AADT     (3)    (4) = (2) / (3)
1998 SAR
Pengbu- Yuhang        --    37,110     ---                    37,110
ICR
Pengbu-Yuhang        17,126 28,901   16,079   25,264   33,205  54,16546    .6%
Ratios (ICRtSARl
Pcngbu- Yuhang         --   -22.1%     --       --      --     46.0%       --
1999 SAR
Pengbu - Yuhang       --    38,959     --      28,957    -      67,916   42.6%
Yuhang- Fengjing--          31,240     --      27,672    -      58,912   47.0%
Fengjing - Songjiang  --    27,387     --      32,884    -      60,271    54.6%
ICR
Pengbu - Yuhang       14,721 25,178    25,328  39,130  40,049   64,308    60.8%
Yuhang-Fengjing       22,936 40,496    14,176  21,504  37,112   62,000    34.7%
Fengjing- Songjiang    9,474 14,278     12,290  15,810  21,764  30,088    52.5%
Ratios (ICRISAR)
Pengbu - Yuhang       --    -35.4%     --      35.1%     --     -5.3%       --
Yuhang- Fengjing--           29.6%     --     -22.3%     --      5.2%       --
Fengjing- Songjiang   --    -47.9%     --     -51.9%     --    -50.1%      --
2000 SAR
Pengbu - Yuhang       --    40,900     --     30,400-          71,3004     2.6%
Yuhang- Fengjing--          32,400     --     28,700-          61,10047    .0%
Fengjing- Songjiang   --    27,900     --     33,500-          61,40054    .6%
ICR
Pengbu - Yuhang      13,609 21,675     30,560  48,016  44,169   69,691    68.9%
Yuhang- Fengjing     24,136 40,214      16,869  25,590  41,005  65,804    38.9%
Fengjing-- Songjiang  9,041  15,123     15,055  18,832  24,096  33,955    55.5%
Ratios (ICR/SAR1
Pengbu - Yuhang        --   -47.0%     --       57.9%    --     -2.3%       --
Yuhang- Fengjing       --    24.1%     --      -10.8%    --      7.7%       --
Fengjing- Songjiang    --   -45.8%     --      43.8%     --     44.7%      --
Sources: SAR and the Bank staff report.
7.       As shown above, the 1999 total highway corridor traffic counts (i.e., the sum of traffic on the parallel
sections of the existing road and the new expressway), except for the Fengjing-Songjiang section, were about
equivalent to the SAR's forecast, within plus or minus 5 percent. The tbaffic distribution of the corridor (i.e.,
between the existing road and the new highway), indicates that road users with longer trips chose to travel on the
existing road the first full opening year. The traffic diversion factors (DF), however, show that diversion from the
existing road to a new expressway took place more than anticipated in the SAR in urban areas.
8.       In December 1995, the Pengbu-Yuhang section opened for a trial operation. The DF ratio for this section
in 1998 was about 46.6 percent. In 1999, this increased to 60.8 percent. In 2000, the DF ratios for all three
sections improved further to 68.9 percent, 38.9 percent and 55.5 percen., respectively. The trend of the DF ratio
clearly reveals that more and more road users on this highway corridor choose the new expressway as traffic
volume increases.
Traffic Projection
9.       Normally, the buildup of traffic on a new expressway, particularly when it is operated as a toll facility, is
gradual in the early years, and then the diversion of traffic accelerates. The traffic growth rate on the expressway
in 1999-2000 was in the range of 19-22 percent. Despite the currently increasing DF ratio and fast traffic growth
rate, the long-term traffic growth rate on the new expressway was estimated to be lower than the SAR's forecast.
The traffic projections by section are summarized as follows:
- 30 -



TRAFFIC FORECAST COMPARISON FOR THE NEW Expressway BY SECTION
Penebu - Yuhana  Yuhanp - Feniiine  Feneiin- Soneliane
Total             Total            Total
AADT     PCU      AADT    PCU      AADT    PCU
SAR
1999        --    28,957      --    27,672     --    32,884
2000        --     30,400     --    28,700     --    33,500
2005        --     52,190     --    49,304     --    49,304
2008        --     72,181     --    68,216     --    79,582
2018        --    212,743     --   201,319     --   234,707
Average growth p.a.
1999-2018   --     11.1%      --    11.0%      --    10.9%
ICR
1999      25,328  39,130    14,176  21,504   12,290  15,810
2000       30,560  48,016    16,869  25,590  15,055  18,832
2005       42,141  65,502    23,480  35,152  21,534  26,589
2008       51,149  78,973    28,662  42,564  26,715  32,736
2018       85,126  128,337  48,651  70,240   47,831  57,180
Average growth p.a.
1999-2018  6.6%    6.5%      6.7%   6.4%      7.4%   7.0%
Sources: SAR and the Bank staff reports
10.     From the actual traffic data in 1999-2000 the following growth rates were assumed for subsequent years:
(a) The normal traffic growth rates for the new expressway were assumed to be within a range of 5 to 8
percent between 2000-2008, depending on the type of vehicle and the section. Between 2008 and
2018, the growth rates were assumed to be in the range of 3.5 to 6.5 percent;
(b) It was assumed that there would be no generated traffic.
Economic Costs
11.     Financial construction costs were converted to economic costs by shadow pricing for each of the input
items. Comparing the total economic cost of the expressway between SAR and ICR costs (at constant December
2001 prices), the ICR cost is 25.0 percent higher than the SAR cost. Of that, ICR costs of SFE and FPE are 40.1
percent and 17.1 percent higher than the SAR costs, respectively.
Expressway Economic Cost Comparison (million Yuan)
SAR                ICR      ICR/ SAR
(Jan. 1995)  (Dec. 2001)  (Dec. 2001)  (in %)
Shanghai Section  (FSE)    1,436.00    1,438.55    2,014.18      40.0
Zhejiang Section  (PFE)    2,735.00    2,739.86    3,209.23      17.1
Total    4.171.00    4,178.41    5,223.41      25.0
Source: SAR and the Bank staff reports
The 1995 prices have been up dated to 2001 prices by multiplying by a factor of 1.0018
Economic Benefits
12.     Benefits used for the economic analysis include those derived from (a) VOC savings, (b) time savings
through relieved congestion on the existing road, and (c) lower accident costs. The VOC savings include the net
VOC savings of vehicles using the expressway. The time savings include the benefits resulting from the lower
level of congestion on the existing road and the expressway, including the value of passenger time savings which
was estimated at Yl .0 per passenger-hour, updating the value estimated in the report on Feasibility Study
Methodology for the Highway in China (Rust PPK, Australia Feasibility Study Methodology Report, March 1996).
The same source was used for vehicle accident rates on different classes of road.
- 31 -



Economic Vehicle Operatingy Cost
(Yuan per 1,000 veh.-km)
Medium   Large  Small Medium     Large  Trailer/
Car     bus     bus   Truck   truck   truck container
The Existins Road:
Fuel                        377     510   1,200    7'50     928   1,056   1,216
Tires                        18      30     47      39       74    315      726
Maintenance                 339     459   1,080    675      835    950     1,094
Crew                         32      54      78     35       60     86       97
Depreciation                 45     200     500     79      124    285      858
Subtotal                   l     1253   2.2   LI:i7    2.021   2.692L   3.99
Time value of passengers     50     182     800
Total                     861    1.435   3.705  1578     2.021   2,692   3.991
The New Expressway:
Fuel                        319     450   1,024    600      800    928     1,024
Tires                        18      25      47     33       65    285      660
Maintenance                 305     413     972    608      752    855      985
Crew                         19      33      49     26       41     59       62
Depreciation                 41     180     450     71      111    257      772
Subtotal                  2QZ   .L.W    2.542   L128     1.76   2,384     .503
Time value of passengers     30     111     500
Total                     732     1.212  3.042  L338     1.769   2384    3.503
Sources: PCD and the Bank staff.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
13.     Economic Intemal Rate of Return (EIRR) for the expressway was estimated at 22.7 percent, which is
much lower than EIRR estimated in the SAR (32.5 percent). The lower EIRR is primarily due to (a) lower traffic
(see paragraph 6), particularly for the Shanghai section, and (b) project cost overruns (see paragraph 11). The
EIRR and the Net Present Value (NPV) for SHE are presented as follows;:
EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, million Yuan)
SAR                 ICR
EIRR                                32.8                22.7
NPV (12% million Yuan)             16,186              5,022
NPV has been updated to 2001 prices by multiplying by a factor of 1.0018.
14.     The distribution of the estimated benefits indicates that: (a) the main beneficiary is the road user on this
highway corridor; (b) the traffic that uses the expressway constitutes the majority of the road user's benefits (98.3
percent); and (c) trucks receive 52.1 percent of the project benefits and cars receive 31.2 percent. The breakdown
of the benefits is summarized as follows:
Distribution of the Project Benefits (NPV, 12%, million RMB)
Road user         Road agency         Society
Total benefits            8,683.0            (3,660.'1)        5,022.1
Of which: Road user:
a. By traffic:
Expressway traffic  Generated traffic  Existing roac. traffic  Road safety  Total
8,531.5               0.0               113.3             38.2        8,683.0
98.3%                0.0%               1.3%             0.4%        100.0%
b. By vehicles:
Cars               Buses              Truck!;          Trailers      Total
2,707.8              908.6             4,521.2           545.3        8,683.0
31.2%               10.5%              52.1%             6.3%        100.0%
15.     Besides the normal traffic growth scenario, two other traffic growth scenarios were also considered: a
lower traffic growth projection (25 percent lower than the nornal traffic:) and a higher traffic growth projection (25
- 32 -



percent higher than the normal traffic growth). The traffic growth and annual average growth rates under these
two scenarios are as follows:
EXPRESSWAY TRAFFIC FORECAST SCENARIOS (AADT)
High Growth            Low Growth
2000             15,055 - 30,560        15,055 - 30,560
2008             30,961 - 59,342        22,987 - 43,960
2018             66,819- 119,200        34,024-60,399
Average growth per year (2000-2018):
8.5% - 9.3%            4.7% - 5.5%
16.    The overall EIRR for the two traffic-growth scenarios are summarized in the following table. It indicates
that even with the lower traffic projection, the overall EIRR is estimated at 21.2 percent.
EIRR
The high traffic growth scenario    24.4%
The low traffic growth scenario     21.2%
Sensitivity Analysis
17.     EIRRs indicate that the effects of possible changes in assumptions in the evaluation could alter the yield
on the investment. Because the operation and maintenance costs of SHE make up a relatively small investment
cost, any variation in these costs would have a minimum discemible impact on the EIRR. The impact due to
changes in traffic volumes was studied under traffic growth scenarios (discussed in paragraphs 15 and 16 of this
annex). The results of the sensitivity test show that the reduction of total benefits by 15 percent has the greatest
impact on the EIRR, and the reduction of road congestion has the least impact.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
EIRR (in %)   NPV( 12%, Y million)
VOC savings reduced by 15%              20.4             3,725.4
Passenger time savings reduced to zero  20.9             4,036.8
Congestion savings reduced to zero      22.4             4,908.7
Total benefits reduced by 15%           20.4             3,719.6
PART II: ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
Background and Traffic
18.    In the project appraisal, the Road Safety Program was designed to upgrade a 86-km National Route (NR)
320 road section. NR320 is the principal and direct route connecting Shanghai and Hangzhou. The main purpose
of the Road Safety Program was to promote road safety on NR 320 by segregating motor vehicle traffic from
bicycles and agricultural tractors. The other purpose of the Road Safety Program was to improve road junctions to
ensure that minor road traffic could tum safely into roads out of the main road. However, because of
misprocurement, the first component (traffic segregation) was canceled from the project, but was completed with
local funds.
19.    Because NR320 is located on the same highway corridor, the economic development and traffic pattem
are quite similar to those of SHE. By segregating motor vehicles from bicycles and tractors, it was estimated that
the VOC of the traffic would be reduced by at least 2 percent.
- 33 -



Economic Costs
20.     Financial construction costs were converted to economic costs. As for the expressway, all input data were
evaluated in constant December 2001 economic costs. The overall average shadow price is 1.03 and the financial
cost is 97.2 percent of the economic cost.
21.     The total economic cost of the Road Safety Program at December 2001 constant price is only about 29.7
percent of the SAR's estimate.
ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM PROJECT COST COMPARISION (million Yu an)
The SAR (Yuan million)           The ICR (Yuan million)
January 1995  Dec. 2001 economic  Financial   Dec. 2001 economic  (B)/(A)
economic prices  prices (A)      (current) cost  prices (B)       (in %)
Total      180.0           180.32 Ia         52.06           53.55         29.7
/-a: Economic cost (1995 constant prices), has been updated to 2001 constant prices by multiplying with a factor of 1.0018
Economic Benefits
22.     The economic analysis was similar to the methodology used for the SAR and primarily focused on the
benefits derived from VOC savings, travel time savings, and traffic accident savings.
23.     Through improvement in traffic operation conditions, the congeEtion level was reduced and considerable
benefits were attributed. It was assumed that there would be no generated traffic. The less congested road
increased vehicle speed and reduced fuel consumption.
Economic Evaluation
24.     The EIRR for the Road Safety Program was estimated at 58.5 percent, compared to 54.4 percent estimated
in the SAR.
EIRR AND NPV OF THE ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
EIRR (in %)           NPV (12%. million Yuan)
SAR          ICR           SAR'            ICR
Total          54.4         58.5         1,153.1         262.2
1: NPV was at 1995 prices and updated to 2001 prices by multiplying by a factor of 1.0018.
PART III: THE OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
Overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
25.     The overall EIRR of the project (for both SHE and the Road Safety Program) is 22.7 percent and the NPV
(at 12 percent) is about Y5.17 billion. In the SAR, the overall EIRR of the project was estimated at 33.4 percent
and the NPV (at 12 percent) about Yl 7.0 billion.
EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, million Yuan)
SAR                     ICR
EIRR        NPV          EIRR     NPV
Expressway               32.5       15.88        22.7     5.02
Road Safety Program      54.4        1.15        58.8     0.26
Total project        32.5        15.9        22.9     5.17
- 34 -



Project Risks
26.     Although the overall EIRR of the project is economically justifiable, and the Road Safety Program also
showed robust results, the EIRR for the expressway was less than expected because of cost overruns and lower
traffic volume on one section. It is suggested that more accurate estimates on traffic O/Ds and construction costs
could have been made in the feasibility study stage.
Probabilistic Risk Analysis
27.     To determine the degree of project uncertainty, a probabilistic risk analysis using Monte Carlo techniques
was carried out. In a Monte Carlo analysis, each uncertainty factor is allowed to vary at random between set limits,
and all uncertainty factors are allowed to change simultaneously. The Monte Carlo simulation provides probability
distributions of the potential outcomes of decisions. By analyzing these distributions, the risk associated with
making various decisions can be assessed (probabilistic risk analysis). The outcome of the analysis can be used to
judge the possible range of a decision variable, and the likelihood of each value within this range.
28.     The probabilistic risk analysis focused on the SHE and Road Safety Program as well as the total project.
The factors with the most uncertainty associated with the economic evaluation were identified as the traffic growth
rate and the value of VOCs. The results of the probabilistic risk analysis for the project indicate that the EIRR for
the most likely scenario is 21.8 percent, the EIRR for the worst-case scenario of the analysis is 17.3 percent, and
for the best case scenario, 27.2 percent. The standard error of the mean is 0.3 percent. Results of the Monte Carlo
test and probabilistic analyses (Appendix 1) are summarized as follows:
Summary of Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Range of EIRR  Most likely EIRR  Standard error of the mean
The expressway      17.1% - 26.9%     21.5%               0.3%
Road safety program  67.3% - 78.2%    73.1%               0.3%
Total project   17.3%- 27.2%       21.8%               0.3%
PART IV: FINANCIAL EVALUATION
Preface
29.    Because the expressway is a toll road and the cost of the expressway constitutes about 99 percent of total
project costs, the financial evaluation of the project focused on expressway operations. The expressway is owned
and operated by two independent entities (Shanghai City and Zhejiang Province). The financial evaluation also
was composed of two independent analyses for two administrative jurisdictions. The financial capital cost is based
on the weighted average cost of the various sources of funds. The weighted average of the total project was 4.9
percent (31.9 percent from the Bank loan at 5 percent, 66.7 percent from an MOC grant at 5 percent, and 1.4
percent from a local bank at 3.2 percent). There was no financial evaluation in the SAR.
Highway Companies and Tolls
30.     Shanghai and Zhejiang governments have set up companies in their jurisdictions to operate expressways.
These companies are responsible for the day-to-day management, operation, maintenance, and development of the
highways, including the repayment of the loans. Toll rates were strictly controlled by the government. Toll rates
were assumed to increase once, by 15 percent, every five years (or an average of 2.8 percent per annum).
- 35 -



Financial Forecast
31.     Tolls: The toll is charged on the basis of vehicle size (seven categories) and distance traveled. Current
toll rates are as follows:
ToHl Charges
Small  Medium    Large   Small  Medium    Large  Tractor-
car     bus      bus    truck   truck    truck   trailer
Shanghai (SFE):
Basic fee (Y/ vehicle)  5.0  10.0    15.0    5.0     10.0     15.0     20.0
Toll (Y/Veh.-kn)    0.60    0.55     0.60    0.60    0.55     0.60     0.60
Zheiiang! (PFE):
Basic fee (Y/ vehicle)  5.0  10.0    15.0    5.0     10.0     15.0     20.0
Toll (Y/ Veh.-hn)   0.45    0.80     01.20   0.45    0.80     1.20     1.60
32.     Operations: Total revenues generated from the toll expressway can meet the need for operating
expenses, including the depreciation and financial obligations (Table 1.'., Table 2.1). Strong intemal cash
generation (mainly from the operations and depreciation) produces a strong cash inflow. The result indicates a
sound debt service coverage ratio (the loan repayment capacity) (Table 1.2, Table 2.2). Except for the period in the
early construction and operating years (1998 and 1999), both sections enjoy a healthy current ratio (liquidity of the
company). The large govemment grants to the expressway have caused a higher portion of equity. Both the
debt/capital ratio and the debt/equity ratio (financial leverage) have maintained a very sound range during
implementation and after the completion of the project (Table 1.3, Table 2.3).
33.     Cash flow. The total revenue is sufficient to cover the daily operating costs of the expressway. Capital
requirements for the loan repayment and major maintenance works, however, would generate cash pressure on the
expressway, particularly for the Shanghai section. This potential deficit could be filled by transferring the reserve
funds from the previous years. It is expected that the expressway will not need any extemal cash injection over the
life of the loan.
34.     Profitability: Because of the strict control of toll rates by the gDvemment and less traffic on the Shanghai
section, the profit margin is not expected to be high. This may not affect the daily operation of the expressway, but
added to the project cost overrun, the low profit margin will have a large impact on the Financial Intemal Rate of
Retum (FIRR).
35.     FIRR. The FIRR and NPV (4.9 percent for the weighted average financial cost of capital) for the entire
expressway is expected to be 5.5 percent and Y284.6 million, respectively. The FIRR for the Shanghai section
would be -2.6 percent. The FIRR for the Zhejiang section would be 8.9 percent.
FIRR and NPV
FIRR (in %)      NPV(4.9%, Y million)
Shanghai (SFE)           -2.6              (1,043.5)
Zhejiang (FPE)            8.9               1,276.6
Total expressway       5.5                 284.6
- 36 -



36.    Financial Probabilistic Risk Analysis: The three most uncertain factors that may affect the financial
evaluation were identified: (a) traffic growth, (b) increase in toll rates, and (c) increase in total operating costs.
The results of the financial probabilistic analysis reveal that the most likely FIRR would be -2.6 percent for the
Shanghai section, 8.8 percent for the Zhejiang section and 5.4 percent for the total project. The details on the
worst and the best FIRR and NPV are summarized as follows (and in Appendix 2):
Summary of Financial Probabilistic Risk Analysis
Range of FIRR & NPV      Most Likely     Standard E=RR of The Mean
FIRR (in %/o)  FIRR (Y B.)  FIRR (in %)  NPV (Y B.)  FIRR (in %/6)  NPV (Y B.)
Shanghai (SFE)  -2.7 - -2.5  -1.05 - -1.03  -2.6  -1.04       0.0       0.000
Zhejiang (FPE)   8.2 - 9.3  1.03 - 1.48  8.8       1.25       0.0       0.014
Total       5.0 5.9   0.04  0.50    5.4        0.26       0.0       0.014
Private Financing Alternatives
37.     Under the current market conditions and legal framework, the chance of private participation in financing
Chinese expressway construction is very slim, particularly for this project, for the following reasons:
(a)  Non-transport distortion barriers, such as foreign exchange freedom and local banking services,
impede foreign investment, while domestic capital markets of private funds have yet to be formed.
(b)  Profitability: The rigid government toll control has ruled out the possibility of private investors in
the highway sector who would be in search of the higher FIRR.
(c)  Competition: Even without the toll control, the competition between the highways and other
transport modes (such as railway) has also limited the possibility of toll increases for the expressway.
Currently, there are four well-maintained highways between Shanghai and Hangzhou. Increasing
the expressway toll will divert traffic to the other three highways. The railway is also one of the main
transport means in this corridor, and it has a unit tariff that is much lower than the highway tariff.
(d) Capital structure: The high proportion of government grants to the project (about 67 percent of
costs) is one reason that the expressway can be operated under the current toll charge. The high
portion of the grant fund generates a large stack of equity and strong financial leverage for the
companies. If a large portion of capital were to come from loans and/or bonds, the expressway could
suffer a problem of solvency.
- 37 -



Table 1.1: Shanghai- Zhejiang Highway (Shanghai Section)
Income Staternent
(million Yuan, year endingJ December 31)
1999     2000     2001     2002     2003     2004
Traffic (million Veh.-km)            123.80   151.65   216.92   223.71   230.72   237.93
Oueratine Revenue
Tolls                               99.89    118.00   136.00  140.26   144.65    149.17
Others
Total                   99.89   118.00   136.00   140.26   144.65   149.17
Operating Taxes
Business tax                            -        -        -     7.01     7.23     7.46
City tax                                -        -        -     0.51     0.52     0.62
Education levy                          -        -        -     0.21     0.22     0.22
Total                       -        -        -     7.71     7.96     8.20
Net Revenue                            99.89   118.00   136.00   132.55   136.69   140.97
Operatine Costs
Wagesandbenefits                      4.82     4.94     5.30     5.84     6.14     6.44
Maintenance                          11.30    36.01    36.50    40.24    42.25    44.37
Fuel and materials                    1.59     0.67     0.70     0.77     0.81     0.85
Administration                        3.01     2.52     2.60     2.87     3.01     3.16
Others                               11.70     0.48     0.50     0.55     0.58     0.61
Total working costs           32.42    44.62    45.60    50.27    52.79    55.43
Depreciation                         53.65    53.61    53.61    52.27    52.28    52.29
Total operating costs          86.07    98.23    99.21   102.54   105.07   107.72
Oneratine Profit                       13.82    19.77    36.79    30.01     31.6    33.25
Interests:  IBRD loan                   -        -    20.59    23.55    22.32    21.03
Local loan                4.97     4.78     4.41     4.04     3.66     3.29
Other income (expenses)                 -        -        -        -        -    (3.44)
Profit Before Taxes                    13.82    19.77    16.20     6.46     9.30     8.78
Income tax                              -     0.08     0.05     2.13     3.07     2.90
Net Profit After Taxes                 13.82    19.69    16.15     4.33     6.23     5.88
/_1: Assume operating taxes will start in 2002.
- 38 -



Table 1.2: Shanghai- Zhejiang Highway (Shanghai Section)
Sources and Applications of Funds
(million Yuan, year ending December 31)
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  1998   1999  2000    2001  2002   2003   2004  2005
Sources:
Net profits                    -     -       -                   -- 13.82  19.69  16.15  4.33   6.23   5.88  21.29
Depreciation                  -      -       -     -      -     - 53.65   53.61   53.61  52.27  52.28  52.29  52.69
State contribution          0.77  3.87    9.12  59.78  38.86  40.08  3.32     -      -   4.20      -     -      -
Provincial contribution     6.23  31.13  73.30 480.22 312.14 321.92  26.68    -       - 33.66
Borrowing:        IBRD        -      -       - 82.72 122.88 117.33  65.66  32.87  75.35     -
Local
Others
Total                        7.00  35.00   82.42 622.72 473.88 479.33 163.13 106.17  145.11  94.46  58.51  58.17  73.98
Applications:
Capital expenditure         7.00  35.00  82.42 622.72 473.88 479.33  95.66  32.87  2.90  3.05   3.20   3.36 140.90
Other expenditure             -      -       -     -      -      -     -      -       -     -      -     -      -
Loan repayment:   IBRD                                                        -   23.07  24.23  25.46  26.75  28.10
Local                      -                                            -               -      -
Change w/ capital                     -         -         -        59.00 (4.12)  (4.07) (0.97) (0.99) (1.04) (6.27)
Total                        7.00  35.00   82.42 622.72 473.88 479.33 154.66  28.75  21.90  26.31  27.67  29.07 162.73
Net Funds Flow                  -      -       -     -      -     -   8.47  77.42  123.21  68.15  30.84  29.10 (88.75)
Open balance                                                             -   8.47  85.89 209.10 277.25 308.09 337.19
Closing balance                                                       8.47  85.89  209.10 277.25 308.09 337.19 248.45
D/S Cover                                                                          3.02   2.34   2.30  2.17   2.63
- 39 -



Table 1.3: Shanghai- Zhejiang Highway (Shanghai Section)
Balance Sheet
(million Yuan, year endiing December 31)
1999      2000      2001    2002     2003     2004
Assets:
Fixed Assets
At cost                      1960.54   1828.88   1829.17 1829.48  1829.80  1830.14
Less:     Depreciation         53.65    107.26    160.87  213.14   265.42   317.71
Net fixed assets   1906.89   1721.62   1668.30 1616.34   1564.38  1512.43
Current Assets
Inventory                       0.08      0.10      0.14    0.14     0.15     0.15
Accounts receivable             6.26      7.39      8.52    8.79     9.07     9.35
Cash                            8.47     85.89    209.10  277.25   308.09   337.19
Subtotal              14.81     93.38    217.76  286.18   317.31   346.69
Other assets                    9.01      9.46       9.93   10.43    10.95    11.50
Total Assets                 1930.71   1824.46   18959   191295   189264    1870.62
Liabilities & Equity
State funds- Equity          1516.83   1372.44   1382.66 1422.61  1426.48   1429.89
LUT loans:    IBRD            388.59    421.46    473.74  449.51   424.05   397.30
Local                -         -         -       -        -        -
388.59    421.46    473.74  449.51   424.05    397.30
Current Liabilities            29.08     34.35     39.59   40.83    42.11    43.43
Other Liabilities             (3.79)    (3.79)         -       -        -        -
Total Liabilities & Equity   1930.1    182446    18.5.99 191295   189264    1870.62
Debt: Capital ratio            20.4      23.5     2,5.5     24.0    22.9      21.7
Debt / Equity ratio           22/78     25/75     27/73    26/74    25/75    24/76
Current ratio                  0.5       2.7       5.5      7.0      7.5      8.0
- 40 -



Table 1.4: Shanghai- Zhejiang Highway (Shanghai Section)
Financial Assumptions
1. Traffic: Fengjing - Songjiang
Small Car Medium Bus Large Bus Small Truck Medium. Truck Large. Truck Tractor- Trailer    Total
1999     8,085        260         605       1,500         1,370         470            -         12,290
2000     10,575       335         851        1,545        1,407         342            -          15,055
2005     15,538       448         1,139      2,068        1,883         458            -         21,534
2008     19,573       534         1,357      2,463        2,243         545            -         26,715
2018     36,741       829        2,107       3,825        3,483         846                      47,831
2. Onerating Taxes (after full opening):
a. Business tax                     5%     of total revenue.
b. City tax                         7%     of business taxes.
c. Education levy                   3%     of business taxes.
3  Operating Costs:                Increase 5 % pa.
a. Wages and benefits:             0.1920  million Yuan per km
b. Operation maintenance           1.3225  million Yuan per km
c. Fuel & materials                0.0254  million Yuan per km
d. Administration                 0.0942   million Yuan per km
e. Others:                        0.0181   million Yuan per km
f. Depreciation:                    35     years average straight-line method.
(Bridges and buildings 50 years, the
road and the road facilities 30 years)
4. Capital maintenance:             Increase 5 % pa.
(million Yuan /km)
Routine               Medium                      Major
(annual)              (/5 years)                  (/10 years)
0.34                  4.000                       8.000
5. Income Tax Rate (after full opening):            33.0% of profit before tax.
6. Loans:              IBRD              5%      20 years maturates, LIBOR US$ based single
currency including 5 years grace period.
-41 -



Table 2.1: Shanghai - Zhejiang Highway (Zhejiang Section)
Income Statement
(million Yuan, year ending December 31)
1997     1998    1999    2000    2001     2002200    3     2004   2005
Traffic (million Veh.-km)  212.36  265.46   704.18  978.07  1006.11  1034.89 1064.60  1095.14 1126.58
Operatine Revenue
Tolls                  83.00   117.00  428.00  522.00   503.06  517.45  532.30   547.57  653.42
Others                         -        -           -       -        -       -        -      -
Total          83.00   117.00   428.00  522.00  503.06   517.45  532.30  547.57  653.42
Operating Taxes
Business tax            3.64    4.55    20.00   26.37   25.15    25.87   26.62    27.38   32.67
City tax                0.25    0.32     1.40    1.85     1.76    1.81    1.86     1.92    2.29
Education levy          0.11    0.13     0.60    0.78     0.75    0.78    0.80     0.82    0.98
Total           4.00     5.00    22.00  29.00    27.66    28.46   29.28   30.12   35.94
Net Revenue                79.00   112.00   406.00  493.00  475.40   488.99  503.02   517.45  617.48
Operatin! Costs
Wagesandbenefits        3.72     3.91   17.81   13.63     9.48    9.9610   .45    10.98   11.52
Maintenance             8.71     9.17   41.71   31.92    22.21   23.32   24.48    25.71   26.99
Fuel & materials        2.45     2.58   11.73    8.98     6.25    6.56    6.89     7.23    7.59
Administration          2.32     2.44   11.10    8.50     5.91    6.21    6.52     6.84    7.19
Others                  1.80     1.90    8.65    6.60     4.60    4.83    5.07     5.32    5.59
Total working costs    19.00    20.00   91.00   69.63    48.45   50.87   53.41    56.08   58.89
Depreciation             -       .        -   30.37    36.31   42.25   48.20    54.14   60.08
Total operating costs  19.00    20.00   91.00  100.00    84.76   93.12  101.61   110.22  118.97
Operating Profit           60.00    92.00   315.00  393.00  390.64   395.87   401.4   407.23  498.51
Interests:  IBRD          8.00    6.00    58.00   47.93   55.85    53.21   50.44    47.53  44.47
Local             -        -        -    2.07    1.82     1.53    1.22     0.87   0.49
Otherincome(expenses)       -    18.00     3.00   13.00    2.47     2.11    1.74     9.17    9.14
Profit Before Taxes        52.00   104.00   260.00  356.00  335.44   343.24  351.49   368.00  462.69
Incometax               6.00   23.00    36.00   96.00   110.70   113.27  115.99  121.44  152.69
Other taxes                        -                -       -        -       -        -      -
Net Profit After Taxes     46.00    81.00   224.00  260.00  224.74   229.97  235.50   246.56  310.00
-42 -



Table 2.2: Shanghai - Zhejiang Highway (Zhejiang Section)
Sources and Applications of Funds
(million Yuan, year ending December 31)
1993   1994  1995   1996    1997   1998   1999  2000   2001   2002  2003    2004    2005
Sources:
Net profits                   -     -      -     -   46.00   81.00  224.0  260.0 224.74 229.97  235.5  246.56  310.00
Depreciation                  -     -      -     -       -       -     - 30.37   36.31  42.25  48.20  54.14   60.08
State contribution         5.78  45.10  41.18  56.72  185.58  79.91  48.39  23.28  8.06    -      -       -      -
Provincial contribution   16.74 130.51 119.17 164.15  537.03  231.23 140.02  67.36  23.32
Borrowing:       IBRD     12.95 100.99  92.21 127.01  415.54  178.93 108.35  52.12  18.05
Local     0.85   6.63   6.05  8.34   27.27   11.74  7.11   3.42  1.18
Others                     -      -     -      -      -       -      -     -      -
Total                      36.32 283.23 258.61 356.22 1211.42  582.81 527.87 436.55 311.66 272.22  283.7  300.70  370.08
Applications:
Capital expenditure       36.32 283.23 258.61 356.22 1165.42  701.81 274.87 243.55  36.63  38.46  40.38  42.40  44.52
Other payment              -      -     -      -      -       -      -     -      -      -     -       -      -
Loan repayment: IBRD          -     -      -     -       -       -     -      - 52.12   54.76  57.53  60.44   63.50
Local        -      -     -      -       -      -      -   7.00  8.00   9.00  10.00   11.00  12.00
Change w/ capital                                        - (178.00) 312.00  74.00 (76.91)  0.43  0.44  0.47    3.17
Total                      36.32 283.23 258.61 356.22 1165.42  523.81 586.87 324.55  19.84 102.65 108.35  114.31  123.19
Net Funds Flow              0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   46.00   59.00 (59.00) 112.00 291.82 169.57 175.35  186.39  246.89
Open balance                                          114.00  160.00 219.00 160.00 272.00 563.82 733.39  908.74 1095.13
Closing balance                                       160.00  219.00 160.00 272.00 563.82 733.39 908.74 1095.13 1342.02
D/S Cover                                              -       -      -    41.48  4.34   4.27   4.20   4.21    4.90
- 43 -



Table 2.3: Shanghai - Zhejiang Highway (Zhejiang Section)
Balance Sheet
(million Yuan, year ending 31, D)ecember)
1997     1998    1999     2000     2001    2002     2003     2004    2005
Assets:
Fixed Assets
At cost               1907.00  2843.00  2910.00  2910.37  30'5.32  3059.17  3063.21  3067.45  3071.90
Less:   Depreciation        -        -       -    30.37    66.68   108.93  157.13   211.27   271.35
Net fixed
assets        1907.00  2843.00  2910.00  2880.00  2988.64  2950.24  2906.08  2856.18  2800.55
Long tem investment      6.00     6.00     4.00    3.00     3.00     3.00    3.00     3.00     3.00
Current Assets
Inventory                   -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -
Accountreceivable      294.00    30.00   251.00  262.00   2S91.77  300.12  308.73   317.59   378.98
Cash                   160.00   219.00   160.00  272.00   563.82   733.39  908.74   1095.13  1342.02
Subtotal         454.00   249.00   411.00  534.00   8';5.59  1033.51  1217.47  1412.72  1721.00
Other assets           362.00  412.00   395.00   354.00  366.64   367.10   367.59   368.09   368.63
Total Assets          2729.00  3510.00  3720.00  3771.00  213.87  435.85   4494.14  4639.99  4893.18
Liablffties & Equity
State funds- Equity   1521.16  2197.49  2383.03  2448.49  2844.80  3040.62  3240.27  3449.17  3719.64
L/T loans:  IBRD       748.70   927.63  1035.98  1088.10  10:5.98  981.22   923.69   863.25  799.75
Local      49.14    60.88    67.99   64.41    'i6.41   47.41    37.41   26.41     14.41
Subtotal  797.84   988.51  1103.97  1152.51  1092.39  1028.63  961.10  889.66   814.16
Current Liabilities    410.00   324.00   233.00  170.00   2 '6.68  284.60   292.77  301.16   359.38
Total Liabillties &
Equity                  2229 0  3510.00  3720.00  3771.00  42_3_87  4353.85  4494.14  4639.99  4893.18
Debt: Capital ratio     34.4     31.0     31.7    32.0     27.7     25.3     22.9     20.5    18.0
Debt / Equity ratio     44/56   37/63    36/64    35/65    32i68   30/70    28/72    26/74    24/76
Current ratio            1.1     0.8      1.8      3.1      3.1     3.6      4.2      4.7      4.8
- 44 -



Table 2.4: Shanghai - Zhejiang Highway (Zhejiang Section)
Financial Assumptions
1. Traffic:
Small Car Medium Bus Large Bus Small Truck Medium Truck        Large Truck  Tractor-Trailer  Total
Section 1: Pengbu - Yuhang
1998        4,992        1,133      2,649       2,175         3,898         1,185           47        16,079
1999        8,823       2,003       3,608       3,843         5,525         1,467           59        25,328
2000        9,489        2,154       5,033      4,135         7,408         2,252           89        30,560
2005        13,942       2,883       6,735      5,534         9,914         3,014           119       42,141
2008        17,563       3,434       8,021      6,591         11,808        3,590           142       51,149
2018        32,968       5,333      12,456      10,236        18,337        5,575          221        85,126
Section 2: Yuhang - Fengjing
1998          -           -           -           -             -             -             -           -
1999        5,798        1,316       1,558      2,526         2,163          784            31        14,176
2000        6,899        1,565       1,854      3,006         2,574          933            38        16,869
2005        10,137       2,094       2,481      4,023         3,445          1,249          51        23,480
2008        12,770       2,494       2,955      4,791         4,103          1,488          61        28,662
2018        23,971       3,873       4,589      7,440         6,372         2,311           95        48,651
2. Operating Taxes:
a. Business tax             5%       of total revenue.
b. City tax                 7%       of business taxes.
c. Education levy           3%       of business taxes.
3 OVerating Costs:        Increase 5 % pa.
a. Wages and benefits      0.0881    million Yuan per km
b. Maintenance             0.2062    million Yuan per km
c. Fuel & materials        0.0580    million Yuan per km
d. Administration          0.0549    million Yuan per km
e. Others                  0.0427    million Yuan per km
f. Depreciation             30       years average annual traffic density method.
4. Income Tax Rate:           33%      of profit before tax
5. Capital maintenance:   Increase 5 % pa.
(million Yuan/km)
Routine                 Medium                          Major
(annual)                (/5 years)                  (/10 years)
0.34                    4.000                           8.000
6. Loans:     IBRD             5.0%      20 year maturates, LIBOR US$-based single
Currency, including 5-year grace period.
Domestic        3.15%      overall average
-45 -



Appendix 1
EIRR Simulation and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
(Total Project)
Summary:
Display Range is from -5.0% to 50.0% (in %)
Entire Range is from -6.3% to 63.5% (in %)
After 991 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.3%
Statistics:                                     Value         Percentiles:
Trials                                      991
Mean                                      22.2%                                Percentile         (in %)
Median                                    21.8%                                      0%           -6.3%
Mode                                         --                                     10%           10.0%
Standard Deviation                         9.4%          Low Scenario               20%            14.7%
Variance                                   0.9%                  |                  30%            17.3%
Skewness                                    0.15         Most Likely                40%            19.8%
Kurtosis                                    3.20                 |                  50%           21.8%
Coeff. of Variability                       0.42         High Scenario              60%           24.5%
Range Minimum                             -6.3%                             .       70%           27.2%
Range Maximum                             63.5%                                     80%           29.8%
Range Width                               69.8%                                     90%           34.3%
Mean Std. Error                           0.30%                                    100%           63.5%
Forecast: EIRR for Total Project
991 Trials                                Frequency Chart                                  3 Outliers
.029                                                                             -29
022                                                                                2175
0r
.01571.
.000 
-5.0%             8.8%            22.5%             36.3%            50.t%
(in %)
Assumptions
Traffic Growth Rate                                            Value of the VOC
Normal distribution with parameters:                           Triangular distrioution with parameters:
Mean                           100.0%                          Minimum                  90.0%
Standard Dev.                   10.0%                          Likeliest               100.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity                  Maximum                 110.0%
Mean value in simulation was 100.2%                            Selected range ih from 90.0% to 110.0%
Mean value in simulation was 100.0%
-46 -



Appendix 2
FIRR Simulation and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
(The Total Expressway)
Summary:
Display Range is from 3.0% to 8.0% (in %)
Entire Range is from 2.5% to 7.9% (in %)
After 1,000 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.0%
Statistics:                             Value       Percentiles:
Trials                             1000
Mean                               5.4%                           Percentile        (in%)
Median                             5.4%                                0%            2.5%
Mode                                  -                                10%           4.2%
Standard Deviation                 0.9%       Low Scenario            20%            4.7%
Variance                           0.0%              C:               30%            5.0%
Skewness                          -0.10       Most Likely             40%            5.2%
Kurtosis                           2.88                               50%            5.4%
Coeff. of Variability              0.17       High Scenario           60%            5.6%
Range Minimum                      2.5%                               70%            5.9%
Range Maximum                      7.9%                               80%            6.2%
Range Width                        5.4%                               90%            6.6%
Mean Std. Error                  0.03%                               100%            7.9%
Forcast FlRR for the Total Expresswy
1,000 Trias                          Frequency Chat                             4 Oulers
30
023                                                                     22s5
M  0%                                       M
Maiu         1rn1m                 u11Maiu11m1.UJI
.0%            4.3%           5.5%           6.8%            8.0%
(,%)
Assumptions
Toll Charges                                        Total Working Coat
Triangular distribution with parameters:            Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum                                90.0%        Minimum                               90.0%
Likeliest                             100.0%        Likeliest                            100.0%
Maximum                               110.0%        Maximum                              110.0%
Selected range is from 90.0% to  Iin0.0%            Selected range is from 90.0% to 10.0%
Mean value in simulation was 99.8%                  Mean value in simulation was 99.9%
Traffic Growth Rate
Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                                  100.0%
Standard Dev.                          10.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 99.9%
- 47 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FM';, etc.)  Implementation Development
MontWiYear     Count          Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/19/92                    4    Highway Engineer, Transport
Specialist, Inland Waterway
Specialist, Financial Specialist
03/08/93                    4    Highway Engineer, Road Safety
Specialist, Inland Waterway,
Environmental Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/24/93                    5    Transport Specialist,
Highway Engineer, Road
Safety Specialist,
Resettlement Specialist
11/27/93                    5    Transport Specialist,
Environmental Specialist,
Highway Engineer, Road Safety
Specialist, Resettlement
Specialist
05/07/94                    4    Environmentalist, Highway
Engineer, Resettlement
Specialist, Operation Officer
10/17/94                    1    Resettlement Specialist
10/24/95                    5    Institutional, Training and
Equipment Specialist
Environmentalist.. Resettlement
Specialist, Highway Engineer,
Operation Officer,
Environmental Specialist
Supervision
11/23/95                     8   Institutional, Training and        S            S
Equipment Specialist,
Resettlement Spe.-ialist,
Highway Engineer,
Procurement Specialist,
Operation Officei,
Environmental Specialist,
Road Safety
05/23/96                     1   Procurement/Highway Engineer       S            U
10/29/96                     2   Procurement/Higlway Engineer,      S            S
Highway Engineer
- 48 -



Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
05/11/97                    2   Highway Engineer, Resettlement     S            S
Specialist
11/19/97                    2   Highway Engineer, Environment     S             S
Spec.alist
11/16/98                    3   Highway Engineer,                 S             S
Environmental Engineer,
Operation Officer
03/28/99                    3   Highway Specialist,                S            S
Environmental Engineer,
Highway Specialist
04/21/00                    1   Highway Engineer                   S            S
ICR
11/00                       1    Research Analyst
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             USS ('000)
Identification/Preparation              62.3                      197.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                  125.3                      280.8
Supervision                            100.8                      402.8
ICR                                     5.45                       35.5
Total                                  293.9                      916.0
As of March 2001.
- 49 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                            O H   * SU O M   O N   O NA
Sector Policies                           OH    * SU CM    O N   O NA
3 Physical                                 O H   * SUOM     O N   O NA
Z Financial                                O H   * SU OM    O N   O NA
3 Institutional Development                0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
ER Environmental                           O H   * SU OM    O N   O NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                 OH    OSUOM       ON    * NA
N Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
3 Other (Please specify)            OH    *SUOM       ON    O NA
Resttlement
2 Private sector development               0 H   O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
3 Public sector management                 0 H   0 SU 0 M    0 N   0 NA
3Other (Please specify)                    OH    *SUOM       O N   O NA
Market development: Higher Research and
Learning Institutions
providing consulting services
- 50 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
E Lending                                           OHS OS       OU     OHU
E Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS Ou O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
2 Preparation                                       OHS      S S  O   U  0 HU
2 Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                 0 HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
M Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 51 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, Shanghai-Zhejiang Highwvay Project, July 11, 1995.
The World Bank, Loan Agreement, Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project Between The People's Republic
of China and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, June 19, 1992
The World Bank Resident Mission in China, Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway Project, Traffic Demand
Forecast and Analysis, Beijing, May 1993.
The World Bank, Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project, Environmental Assessment Summary, November
1993.
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences, Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway, Environmental Action
Plan, January, 1994.
The Executive Commission of the Shanghai Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway Project, Project
Supervision Department, Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway (Shanghai Section),
Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Project Execution Commission, Resettlement Action Plan for
Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway Project (Zhejiang Section), Final Report, June 1995.
Shanghai Municipality Engineering Administration Bureau, Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway Engineering
Construction Executive Commission, Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway (Shanghai Section) Resettlement Action Plan, May 1995.
Zhejiang Expressway Co. LTD., A Joint Stock Company Incorporated in the People's Republic of China
with Limited Liability, May 6, 1997.
Zhejiang Provincial Design Institute of Communications, Brief Design of Engineering Feasibility Study of
Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway Project, October 1992.
Zhejiang Province, The Engineering Office, Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway Project Monthly Progress
Report, No. 51, November 1996.
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences, Environmental Impact Assessment of the Shihutang &
Xinbang Intersecting Bridges Construction of Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway (Shanghai-Section), May
1998.
Shanghai Municipality Engineering Administration Bureau, Shanghai Municipal Engineering Design
Institute, Feasibility Study of Shanghai- Hangzhou Expressway Project- Supplementary Reports
(Shanghai Sections), October 1993.
- 52 -



MAP SECTION






CHINA 119'            T.onngs,pbq
SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG                                              '.      -I
HIGHWAY PROJECT                           j         .
TRANSPORT SYSTEM                                            I                       I .
IN SHANGHAI AND ZHEJIANG                    I
PROPOSED SHANGHAI-HANGZHOU EXPRESSWAY  /       - _
EXPRESSWAYS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                              ------
* FUTURE EXPRESSWAYS AND HIGHWAYS
EXISTING EXPRESSWAYS  : Itsi e i -, - 
NATIONAL ROADS                                                        _
PROVINCE ROADS
-31'                                 -      
RAILROADS
PREFECTURE BOUNDAIRES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                    I
A,nji    !                             -J r
O    25   50    75   100   -.       I              ;An
KILOMETERS                  .3
-30,
P.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
V.~ ~~~ ~ ~                  - '.  '           .-  V JI i
55-~~~~ Inun, *-      - .4
29/ '          -                                          -           - .,'               ;1I
-29c ~ ~ ~   - IX                        Wuy'~oj> 
E Suichng                     I 
!                                                            E
L-ngquG    n         Yne4-|1- -6                                    ERN .|.,
,    '!C                                           IVi
I,             -- >                                        /F1'                1
28'                                                                          I             U
Th,s -ap  asp-od-sd  Llby.h             t 
A.p C tssn Onit of ThR World 8-  k   - .  ,           l                                          t .,
T6 h,,...~~~~~~~~~~~~QOnyunS.                             .   1,
This -up uuspuduI iceplyso.I f
o  uhb-ud-rie          1 19t                                                   1 






IBRD 2581 9
CHINA
SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROF  El  H r  HI H -   I  R r L- r  A fE-
EXPR:  . . -   I .I   - H 
FUTUL  11 11  ii  Hi.. H
EXISThIIr: EI  .-: E   -r.  HI.-H 
- L}   INTE'  -IH I 1.1 .I v. 
URBA' I -If- -                                                      .
RAILF i:-1:: 
ROA.
GRAI410:.  s       I                                 |
RIVEF:
PRO\  I-,I :1lb-11E-RI\
Kit~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -1                 ;  t  , 
o                   lo  ' ' ' - - ~~~~ - ~~2 h i.'.11-   *l.., \ ,  - ,   \
KIL  Ji                                    ..:;       , 
.  -         ;- 
Z H Li 
/~~ - 
--~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ m A2 >  -.+  -  -         u'                                     --       _.
D.qi,~~~~~~~-4-
I- ~ -*                 , ||itt            - .;... 
Z~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~                          ~   ~~~~~~~~ .- L-  - --  I*  - --
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'I. /.  .~    I-ymH:,  
F__l-_  1 C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;   -  ;  -:,-.:h:i     ; R'a_,
tt   N''r>      .., 
' '   15  1 . -<''  " '' '                                 I        _'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



