Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14034-CRA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
JULY 11, 1995
Transport Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 1995)
Currency name = Renminbi
Currency unit   =  Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
$1.00           = Y 8.50
$0.115          =  Y 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                      =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                 =      0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2)              =      10.76 square feet (ft2)
1 square kilometer (kM2)         =      0.4 square miles (mi2)
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 (km2)      =      2.47 acres (ac) = 15 mu
1 mu                             =      666.7 m2 = 0.0667 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                  =      2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)             =      2,204 pounds (lbs)



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
6FYP   - Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85)    SAA     - State Audit Administration
7FYP   - Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90)    SFB   - Shanghai Finance Bureau
8FYP   - Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95)   SITC    - Shanghai International Tendering
9FYP   - Ninth Five-Year Plan (1996-2000)            Company
AADT  - Annualized Average Daily Traffic    SM     - Shanghai Municipality
CRISPP - China Reform, Institutional Sup-  SMAB   - Shanghai Municipal Audit
port and Preinvestment Project              Bureau
CTF    - Consultant Trust Funds            SMCC   - Shanghai Municipal Construction
E&M   - Electrical & Mechanical                      Commission
EA     - Environmental Assessment          SMEAB  - Shanghai Municipal Engineering
EAP    - Environmental Action Plan                   Administration Bureau
EIRR   - Economic Internal Rate of Return  SMEDI  - Shanghai Municipal Engineering
FYRR  - First-Year Rate of Return                    Design Institute
GDP   - Gross Domestic Product             SMG    - Shanghai Municipal Government
GNP   - Gross National Product             SOE     - Statements of Expense
GOC   - Government of China                SPC     - State Planning Commission
GOVAI - Gross Output Value of Agriculture    SRIEP   - Shanghai Research Institute for
and Industry                                Environmental Protection
HHEC  - Hu-Hang (Shanghai-Hangzhou)        TA      - Technical Assistance
Expressway Engineering Construc-    TCU   - Technical Coordinating Unit
tion Executive Commission         TOR     - Terms of Reference
(Shanghai)                       vpd      - Vehicles per day
HPDI  - Highway Planning and Design        YEZTS  - Yangtze Economic Zone Trans-
Institute                                   port Study
HSRI  - Highway Scientific Research Insti-    ZP   - Zhejiang Province
tute                              ZPCD    - Zhejiang Provincial Communica-
ICB    - International Competitive Bidding           tions Department
JHAB   - Jiaxing Highway Administration    ZPCDI  - Zhejiang Provincial
Bureau                                      Communications Design Institute
JST    - Joint Supervision Team            ZPEPB   - Zhejiang Provincial Environ-
LCB    - Local Competitive Bidding                   mental Protection Bureau
MAAP - Microcomputer Accident Analysis    ZPEC    - Zhejiang Provincial Shanghai-
Package                                     Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway
MOC   - Ministry of Communications                   Project Executive Commission
MOF   - Ministry of Finance                ZPG     - Zhejiang Provincial People's
NPV    - Net Present Value                           Government
NR     - National Route                    ZPHAB  - Zhejiang Provincial Highway
NTHS  - National Trunk Highway System                Administration Bureau
pcu    - Passenger Car Unit                ZPRIEP  - Zhejiang Provincial Research
PMS   - Pavement Management System                   Institute of Environmental Pro-
PRC    - People's Republic of China                  tection
RAP   - Resettlement Action Plan           ZPTD    - Zhejiang Provincial Transport
RDB   - Road Data Bank                               Department
RMF   - Road Maintenance Fee               ZPTDI  - Zhejiang Provincial Transport
RSP    - Road Safety Program                         Design Institute






CHINA
SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Sunmnary
Borrower:          People's Republic of China
Benefi'ciaries:    Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang Province
Poverty:           Not Applicable
Amount:            $260 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate
Commitment
Fee:               0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver
Financing
Plan:              See para 3.60
Economic Rate
of Return:         33 percent for the project overall
33 percent for the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
54 percent for the Road Safety Programn
Maps:              IBRD 25817, 25818 and 25819
Project
Identification
Number:            CN-PA-3569






CONTENTS
1        Transport Bottlenecks and Reforms  ....... .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
A.   Background .................................. .                               1
B.   Traffic ..................................... .                               1
C.   Transport Reforms  ........  ..  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..    .  2
D.   The Highway Subsector ...........................                             4
E.   Bank Group Participation  ..........................                          8
F.   Lessons from Previous Bank Operations ...... .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  11
2        The Transport Sector in Shanghai and Zhejiang  ..... .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
A.   Situation and Economy ........ .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
B.   Transport Network  .........  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .    .  14
C.   Traffic Characteristics and Growth  ...... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
D.   The Vehicle Fleet .........  .         .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .    .  17
E.   Road Safety  ..........  .          ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..    .  18
F.   Highway Development ........ .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
3        The Project   ...........  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .    ..  ..  ..  ..    .  22
A.   Origin and Formulation  ........ .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  22
B.   Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement ..... .         .  .  .  .  .  .    .  23
C.   Project Description  ........ .        .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  25
D.   Status of Project Preparation  ....... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  31
This report is based on the findings of a November 1993 appraisal mission led by Stephen
Stares and consisting of Rita Pasi, George Mahoney, Katsunori Suzuki, Christopher Robson
and Ruwani Jayewardene. Subsequent missions involved Maninder Gill, Zou Youlan, and Aly
Ercelawn, who contributed to preparation for resettlement activities under this project. Jose
Veniard, Liu E, Lyra Pinto, Richard Leonard, Bavani Krishnamurthi, and Ashraf Ghani also
contributed to completion of this Staff Appraisal Report. Peer reviewers for the project were
Christopher Hoban (Transport Engineer), Stein Lundebye (Senior Highway Construction
Industry Specialist) and Nick Anderson (Environmental Specialist). The Task Manager is Rita
Pasi, the Division Chief is Richard Scurfield and the Department Director is Nicholas C.
Hope.



E.  Environmental Assessment ........ .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    32
F.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement ....................    33
G.  Cost Estimates ........... .  .. .. .. .  .. .. .. .  .. .. .  .   .    37
H.  Financing ............. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. ... .. ..   .    39
I.   Project Implementation  ........ .  .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    41
J.   Procurement ........... .. .. .. .. .  .. .. .. .. .  .. ..   .    43
K.  Disbursements ........... .  .. .. .. .  .. .. .  .. .. .. .  .   .    46
L.  Project Monitoring and Supervision ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    47
4  Economic Evaluation .49
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries .49
B.  Evaluation of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway .50
C.  Evaluation of the Road Safety Program .58
D.  Summary of Evaluation and Assessment of Project Risks .60
5    Agreements Reached and Recommendation .62
TABLEs
1.1      Traffic Turnover by Mode, 1980-1993 .64
1.2      Road Accident Risks in Various Countries, 1993 .65
1.3      China: Bank Group-Financed Transport Projects .....   . ........    66
2.1  EconomiEconomic Data, 1992 .68
2.2      Demographic and Transport Network  atat, 9 92.69
2.3       Classification of Road Network in Shanghai and Zhejiang, 1981-93 ...    70
2.4      Shanghai and Zhejiang: Freight and Passenger Turnover by Mode, . .
1982-92 .71
2.5      Shanghai: Comparison of Freight and Passenger Volume by Mode,
1985 and 1993 .72
2.6      Shanghai and Zhejiang: Freight and Passenger Traffic Volume by
Mode, 1982-92 .73
2.7       Zhejiang: Comparison of Freight and Passenger Volume by Mode,
1985 and 1992 .74
2.8      Zhejiang Province: Transportation Services by Sector .75
2.9      Shanghai and Zhejiang: Vehicle Fleet, 1984-93 .                      76
2.10     Road Safety in Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang Province .77
2.11     Traffic Accidents in Shanghai Section of Project Corridor .78
2.12     Composition of Shanghai Road Network, 1985-2000 .79
2.13     Projected Composition of Zhejiang Road Network .79
2.14     Zhejiang: Major Road Works, 1993-2000. . . . .                       80
2.15     Shanghai: Highway Development Program, 1986-2000 .81
2.16     Zhejiang: Highway Development Program. . . .                         82
2.17     Zhejiang: Transport Investments Planned for Improved
Access to Hangzhou City .83
2.18     Shanghai: Highway Revenues and Expenditures, 1986-2000 .84
2.19     Zhejiang: Highway Revenues and Expenditures, 1986-2000 .   .. .....    85



- 111 -
3.1       China: Highway Design Standards .......................                 86
3.2       Staff Training Program - Shanghai Section ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    87
3.3       Staff Training Program - Zhejiang Section ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    89
3.4       Equipment To Be Procured - Shanghai Expressway Section ..... .  .    .    91
3.5       Equipment To Be Procured - Zhejiang Expressway Section ..... .  .    .    92
3.6       Equipment To Be Procured - Road Safety Program ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  94
3.7       Summary of Equipment to be Procured Under the Project ..... .  .  .    .    95
3.8       Estimated Disbursement Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    96
4.1       Zhejiang: Traffic Growth on National Route 320 (AADT) ..... .  .    .   97
4.2       Shanghai: Traffic Growth in Expressway Corridor  ..... .  .  .  .  .  .    .    98
4.3       Projected Traffic in the Shanghai-Hangzhou Corridor  ..... .  .  .  .  .    .  99
4.4       Shanghai-Hangzhou Corridor Estimated Travel Times and Speeds . .. .    100
4.5       Vehicle Operating Costs ......... .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .. .  .  .   .    101
4.6       Estimated Construction Costs ........ .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    102
4.7       Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway: Economic Evaluation without Tolling      103
4.8       Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway: Economic Evaluation with Tolling .       104
4.9       Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway: Economic Evaluation with Tolling
and with Road Safety Program Improvements .105
4.10      Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway: Economic Evaluation with Tolling and
Road Safety Improvements - Low Growth and Low Diversion Scenario       106
4.11      Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway: Sensitivity Analysis .107
4.12      Road Safety Program: Economic Evaluation .108
4.13      Road Safety Program: Sensitivity Analysis      ..... . .    109
4.14      Overall Economic Evaluation for Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project      110
ANNEXES
1.       Management of the Highway Sector in Shanghai and Zhejiang ...   .       111
2.        Road Safety Program  ......... .. .  .. .  .. .  .  .. .  .. .  .  .. .  .   .    122
3.        Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary ..... .  .    .  .  .    .    145
4.        Land Acquisition and Resettlement ....... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   171
5.        Project Cost and Financing  ........ .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   185
6.        Project Implementation ......... .  .. .  .  .. .  .  .. .  .  .. .  .  .. .   .   193
7.        Supervision Mission Plan ......... .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .. .  .  .   .   207
8.        Selected Documents Available in the Project File ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   211
MAPS
1.        China: Major Highway Development Program-National Trunk Highway System
(NTHS), IBRD 25817
2.        Transport System in Shanghai and Zhejiang, IBRD 25818
3.        Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project, IBRD 25819






1. TRANSPORT BOTTLENECKS AND REFORMSI/
A. BACKGROUND
1.1         The transport system in China has grown considerably over the last four
decades. Since 1952, the length of the highway system increased by a factor of nine and
the length of the railway network more than doubled. Despite this development, the
transport network is one of the sparsest in the world compared with the area and
population it serves. The main reason for this is China's low level of transport investment,
which averaged only 1.4 percent of Gross National Product (GNP) during 1980-93, as
compared with 2-3 percent for other countries such as India, the Republic of Korea and
Brazil. The transport system is also characterized by high intensity of freight traffic. To
produce one dollar of economic output, China handles 50 percent more ton-kilometers
(ton-km) of traffic than India and Brazil due to a relatively large heavy-industry sector,
reliance on coal as the major source of energy and a large volume of other bulk products.
These factors have resulted in a gap between transport supply and demand that is
manifested by the existence of transport bottlenecks, the administrative rationing of limited
transport capacity, the poor quality of services and losses to the economy.
1.2         The economic system in China is undergoing a major transition toward a
market orientation and this transition will involve many reforms in the transport sector
designed to increase efficiency and improve its response to market forces. These reforms,
which started in 1979, are now accelerating due to new government policies announced in
1992 and 1993 by the 14th Party Congress.
B. TRAFC
1.3          China had experienced rapid growth of traffic during 1980-89 when the
economy grew at an average annual rate of 9.5 percent. Traffic growth declined when the
economic growth slowed down during 1989-90, as the supply constraints became more
conspicuous. However, resumption of high economic growth since 1991 has brought about
a corresponding surge in transport demand.
1.4         Traffic Growth. Despite the capacity constraints and related bottlenecks,
since 1980 freight traffic has grown at 7.4 percent per annum and total passenger traffic
1/    This chapter is an abstract of the Bank sector report (No. 1 1819-CHA) China Highway Development
and Management Issues, Options and Strategies, February 1994.



- 2 -
at 11.8 percent per annum.2/ Highway freight traffic grew at the highest annual rate of
13.7 percent, compared with 5.8 percent for railway traffic and 8.1 percent for coastal and
inland waterway traffic. Despite its rapid growth, intercity passenger travel per capita in
China remains very low, at about two thirds of the level for India. This is due primarily
to the severe capacity constraints. Civil aviation traffic is rapidly expanding and has
grown 20.9 percent per annum since 1980, but still represents a small share of total traffic
with most long-distance journeys made by rail (Table 1.1).
1.5         Transport Demand and Modal Split Trends. Although the railway's share
of traffic has declined over the last decade as the share of road traffic has grown, rail
transport still dominates freight and passenger traffic in China. In 1993, 39.2 percent of
freight and 44.3 percent of passenger traffic turnover were attributable to rail, with the
remainder moved by road, inland waterway, coastal shipping, pipeline, and civil aviation.
This preeminence of the railway is due in part to the past dependence of the Chinese
economy on heavy industry and in part to the relatively long transport distances. In the
case of passenger transport, dominance of the railway is due to the poor quality and
inadequate capacity of the road system and intercity bus services, the virtual absence of
private automobiles, and the limited use of civil aviation. The movement toward a market
economy will increase demand for market-responsive transport services, favoring a shift
to road transport but still leaving a growing market for the relatively low-cost rail transport
system.
C. TRANSPORT REFORMS
1.6         In the past decade, China's economic reforms have aimed to increase
economic efficiency through measures designed to reduce national government intervention
in the production and distribution process, reduce the Government's deficits and subsidies
to state-owned enterprises, and open the economy by expanding trade and allowing further
participation of private and collective enterprises. In the transport sector, several reforms
have been undertaken in line with these objectives-many with Bank assistance. Notably,
the Government has:
(a)   reduced the extent of commodity price distortions by (i) decreasing the
volumes of commodities produced in the State Plan, and (ii) raising the in-
plan prices of commodities closer to market levels;
(b)   increased the tariffs charged by state transport enterprises, including
railway, highway and waterway, to levels approaching their long-run
marginal costs;
(c)   encouraged provincial governments to develop many local railways, which
now total some 4,400 route-km and interconnect with the national standard
gauge network;
2/    As indicated by turnover volume of traffic.



(d)   allowed private individuals and collective and township enterprises to
provide passenger and freight transport services on roads and inland
waterways, and encouraged provincial and national authorities to develop
transport systems with private sector financing;
(e)   carried out major structural reforms in the organization and management of
civil aviation and in the ports, leading to increased financial autonomy and
accountability, and to less central government controls, thus paving the way
for introduction of competitive services;
(f)   reduced operating and capital subsidies for major infrastructure services,
through higher cost-recovery and increased reliance on user-funded capital
construction; and
(g)   encouraged the introduction of more modem technology in the transport
system primarily by improving rolling stock technology in the railways;
enhancing container and bulk handling capacity in the ports; improving road
pavement design and geometric standards for the expansion of motorization
in the highway subsector; and increasing the use of computerized data
processing and planning techniques in operations in all modes.
1.7         These initiatives are helping to spur the growth and modemization of the
transport system. However, much more needs to be done to bring about the changes
required to deal effectively with the emerging issues. To alleviate the transport bottlenecks
and rationalize the transport system, the Govemment will need to take the following
measures by the year 2000:
(a)   increase the total level of transport investment in relation to GNP, to expand
capacity to meet the new traffic demands and to clear up the backlogs
caused by past underinvestment;
(b)   aim for balanced investments among the major freight transport modes of
railways, highways, and waterways in terms of optimal economic cost of
transport;
(c)   realign further the prices of freight transport services and those of the major
commodities, especially coal, to bring them closer to their real costs;
(d)   increase further the productivity of existing transport assets through
technological modernization and management reforms; and
(e)   improve and expand the multimodal transport system, both across and
within modes, with particular emphasis on more extensive use of containers.



- 4 -
D. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
The National Highway Network and its Utilization
1.8         The highway network totaled 1,083,476 km at the end of 1993 but, relative
to either population or geographic area, ranked among the sparsest in the world. An
estimated 30 percent of China's villages have no access to roads adequate for motor
vehicles. Investment in the highway subsector has been rather modest, at 21 percent of
total investment in the transport sector during the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90).
Since the early 1980s, the highway system has carried an increasing share of traffic. The
network is, for the purposes of design and technical specifications, classified by Ministry
of Communications (MOC) as Expressway (access-controlled highways with divided
carriageways for the exclusive use of motor vehicles), and Classes I, II, III and IV for
various traffic capacities in different terrain. For administrative purposes, roads are
classified as national, provincial, county, village, and special purpose.
1.9         China's road network consists mainly of aging roads with neither the
capacity nor strength to carry current and projected future traffic. Many of the roads need
upgrading in addition to normal maintenance and rehabilitation. A Bank policy study on
road deterioration in developing countries classified China among the countries with an
extensive and obsolete road network in need of modernization to meet the rapid growth in
road transport demand. Although China has not neglected road maintenance, its outmoded
maintenance technology would not be sufficient to arrest the accelerated deterioration of
the aging road system network. China needs to mobilize domestic and external resources
for modernizing its road system with special emphasis placed on technology transfer,
institutional improvement, and development of skills. There are few absorptive capacity
constraints relative to achieving these objectives given China's decentralized, stable, and
financially accountable highway administration structure.
1.10        The rapid growth of highway traffic stems not only from the country's rapid
economic growth but also from other factors such as the national policy of shifting short-
haul transport from rail to road as well as the expansion of the service sector and rural
industries. Furthermore, with the increase in foreign trade, growth in transport demand
will be concentrated in transport corridors serving the main ports and their hinterlands and,
with containerization of higher value commodities, most domestic movements of this
foreign trade are expected to go by road. The new economic activities have generated
traffic in excess of what many of the existing facilities can accommodate. Congestion on
roads resulting from the mix of slow-moving nonmotorized and motorized traffic is also
a serious problem.
1.11        The vehiclefleet in 1993 totaled 8.2 million trucks, buses and cars, mainly
gasoline-powered, with trucks comprising about 61 percent. Most trucks are of four-ton
capacity with outmoded designs and low  fuel efficiency.  These vehicles were
manufactured domestically and, until recently, the production of trucks was barely
sufficient to replace the retired vehicles, let alone meet growing demand. It was not until
the early 1980s that large numbers of modern vehicles were imported and joint ventures
with foreign manufacturers started to manufacture trucks and passenger cars. Production



- 5 -
of motor vehicles has grown steadily, reaching 714,000 units in 1991, of which 410,000
were trucks, 180,000 cars, and 124,000 were chassis, finished mostly as buses. This
production is contributing to the creation of a modem fleet, although the older vehicles still
predominate.
1.12        Growth in the truck and bus fleet has been fairly steady at an average annual
rate of 12.3 percent over the last 12 years, with particularly strong growth in small
passenger vehicles. Growth in the tractor and motorcycle fleets has increased sharply,
with motorcycles showing the strongest growth of all vehicle types.
1.13        The composition of vehicles using China's roads is diverse, including a
variety of motorized and a large number of other (non-motor) vehicles. The tractor and
motorcycle fleets, for example, at 5.4 million and 6.5 million respectively, well exceed the
size of the truck and bus fleet. Tractors and motorcycles offer a relatively cheap and basic
form of transport, but contribute significantly to traffic congestion and are among the
major causes of road accidents.  The domestic production of vehicles reflects the
importance of non-motor vehicles in China: in 1993, production comprised 41.5 million
bicycles, 3.6 million motorcycles, 1.3 million trucks, cars, and buses and 1 million
tractors.
1.14        The trucking industry consists of publicly-owned trucks operated by trucking
companies affiliated with local (provincial or district) highway authorities, and other trucks
operated by factories, cooperative organizations and, recently, private individuals. The
relaxation of trucking regulations in the early 1980's allowed own-account trucks to haul
cargo for other factories and cooperatives and thus promoted competition between public
and own-account trucks. In fact, nonpublic trucks have absorbed most of the growth in
traffic over the past few years. However, trucking costs are extremely high, stemming in
part from technological factors (poor roads, outmoded trucks, relatively low utilization of
carrying capacity, etc.) and from a lack of experience in fleet management, which is
essential to the development of modem and efficient trucking services. While market
forces are expected to play a more important role in shaping the industry in the future, it
is necessary to understand the current constraints to such development and to identify the
measures needed to allow the reshaping of the industry to take place. In order to explore
these issues more fully, a Provincial Trucking Study was included as a component of the
Bank-assisted Henan Provincial Highway Project, and a separate study of the trucking
industry was completed by the Bank in 1995.
1.15        Road safety is an important issue in the development of China's road sector,
as traffic continues to grow rapidly on all roads and a high-speed, national highway
network is developed. The frequency and numbers of people involved in traffic accidents
has reached serious proportions in China. The annual fatality rate per 10,000 vehicles in
China is 46, as compared with rates of 33 in India, 12 in Indonesia, 5 in Mexico, 9 in
Thailand, 18 in Hungary, and 2 in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom
(Table 1.2). A detailed study of road safety completed under a Bank-financed Highway
Project indicated that China's accident rate was one of the highest in the world, at an



- 6 -
estimated 100 deaths per 10,000 vehicles in 1987. The social and economic costs of these
incidents to the Chinese economy reached almost $1 billion annually. 2/
1.16        The study also identified essential measures needed, including improved
police accident reporting; introduction of computer-based accident analysis; identification
of accident causes and dangerous road spots; preparation of guidelines for road safety
design; improved administrative procedures; improved manpower training; and preparation
of a road safety action plan. The responsibility for highway safety matters was transferred
from MOC and the provincial Communications Departments to the Ministry of Public
Security and its provincial units in 1988. This decision created transitional administrative
problems. These have been overcome in some provinces through good cooperation
between the provincial highway administration bureaus and the concerned public security
units. Moreover, the public security and highway bureau personnel often work together
to identify and improve road configurations at high-frequency accident locations. There
has been also improvement in the accident reporting system, as advocated in the 1987
study. In most provinces, computerized record systems are planned or are being installed.
Highway Administration, Planning and Finance
1.17        Administration of the highway network is the responsibility of the provincial
governments, through the Highways Bureaus of the Provincial Communications
Departments. Arrangements for administration vary among provinces; in the more
decentralized ones, the county and municipal governments perform some administrative and
all of the operational functions relating to the highway network. The central government's
MOC provides general policy guidance and support to the provinces through its nationwide
policies and regulations, specifying design and construction standards. At the project level,
MOC is involved in review and comment during the planning and design phases, and also
in regulating the import of construction equipment for major provincial civil works, as
needed. However, the Provincial Communications Departments are financially independent
of MOC and carry out all road planning, construction, maintenance, and operation of roads
and waterways in the provinces. MOC is more heavily involved in certain large projects
that are considered of national importance. The central government has in the past borne
part of the financial burden for key highway projects, but is increasingly constrained in
providing grant funding for the rapidly expanding national network. The key highway
agencies in Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang Province are described in Annex 1.
1.18        While the provinces manage the country's highway network, MOC is
responsible for planning and investment strategies for the development of the National
Highway System. A reclassification of the country's road network in 1981 led to the
designation of key interprovincial links as National Highways. More recently, MOC has
been evolving a long-term strategy for the systematic upgrading of the national system in
key corridors over a 30-year planning horizon. Known as the National Trunk Highway
System (NTHS), the system, comprising 12 major roads for the exclusive use of motor
vehicles (Map IBRD 25817) would connect all the provincial capitals and cities with
3/    The costs analyzed in this case included loss of life, injury, property damage, reduced productivity,
and medical, funeral, and legal costs.



- 7 -
populations exceeding 500,000. Development of the NTHS system has been accorded
highest priority in investment planning for the highway sector. Construction of 25,000 km
of high standard, access-controlled roads of the NTHS is expected to be completed by
2025. Priority for early construction is being given to those routes already identified as
congested and hindering economic activity. By the end of 1991, some 500 km of the
system had been built, and a total of 4,000 km is envisaged to be completed by the end of
the Eighth Five-Year Plan (8FYP) in 1995. The provincial governments are responsible
for route location, engineering design, construction, operation and maintenance of the
national highway system. At the provincial level, in addition to coping with the routine
maintenance of the networks, priority has been given to the expansion and improvement
of the provincial, county and rural road networks, to provide for greater mobility and to
stimulate socioeconomic activity, particularly in the country's less developed regions.
1.19        A system for funding highway construction and maintenance is well
established although there are differences between provinces according to local needs and
circumstances. The main revenues are generated by the Road Maintenance Fee (RMF),
typically levied on the revenue of freight and passenger transport companies and on the
capacity of own-account vehicles. The RMF is levied by the provinces who retain the
majority of the monies after remitting a portion to Central Government agencies. MOC
also directly receives revenues from the Added Vehicle Purchase Fee, a supplementary
earmarked tax on vehicle imports and sales, and uses these funds, which currently reach
about Y 2 billion/year, to contribute financing for: (a) the roads included in the national
highway network, providing a higher share of financing for the poorer, inland provinces
and a lower share for the richer, coastal provinces, and (b) construction or rehabilitation
of rural roads located in economically less-developed areas. However, according to a
recent study by MOC, if funding both national and provincial roads remains at currently
budgeted levels until the year 2000, it will fall 30 percent short of the amount required to
develop the highway system in line with the projected growth in demand. The issue is
especially critical in those provinces with the fastest economic growth, where road systems
are experiencing the highest levels of congestion and deterioration.
1.20        In addition to its role in planning and financing, MOC serves an important
function as coordinator for the construction of priority sections of the national highway
network; in early 1990, MOC established a Technical Coordinating Unit to maintain close
contact with those provinces executing projects financed by the Bank Group. The unit's
main focus has been to provide guidance to the project executing agencies and to
coordinate staff training and the development of a Road Data Bank and Pavement
Management System at the provincial level, as part of a national investment planning and
prioritization system.
1.21        In summary, despite government efforts to improve the highway system and
its utilization and administration, much more is needed to modernize the system to
effectively meet the increasing demands placed on road transport, by improving both
physical capacity and management of the sector. The key areas, as reflected in the Bank's
recent sector work on development and management of the highway sector (paras. 1.23
and 1.24) on which the government should focus attention for improvement through
institutional reforms and training are:



- 8 -
(a)   the role of MOC, to be made consistent with the rapid administrative
decentralization taking place in the management and financing of highway
development and maintenance, and for MOC to be strengthened to carry out
its reformed mandate, particularly in matters such as finance; standards for
planning, design, and road safety; promotion of the NTHS; and training;
(b)    highway planning and investment strategies, to better identify short- and
long-term highway development priorities;
(c)    preparation of feasibility studies utilizing modem  highway analytical
techniques, based on data and relationships reflecting actual conditions on
China's highways;
(d)    highway maintenance, to be modernized through improved planning and
new technology in order to optimize network performance;
(e)    cost recovery and financing, to provide the necessary resources to meet
increasing financing needs for construction, maintenance and operations and
to encourage efficient use of the highway system;
(f)    operations of the road user services industry, both freight and passengers,
to reduce costs and improve quality of services, through promotion of
competition, modern technology and better management; and
(g)   the road construction industry, to improve the management, understanding,
and application of contract conditions; to modernize equipment, and to
clarify client, contractor and supervision relationships.
E. BANK GROUP PARTICIPATION
1.22         The Bank Group has supported initiatives by the Government in the transport
sector through loans and credits totaling $4.7 billion for 30 projects (Table 1.3). The
dialogue between the Government and the Bank Group on transport sector operations and
strategy has been strengthened through long-term strategy studies for railways, highways
and ports development, and through project preparation activities and project-financed
studies as well as sector studies carried out in collaboration with Chinese authorities. The
various studies have, inter alia, emphasized the areas of multimodal transport investment
and the setting of sectoral priorities based on systemwide economic evaluation
techniques.4/
4/  Six of the studies have explored multimodal pricing and investment issues in a more comprehensive and
more economically oriented analytical framework than was formerly available to China's decision
makers: the Guangdong Comprehensive Transport Planning Study (GCTPS); the Yangtze Economic
Zone Transport Study (YEZTS); the Coal Transport Study (CTS); the Railway Investment Study (RIS);
the Southeast Coastal Region Strategic Issues in Ports and Shipping Development Study (SIPS); and
the Price Reform Study.



-9-
Transport Sector Work
1.23        Recent Bank Group reports on the transport sector include China's Railway
Strategy (No. 10592-CHA) issued in February 1993, Highway Development and
Management: Issues, Options and Strategies (No. 1 1819-CHA) issued in February 1994,
and Strategies for Road Freight Development (No. 12600-CHA) issued in January 1995.
In addition, studies on the trucking industry and highway financing have been completed
under ongoing projects, a study of the provincial road construction industry will be
undertaken under the Fujian Provincial Highway Project, a study of interprovincial traffic
facilitation and a highway capacity study will be undertaken under the National Highway
Project (Hebei/Henan), and a study of intercity passenger transport is included under the
Xinjiang Highway Project. The Bank Group also conducted a survey of the national water
transport system in the mid-1980s, which has reaffirmed the need to further exploit the
large potential of the Chinese waterways. As a follow-up to the study, a multipurpose
inland waterway investment project was recently approved. Furthermore, a program for
institutional strengthening of MOC is being prepared and will be supported under the China
Reform, Institutional Support and Preinvestment Project. The main objectives of this
program are to strengthen MOC's capability in sector planning; to strengthen the collection
and analysis of data, both for investment planning functions and for performance
monitoring; and to provide consulting assistance in carrying out selected transport sector
policy and planning studies.
1.24        On the basis of its project and sector work, the Bank has an opportunity to
deepen its involvement and assist the Government in the design and implementation of
institutional and sectoral reforms in areas such as strategy formulation, investment
planning, pricing, financing, deregulation of transport services, operational efficiency, and
transfer of advanced transport-related technology through training and provision of up-to-
date equipment. Chinese authorities and the Bank Group are currently preparing a
comprehensive transport sector strategy paper that is expected to help guide sector
development in a consistent, cohesive policy framework.
The Bank's Experience and Strategy in Highways
1.25        Of the 12 Bank-assisted highway projects in China, to date only the first
Highway Project has been completed. The project, which was designed to construct and
improve 7 segments of the national network and 59 segments of provincial/county road
networks in nine provinces, achieved its original objectives and clearly demonstrated the
benefits accruing from improved accessibility to communities deprived of adequate
transport infrastructure in economically less-developed regions. Economic activity in the
area of influence of most project roads surged and income levels increased noticeably.
Furthermore, the Bank's involvement facilitated the acceptance of competition in the
contracting for road works in preference to force account operations even for smaller civil
works contracts, as well as the merits of supervision of construction by specially assigned
units.
1.26        The Bank strategy for highway lending in the medium term is detailed in
Highway Development and Management: Issues, Options and Strategies. The strategy is



- 10 -
to continue supporting institutional development and sectoral reforms aimed at modernizing
the highway system and its management, and supporting investments focused on high-
priority links of the NTHS and the provincial road networks that feed into it.
1.27        While some institutional development and sectoral reform components such
as staff training, environmental protection, resettlement of affected individuals and road
safety will normally be included in every project, specific issues such as highway sector
financing, the efficiency and quality of road freight and passenger services, the
construction industry and other issues identified during the Bank's dialogue with the
government (para 1.21), will be addressed selectively in individual provincial projects
through studies, pilot reforms or other actions, with a view to formulating
recommendations that may also serve other provinces. During the next few years, the
projects' investment components will continue to focus on high priority links of the
national highway system, and to support the development of the provincial road networks.
The strategy also envisages continued close collaboration with MOC, assisting it through
economic and sector studies and through lending operations, to adapt to the evolving needs
of the Chinese economy. The issues expected to be addressed in Bank-financed projects
include the following:
(a)   identification of a structure for adequate road user charges and financing
mechanisms, in order to mobilize the necessary resources for road
development and equitably recover from users the costs of the highway
system;
(b)   promotion of adequate road freight and passenger services, including the
entry of private, collective, and township enterprises as reform of the
transport sector proceeds;
(c)   upgrading the capacity and effectiveness of the highway construction
industry, creating an enabling environment for the corporatization of
provincial construction companies, and opening opportunities for the
development of collective and private contractors;
(d)   integration of road transport services with other modes, particularly in the
field of containerization, and the establishment of modern, integrated
multimodal services;
(e)   planning and budgeting of highway expenditures, including monitoring and
control of monetary and physical objectives, and efficiency of disbursement
procedures;
(f)   organization and management of the highway corporations being set up to
operate toll highways;
(g)   highway maintenance management, including finances, resource allocation,
organization, and operations;



- 11 -
(h)   expansion of funding for road infrastructure, including analysis of recent
Chinese and international experience with special emphasis on frameworks
and demonstration projects to promote private financing;
(i)   highway construction and maintenance costs, to analyze costing practices,
assess actual prices and stimulate commercially-oriented bid prices; and
(j)   other issues that may be of interest in individual provinces.
The proposed Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project supports the Bank's assistance strategy
for the highway sector through an investment component for construction of the Shanghai-
Hangzhou Expressway, a high priority, interprovincial link on the NTHS, and through a
pilot program of physical investments and technical assistance designed to improve road
safety in the project corridor.
F. LESSONS FROM PREvious BANK OPERATIONS
1.28        The Bank has accumulated substantial experience on the highway sector in
China through the preparation and implementation of twelve previous highway projects.
Of these, one highway project has been completed and a second was recently closed.
1.29        Bank experience in China shows strong implementation capacity for the main
physical components in highway projects and for expressway components in particular.
However, delays in implementation often occur for other project components: lack of
familiarity with procurement procedures and inadequate planning and design of traffic
engineering facilities (traffic monitoring, telecommunications, tolling, and lighting) have
resulted in the implementation of traffic engineering and equipment procurement being
delayed beyond completion of the highway civil works. Preparation of the proposed
project has specifically emphasized the procurement, management and operations of the
tolled expressway that would be constructed. The proposed project has also benefited from
advance preparation of bidding documentation for major civil works and other components
and independent design reviews, which should help reduce delays during implementation.
1.30        Land acquisition and the resettlement of affected people has also led to
implementation difficulties, including delays and cost overruns, in Bank-financed highway
projects in China and other countries. The proposed project covers a densely populated
and fast-growing corridor and, typical of the southeastern coastal area, a large number of
people and properties would be affected by land acquisition and resettlement. Bank
experience shows that the institutional requirements, including assessment of resettlement
impact, monitoring and reporting, are significant but often underestimated by project
authorities. The resettlement activities under the proposed project take into consideration
the previous lessons learned, and have addressed a wider range of issues, with greater
attention to technical issues, than previous transport projects in China. Preparation has
emphasized institutional capacity of resettlement agencies, strategies to restore living
standards according  to Resettlement Action Plans,   assessment of resettlement
requirements, funding (including provision for cost overruns), the adequacy of



- 12 -
compensation for housing and other assets, the identification of employment opportunities
for affected people, and the establishment of effective monitoring systems for resettlement
activities.
1.31        The Bank has had considerable involvement with transport infrastructure
projects in both Shanghai and Zhejiang. A Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project was
approved by the Board in September 1991, and a Second Shanghai Metropolitan Transport
Project was approved by the Board in September 1993.  The main infrastructure
component of both projects is the construction of 27 km of the Inner Ring Road around the
center of Shanghai; the projects also provide access via bridges to the new development
area in Pudong. The implementation of projects in Shanghai has indicated strong
capabilities in civil works design and construction, but relatively weak institutional capacity
affecting planning, design, and implementation, weak enforcement of traffic regulations
(in part, due to difficulty in interagency cooperation), inefficient public transport
operations, poor interagency cooperation, and lack of consideration of environmental
impacts. The proposed project would address several areas of weakness: first, the project
includes an institutional strengthening, comprising training courses and additions to the
equipment fleet that would improve capacity to plan, manage, and operate roads. The
environmental aspects of the project have been addressed jointly with the Bank throughout
preparation, resulting in specific action plans for the construction and operation phases of
the project that would be monitored throughout implementation; the procurement of
environmental equipment is also included in the project to improve Shanghai's capability
for environmental testing and management.
1.32        A Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project was approved by the Board in May
1992; this project includes construction of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway that would
adjoin the expressway in the proposed project. During the first two years of project
implementation there were problems with expressway construction quality and the
monitoring of resettlement activities. Measures were taken to strengthen staffing and
improve internal quality controls, and the project is now rated as satisfactory. The
construction quality problems resulted from the delegation of authority to lower level
agencies that were unfamiliar with contracting procedures, supervision, and quality control,
with negative impacts on construction quality, physical progress, and cost of the
expressway. Bank experience in many other countries has demonstrated that poorly
constructed roads lower economic benefits and vehicle operating cost savings, and may
reduce reliability and accessibility of the road. Higher costs may result from premature
deterioration, requiring corrective actions in the form of increased maintenance and
rehabilitation. The proposed project has taken these findings into consideration. The
project would be supervised by a joint supervision team, comprising international and
domestic experts complemented by local staff; with terms of reference that ensure adequate
numbers of technical staff and quality control procedures. The project would also include
an important construction supervision training program to be held prior to the start of
construction. Regular Bank supervision would focus on the importance of adequate
organization, engineering, and quality control procedures.
1.33        Several of the most important lessons learned in implementation of highway
projects worldwide concern road maintenance. Bank policy papers in 1979 and 1988



- 13 -
underscored the fact that neglect of road maintenance can ultimately result in very high
costs to restore infrastructure, and that new road construction must be balanced with the
need for road maintenance. In previous Bank studies, the maintenance of China's roads
was considered adequate. However, the rapidly expanding network size and high rates of
vehicle and traffic growth in China suggest that maintenance requirements may accelerate
in coming years. The Bank is currently reviewing the implementation experience of Road
Data Bank/Pavement Management Systems components that have been included in several
previous highway projects. The proposed project has taken these issues into account, and
would strengthen the capacity for maintenance of Shanghai and Zhejiang roads through the
procurement of equipment needed for highway operations and maintenance.
1.34        Based on the. Bank's experience with institutional and policy aspects of
highway projects in China and elsewhere, the phasing of studies and technical assistance
and the intensity of Bank supervision are key factors in sustainability of outcomes.
Institutional components that are implemented early in the project period tend to have a
greater impact than free-standing studies carried out in the advanced stages of a project.
Bank experience also shows that road safety programs benefit from careful monitoring of
safety conditions and the impact of interventions to improve safety.  Institutional
components for road safety are most effective when geared to the capabilities of the project
agency, taking into consideration staff strength, technical capacity, and operating
constraints, and the success of road safety programs depends on effective coordination
between highway departments and traffic police. These lessons have been taken into
consideration in designing the Road Safety Program in the proposed project. The Road
Safety Program has been designed to pilot road safety-conscious engineering designs and
strengthen road safety practices. The scope of this component is small-well-suited to the
capacity of the municipal highway authorities involved in day-to-day implementation. The
civil works would be implemented in a manner to maximize the demonstration effect of
the program and to allow for learning from implementation of each works package;
regular monitoring and reporting is included to measure the impact of road safety
interventions. The Road Safety Program would be implemented early in overall project
implementation, which would permit earlier review and adoption of the pilot findings.



- 14 -
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN SHANGHAI AND ZHEJIANG1
A. SiTUATION AND ECONOMY
2.1          Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang Province are located on the coast of
China in the vicinity of the Yangtze River Estuary. As of 1992, Shanghai Municipality
had an area of 6,241 km2, representing 14 districts, 46 towns, and 23 counties. The total
land area of Zhejiang Province is 101,800 km2, but 70 percent of this is mountainous and
a further 10 percent is covered by lakes. The northeast region of Zhejiang, characterized
by plains, provides about 75 percent of the provincial economic output.  Jiaxing
Municipality, an area in northeastern Zhejiang that has been selected for a road safety pilot
program under this project, accounts for 20 percent of area, 21 percent of population, and
33 percent of industrial and agricultural output in Zhejiang Province.
2.2         The project area is among the fastest growing economic regions in China:
the economies of Shanghai and Zhejiang have grown by about 12 percent and 17 percent
per year respectively since 1985. Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
(GOVAI) per capita in the project area was by 1992 well above the national average, in
regions of Shanghai ranging between 3.1 and 4.9 times the average, and in Zhejiang at 1.6
times the average (Table 2.1).
B. TRANSPORT NETWORK
2.3         Both Shanghai and Zhejiang possess well-developed, multi-modal transport
networks, heavily dominated by road and waterway transport, with a large number of
vehicles relative to network length (Table 2.2).
2.4         Road Transport. Between 1981 and 1993, the road network in Shanghai
expanded by over 1,500 km, with virtually all roads paved (Table 2.3). Key additions to
the highway network included the 16 km Shanghai-Jiading Expressway in 1989 and the 20
km Xinzhuang-Songjiang Expressway in 1990, the first expressways in Shanghai.
2.5         The road network in Zhejiang Province has expanded by more than 8,000
km between 1981 and 1993, and at the same time has been substantially upgraded (Table
2.3). The length of paved road has nearly tripled to about 7,100 km, 23 percent of the
provincial highway network length. At the end of 1993, Zhejiang Province had only 7 km
1/    Further information on the transport sectors in Shanghai and Zhejiang is available in Annex 1, and
in Staff Appraisal Reports for the following projects: Second Shanghai Metropolitan Transport
Project (No. 11985); Shanghai Port Restructuring and Development Project (No. 11120); Zhejiang
Provincial Highway Project (No. 10335); Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project (No. 8465);
Ningbo and Shanghai Ports Project: Shanghai Port (No. 7257); and Three Ports Project (No. 3653).



- 15 -
of expressways, no Class 1 highways and about 1,700 km of Class 2 highways. Most of
the additional network length has taken the form of Class 4 roads. The administrative
classification of the road system in both provinces at the end of 1993 was as follows:
Shangzhai Municipality            Zheiiang Province
km              %              km              %
National                    185           5.1             1,837           5.7
Provincial                  719          19.8             5,194          16.3
County                     1,184         32.7            15,474          48.5
Village                    1,407         38.8             8,630          27.0
Special                     130           3.6               789           2.5
Total                  3.625         100.0            31.924        100.0
2.6         Water Transport. Water transportation is well developed in Shanghai, with
a large number of connections to foreign countries and to eleven provinces and numerous
cities within China, including linkages to the Tai Lake system of Jiangsu, Zhejiang and
Anhui, and the Jing-Huang Grand Canal. There are 224 city- and county-level waterway
channels in the Shanghai Region. Typical cargos carried by deep sea transport include
containers, and piece sundry goods, and on the Yangtze River, coal and petroleum, steel,
building materials, and grain.
2.7         Shanghai Port, with a capacity of one hundred million tons, ranks fourth in
the world in volume of freight handled. The physical location of the harbor at the
intersection of river and sea permits trade with other main harbors as well as the middle
and lower reaches of the Yangtze River; Yangtze River connections contribute 16 percent
of the harbor's freight volume and 60 percent of its passenger volume.
2.8         Zhejiang Province possesses a well-developed inland waterway system, with
total navigable length of 10,654 km as of 1993. Inland waterway transport is used
extensively for movement of coal, industrial products, and building materials. The major
ports in Zhejiang Province include Hangzhou, Ningbo, Beilun, Wenzhou, Haimen and
Zhoushan ports. Several ports are being developed for deep water berth potential,
including Ningbo (Beilun District) and Jiaxing Zhapu to relieve pressure at Shanghai Port.
2.9         Rail Transport. The total rail network length in Greater Shanghai is 652
km. Specialized rail routes comprise 141 km. Passenger and freight transport services in
the hub area of Shanghai and the Shanghai-Nanjing and Shanghai-Hangzhou corridors are
administered by Shanghai Railway Bureau. The length within this corridor is 104 km.
The length of rail routes in Zhejiang Province is 847 km. The city of Hangzhou serves
as an important junction, with rail service along the Shanghai-Hangzhou and Zhejiang
Jiangxi lines. The transport capacity along the Shanghai-Hangzhou, Zhejiang-Jiangxi and



- 16 -
Xiaoshan-Ningbo lines are considered at saturation, such that further expansion would be
difficult. Rail transport is mainly used for coal, mineral oil, steel, industrial products,
building materials, general merchandise, agricultural goods and side-line products.
2.10        Air Transport.  Air transport services in both Shanghai and Zhejiang
Provinces are well developed and expanding. Shanghai is serviced by seven different
domestic airline companies, including international service from Hong Qiao International
Airport. Air transport has also developed rapidly in Zhejiang Province. At present, 68
flights are available, with routes covering some 78,000 km. Main airports are located at
Hangzhou, Ningbo, Wenzhou, Hangyan and Yiwu, with construction of an international
airport planned at Hangzhou.
C. TRAFFIC CHARACTERISTICS AND GROWTH
2.11        The trends in traffic in both Shanghai and Zhejiang Provinces reflect a
growing importance of highway and waterway transportation. In Shanghai Municipality,
nearly all (96 percent) of freight turnover is currently transported on coastal and inland
waterways, and about 70 percent of passenger tumover is transported by rail. Freight
turnover on waterways grew by about 8 percent per year during the past decade, compared
with 4 percent per year for highways and railways. For passenger traffic, turnover on
highways grew more quickly than on other transport modes, at about 11 percent per year
during the past decade, compared with 4 percent and 3 percent for railways and
waterways, respectively (Table 2.4).
2.12        In Zhejiang Province, coastal and inland waterways currently transport the
largest share of freight traffic, capturing 40 percent of total traffic turnover compared with
29 percent for highways and 31 percent for railways. For passenger turnover, highways
are the dominant mode of transport, carrying 68 percent of traffic as compared with
27 percent on railways and 4 percent on waterways. Highway turnover has grown more
quickly than other modes during 1982-93, at 27 percent per year for freight traffic
(compared with 3 percent for railways and 13 percent for waterways) and at 14 percent per
year for passenger traffic (compared with 6 percent for railways and 1 percent for
waterways) (Table 2.4).
2.13        Trends in the volume of traffic since the mid-1980s reflect the emergence
of air transport and the expansion of road transport for both goods and passengers. In
Shanghai, the volume of freight carried by road remained constant between 1985 and 1993,
while the volume of passenger traffic carried by road grew by 3 percent per year. The
fastest growing mode during the period was air transport, for which both freight and
passenger traffic volumes grew at 21 percent per year (Table 2.5). The volume of freight
traffic in Zhejiang between 1982 and 1992 reflects rapid expansion in road transportation.
Freight and passenger volume carried by road grew by 23 percent and 9 percent per year,
respectively. This growth was surpassed only by air transport for passengers, which grew
by 29 percent per year during the period (Table 2.6). In Zhejiang Province the growing



- 17 -
importance of road transport is evident: 70 percent of freight volume and 88 percent of
passenger volume was carried by road in 1992 (Table 2.7).
2.14         Accompanying the growth in traffic has been a decline in the proportion of
traffic handled by public carriers, with more transport services provided by enterprises or
private operators in the highway and waterway subsectors. As indicated by freight traffic
trends in Zhejiang, the volume of goods transported by enterprises and private operators
has more than doubled since 1985 (Table 2.8). Development of China's trucking industry,
for example, shows rapid expansion in the influence of own-account operators. The
market share captured by own-account operators has grown at an annual average rate of
12 percent in the last six years, and by 1991 had reached 67 percent of all freight
movement.2/
2.15        In the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor, traffic on major roads is growing at
rates of up to 20 percent per year. The cities in the corridor are increasingly congested,
especially in Shanghai, where traffic volume of the six roads entering the central city is
already 8,000 to 10,000 vehicles per day. Interprovincial movements also contribute
significantly to traffic volumes and congestion in Shanghai. The mixed traffic volume on
interprovincial highways in Shanghai is nearly 5,000 vehicles per day, with volumes on
the key Huyi and Huquingping Highways already exceeding this level. Based on data
collected between 1982 and 1992, the yearly average growth rate of traffic in border areas
of Shanghai was over 20 percent, comprising 50-70 percent vehicles registered in other
provinces.
D. THE VEHICLE FLEET
2.16         The vehicle fleets in both Shanghai and Zhejiang have expanded rapidly
during the past decade. Total vehicle registrations grew by 15 percent and 19 percent per
year between 1984 and 1993 in Shanghai and Zhejiang, respectively. The fastest growing
vehicle categories during this period have been, in Shanghai, special purpose vehicles
(66 percent per year since 1991), cars and vans (23 percent), and tractors (22 percent), and
in Zhejiang, motorcycles (42 percent), small and medium trucks (39 percent), cars and
vans (31 percent). In both provinces, growth of nonmotorized vehicles (a category that
includes motorcycles) was 19 percent per year, exceeding growth of the motorized fleet
(13 percent in Shanghai and 17 percent in Zhejiang) during the period (Table 2.9).
2.17         The composition of the vehicle fleet varies significantly between the two
provinces, with Zhejiang Province possessing a far greater proportion of small and non-
motorized vehicles. The predominant vehicle categories in Shanghai are large trucks and
cars and vans (33 percent and 31 percent, respectively). In Zhejiang, the largest vehicle
categories are motorcycles and tractors (40 percent and 29 percent, respectively) (Table
2.9).
2/    Based on the findings of a recent sector report, China: Strategies for Road Freight Development
(No. 12600-CHA).



- 18 -
2.18         The rapid increase in vehicle numbers is having a major impact on the ease
and safety of traffic movements in urban areas of the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor. In
Hangzhou alone, 21,000 vehicles were added to the fleet in 1992, for total vehicles of
117,600, an increase of 18 percent over the previous year. Non-motorized transport added
another 1.12 million vehicles to the Hangzhou urban area. /
E. RoAD SAFETY
2.19         Road safety is a serious problem in Shanghai and Zhejiang Provinces, as
elsewhere in China. Generally, the number of traffic accidents has increased less rapidly
than the growth in traffic volume or vehicle registrations. In Zhejiang, while the absolute
number of accidents and injuries has declined since 1987, as has the fatality rate per
10,000 vehicles, the proportion of fatalities has been increasing, suggesting more serious
accidents with higher frequency of death C(able 2.10). Along the Shanghai section of the
current Shanghai-Hangzhou Highway, the number of accidents, injuries and fatalities has
grown steadily since 1986 (Table 2.11) with a large proportion of accidents in the area
occurring on the existing Shanghai-Hangzhou Highway (NR 320). Further despite recent
declines, the fatality rates for both Shanghai and Zhejiang, like those for China as a whole,
remain higher than rates in many developed and developing countries (para 1.15 and Table
1.2) .
2.20         While concern about road safety is high, the Communications Departments
in Shanghai and Zhejiang have not had complete responsibility for road safety since the
reassignment of road safety responsibilities in 1988. Much of the responsibility for road
safety activities now lies with the provincial Public Security Bureaus, including that for
vehicle inspection, driver training, public education on safety, imposition of fines, driver
licensing, enforcement of traffic laws, related traffic management, highway patrols and all
aspects of accident control, reporting, and investigation/research on accidents.
2.21         However,  China's  provincial  communications  departments  retain
responsibility for all matters concerning highway design. Typical activities handled
directly by the Shanghai and Zhejiang communications departments include: strengthening
the general inspection and examination systems for pavements, embankments, bridges, and
culverts; keeping the highway in complete, level and unblocked condition; improved
visibility of traffic markings;  prompt repair of damaged road sections;  regular
maintenance of roads; gradual improvement of technical (engineering) aspects that can
improve road safety; and improving emergency services.
2.22         In practice, many important interventions for road safety must be handled
by local highway management departments in conjunction with local traffic police. These
include early identification of damaged roads or dangerous road conditions (for example,
roads with insufficient bearing capacity), measures for decelerated traffic, one-way driving,
3/    The influence of non-motorized traffic is significant. However, since most non-motorized vehicles
are not registered, information on the total numbers of non-motorized vehicles is not available.



- 19 -
load limited driving, highway closings, and prioritization of maintenance and
reconstruction works in key areas. Red safety warning signals would be used at night and
combined with construction markings where highway maintenance and construction effect
the passing of vehicles. Specific measures to improve road safety are also envisioned,
including reconstruction of narrow or low tonnage bridges and improvement of alignment
(class) of highways, and separation of motorized from nonmotorized traffic. A pilot
program for road safety has been included in the proposed project to further the use of
these measures (paras 3.26-3.30).
F. HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT
2.23        Expansion of Road Networks in Shanghai and Zhejiang. By the year
2000, the total length of road network in Shanghai Municipality is projected to increase to
over 4,300 km, an 18 percent increase over the length in 1993. The total length of
expressways is expected to triple from a mere 40 km in 1993 to more than 120 km by
2000. The composition of the network would also change, with expressways and Class
I highway representing an increased proportion of total network length (Table 2.12). In
Zhejiang Province, total road network length is expected to reach 37,300 km by the year
2000, a 10 percent expansion over the 1995 length. The length of expressways would
increase fivefold between 1995 and 2000. The proportion of roads classified as Class 2
and above is also projected to increase by the year 2000 (Tables 2.13 and 2.14).
2.24        Shanghai Municipality. Planning for development of the highway network
is a sectoral component of the municipal master plan, coordinated by the Shanghai
Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau (SMEAB) and the Shanghai Municipal
Planning Bureau in accordance with MOC's plan. Plans for highway construction are
made for a five-year period and for the year 2000. The 1986-2000 investment program
comprises the construction of 523 km of high-grade highways with total cost of Y 247
billion (Table 2.15).
2.25        The major roads providing access to Shanghai Municipality include the Inner
Ring Road in the central city, the Outer Ring Highway on the fringe of Shanghai, and the
Suburban Ring Highway, which together provide a high-speed ring road system linking 9
counties and 1 district. The municipal development plan includes additional construction
or expansion of radiating state and trunk (expressway) roads between the Inner and Outer
Ring highways. The Outer Ring Highway will eventually form a major, 97 km
expressway (50 km in Pudong area and 47 km in Shanghai) with 100 m width, including
a main carriageway with 4 lanes in each direction. Once complete, this road alone will
provide critical links to 7 districts and 1 county in Shanghai.
2.26        Several national trunk highway segments are also included in the Shanghai
highway development program. In addition to the benefits for regional and national
economic integration, development of these segments has provided a high-speed link
between remote and central districts of the Municipality. During the 7FYP, two such
links were constructed, the Shanghai-Jiading Expressway and the Xinzhuang-Songjiang



- 20 -
Expressway, providing connections with two satellite counties. The major roads to be
connected with the proposed Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway are the Outer Ring Highway,
the Tongjiang-Sanya National Road (part of Suburban Ring Highway), NR 320, Maoxin
Highway, and Xinche (Class II) Highway. The Shanghai-Nanjing Expressway (under
construction) and the proposed Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway are situated along two of
the twelve NTHS routes in China. The interprovincial highways bounded by Jiangsu
Province are Shanghai-Taichang Highway (artery), Shanghai-Yexing Highway (NR 204);
Chaoe-An Highway (NR 312), Shanghai-Zinpu Highway (NR 318); and the newly
constructed Shanghai-Jiading Expressway that will be extended to Jiangsu Province. The
interprovincial highways bounded by Zhejiang Province are Xinjiang-Fenjiang Highway
(NR 320) and Shanghai-Hangzhou Highway (artery). These roads connect to the Pudong
New Area and are linked by access to the Nanpu Bridge, Yangpu Bridge, East Yanan Road
Tunnel, and Dapu Road Tunnel.
2.27        Zhejiang Province. Zhejiang Province has planned a program of major
road investments comprising the construction of over 1,000 km of expressways to be
completed between 1994 and 2002 and with an estimated total cost of Y 21 billion (Table
2.16).
2.28        The shortage of high-speed provincial or national roads has several national
highways pass through Hangzhou City, creating a transit point for traffic from the
neighboring provinces of Shanghai, Jiangsu, Anhui, Jiangxi and Fujian. In recent years,
the urban districts of Hangzhou have become congested with long-distance traffic, placing
more pressure on the strained intracity traffic. Improvement of transport access to
Hangzhou is a provincial priority that will also support the region's vital tourism industry
and economic development along the Qiantang River. Eleven key investment projects
related to development of road, harbor, and passenger (bus) services have been identified
in Hangzhou, with total required investment of Y 2.1 billion (Table 2.17). Other
investment priorities include the upgrading of a 1.9 km section of the Xianfuqiao section
of NR 104 as a north exit for Hangzhou City and the improvement of roads providing
access to the Hangzhou airport.
2.29        The Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor in Zhejiang has also been identified for
major investment. The two main roads connecting Shanghai and Hangzhou, NR 320 and
Provincial Road 01, connect 6 counties and cities in Zhejiang. Based on origin/destination
surveys and projections of corridor traffic, by the year 2015, the traffic on NR 320 will
reach 47,500 to 53,000 vehicles per day and the traffic on Provincial Road 01 could range
from 5,600 to 12,000 vehicles per day. Jiaxing Municipality, which occupies a central
position in the corridor, will be the site of several investments to increase corridor
capacity. In 1989, the Hangzhou-Fengjing section of NR 320 was upgraded and the
alignment moved to the northern outskirts of Jiaxing to relieve intra-city congestion.
Construction of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway would further relieve pressures on city
traffic: (i) the Shibaliqiao exit of the new expressway would be situated 12 km away from
downtown Jiaxing; (ii) Class II access roads in Wangdian and Shibaliqiao would be
reconstructed or upgraded; (iii) the Zhapu-Wangjiangjing Class III highway would be



- 21 -
upgraded to Class I or Class II;4/ and (iv) the Jiaxing-Wanjiangjing Class I Highway
would be rebuilt.
2.30        Projected Highway Sector Financing. In Shanghai Municipality, revenues
and expenditures in the highway sector are projected to increase at 12 percent and 5
percent per year respectively during the 9FYP. Total revenues during the 9FYP would
increase by 78 percent over the 8FYP level. The projected budget indicates a funding
surplus during the 9FYP, attributable to very strong growth in revenues. The most rapidly
growing revenue category would be passenger tax revenues, with a fourfold increase
between the 8FYP and the 9FYP. Road maintenance fee revenue is expected to increase
at about 11 percent per year during the 9FYP. Funds raised through bonds, loans, and
foreign capital transactions are projected at about Y 1.9 billion during the 9FYP, up from
Y 1.3 billion during the 8FYP. Total expenditures in the highway sector during the 9FYP
are estimated at Y 9.7 billion, compared to Y 7.8 billion during the 8FYP. Road
construction constitutes 76 percent of expenditures and would total Y 7.4 billion in 9FYP.
The fastest growing item of expenditure, apart from loan interest and amortization
payments, is routine maintenance, which would increase at 10 percent per year. However,
periodic maintenance expenditures would be sustained roughly at the level of expenditure
during the 8FYP (Table 2.18).
2.31        In Zhejiang Province, the highway sector budget for the 9FYP also shows
a surplus of funds. Total revenues during 9FYP would be Y 9.7 billion, a 54 percent
increase over the 8FYP level. Road maintenance fee revenues, accounting for over two
thirds of the revenues, are projected to increase at 9 percent per year. Other major items
of revenue, comprising subsidies or transfers from the fund for high-class highways, are
projected to increase at more than 10 percent per year. Total expenditures during the
9FYP are projected to total Y 8.9 billion, an increase of 35 percent over the 8FYP level.
Construction would comprise 75 percent of total expenditures, with expressway
construction the fastest growing expenditure item. Routine and periodic maintenance
expenditures would both increase by 66 percent over the 8FYP level (Table 2.19).
4/    The rehabilitation of Class II road sections in Pinhu City and of 6 km of Class II highway in Jiaxing
Municipality have already been completed.



- 22 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. ORIGIN AND FORMULATION
3.1         The need for a high-speed highway link in the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor
was identified during Bank sector work on transport needs in the Yangtze River delta, the
Yangtze Economic Zone Transport Study (YEZTS). The resulting report recommended
priority areas for transport investment, including a network of expressways linking the key
regional cities of Shanghai, Nanjing, Hangzhou, and Ningbo. Since completion of
YEZTS, highway traffic growth in the region has accelerated rapidly and the capacity of
existing facilities is being reached sooner than expected, lending urgency to the
recommended highway expansion program. I/
3.2         The main infrastructure component in the project involves construction of
the 130-km Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway to complete a continuous, 295-km expressway
connection between Shanghai and Ningbo, linking the most economically developed areas
of Zhejiang Province with the major regional port, commerce and communications center
of Shanghai.2/ The Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway would also provide linkages to the
Inner Ring Road and proposed Outer Ring Road in Shanghai, and would form a segment
of the Tongjiang-Haikou coastal highway, planned to connect Heilongjiang Province in
northeastern China with Hainan Island in the extreme south. This coastal route is one of
the 12 strategic, highest priority NTHS routes identified by MOC for major new
construction and systematic upgrading (para 1.18). The Bank is financing other segments
of the coastal route in Guangdong, Jiangsu, Fujian, and Zhejiang (the Hangzhou-Ningbo
Expressway).
3.3         It was agreed at an early stage of project preparation that, in addition to the
expressway component, the project would include a pilot program for improvements to
road safety in a segment of the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor where traffic growth is rapid
and accident rates are high.
1/    The Bank collaborated with the State Planning Commission in undertaking the YEZTS, a
comprehensive study of transport in the region comprising Shanghai Municipality and Jiangsu,
Zhejiang and Anhui Provinces. This region contained 180 million people in 1990 and generated
approximately 25 percent of China's Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry (GOVAI).
2/    Segments of this route from Xinzhuang to Songjiang (completed and open to traffic) and from
Hangzhou to Ningbo (to be opened by 1997) have been developed separately.



- 23 -
3.4         The proposed project was prepared under the direction of the Shanghai
Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau (SMEAB) and the Zhejiang Provincial
Communications Department (ZPCD), with guidance from State Planning Commission
(SPC), MOC, and Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Bank's project identification mission
visited Shanghai and Zhejiang in November 1992, with subsequent Bank missions working
closely with central government and provincial authorities to formulate the project scope.
B. OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INvoLvEMENT
3.5         The proposed project has the following specific objectives:
(a)   to increase highway capacity in the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor in order to
relieve existing congestion and promote economic development;
(b)   to improve road safety in northern Zhejiang; and
(c)   to develop highway sector institutional capability in Shanghai and Zhejiang.
3.6         Rationale for Bank Involvement.   The main component of the
government's strategy for the sector is the development of a National Trunk Highway
System (NTHS), comprising 12 major interprovincial highways for the exclusive use of
motor vehicles; these routes would connect all provincial capitals and major cities (cities
with population exceeding 500,000). The construction of 25,000 km of high-standard,
access-controlled highways for the NTHS has been accorded the highest investment priority
by central government. This scope of construction represents a tremendous challenge: as
of 1991, only 500 km of the system had been built, with an additional 4,000 km to be
added during the Eighth Five Year Plan (1991-1995). The Bank Group is assisting China's
highway sector by financing the construction of critical links of the NTHS as well as
provincial road networks, by emphasizing policy and institutional reform in project-specific
investment components, studies, and technical assistance, and through sector work.
3.7         The proposed project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
discussed at the Board on June 1, 1995 and addresses one of the Bank's key objectives,
to help alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks. The Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor that is the
focus of this project is experiencing rapid economic growth: this factor, combined with
the density of population and increasing motorization, is reflected in traffic growth rates
of up to 20% per year and increasingly serious congestion.
3.8         The Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway to be constructed under the project
forms an important segment of the coastal route of China's NTHS, which will ultimately
link Heilongjiang Province in the extreme northeast of China with Hainan Island at China's
southernmost point. Completion of this route is an immediate priority of the central
government and the concerned Provincial governments. The Bank is financing or has
financed sections of this coastal route in other eastern provinces of China, including
Guangdong, Fujian, Jiangsu and Zhejiang. The Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway would



- 24 -
provide high-speed linkages with other key expressways, including the Shanghai Inner Ring
Road and the Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway (both being constructed with Bank assistance),
to form a continuous, 295-km expressway link between Shanghai and Ningbo. The
Shanghai-Hangzhou expressway, once completed, would link the most rapidly developing
areas of Zhejiang with the major trade and communications center of Shanghai.
3.9         Development of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway, a bi-provincial
highway, has also afforded opportunities for the Bank to help alleviate constraints in the
movement of passengers and goods across administrative boundaries and to promote
regional trade. The Bank's involvement in the project is helping to improve coordination
and cooperation between the provinces of Shanghai and Zhejiang, with lessons that will be
relevant for future Bank projects in China and more generally, for links of China's NTHS
that will involve the coordination across a large number of provinces.
3.10        Bank participation in this project has been beneficial to the highway and
planning agencies in Shanghai and Zhejiang by fostering the adoption of more up-to-date
technical and project management practices, including the use of design reviews,
contracting, and construction supervision. Because of the dense human settlements along
the project route, intensive preparation of resettlement components has been critical for the
formulation of strategies and action plans for income restoration of project-affected people.
The Bank has made a significant contribution to preparation of and planning for the
resettlement component by providing technical expertise for the assessment of resettlement
impacts and formulation of Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs), and by providing guidance
on how to meet the institutional requirements for implementation of resettlement, including
the monitoring of resettlement impacts.
3.11        The project's pilot program for road safety (the Road Safety Program) also
supports the Bank's strategy for participation in China's highway sector. The magnitude
of the road safety problem in China is receiving increasing attention as vehicle ownership
levels and traffic continue to grow at unprecedented rates, and as a high-speed road
network is developed, factors that could contribute to the already serious road safety
problem. Appropriate interventions and solutions for improved road safety in corridors
such as those in the proposed project, characterized by a high volume of mixed traffic with
a significant proportion of bicycle traffic, are still being identified and are of central
concern both to the Chinese government and to the Bank. Through participation in the
formulation of the Road Safety Program, the Bank has provided critical technical expertise
to help identify potential solutions, including road safety-conscious designs that would be
used to upgrade selected roads in the pilot and a program for strengthening road safety
technical capacity in provincial highway agencies. The Bank's continued involvement
during supervision would provide opportunities to give more technical advice on road
safety and to disseminate lessons of the pilot to other provinces in China.



- 25 -
C. PROJECT DESCRIPION
3.12        The project comprises the following components: 3/
(a)   construction of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway, a 130 km divided four-
lane access-controlled highway, including service facilities and the supply
and installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical (E&M) equipment
for tolling, traffic monitoring, telecommunication and lighting, and the
upgrading and construction of 56 km of crossroads at interchange locations
in Zhejiang Province to improve access to the new expressway ($605.5
million);
(b)   construction supervision of the Shanghai-Hangzhou' Expressway ($16.6
million);
(c)   the Road Safety Program, a pilot program in northern Zhejiang to improve
safety on highways in the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor after opening of the
new expressway, including
(i)  the upgrading of 86 km of National Route (NR) 320 road sections
and structures in Jiaxing Municipality, including construction
supervision ($26.3 million) and
(ii)  technical assistance, training, and equipment  to support the
institutional aspects of the Road Safety Program ($0.8 million); and
(d)   institutional strengthening of highway agencies in Shanghai and Zhejiang,
comprising
(i)   a staff training program covering highway planning, management,
design, construction, and maintenance ($2.5 million) and
(ii)  strengthening of technical capacity through the addition of equipment
for
a.  central laboratories, environmental management, and research
for the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway ($3.9 million) and
b.  operation  and  maintenance of the Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway and maintenance of the provincial and county
road networks ($14.9 million).
3.13        The section of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway ("the Expressway")
proposed for financing under the project totals 130 km, linking Songjiang in Shanghai to
3/    Cost figures are estimated and include physical and price contingencies, taxes and duties.



- 26 -
Pengbu in Hangzhou. The 28 km section to be constructed in Shanghai extends an already
completed 20 km section of the Expressway between Xinzhuang and Songjiang. The
terminal point of the expressway in Xinzhuang is about 25 km or 40 minutes' driving time
from People's Square in central Shanghai. The 102 km section to be constructed in
Zhejiang would link at Pengbu with the 145 km Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway now under
construction (para 3.2).
3.14        The Expressway would pass through a densely settled corridor that is now
experiencing very rapid economic growth. The corridor is currently served by two
highways: NR 320, which is the principal and most direct route between Shanghai and
Hangzhou; and Provincial Route 1, which takes a more circuitous route along the shore
of Hangzhou Bay. The comparative distances between Songjiang and Pengbu are 130 km
by the proposed expressway, 165 km via NR 320, and 174 km via Provincial Route 1.
The new expressway would reduce travel times between the celters of Shanghai and
Hangzhou to about three hours, compared with the current railway travel time of four to
five hours, and the current driving times of 5-6 hours via NR 320 and 7-8 hours via
Provincial Road 01.
3.15        Construction of the Expressway.  A feasibility study carried out by
SMEAB and ZPCD analyzed three alternative routes for the Expressway: the shortest
route was selected and engineering design has been completed. The design was undertaken
by SMEAB and ZPCD with assistance in traffic engineering by the Highway Science and
Research Institute of MOC and the Shanghai Railway University.  As a major,
interprovincial link in the national highway system, agreement between relevant central and
provincial government agencies and the Bank on project scope and formulation is
considered critical for successful implementation. Review of the Expressway component
by the MOC, SPC, and the State Council has been completed and approvals of the
technical aspects, cost, and financing plan have been obtained.
3.16        The expressway design includes 17 major bridges, 94 medium-size bridges,
22 small bridges, 27 crossroad grade separations, and 122 farm access passageways. The
final engineering design and technical specifications were reviewed by Bank staff with the
assistance of consultants financed under the Netherlands Consultant Trust Fund. It has
been agreed that project-designated road safety design guidelines be incorporated into
works on access roads under the project. The designs of Expressway interchanges were
also modified during preparatory missions following review by the Bank's road safety
specialist. The design incorporates principal recommendations resulting from these reviews
and is satisfactory.
3.17        The Expressway would be constructed to a four-lane standard as designated
in the national geometric standards for expressways (Table 3.1) with provision for later
expansion to six-lane standard. This added capacity is expected to be needed around the
year 2010 based on recent traffic growth rates of about 20 percent per year. In Shanghai,
the highway will be constructed with a wide central median for future additional lanes, and
embankments and structures for six lanes will be built during initial construction. In
Zhejiang, expansion to six lanes will be accomplished by adding lanes to the outside of the
carriageway in the future. Two major bridges and all interchanges in Zhejiang will be



- 27 -
constructed to provide the final six-lane configuration, but the initial embankments in
Zhejiang will provide for a four-lane configuration only.
3.18        Connection to the existing road network would be provided at eight
intermediate interchanges, in addition to the two termini of Pengbu and Songjiang. In
Shanghai, direct connection would be provided to the Shanghai Orbital Road and the
Shanghai Outer Ring Road (at Xinzhuang) and, via another high-grade link, to the
Shanghai Inner Ring Road; these connecting roads in Shanghai are at an advanced state of
planning or construction, the latter under Bank financing. The Zhejiang expressway
section also includes upgrading or construction of 56 km of crossroads at interchange
locations to Class 2 standards (Table 3.1), simultaneously with construction of expressway
interchanges.  Zhejiang Province plans to upgrade other key roads in the corridor
concurrently with construction of the Expressway.
3.19        The Expressway would traverse geologically difficult terrain with extensive
soft, highly compressible, soils over about 38 km of its length. The major expressway
contracts in Shanghai include a 2.2-km soft soil test section, involving the implementation
of mixed treatment remedies in about 20 sites along the approaches to bridges and pre-
loading of embankment. Experience in constructing the adjacent Xinzhuang-Songjiang and
Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway sections provides further reference for identifying
appropriate measures to mitigate the extent of consolidation.
3.20        The Expressway design includes only one access to Hangzhou via the
Pengbu interchange, and it is possible that traffic growth might overload the proposed
interchange design. However, the Wengmei interchange, located 12.7 km to the north of
Pengbu, would provide access to a new distributor road planned to open in 1997 and with
links to the Hangzhou Ring Road. Additional access to Hangzhou could be provided at
two intermediate points between Pengbu and Wengmei at a later date if necessary.
Zhejiang has begun construction of the Pengbu-Wengmei section, with associated access
roads, in order for through traffic between the project corridor and the Hangzhou-Ningbo
Expressway (now in construction under the Bank-financed Zhejiang Provincial Highway
Project) to bypass Hangzhou City; this section could be opened about three years prior to
opening the main expressway and would provide substantial immediate benefits.
3.21        Construction of the Expressway also includes ancillary works in the
Shanghai section, comprising pumps, approach roads, underpasses, fly-overs and bridges,
service area and administrative facilities, redirection of water channels, and landscaping.
These ancillary works would be completed without Bank financing, but are considered an
integral part of the expressway project. Progress of the ancillary works would be reviewed
by the Bank on a regular basis during implementation (para 3.79).
3.22        The Expressway would be operated as a toll facility. In addition to civil
works, the project covers the cost of electrical, electronic and mechanical installations
required for toll collection, traffic monitoring, telecommunications and lighting of major
bridges and interchanges. The technical and managerial aspects of this interprovincial toll
road are of particular concern to the Chinese government and to the Bank. As both
Shanghai and Zhejiang have limited experience in the construction and management of



- 28 -
major toll roads, the Bank advocates early planning and preparation of E&M works and
expressway operations. An agreement was reached during negotiations that by December
31, 1995, the Shanghai Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway Engineering Construction
Executive Commission and the Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Project Executive
Commission will jointly prepare, discuss with Municipal, Provincial, and Central
governments and submit to the Bank a coordinated proposal, addressing, inter alia, a
description of toll operations, toll setting arrangements, and measures to facilitate the
movement of traffic across the Shanghai-Zhejiang border. An understanding was reached
that, during the project's mid-term review (by the end of 1997), the progress made in
interprovincial traffic facilitation, toll setting, preparation of recommendations for toll
levels, and plans for expressway operation would be discussed with the Bank. Agreement
was reached that the Shanghai Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway Engineering Construction
Executive Commission and the Zhejiang Provincial Expresswpy Project Executive
Commission will prepare recommendations for appropriate toll lev4ls and will confirm the
organizational arrangements for the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway, taking into
consideration the recent experience of toll roads in China; this information will be
submitted for Bank review by December 31, 1998.
3.23        Supervision of Expressway  Construction.   Although independent
supervision of construction contracts is gaining acceptance in China, local staff still have
limited experience in supervising major highway works, particularly those awarded under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Based on experience gained from the ongoing
Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project and other Bank-financed highway projects in China,
a Joint Supervision Team (JST) would be formed for the Expressway works in both
Shanghai and Zhejiang. The JST would comprise personnel from Shanghai Municipality
(SM) and Zhejiang Province (ZP), together with technicians from other provincial
institutions and international consultants. In addition, both SM and ZP would recruit
experienced construction supervision personnel from established construction supervision
companies to supplement existing staff. The JST would be responsible for ensuring that
Expressway construction works were carried out in full compliance with technical
specifications, and that strict quality controls were exercised on site. Understandings were
reached during negotiations with SM and ZP regarding a schedule for retaining the
international construction supervision consultants, the completion of a supervision training
program prior to the start of construction, and the arrival of the supervision consultants on
site before the start of construction. As a condition of loan effectiveness, SM and ZP
would each enter into a legally-binding agreement with international construc.ion
supervision consultants for supervision of construction of the Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway.
3.24        During  negotiations, understandings were reached  confirming  the
organizational and staffing arrangements for expressway construction supervision as
formulated during appraisal. A single firm of international consulting engineers would be
contracted for the JST, and the international supervising engineers would be integrated into
the organization with operational responsibilities.  Furthermore, the international
consultants would help establish procedures at all levels of supervision, including on-site
inspection and laboratory testing and supervision of mitigating measures identified in the
environmental assessment.  A total of 186 person-months of international consultant



- 29 -
participation in the JSTs is proposed to be divided as follows: 144 person-months by three
engineers for civil works supervision; 21 person-months by one expert for supervision of
E&M works; 9 person-months for supervision staff training in China and abroad; and 12
person-months as a contingency provision. Agreements were reached during negotiations
from SM and ZP that supervision teams with qualified staff in adequate numbers will be
maintained to ensure that works are carried out in accordance with technical specifications
and that strict quality controls are exercised on site.
3.25        A training program in construction supervision to be completed prior to the
mobilization of contractors has been established for all local staff supervising construction
of the expressway. All construction supervision training would be conducted by the
international construction supervision consultants. The first phase of the training program,
prior to the beginning of construction, would include lecture courses and site visits. The
second phase comprises on-the-job training that would take place during construction of
the expressway. The timing and location of the training sessions would be coordinated
between Shanghai and Zhejiang in order to maximize exposure for the participating staff.
Understandings concerning the scope and duration of this training were reached with SM
and ZP during negotiations.
3.26        Road Safety Program. The Road Safety Program (RSP) is a pilot program
constructed around observed characteristics of the traffic and infrastructure in a specific
section of the project corridor. The resources of the RSP would be focussed in Jiaxing
Municipality of Zhejiang Province; Shanghai would have no involvement in the RSP.
Greater Jiaxing was selected for the pilot program because it occupies a central position,
is in a heavily trafficked area, and contains a large share of the existing road length. The
RSP primarily focuses on improvements to highway infrastructure to promote road safety,
but would also cover the provision of equipment, training, and technical assistance for
institutional development. During negotiations, an understanding was reached that the civil
works, training, technical assistance, and procurement of equipment for the Road Safety
Program have been approved by the Zhejiang Provincial Government and are part of the
Provincial investment plan.
3.27        The interaction of fast- and slow-moving motorized vehicles, slow motorized
and non-motorized vehicles, and the interaction of pedestrians with vehicles in Jiaxing
contribute to a high level of accidents. One of the main emphases of the pilot program,
the segregation of vehicle types, could in the Chinese context contribute to a reduction in
accidents and an increase in capacity. The two key infrastructure improvements for
improving road safety under the RSP pilot are: (a) segregation of motor vehicle traffic
from bicycles and agricultural tractors; and (b) improvement of road junctions to ensure
that minor road traffic can turn safely into and out of the main road.
3.28        Zhejiang authorities have proposed improvements to nine sections (86 km)
of NR 320, the main highway passing through the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor (para.
3.12), where 60 percent of all road accidents in Jiaxing Municipality occur. In 1992, over
2,700 road accidents occurred in Jiaxing, including 268 fatalities and 357 serious injuries.
The number of accidents has increased five hundred percent during the last 10 years.
Works under the RSP include the provision of separate "slow vehicle" lanes on both sides,



- 30 -
the rebuilding of 2 bridges, the widening of an additional 80 bridges and/or culverts, and
the improvement of 37 junctions with provincial or county roads and 140 junctions with
agricultural tractor roads. Zhejiang plans to use its own resources to upgrade an additional
9 large bridges to improve road safety in the Jiaxing area. The proposals for RSP works,
reviewed in detail during appraisal, are supported by sketch plans showing typical cross-
sections and junction improvements. Road safety issues and the proposed RSP are
discussed in greater detail in Annex 2.
3.29        Construction of the sections would be supervised by the transport bureaus
at the county and municipal levels, under the overall supervision of ZPHAB, and by
locally-recruited construction supervision consultants. While this arrangement would
provide the staff strength required for supervision of works, their laboratory testing
facilities would need strengthening by the addition of laboratory. equipment purchased
under the project.
3.30        Works on the nine road sections included in the RSP would be implemented
in a manner to minimize disruption of traffic on the already congested NR 320 and to
maximize the benefit of a pilot approach. The RSP sections have been prepared based on
analyses of local road safety conditions, economic evaluation, engineering design, bidding
documents, environmental assessment and/or environmental action plans, and resettlement
action plans. The economic evaluations, environmental assessment and action plan, and
a resettlement action plan covering all sections under the RSP have been completed and
are satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations, agreements were reached that, prior to
commencing upgrading on any RSP section, the Bank will receive and approve: (a) a
detailed description of the design and technical aspects of the package, that must meet
engineering design standards acceptable to the Bank; (b) a description of construction
supervision arrangements for the package; (c) layout plans for all junction types in the
package; and (d) a report containing an assessment of the likely impact of the works on
road safety. The receipt and approval of this information is a condition of disbursement.
3.31        RSP Technical Assistance. Details of an RSP technical assistance and
training package was included in Annex 2. The technical assistance and training is
designed to provide long-term benefits to the corridor by changing the methodology used
to devise accident remedial measures.  The current system is weak both in causal
identification and in the design of remedial measures. Project technical assistance and
training would help address these areas through: (a) basic accident information and
analysis; (b) provision of a Road Safety Manual and Safety Audit System; and
(c) specialized training. The adoption of monitoring and reporting systems to measure the
impact of the proposed road safety interventions is a critical next step. Agreements were
reached from ZP at negotiations that monitoring for the pilot subprojects will be carried
out quarterly, in a manner agreed with the Bank, and that monitoring reports will be
submitted to the Bank for review.
3.32        Staff Training. In addition to the training of local staff in construction
supervision, a series of training programs would be conducted in transport and highway
engineering and related areas. According to the nature of the training, the courses would
be provided either in China, by local institutions, or abroad, through training institutions
of national or state road authorities, and in some cases, by consultants. The main training



- 31 -
courses for provincial transport/highway personnel cover: highway planning, traffic survey
and analysis, financial management of highway projects, project planning and feasibility
studies, elements of project design (geometry, pavement, soft soil treatment, project cost
estimates), project implementation and supervision (contracting, quality control), and
highway operation, maintenance and management systems. The main training programs,
shown in detail in Tables 3.2 and 3.3, will train about 221 staff for about 265 person-
months. At negotiations, the training programs were confirmed and assurances obtained
that all training programs under the project will be carried out under terms of reference
(TOR) and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and that, by September 30 of each year
beginning in 1996, detailed proposals for all training under the project to be conducted
during the next two calendar years will be submitted for Bank approval.
3.33        Provision of Equipment for Institutional Strengthening. Equipment
would be supplied under the project to assist construction supervisionb research, operation
and maintenance of the expressway and other principal roads and for the road safety
program. The main equipment needs are:
(a)   laboratory equipment to support construction supervision activities,
particularly for soils and asphalt pavement;
(b)   instruments to assist in research related to soft-soil treatment and pavement
and bridge design;
(c)   instruments to monitor environmental aspects during construction and
subsequent operation of the expressway, as stipulated in the Environmental
Action Plan (EAP);
(d)   vehicles and other equipment for the operation and maintenance of the
project after opening, including emergency equipment; and
(e)   for the Road Safety Program, two microcomputers with copies in English
and Chinese of the Microcomputer Accident Analysis Package (MAAP)
developed by the UK Transport and Road Research Laboratory (TRRL).
A list of equipment for (a) through (d) above was confirmed at negotiations (Tables 3.4,
3.5 and 3.6, with a summary of project equipment cost in Table 3.7).
D. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION
3.34        Preparation of the proposed project is well-advanced, with implementation
of the major civil works component scheduled to begin in September 1995. The project
sustained numerous delays during preparation: the complexity of this major, bi-provincial
project resulted in a complex and lengthy government approval process; the ongoing
Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project experienced implementation difficulties in mid-1994,
and the Bank required remedial actions before processing of the proposed project could
proceed; and Shanghai and Zhejiang were required to do additional preparatory work on
the resettlement aspects for all components.



- 32 -
3.35        The most advanced activities of the project include: construction of an
initial section of the expressway in Zhejiang that began in February 1994; a soft soil test
section, part of the expressway works in Shanghai, scheduled to begin in August 1995;
the resettlement for the Zhejiang expressway section and for the Road Safety Program has
been completed; and the resettlement for the Shanghai expressway section is scheduled to
begin in late July 1995. All resettlement activities are being carried out according to
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) found acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for expressway
construction have been or will soon be awarded with contractors expected to mobilize by
September 1995. The selection of consultants to supervise construction of the expressway
and to conduct training in construction supervision prior to the beginning of construction
will be completed by the end of July 1995, to allow adequate time for construction
supervision training prior to commencement of construction. To facilitate current road
maintenance operations, the Shanghai-Highway Management Department is procuring in
advance certain equipment from the agreed equipment list for Shanghai (Table 3.4). These
items of equipment will remain as part of the project but will not be financed by the Bank.
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
3.36        Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway. Environmental Assessments (EAs) were
carried out for the Shanghai and Zhejiang sections of the project expressway by the
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences (SAES) and the Zhejiang Provincial
Research Institute of Environmental Protection (ZPRIEP), respectively.  The EAs
identified social disruption, noise, air pollution, water pollution, soil erosion, effects on
irrigation systems, etc., as major potential impacts. Based on the EA findings and
subsequent to discussions between representatives of SM, ZP and the Bank, Environmental
Action Plans (EAPs) for the expressway were prepared and submitted to the Bank for
review. The EAs and EAPs are satisfactory to the Bank. It has been ascertained that the
expressway would not affect ecologically sensitive areas and that, if appropriate measures
are taken, expressway construction and operation should have no significant adverse impact
on the environment.
3.37        The EAPs specified  the  measures, organizations and  monitoring
arrangements required to mitigate the potential adverse effects on the environment during
the construction and operation of the Expressway. The main measures relate to social
disruption, noise, air quality including dust, soil erosion and water management, control
of construction traffic, operation of quarries, and waste disposal. The engineering design
and technical specifications for the Expressway have incorporated appropriate measures
required to be taken for environmental protection.   Appropriate administrative
arrangements have been identified to ensure the enforcement of such measures during the
construction and operation of the Expressway. Summaries of the EAs and EAPs are
presented in Annex 3 and copies of the full EAs and EAPs are available in the Project
File. Agreements were reached from SM and ZP at negotiations that the environmental
protection measures stipulated in the EAPs with respect to the Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway will be carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.



- 33 -
3.38        Road Safety Program. Since most of the works under the RSP would be
directed to the upgrading of existing facilities, they are not expected to have significant
impacts on the environment. Nevertheless, in order to fully mitigate potentially adverse
effects of this program, an EA for the RSP has been carried out by the Environmental
Protection Institute of Zhejiang Province. Based on findings of the EA, an EAP was
prepared and found satisfactory to the Bank. An assurance was obtained from ZP at
negotiations that the environmental protection measures stipulated in the EAPs with respect
to the RSP will be carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
F. LAND ACQUISITION AND RESE'rLEMENT
3.39        The resettlement aspects of the proposed project have received considerable
attention from the Bank since the preparation of a first Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
in 1993.  The extensive preparation of resettlement aspects that has ensued was
necessitated by: (a) the project's large scale resettlement impact, with more than 55,000
people affected by the loss of land, employment, and assets; (b) the implementing
agencies' limited experience in preparing and implementing RAPs consistent with Bank
guidelines; (c) and the Bank's increasing awareness and ability to assist the Chinese
government to address the complex issues related to resettlement.
3.40        Current Status of Resettlement. The advanced state of preparation of this
project, with an estimated start of major construction in September 1995 and advance
construction of an expressway section in Zhejiang, is atypical and has resulted in
implementation of resettlement prior to Board approval. All resettlement activities in
Zhejiang Province have been completed and an initial internal monitoring report on
resettlement in Zhejiang has been submitted to the Bank. Resettlement in Shanghai would
begin in late July 1995 and estimated to be completed by October 1995. The early
resettlement was implemented in a manner consistent with RAPs that were largely
satisfactory to the Bank but still under discussion.  In order to ensure equity and
consistency of resettlement activities, Shanghai and Zhejiang are applying the principles,
eligibility criteria, and compensation standards of the final revised RAP retroactively, so
that all project-affected people are resettled according to RAPs found acceptable to the
Bank. In Zhejiang Province, where this retroactive provision is relevant, all retroactive
compensation will be paid before the end of July 1995. Retroactivity is not applicable in
Shanghai because all resettlement will be carried out according to the final, revised RAP
found acceptable to the Bank.
3.41        Background. Land acquisition and resettlement activities along the Pengbu-
Wengmei advance contracting section in Zhejiang were completed between October 1993
and April 1994. In order to ensure that land acquisition and resettlement was carried out
satisfactorily, the Bank requested that an evaluation of the resettlement activities be
prepared by an independent monitoring institution.  The resulting report indicated
satisfactory completion of relocation activities, but cited delays in the process of providing
eligible people with employment in enterprises. The employment placement process for
the Pengbu-Wengmei section was completed by November 1994.



- 34 -
3.42         The process and strategies used for resettlement in this advance contracting
section, and further, early lessons learned from implementation of resettlement in this
section and under other projects in China, were scrutinized and, in most areas, the
approach to resettlement strengthened as reflected in the final, revised RAPs for all project
components. During early phases of project planning, highway design institutes carried
out surveys documenting the adverse impact of the project on lands, houses, infrastructure,
and other collectively or individually held assets in the project area, as is regular practice
for highway projects in China. However, the Bank's concerns about the large number of
people affected by this project and the provinces' limited previous experience with
formulating RAPs warranted more intensive preparation of the project's resettlement
activities. In late 1994, both Shanghai and Zhejiang, with the assistance of specialized
agencies, initiated a socio-economic survey of the project area to: (a) verify the results of
the earlier census surveys; and (b) establish a baseline of income levels and socio-economic
conditions (including assets held) of the affected population. The detailed data from socio-
economic surveys provided the basis for revised RAPs.
3.43         During subsequent preparation with assistance from the Bank's technical
experts, other aspects of the resettlement process and the RAPs were addressed in depth,
including: (a) the establishment of a policy framework to ensure that living standards for
all categories of affected persons are, at a minimum, restored; (b) the establishment of
transparent mechanisms to redress grievances of affected persons and the procedure for
appeals; (c) the necessity to compensate for all affected assets, and housing in particular,
at full replacement values; (d) the inclusion of contingencies, especially for inflation, in
resettlement budgets; (e) the strengthening of institutional arrangements for both internal
and external monitoring of land acquisition and resettlement activities; and (f the planning
and execution of detailed processes of job creation. All of these issues, while complex,
have been satisfactorily addressed in all RAPs.
3.44         Legal Basis of Land Acquisition and Resettlement. By law, ownership
of all land in China is vested in either the state or the collectives. Collective land belongs
to farmers and is managed by village councils. Acquisition of land for development
projects is governed by national laws, provincial implementation regulations, and project-
specific regulations issued by provincial, municipal, or county governments. Since 1982,
authorities in China have substantially revised their laws and guidelines on resettlement in
different types of projects.
3.45         A specific model has been developed for resettlement arising from projects
in transport and industry. At the core of this model cf resettlement are the following
objectives: to avoid or minimize resettlement; to restore or improve the standards of
living of the adversely affected people; to consult affected localities during the project
design stage; to compensate villages for land acquired from them and to compensate
individuals for houses, standing crops, or other individually held assets; to provide land
to adversely affected persons through redistribution of land in villages or to provide jobs
in enterprises to members of villages where land per capita holdings fall below specified
minimum amounts; to restore disrupted infrastructure or compensate its owner(s); to
entrust implementation of land acquisition and resettlement to local governments. These
principles substantially meet the requirements of Bank policy on involuntary resettlement.



- 35 -
Based on national principles for transport projects, Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang
Province have issued specific regulations governing acquisition of land and resettlement
of people arising from the Expressway and the RSP.
3.46        HHEC, ZPEC, and ZPHAB (the project implementing agencies) are, on
behalf the Municipal and Provincial governments, responsible for ensuring that all affected
persons are resettled in accordance with the principle of restoring or improving income and
livelihoods in the shortest possible time. The project implementing agencies will ensure
that affected persons are given the maximum possible options as regards replacement sites
and employment, and will make special efforts to ensure the continuity of productive
employment for older, unskilled persons. The project implementing agencies will also
increase resettlement staff in order to allow adequate implementation and reporting from
local authorities.
3.47        Adverse Impacts of Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway. The total number
of people to be adversely affected by construction of the Expressway is 42,307, 82% of
whom will be affected only by the loss of land. About 90% of the adversely affected
reside in Zhejiang, with Shanghai residents accounting for the remaining 10%. Temporary
land acquisition will affect an additional 200 persons in Zhejiang and 420 persons in
Shanghai. Of the people adversely affected by loss of land, an estimated 8,239 persons
need to be economically rehabilitated through land readjustment and provision of jobs in
non-agricultural enterprises. Further details on the adverse impact of the project are
provided in Annex 4. Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) developed for each section of the
Expressway have been reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank.
3.48        Adverse Impacts of the Road Safety Program. Resettlement surveys
indicated that an estimated 13,964 individuals would be affected by civil works under the
RSP. The land acquisition, resettlement and compensation procedures to be followed are
consistent with those applied for the Zhejiang expressway section: a separate RAP
covering all packages under the RSP has been received and found acceptable to the Bank.
3.49        Monitoring and Evaluation of Resettlement. As in previous Bank-financed
highway projects in China, regular monitoring and reporting will be used to evaluate the
implementation of resettlement. The proposed project includes internal monitoring, and
reporting by project implementing agencies HHEC, ZPEC, and ZPHAB, and independent
(external) monitoring and reporting by specialized agencies in Shanghai and Zhejiang. The
agencies appointed for independent monitoring are the Shanghai Academy of Social
Sciences (for Shanghai) and the Urban and Rural Planning Institute of Hangzhou University
(for Zhejiang). These agencies were initially retained to help HHEC, ZPEC, and ZPHAB
conduct socio-economic surveys to estimate resettlement impact as the basis for RAPs.
The monitoring represents a continuation of the independent agencies' involvement in the
resettlement activities for this project.
3.50        The monitoring and reporting for all resettlement activities in Zhejiang
Province are underway; the first internal monitoring report dated June 15, 1995 has been
received, and the first independent monitoring report would be submitted to the Bank by
July 15, 1995. For resettlement activities in Shanghai, the first internal and independent



- 36 -
monitoring reports would be submitted to the Bank by July 15, 1995 and September 1,
1995, respectively. After the initial reports, additional internal monitoring reports would
be prepared and submitted to the Bank every 3 months and independent monitoring reports
would be prepared and submitted to the Bank every 6 months, according to the schedule
described in Annex 6.
3.51        The monitoring is designed to examine and monitor progress in
implementation of the RAPs, paying particular attention to the timeliness and adequacy of
compensation payments, proper relocation of resettlers, delivery of specified entitlements
(including jobs and provisions for meeting the needs of vulnerable people) to eligible
resettlers, and the adequacy of measures to restore the standards of living of the affected
people. The independent monitoring institutions will conduct surveys to determine the
degree of success in meeting the objectives of the RAPs, and will report their findings in
writing to HHEC, ZPEC, and ZPHAB, recommending specific actions when warranted.
Agreements were reached from SM and ZP at negotiations that internal and independent
monitoring will be carried out against the agreed RAPs; that internal and independent
monitoring reports for resettlement will be submitted to the Bank at three- and six-month
intervals, respectively; and that, in the event changes in the RAPs are required based on
the recommendations of monitoring agencies or other evaluations, SM and ZP willfurnish
the proposed revision of the RAPs to the Bank for its prior approval.
3.52        As local governments are responsible for implementing resettlement plans
in China, the expressway commissions have signed agreements with the local governments
to acquire land and resettle the adversely affected people. The majority of those losing
land will be assigned new plots through redistribution of the remaining lands of the
affected villages. Compensation funds for land will be invested to increase the productivity
of the remaining lands or establish/strengthen village enterprises. Those losing houses will
be provided assigned plots in residential sites provided by their villages. Based on relevant
criteria, eligible persons will be employed in enterprises. Those being resettled are
afforded opportunities for productive employment through the assignment of new land or
the provision of non-agricultural employment in close proximity to their current land
holdings or places of residence.
3.53        Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs).  Summaries of the RAPs for the
Shanghai and Zhejiang segments of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway and for the Road
Safety Program are included in Annex 4. Complete copies of the RAPs are available in
the Project File. Agreements were reached from SM and ZP at negotiations that all land
acquisition and resettlement activities with respect to the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
and the Road Safety Program will be completed according to RAPs found satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.54        Inplementation of RAPs.4/ The expressway length in Zhejiang Province
consists of two sections. The first and smaller section, on the outskirts of Hangzhou City
between Pengbu and Wengmei, is the site of an advance contracting section. Land
4/    Detailed implementation schedules for all land acquisition and resettlement activities have been
provided in the respective RAPs.



- 37 -
acquisition and resettlement compensation plans for this section were implemented between
October 1993 and April 1994. The second and major section is situated between Wengmei
and Fengjing (on the border with Shanghai Municipality). Land acquisition for the
Wengmei-Fengjing section commenced in the fall of 1994 and has essentially been
completed, to allow construction to begin in mid-1995. The resettlement for both of these
sections was carried out according to an earlier version of the RAP for the Zhejiang
section. The principles and compensation strategies in the RAP to be confirmed at
negotiations will, as relevant, be applied retroactively to people already resettled. The
resettlement for the RSP has largely been completed, according to the principles and
compensation strategies in this RAP. Implementation of resettlement in Shanghai would
begin in late July 1995, to be consistent with the timing of construction.
3.55               Budgets of Y 173 million for the Shanghai expressway section, Y 294
million for the Zhejiang expressway section, and Y 32 million for the Road Safety
Program have been earmarked for implementation of the respective RAPs. The budgets
include provisions for annual inflation and for retroactive compensation for persons
affected prior to Bank acceptance of the final RAPs. Shanghai and Zhejiang have agreed
to make additional provisions for cost overruns during implementation of the RAPs.
G. CosT EsTMATs
3.56               The project is estimated to cost Y  6.2 billion, or $729.2 million, including
costs of land acquisition and resettlement, taxes and duties, and physical and price
contingencies. A project cost summary is presented below.
PROJECT COST SUMMARY /a
Local      Foreign        Total       Local    Foreign      Total
Foreign
(Y million)                         (S million)               (%
Works
Shanghai-HangzhouExpressway          1,636.83     1,644.09     3,280.91      192.56      193.42    385.98      50%
Road Safety Program                     96.77        41.47       138.24       11.38        4.88      16.26     30%
Subtotal                           1,733.60    1L685.56      3 419.15      203.94      198.30    402.24      49%
Goods
uipment                                  9.81        88.36        98.17         1.15      10.40      11.55     90%
Technical Assistance
Project ImplementationSupport/b         48.42        46.16        94.58        5.70        5.43      11.13     49%
Institutional Development /g             5.84        14.20        20.04        0.69        1.68       2.36     73%
Total Base Cot                     1 797.67     1 834.27     3,631.94      21147    ,2158 0    427.27        51%
Physical contingencies                   178.20       173.18      351.38        20.96       20.37     41.33      49%
Price contingencies                    1,191.83      298.68      1,490.51      140.22       35.14    175.36      20%
Taxes and duties                        226.06          0.00       226.06       26.59        0.00     26.59
Land acquisition and resettlement       498.11          0.00       498.11       58.60        0.00     58.60       0%
Total Proiect Cost                 3,891.86     2 306.13     6,197.99      457.85      271.31    729.16      37%
/a All figures are rounded. The assumed exchange rate is 8.50 yuan per dollar. Physical contingencies were estimated at 10% of
the cost of works and construction supervision. Price contingencies were estimated based on current price escalation factor,
described in para 3.57 and in Annex 5. Land acquisition and resettlement figures include contingencies.
/b Comprises consultant services for the supervision of construction.
7Z Comprises consultant services for training and road safety technical assistance.



- 38 -
3.57        The foreign exchange cost is estimated at $271.3 million, or 37 percent of
total cost. Base costs were estimated in November 1993 and adjusted for local currency
devaluation in mid-1994. Physical contingencies were calculated at 10 percent of the base
cost of works and supervision of highway construction. Price contingencies have been
calculated for both foreign and domestic costs, using the current Bank annual escalation
factors. Annual inflation rates assumed for foreign costs were 3.1%, 6.9%, 2.0%, 1.6%,
2.1%, 2.4%, 2.2%, and 2.5% for the years 1994 to 2001, respectively. Annual inflation
rates assumed for local costs were 25.0 %, 14.0%, 10.5%, 8.5%, 7.0%, and 6.5% for the
years 1994 to 1999, respectively, and 6.2% for the years 2000 and 2001. Identifiable
taxes and duties for works and equipment, included in the project cost analysis, were
estimated at Y 226 million (approximately $26 million).
3.58        The cost of civil works is based on the following:
(a)   Zhejiang Province:
(i)     the value of Contracts 1 through 4 approved by the Bank for the
Pengbu-Wengmei section (NCB procurement);
(ii)    final plan quantities and MOC standard unit costs for Contract 5
of the Pengbu-Wengmei section (NCB procurement); and
(iii)    the value of Contracts 6 through 10 approved by the Bank for
expressway construction (ICB procurement).
(b)   Shanghai Municipality - final plan quantities and MOC standard unit costs
for expressway construction under Contracts HHO1, HH02 and HH03 (ICB
procurement).
(c)   Road Safety Program - final plan quantities and standard Provincial unit
costs for the nine road sections (NCB procurement).
The cost per kilometer of the expressway component reflects in part the advance
preparation being done for later expansion to six lanes, including, in the Shanghai section,
subgrade works for six lanes. Further, both Shanghai and Zhejiang will build selected
structures to a six-lane standard and will complete all land acquisition and resettlement for
a six-lane ROW during the current project stage.
3.59        The cost of equipment was estimated based on prevailing prices and prices
quoted by manufacturers and suppliers. The estimated cost of consulting services is based
on recent contracts for similar services under ongoing highway projects. Additional
information on project cost and financing is provided in Annex 5.



- 39 -
H. FINANCING
3.60         The proposed Bank loan of $260 million would represent 36 percent of the
total project cost and 96 percent of the foreign exchange cost. The Central Government
of China would provide $58.1 million equivalent in grant funding, SM would provide
$177.3 million equivalent, and ZP would provide $233.8 million equivalent to cover the
remaining costs of the project, including contingencies. Local financing of the project by
Shanghai and Zhejiang would comprise highway sector user charges and other funds raised
at the provincial level. Agreements were reached at negotiations that the Central
Government would make the proceeds of the loan available to SM and ZP on the same
terms as those of the Bank loan, with SM and ZP bearing the foreign exchange risk. The
details of project financing are shown below and in Annex 5.
SUMMARY FINANCING PLAN
Base cost, including   Financing (US$ ri1llion)    IBRD
Category                       contingencies /a   IBRD    MOC  SM and ZPG       %
(US$ million)
Civil works and E&M               609.95        229.55    58.11      322.29    38%
Equipment                           13.95        10.38     ---         3.57    74%
Technical assistance /b            20.08         20.08     ---         0.00   100%
Land acquisition and resettlement  58.60         ---       ---        58.60    0%
Taxes and duties                   26.59         ---       ---        26.59    0%
Total cost incl. contin2encies  729.16       260.00    58.11     411.06    36%
/a  Contingencies were calculated using the Bank's standard price escalation factors,
as described in para 3.57.
/p  Includes construction supervision, training, and road safety technical assistance.
3.61          Delays of more than one year have been sustained in all project components
during preparation; however, the sequencing of project activities as confirmed during
appraisal will be maintained during implementation (as shown in Annex 6). Retroactive
financing has been requested to allow necessary start-up activities to proceed, so that the
overall implementation plan can be kept intact and further delays can be avoided. The
need for retroactive financing is anticipated for the following project activities, which in
total require $26 million (10 percent of the $260 million loan). Retroactive financing



- 40 -
would apply to payments made after September 1, 1994 (based on a planned date for loan
signing of September 1, 1995).
(a)   Construction of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway (Shanghai and
Zhejiang). Retroactive financing is requested for start-up activities related
to construction of sections the main expressway alignment under 3 ICB
contracts in Shanghai and 5 ICB contracts in Zhejiang. The construction of
these sections is scheduled to begin in early September, 1995: mobilization
advances to contractors would be retroactively financed. The ICB contracts
in Shanghai also include a soft soil test section proposed for retroactive
financing, comprising testing of soil and of remedial measures, to address
the difficult geological conditions along the alignment. The soft soil works
are typically done before major construction so that test results and
observations of settlement along bridges and embankments may be taken
into consideration in the selection of soft soil remedies during construction
of the main expressway and structures. Advance work on soft soils would
also help make use of a scarce resource, excavated earth accumulated during
the ongoing Taipu River and Huangpu River Projects, reducing the need for
excavation of farmland for soil, and would be cost-saving. The total
estimated cost of these works is $2.8 million; the amount of retroactive
financing is $0.5 million. The total estimated cost of the ICB contracts in
Shanghai and Zhejiang is $483.4 million;  the amount of retroactive
financing is $16.1 million ($1.2 million in Shanghai and $14.9 million in
Zhejiang).
(b)   Supervision of Construction for the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
(Shanghai and Zhejiang). The mobilization of a construction supervision
team and training that would be completed prior to construction are critical
start-up activities for the project, and would be retroactively financed. The
total cost of construction supervision services for the Expressway (including
training) is $16.6 million; the amount of retroactive financing is $1.0
million ($0.1 million in Shanghai and $0.9 million in Zhejiang).
(c)   Construction of the Pengbu-Wengmei Section (Zhejiang). Work on the
first 13 km section of the Expressway originating in Hangzhou began in
February 1994 in expectation of an FY95 Board date. Early construction
of these sections will relieve a potentially serious traffic bottleneck for the
three- to four-year period between the opening of the Hangzhou-Ningbo and
Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressways. The works will be completed by mid-
1996. The total estimated cost of the works is $30.7 million; the amount
of retroactive financing is $8.6 million.
All of the retroactive financing proposals are subject to satisfaction of the Bank's
requirements for environment, resettlement, and procurement. For retroactively-financed
civil works in this project, the Bank also specifically requires adherence to the overall
project implementation plan, monitoring reports that indicate satisfactory completion of
resettlement according to agreed RAPs, adequate construction supervision to ensure quality
of the works, and progress reporting.



- 41 -
I. PRoJEcr IMPLEMENTATION
3.62        Implementation of the project would be the primary responsibility of
expressway and highway agencies in Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang Province. Annex
6 provides an implementation schedule for all project components, timetable for civil
works, and further description of the organizational arrangements for project
implementation.
3.63        Arrangements for project implementation were developed at appraisal and
confirmed at negotiations. At negotiations, understandings were reached regarding the
role, organization and staffing of the Shanghai Municipality's Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway Engineering Construction Executive Commission, Zhejiang Provinces'
Shanghai-Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway Project Executive Commission, and the Zhejiang
Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (the implementing agencies for the Expressway
and the RSP). Agreements were reached during negotiations that the project implementing
agencies for the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway and Road Safety Program components
will at all times be staffed with qualified staff in adequate numbers.
3.64        The project has been delayed significantly during preparation due to changes
in design, cost, and resettlement components, affecting both government approvals and
ability to secure Bank financing. This has resulted in a delay of at least one year in the
onset of expressway construction. The phasing of works during project implementation
is subject to further change. Therefore, it was agreed at negotiations that Shanghai and
Zhejiang will submit to the Bank a detailed implementation plan, covering all aspects of
the project, including environment and resettlement, by September 30 of each year
beginning in 1996, for activities during the coming year, and will thereafter carry out such
work taking into account comments made by the Bank.
3.65        Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway. The Shanghai Shanghai-Hangzhou (Hu-
Hang) Expressway Construction Commission (HHEC) would be the implementing agency
for the Shanghai section of the Expressway, under the direction of the Leading Group for
Shanghai's Major Transport Projects.  The Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Project
Executive Commission (ZPEC) would be the implementing agency for the Zhejiang section
of the Expressway, under the direction of the Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Project
Steering Committee. Since the Expressway would be a segment of the national highway
network, MOC is also expected to provide general supervision and guidance for execution
of the project. During negotiations, understandings were reached concerning the authority,
role, organization, and staffing of all project implementing agencies. The implementing
agencies have been authorized to complete recruitment of staff for project management and
to enter into contracts for project implementation.
3.66        The organizational and staffing arrangements for construction supervision
of the Expressway were confirmed during project appraisal. Construction would be
supervised by joint supervision teams, one located in Shanghai and the other located in
Hangzhou, each headed by a Chief Supervision Engineer with a Resident Engineer located
on site for each of the construction contracts. About 160 personnel would be permanently
engaged in supervision. Invitations to shortlisted international consulting firms were issued



- 42 -
in February 1994. A qualified firm has been selected and the consultants are expected to
be mobilized during the third quarter of 1995 to begin training local personnel in
construction supervision and to help set up the organization for supervision.
3.67        The invitation to bid was issued to prequalified contractors in November and
July 1994 for Shanghai and Zhejiang, respectively. Construction of the main part of the
Expressway is scheduled to commence in September 1995 and be completed in early 2000,
or in about 54 months.
3.68        During negotiations, understandings were reached concerning the location,
timing, and responsibility for implementation of ancillary civil works in the Shanghai
expressway section that will be completed without Bank financing. The implementation
of these works is consistent with overall project implementation for the expressway, and
would be reviewed during project supervision.
3.69        The installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical systems for the
operation of the expressway is scheduled to commence in late 1998 and be completed by
mid-2000. The construction of service facilities and improvement of crossroads at the six
expressway interchanges in Zhejiang Province will begin in late 1995 and be completed
in early 2000, concurrently with the expressway works.
3.70        Road Safety Program. The Zhejiang Provincial Highway Administration
Bureau (ZPHAB) would be the executing agency for the RSP. ZPHAB was the principal
agency involved in implementation of the Zhejiang provincial component of the Bank's
first highway project in China and the Road Improvement Program under the Zhejiang
Provincial Highway Project. A special unit has been set up in ZPHAB to manage the
program, coordinate its activities with all concerned agencies, ensure consistency in the
quality of design, supervise, expedite implementation and meet reporting requirements
(Annex 2). The needs of this unit for laboratory equipment have been included in the list
of equipment to be provided under the project. Also, needs for transport would be
provided under the civil works contracts for the implementation of the RSP. During
negotiations, an understanding was reached that the transport administrations at
prefectural/county levels are adequately staffed for implementation of the RSP and the
procurement or mobilization of equipment office facilities, transportation, staff training
arrangements, and other necessary resources for the preparation and execution of the RSP
subprojects is underway.
3.71        The formulation, preparation and execution of the RSP involves several
highway sector agencies in Zhejiang Province. Zhejiang Provincial Transport Design
Institute in cooperation with the relevant design institutes of municipalities and prefectures
would be responsible for preparing preliminary and final engineering designs as well as
bidding documents for the subprojects under the RSP. The design and bidding documents
would be reviewed and approved by ZPHAB. Construction of the first section of the
program is scheduled to commence in late 1995 and be completed in about 24 months.
The design and road safety impact of individual RSP sections would be addressed in detail
in section information packages submitted to the Bank for review. The program as a
whole is scheduled to be completed by the end of 1997.



- 43 -
3.72        Equipment. The responsibility for procurement of equipment would be
divided between HHEC, the Shanghai Highway Management Department, ZPEC and
ZPHAB. HHEC and ZPEC would be responsible for the procurement of equipment
related to the Expressway component, such as equipment for the central laboratory,
environmental protection, soft-soil treatment research, and operation and maintenance of
the highway. Equipment for the central laboratory and environmental protection would be
procured during 1996/97, equipment for operation and maintenance of the highway is
scheduled to be procured during 1997/99. A portion of the Shanghai equipment list is
being procured in advance by the Shanghai Highway Management Department, and would
be available to highway agencies in Shanghai by the end of 1995.
3.73        Responsibility for the procurement of equipment related to the RSP
component of the project would rest with ZPHAB. Equipment for the RSP is scheduled
to be procured during 1996/97, so that equipment may be available during the
implementation of the RSP technical assistance.
3.74        The project as a whole is scheduled to be completed by December 31, 2000
with the loan closing date stipulated as June 30, 2001.
J. PROCUREMENT
3.75        The procurement of all Bank-financed activities under the project will be in
accordance with "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated
January 1995 and as shown in the following table. Procurement arrangements for the
project have taken into account the experience gained from previous Bank-financed
highway projects. The documentation for procurement, which covers the prequalification
of contractors under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) for civil works and goods, has been standardized for Chinese conditions
in cooperation between the Chinese Government and the Bank. The revised set of model
documents would be used for all relevant procurement processes under the project. In
particular, prequalification criteria for civil works under ICB procedures have been
tightened and are now based on performance requirements pertinent to each of the
contracts.
3.76        Civil Works.  A large proportion of contracts for civil works for the
expressway (83 percent of contract value) would be procured under ICB. ICB procurement
for works will be used for contracts of $10 million and above. There are eight ICB
contracts for civil works for the Expressway, five in Zhejiang and three in Shanghai, with
an estimated cost of $483.4 million. Contracts average about 15 km in length with costs
in the range of about $49-70 million each. Contractors, according to their bidding capacity
(determined during the evaluation of the prequalification submissions), would be permitted
to submit bids for one or more contracts. Qualified domestic contractors would receive
a 7.5 percent preference in bid evaluation on these contracts.
3.77        An additional five civil works contracts, for construction of the first 13 km
section of the Expressway adjoining Hangzhou and including the Wengmei interchange and
a 6-km Class 2 link road connecting to NR 320 at Lingpin, are to be procured under NCB



- 44 -
PROcuREMENr ARRANEmEN
($ million)
Procurement method              Total
ICB       NCB       Other   Not Bank      project
Financed      cost
Civil Works
Shanghai Expressway Section          182.1                        25.4 /a        207.6
(48.0)                                      (48.0)
Zhejiang Expressway Section          301.3       70.8                            372.0
(126.0)     (29.6)                          (155.6)
Road Safety Program                              25.9                             25.9
(8.8)                           (8.8)
E&M supply and installation
Shanghai Expressway Section            3.8                          1.8 /b          5.6
(2.9)                                       (2.9)
Zhejiang Expressway Section           20.2                                        20.2
(14.2)                                      (14.2)
Equipment
Shanghai                               2.2        0.4   0.3 /c    4.8 /e            7.7
(1.7)      (0.3)  (0.2)                     (2.2)
Zhejiang                               9.6        1.1    0.5 /c                   11.1
(6.8)      (0.8)  (0.3)                     (7.9)
Road Safety Program                               0.3   0.1 /c, /d                 0.3
(0.2)  (0.0)/d                  (0.3)
Consultancies /f
Implementation Support /g                               17.1                      17.1
(17.1)                   (17.1)
Institutional Development /h                             3.0                       3.0
(3.0)                    (3.0)
Land acquisition and resettlement                                   58.6           58.6
Total                              519.2       98.4  20.9       90.6           729.2
(199.6)     (39.7) (20.7)                   (260.0)
Notes:  All figures are rounded, and include physical and price contingencies and taxes. Figures in
parentheses represent amounts financed by the Bank Group; the IBRD loan would not be used
to finance taxes.
/a      Ancillary works to be procured under local procedures.
/b      Direct contract with the Shanghai Power Administration Bureau - Songjiang Branch.
/c      International and National Shopping.
/d      Represents equipment valued at $62,000, with Bank financing of $45,000.
/e      Advance procurement of equipment by the Shanghai Highway Management Department.
If      Selection of consultants according to 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency."
/9      Comprises supervision of construction.
/h      Comprises training and road safety technical assistance.



- 45 -
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The cost of these contracts is estimated at $39.6
million. Advance contracting and NCB have been used for the first four contracts,
covering 13 km of the expressway: construction began in February 1994 with completion
expected by mid-1996. The fifth contract, for construction of a 6-km access road to NR
320, will be awarded under NCB procedures in 1996 with completion scheduled by the end
of 1998. NCB procedures were used because (a) the expressway passes through the urban
fringe of Hangzhou with several administrative subdivisions and attendant utility relocation
works, all of which made it doubtful whether major out-of-province or foreign contractors
would join the bidding; however, contractors were permitted to bid for more than one
contract; and (b) contracts under NCB procedures could be processed more quickly,
potentially providing earlier relief to the congested Hangzhou road network.
3.78        Remaining civil works contracts financed by the Bank in Zhejiang Province
include (a) eight contracts for the upgrading of 56 km of cross roads at six Expressway
interchanges with an estimated cost of $17.4 million, (b) six contracts for minor
construction works along the expressway with an estimated cost of $13.7 million,
comprising buildings for toll stations, maintenance depots, service areas and administrative
buildings, and (c) civil works for the RSP, with an estimated cost of $25.9 million.
Contracts for these three categories will likely be relatively small in value and are not
considered to be attractive to foreign firms; therefore, ICB would be neither justified nor
practical and the contracts would be awarded under NCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Qualifying foreign firms would not be precluded from bidding for the contracts.
3.79        The project also includes ancillary civil works for the expressway section
in Shanghai Municipality that would not be financed by the Bank. The ancillary civil
works have an estimated cost of $25.4 million and comprise pumps, small bridges, toll
stations, and related minor works. These works are small-scale and scattered, and would
be procured under local procedures (para 3.21).
3.80        Supply and Installation of Electrical and Mechanical Equipment.
Electrical and mechanical works for the Expressway will be procured under 3 contracts.
The Bank will finance two of these contracts, to be procured under ICB with a total cost
of $24.0 million, for the supply and installation of equipment in each of the Shanghai and
Zhejiang expressway sections. A third contract for the provision of power in the Shanghai
section will be procured by direct contract with Shanghai power authorities because the
supply of power in Shanghai is provided by a monopoly, and will not be financed by the
Bank.
3.81        Equipment.  All contracts for goods and equipment estimated to cost
$200,000 or more would be procured following ICB procedures. Qualifying domestic
contractors and manufacturers competing under ICB would be eligible for a margin of
preference in the comparison of bids of 15 percent, or the prevailing custom duties,
whichever is lower. Contracts with estimated cost over $50,000 and up to $200,000 and
in aggregate amounts not exceeding $0.4 million for Shanghai and $1.4 million for
Zhejiang would be procured following NCB procedures. All other items or groups of
items covering minor maintenance, laboratory, research, and environmental equipment
associated with the two expressway sections and the RSP, of up to $50,000 per contract



- 46 -
and in aggregate amounts not exceeding $0.3 million for Shanghai and $0.6 million for
Zhejiang would be procured following international or national shopping procedures.
International and national shopping procedures would be based on a comparison of price
quotations solicited from at least three suppliers in accordance with "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995.
3.82        Consulting Services. The need for consulting expertise was identified for
the supervision of construction, staff training, and for technical assistance to support the
RSP component. Local expertise available in the various provincial universities and
institutes in the subsector would be used as much as possible. All consultants would be
employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank in accordance with
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency."
3.83        Bank Review. During project supervision, contracts for expressway works
above a threshold of $4 million and all works contracts under the RSP would be subject
to the Bank's prior review procedures. The review process would cover about 94 percent
of the total works contract value (100 percent, ICB; 64 percent, NCB). Goods contracts
above $200,000 would also be subject to prior review, covering 83 percent of the total
value of Bank-financed goods. All contracts for electrical and mechanical works would
be subject to prior review. Consulting services contracts with value over $100,000 for
firms and over $50,000 for individuals would also be subject to prior review by the Bank.
All other contracts would be subject to ex post facto review.
K. DISBURSEMENTS
3.84        The proposed IBRD loan of $260 million would be disbursed over a period
of about six years, as follows:
(a) Civil Works
Construction
Shanghai Expressway Section     $40.4 million    35 percent
Zhejiang Expressway Section    $132.3 million    43 percent
Road Safety Program              $7.5 million    35 percent
Supply and Installation of Electrical
and Mechanical Equipment
Shanghai Expressway Section      $2.5 million    79 percent
Zhejiang Expressway Section     $12.1 million    73 percent
(b) Equipment
Shanghai Expressway Section      $2.2 million    100 percent of foreign
Zhejiang Expressway Section      $6.3 million    expenditures, 100 percent
Road Safety Program              $0.6 million    of local expenditures (ex-
factory), and 75 percent
of local expenditures for
other items procured
locally



- 47 -
(c) Consultant services and training
Shanghai Expressway Section       $5.8 million    100 percent
Zhejiang Expressway Section      $10.4 million    100 percent
Road Safety Program               $0.8 million    100 percent
(d) Unallocated                       $39.1 million
Total              $260.0 million
3.85        To facilitate disbursement, Special Accounts would be opened separately for
Shanghai and Zhejiang with initial deposits of $4.0 million for Shanghai and $12.5 million
for Zhejiang, the estimated average expenditures for a four-month period. The account
would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to the Bank, and would be managed
by SM and ZP. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted
monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn down to 50 percent of its initial
deposit, whichever comes first. A schedule of estimated disbursements is provided in
Table 3.8. This schedule takes into consideration the disbursement profile for transport
projects in China and the potential risk of delays in project implementation due to the
difficult subsoil conditions.
3.86        Disbursements would be made against priced contracts for the civil works
and delivery and installation of the equipment. Interim certification of civil works
completed and costed at unit rates in the contracts would be done by the joint supervision
teams, and payments would be authorized by SMEAB, ZPEC and ZPHAB. Retroactive
financing of $22.1 million would be applied to expenditures for civil works, consulting
services, and equipment contracts for the Expressway and the RSP. Disbursements for
staff training in China or abroad would be made against the actual costs of travel,
subsistence, and tuition or training fees. Reimbursement for individual expenditures under
contracts of $4 million or less for expressway works, $200,000 or less for goods and
electrical and mechanical works, $100,000 or less for consulting services contracts with
firms, and $50,000 or less for consulting services contracts with individuals and for
training may be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation
supporting SOEs would be retained by the implementing agencies and made available for
review by Bank supervision missions.
L. PROJECT MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
3.87        Monitoring. During implementation, project performance, including the
achievement of physical targets and attainment of other project objectives will be monitored
by the HHEC, ZPEC, and ZPHAB through the use of performance indicators (described
in Annex 6x, progress reports and auditing of project accounts. In addition, upon
completion, the project will be reviewed in an Implementation Completion Report.
3.88        The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the State Audit Administration
(SAA) would be responsible for auditing the accounts of project expenditures. Actual
audits in Shanghai would be carried out for SAA by the Shanghai Municipal Audit Bureau,
a subordinate organization of SAA. Audits in Zhejiang would be carried out either by the



- 48 -
Zhejiang Branch of SAA or the Zhejiang Provincial Audit Administration. Agreements
were reached with the Borrower, SM and ZP at negotiations that the project accounts, the
Special Accounts, and SOEs will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank. Audit reports will be sent to the Bank for review within six months of the
close of each fiscal year. In the case of SOEs, the audit report will contain a separate
opinion by the auditors as to whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
3.89        Based on the monitoring activities carried out by HHEC, ZPEC, and
ZPHAB, the following reports will be submitted to the Bank:
(a)   A series of internal and external (independent) monitoring reports (as
described in Annex 6) assessing the impact of land acquisition and
resettlement on various segments of the local population, describing the
income restoration strategies followed, and indicating the number of people
rehabilitated;
(b)   Annual audit reports for the project accounts and agencies' financial
statements (para 3.88);
(c)   Quarterly progress reports for all project activities (civil works, construction
supervision, technical assistance, training, procurement of goods and
services and environment), including up-to-date performance indicators;
(d)   Quarterly monitoring reports for the Road Safety Program (para 3.31); and
(e)   A Project Implementation Completion Report would be prepared and
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the loan closing date.
During negotiations, it was agreed that Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang Province will
each furnish quarterly progress reports to the Bank and, upon completion of the project,
will each prepare an Implementation Completion Report no later than six months after the
loan closing date.
3.90        Supervision. The project would be supervised regularly by Bank missions.
A supervision mission plan, indicating key activities, is provided in Annex 7. In addition
to field missions, staff input would be provided at headquarters for project-related activities
such as completion of supervision reports, review of documentation submitted for the
clearance of RSP subproject packages, review of procurement documentation and contracts,
and staff training proposals. The Bank's supervision input is estimated at 85 staff-weeks,
38 in the field and 47 at headquarters.



- 49 -
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
4.1          The economic analysis for the proposed project focuses on the civil works
components that, together with associated construction supervision and design, survey, and
testing, account for over 97 percent of the project base cost. The main infrastructure
investments in the project comprise:
(a)   construction of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expresswayl/; and
(b)   improvements to existing roads under the Road Safety Program.
A. MAN BENEFTS AND BENEFIcmAlUEs
4.2          The major quantifiable benefits of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Fxpressway
(hereafter, "the Expressway") and associated access roads would include: (a) reduced
traffic congestion for traffic remaining on the existing Shanghai-Hangzhou highway; and
(b) improved driving conditions, reduced traffic interference, and reduced travel distances
and times for traffic on the new expressway due to restricted access and the direct and
relatively uncongested nature of the new alignment.
4.3          The principal direct benefit of the Road Safety Program (RSP) is expected
to be a significant reduction in traffic accidents along the improved section of NR 320 due
to (a) the separation of slow-moving bicycles and agricultural vehicles from faster vehicular
traffic through provision of separate lanes for the slow traffic, and (b) by improved
intersection layouts. Longer-term (but unquantified) benefits from the program would
include (a) generally improved design of highway carriageways and intersections in the
region based on training received and experience gained in this project, and (b) reduced
accidents by remedial work at blackspots identified using equipment and training provided
under the project.
4.4          Benefits from the project would accrue to road users in the form of cost,
time, and accident savings, and to the Provincial Government in the form of reduced
highway maintenance costs and reduced burden on emergency services. Many road users
I/    The expressway segment proposed for financing under this project comprises the major portion of
the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway. A 20-km segment of this expressway, adjoining downtown
Shanghai, was completed in 1990 without Bank assistance. The remaining 130 km comprise the
proposed Bank project.



- 50 -
are own-account operators for productive enterprises or, in the rural areas, individual
farmers, and thus should capture the benefits of the project directly. The public freight
and passenger services are also likely to respond to increased competition so that transport
costs savings would be passed on to the users; at minimum, reduced operating costs would
permit future price increases to be held down. Passengers would in any case enjoy the
time savings offered by the project.
4.5         The project also affords important, but non-quantifiable, institutional
benefits.  The project implementing agencies would directly benefit from project
development, management, and expressway operations experience which would be relevant
to their future activities in the sector. Staff in the implementing agencies would benefit
from training and practical experience in contracting and procurement. The highway
sector agencies in Shanghai and Zhejiang would strengthen their capacity to develop,
maintain and operate highways through the expansion of equipment fleets made possible
by equipment procurement in this project. Zhejiang highway authorities at provincial and
local levels would benefit from specialized training, practical experience, and enhanced
institutional capacity for road safety.
B. EVALUATION OF THE SHANGHAI-HANGZHOU ExPRESSWAY
4.6         The Existing Corridor. The Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor is a rapidly
developing part of the East Coast with activity ranging from traditional intensive
agriculture to light manufacturing. Shanghai is the largest city in China, and strong
economic growth is generating increasing demands for goods and raw materials from the
surrounding region. Transport demands for both freight and passengers are consequently
growing rapidly.
4.7         The main road in the corridor is NR 320; the section of NR 320 from
Hangzhou to Yuhang passes through urban Hangzhou, which is now becoming very
congested, and then around the only hills in the region; while the hills have no serious
adverse affects on grades and curvature, they do force the alignment to the north, which
adds considerable distance to the route to Shanghai. The alignment of NR 320 in Shanghai
is also not very direct, although for historical rather than topographical reasons. Further,
since a section of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway is already opened to traffic in
Shanghai (the Xinzhuang-Songjiang section, which opened in 1990), high speed traffic
from the Songjiang terminus on the expressway to Fengjing now has to traverse some
inadequate minor roads to rejoin NR 320. Due to this inadequate access to Songjiang,
traffic between Shanghai and Fengjing moves along several parallel routes, including (a)
the Expressway-link road to NR 320, (b) entirely on NR 320 from Xinzhuang, (c) the
Songjiang-Zhengdian Highway and (d) the Maogang-Xinbang Highway. Most of these
routes have sections of low standard, and, apart from the Xinzhuang-Songjiang section of
the Expressway, none of the roads exceeds two-lane standard.



- 51 -
4.8         In contrast to the sections near Hangzhou and Shanghai, the central section
of NR 320 from Fengjing to Yuhang is well-aligned and of good geometric standard. This
section of the route was upgraded to "Super Class II" standard in 1988, and comprises a
12 m carriageway with two 1 m shoulders. While not a full four lanes, motor traffic tends
to use the central portion of the carriageway and slower traffic keeps to the right. Being
a densely populated area, villages and towns are quite frequent, but generally frontage
development is relatively restrained. There are some 180 side road intersections along the
central section of NR 320, with associated interference to traffic.
4.9          The Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor is also served throughout its length by
Zhejiang Provincial Highway 01, with continuing extensions into Shanghai; this road for
the most part follows the coastline of the Qiantang River and estuary. The total length
from Pengbu to Songjiang is about 176 km, a little longer than via NR 320. Design
standards vary considerably between Zhejiang and Shanghai. In Zhejlang, which contains
two thirds of the route, the highway is of mostly low standard, between 6-7 m wide and
with an inferior alignment. In Shanghai, the route has been upgraded to four-lane standard
to exceed the quality of NR 320. In whole, the route does not carry much of the current
Shanghai-Hangzhou traffic (total volumes are about one third those of NR 320) and mostly
serves local needs.
4.10         The Proposed Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway. The Expressway would
be constructed to four-lane standard with access restricted to normal motor traffic;
agricultural tractors and nonmotorized traffic would be excluded. Provision is being made
to expand the Expressway to six-lane standard at a later date. Three alternative route
alignments were evaluated in the early stages of the project. The selected, central
alignment is the shortest, linking with the completed first section of the Shanghai-
Hangzhou Expressway at Songjiang in Shanghai to the Pengbu terminus of the Hangzhou-
Ningbo Expressway in Hangzhou.2/
4.11         The proposed expressway is approximately 130 km long, with 27.5 km in
Shanghai (Songjiang-Fengjing) and 102.5 km  in Zhejiang (Fengjing-Pengbu).  For
purposes of economic evaluation, sections of the existing NR 320 from Hangzhou to
Yuhang, Yuhang to Fengjing, and Fengjing to Songyin were considered, plus an additional
section of the Son-Jin (Songjiang to Jinshanwei) highway. This 165-km route represents
the best available alternative route to the proposed expressway. The distance saving by
using the expressway instead of this alternative route would be 35 km, with most of the
saving concentrated at the two ends as indicated below:
2/    The Pengbu interchange, part of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway being constructed under the Zhejiang
Provincial Highway Project, was completed in 1995. The entire Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway is
expected to open to traffic by 1997.



- 52 -
Existing    Expressway Saving
(km)         (km)
Songjiang-Fengjing         41            27.5      33%
Fengjing-Yuhang            93            84.5       9%
Yuhang-Pengbu              31            18.0      42%
Total                165           130.0     21%
4.12        Trafric Volumes and Speeds on the Existing Roads. Records from the
Zhejiang and Shanghai traffic counting program indicate extremely rapid growth in traffic
in the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor (Tables 4.1 and 4.2). Total motor vehicle traffic grew
at 15 to 20 percent per year during 1986-92, with growth of small vehicle traffic averaging
18 to 27 percent. Growth has accelerated during the 1990s to about 21 to 26 percent per
year, with growth of small vehicle traffic reaching 30 to 37 percent. Traffic distribution
patterns are illustrated below (paras 4.13 and 4.14), based on counts at the 24-hour count
station at Nanhu on NR 320 near Jiaxing, located about halfway between Shanghai and
Hangzhou. Bank mission observations confirm the counts as representative of actual traffic
flows.
4.13        Detailed traffic count records from Nanhu, show that daytime traffic flows
are fairly evenly distributed, with the highest hour taking just over 7 percent of the daily
traffic. A relatively high proportion of traffic moves at night, with 15 percent of all
movements occurring in the eight hours between 10 pm and 6 am and a further 16 percent
in the four hours between 6 pm and 10 pm, in both cases about half as high again as the
normal proportion. All these factors indicate constant traffic pressure on the existing
highway, with some drivers preferring to travel by night to avoid daytime congestion in
the corridor.
4.14        Traffic speeds on the central section of NR 320 currently average about 30
to 35 kilometers per hour (km/h) during the day, much lower than the average speed of
45 to 55 km/h observed by Bank missions during 1993. High traffic volumes, combined
with the fast developing congestion, as evidenced by the considerable drop in average
speeds within a matter of a year, make the road vulnerable to major disruption by traffic
accidents or road works. Speeds are even lower on the sections near Hangzhou and in
Shanghai (apart from the sections of expressway already opened) where road geometry is
less satisfactory and local traffic volumes are higher. It currently takes about 5 to 6 hours
to drive from the center of Shanghai to the center of Hangzhou, a distance of about
200 km.
4.15        Projected Traffic on the Expressway. Projections of expressway traffic
require estimates of traffic growth and traffic diversion.
4.16        Regarding traffic growth, prevailing high growth rates and continuing strong
economic expansion make the task of traffic projections extraordinarily difficult. Clearly,
the current very high traffic growth cannot continue indefinitely, but there are few clues



- 53 -
as to when it might end. Because current growth rates are high, an error of only a few
years in judging the duration of the high growth period may have a profound impact on
the overall level of projected traffic. This is critically important since the justification and
timing of the expressway hinges on the rate at which traffic congestion develops along NR
320.
4.17         Some considerations on selecting traffic growth rates are set out below:
(a)    Highway traffic growth rates tend to run higher than economic growth rates.
Current economic growth is in the range of 10 to 15 percent per year, and
long-term sustainable growth is perhaps around 10 percent per year. This
indicates a traffic growth in the region of 10 to 15 percent per year, and
closer to 20 percent per year at present. I
(b)   The expressway would dramatically reduce travel times between Shanghai
and Zhejiang, cutting some 1 to 2 hours off trip duration and producing
much greater savings compared with the future, more congested travel on
existing roads; this would likely lead to strong traffic generation effects.
4.18         Based on these considerations, two corridor forecasts were adopted:  a
standard forecast to reflect a likely outcome, and a low forecast for use in sensitivity tests.
Traffic growth rates were projected by class of vehicle, with small vehicle traffic showing
the fastest growth; average growth rates were applied, as follows3/:
STANDARD             LOW
1993-1995          21% per year         17% per year
1995-2000           14%                 10%
After 2000          10%                 7%
4.19         Regarding traffic diversion to the new expressway, two critical factors were
considered: (a) the proportion of long-distance traffic, which would be more inclined to
transfer to the expressway, and (b) the comparative ease of travel between the existing road
and the expressway. The proportion of long-distance traffic is not easy to determine. An
origin-destination study conducted as part of the feasibility study concluded that most
traffic in the corridor travels over long distances, but this cannot be completely correct:
traffic volumes on NR 320 in Zhejiang vary by section between about 8,000 per day and
12,500 per day, indicating significant local traffic components. Regarding comparative
ease of travel, the expressway has clear advantages over NR 320 for only very long-
distance traffic, and for short-distance traffic in the sections near Shanghai and Hangzhou.
Until serious congestion develops, the two routes are fairly similar along the main central
section of the corridor.
3/    The traffic growth rates assumed for analysis are significantly lower than actual recorded rates in the past
several years. See also para 4.48.



- 54 -
4.20        The feasibility study assumed unrealistically high diversion rates averaging
80 to 90 percent and reaching 98 percent on some sections (i.e., leaving almost no traffic
on the existing road), with lower rates of 60 to 85 percent when tolling of the new
expressway was assumed. For the analysis in this report, two diversion rates were
adopted: a standard rate of 67 percent for all medium- and long-distance traffic, and a low
rate of 33 percent for sensitivity tests. With tolling, these diversion rates would be
decreased (para 4.33).
4.21         On this basis, traffic projections were prepared both for traffic remaining
on the existing highway and for traffic diverted to the new expressway (Table 4.3).
Additional generated traffic was added to the new highway at the rate of 5 percent of the
diverted traffic. Traffic projections on the existing highway in the case without the project
assumed that growth would be restricted by the capacity limits of the existing road; this
suppressed demand would be released with the opening of the new highway and was
treated as additional generated traffic.
4.22         Economic Analysis.  The economic benefits of the Expressway derive
principally from the savings in travel time and cost for existing and projected traffic, and
from the additional economic development brought about by the improved road facility.
All these benefits are conventionally estimated by analyzing changes in vehicle operating
speeds and costs brought about by the new road. Discounted cost-benefit tables were
prepared under alternative assumptions; in each case, the Economic Internal Rate of Return
(EIRR) and First-Year Rate of Return (FYRR) in the year of opening were compared with
the test discount rate of 12 percent used for China projects to assess feasibility. The
evaluation considered traffic congestion, project benefits, construction costs, tolling, the
impact of the Road Safety Program (RSP), and sensitivity analyses.
4.23         Traffic Congestion. For sections of the route near Hangzhou and Shanghai,
the economic benefits are dominated by the large distance savings provided by a new
expressway, ensuring the early feasibility of these sections of the Expressway under any
reasonable assumptions of traffic growth and traffic diversion rates.
4.24         The situation is less clear for the main central section of the corridor
between Yuhang and Fengjing. Modest distance savings of about 9 percent would be
captured by long-distance through-traffic, with far smaller or even negative impacts for
short- and medium-distance traffic (which requires use of the access roads to join and leave
the expressway). Geometric alignment and surface conditions on the expressway would
not be much better than NR 320, which is in good condition and was recently upgraded.
Moreover, the Road Safety Program component of the project proposes to provide separate
facilities for bicycle and agricultural traffic along this section of NR 320, significantly
improving existing travel conditions. Hence, the main benefit from the Expressway in the
central part of the corridor would come from providing relatively congestion-free
conditions with consequent shorter travel times and lower vehicle operating costs. For
these reasons, an analysis of likely congestion levels on the existing NR 320 was crucial
to the economic analysis.



- 55 -
4.25        The results of the congestion analysis are summarized in Table 4.4, which
shows projected travel times and speeds in the project corridor (excluding road sections in
Shanghai beyond the project limits) under alternative assumptions. In the absence of the
Expressway and the RSP improvements, travel speeds have already declined from an
average of about 50 km/h in 1993 to around 35 km/h in February 1995 (much lower than
the speed of 47 km/h projected in an exercise done in 1993), and are expected to drop
precipitously to less than 13 km/h by 2005, suggesting a fourfold increase in travel times
over 1993 conditions. By then, existing highway capacity limits would have been reached,
effectively cutting off further growth in traffic. In practice, some of the traffic would
move to other roads, including Provincial Highway 01, and traffic would continue to
spread into the non-peak hours, including more nighttime travel. Both these actions would
impose additional unquantified costs that would tend to increase the benefits of the
expressway.
4.26        Speeds would be improved somewhat by the RSP, reducing congested travel
time in the corridor from 7 to 6 hours by the year 2001. While not a very large impact,
by reducing congestion levels, the RSP does reduce the economic benefits associated with
the expressway (para 4.34).
4.27        Traffic speeds on the new expressway would remain substantially above
speeds on the existing road, starting at around 70 km/h at opening, but also declining with
increasing traffic volume to 63 km/h by 2010. After this, speeds could be expected to
drop sharply. This strongly suggests that the policy of making provision for future
expansion to six-lane standard in the initial stages of construction is well-advised.
However, the case for later expansion has not been evaluated here. The timing of any
later expansion would ultimately depend on traffic growth rates actually achieved on the
4-lane expressway.
4.28        Project Benerits. Project benefits were estimated based mainly on savings
in vehicle operating costs and savings in travel time; average operating costs by vehicle
class for the existing road and the new expressway are shown in Table 4.5. These
estimates of vehicle operating costs were increased for congested highways to reflect the
lower traffic speeds and greater frequency of speed-change cycles characteristic of these
operating conditions. The evaluation also assumed that the very high proportion of night
time traffic would be reduced (since long-distance traffic would no longer have to travel
at that time to avoid congestion), returning the corridor to a more normal traffic
distribution.
4.29        Construction Costs. Financial costs for construction of the Expressway
were estimated at Y 5,757 million, including allowances for physical and price
contingencies, and resettlement (Table 4.6). Economic costs of Y 4,171 million were
estimated from the financial costs by deducting taxes and price contingencies and then,
based on recent analyses by the World Bank, increased by 5 percent to reflect the shadow
prices of project components for highway projects.
4.30        For evaluation purposes, the main part of the Expressway is assumed to take
about fifty months to construct, opening in the year 2000. An advance contracting section



- 56 -
from Hangzhou to Yuhang is assumed to open by the year 1998 4/. Additional costs are
anticipated in years five and fifteen for remedial pavement works (much of the expressway
would be built in soft-soil areas) and for major periodic maintenance. Annual costs of
highway maintenance and toll operations have also been included.
4.31         Evaluation without Tolls. The three sections of the Expressway were first
evaluated without tolling. For this case, construction costs were reduced by Y 180 million
to eliminate toll facility costs, and the recurrent costs of toll collection operations were
omitted. The resulting EIRR of the complete Expressway is 35 percent, with an FYRR
in 2001 of 25 percent (Table 4.7).
4.32         Evaluation with Tolls. It is intended that the highway be operated as a toll
road, which would involve higher costs of construction and operation, due to the toll
facilities, and a loss of potential benefits. The performance of major toll road projects in
China has not been consistent to date. In the north of China, traffic levels have been lower
than expected, generating disappointing toll revenues. In the south, the experience on
certain expressways in Guangdong Province has been more encouraging, with high traffic
growth rates on recently opened expressways and better potential for cost recovery. Given
the high economic growth in the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor, and the likely growth in
congestion on the existing road network, it is expected that tolling on the proposed
Expressway would generate significant revenues. Tolling would impact the project
benefits, but its effect cannot be determined with reasonable confidence until toll levels are
determined 5/ (para 3.22).
4.33         Imposition of tolls would have the effect of reducing traffic volumes along
the Expressway, but each component of traffic would be affected differently. Long-
distance traffic using the new highway would be the least likely to be affected, since the
savings afforded by the new highway compared with the existing road are considerable and
would not easily be offset by tolls. For medium- and short-distance traffic, the choice of
route, old or new, depends on the balance between shorter, but congested, travel on the
existing road versus longer distances (including travel on access roads) but less congested
travel via the new highway. The addition of tolls to the new highway would reset the
balance point in choosing between the old and the new route, and could be expected to
deter significant short-distance traffic from using the new highway. Since the benefits of
the new highway accrue mostly to longer-distance traffic, it can be expected that the drop
in traffic on the new highway due to the imposition of tolls is likely to be greater than the
drop in benefits. The toll road evaluation assumes that traffic volumes under tolled
conditions (for example, if tolls were set at no more than 30 percent of attributable cost
savings) would be lowered by about 17 percent, but that benefits would be lowered by only
14 percent. Evaluation as a toll road indicates a reduction in economic return, with an
EIRR of 32.8 percent and an FYRR of 21 percent for the entire expressway (Table 4.8).
4/    This comprises the Pengbu-Wengmei section, already under construction, and additional works in
Yuhang, to begin in early 1996. About 4 km of the section would open with the main expressway; the
evaluation assumed an earlier incidence of costs for this section.
5/    Toll levels in China are typically set just before opening of a new expressway.



- 57 -
4.34        Impact of the Road Safety Program. The Road Safety Program (RSP) is
intended to improve sections of the existing NR 320 between Yuhang and Fengjing by the
addition of separate lanes for slow-moving bicycles and agricultural vehicles and the
improvement of intersection layouts. While the primary intent of the RSP is to reduce
traffic accidents, a beneficial side effect would be improvement of traffic flows on NR
320; this in turn would reduce the benefits associated with the Expressway and could
postpone the optimum date of opening. Analysis showed that the FYRR for the Yuhang-
Fengjing section of the expressway would be indeed be reduced considerably, to 7 percent
compared with 16 percent in the standard tolled case. However, the EIRR remains above
the 12 percent test discount rate. The EIRR of the expressway would be 32.5 percent and
the FYRR would decline to about 18% (Table 4.9) as compared with the tolled case
without Road Safety Program improvements presented in Table 4.8 (para 4.33).
4.35        Sensitivity Tests. As noted above, the evaluation results for the proposed
project depend critically on the assumptions regarding traffic growth in the Shanghai-
Hangzhou corridor, and the rate of traffic diversion to the new expressway. Alternative
lower rates developed for each of these parameters were used in the sensitivity analyses.
The sensitivity tests in all cases assumed tolling. The worst case for the expressway (i.e.,
with the Road Safety Program in the parallel highway, low diversion, and low traffic
growth) is shown in Table 4.10, and the results of the full range of sensitivity tests are
summarized in Table 4.11.
4.36        In none of the sensitivity tests for the expressway as a whole did the EIRR
drop below 14 percent, including the worst case scenario that combined construction cost
increases of 50%, benefit reduction caused by lower traffic growth, and lower diversion
to the new expressway. However, the FYRR did drop below the test discount rate of
12 percent in certain cases, indicating a possible case for postponement of construction.
Of these economic factors, low traffic growth rates had the largest effect, but on their own
would postpone the optimum opening date by two years for Fengjing-Songjiang section,
and by several years for the Yuhang-Fengjing section, running parallel and close to the
central section of NR 320 (with the RSP in place) in Zhejiang. Low diversion produces
balancing impacts: while less traffic uses the expressway, it enjoys a higher unit benefit
as a result of the more traffic and more congestion on the existing road. Because of this,
a low diversion rate on its own would postpone the optimum opening date of only the
Yuhang-Fengjing section by three years. Taking low traffic growth and a low diversion
rate together has the greatest impact, and would postpone the optimum opening date for
all three sections of the Expressway by between one and several years.
4.37        Conclusions. Based on current expectations of traffic growth, the evaluation
shows that the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway is economically feasible if built to four-lane
standard on the proposed schedule of construction and operated as a tolled facility.
Construction to six-lane standard would not be warranted in the first instance, but the very
high traffic growth rates prevailing in the region support making provision for later
expansion.



- 58 -
C. EVALUATION OF THE ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
4.38        The civil works subcomponent of the Road Safety Program comprises the
upgrading of about 86 km of NR 320 to provide separate lanes for bicycle and agricultural
vehicle traffic, and improvement of layouts for some 180 side road intersections. The area
selected for these investments lies entirely within Jiaxing Prefecture of Zhejiang Province,
and essentially comprises the central section of NR 320 between Fengjing and Yuhang.
The characteristics of the existing route, including geometric standards, past traffic growth
(Table 4.1), future traffic projections (Table 4.3), and estimates of traffic speed both with
and without the Road Safety Program (Table 4.4), were described earlier in connection
with the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway evaluation.
4.39        Evaluation Procedures. Project benefits derive from three sources: vehicle
operating cost savings, travel time savings, and traffic accident savings. Vehicle operating
cost and travel time savings were estimated on the same basis as for the expressway, in
fact using an identical evaluation model since the Road Safety Program involves sections
of the same roads as the Expressway evaluation. Congestion effects dominate, and
considerable benefits can be attributed to the Road Safety Program through improvements
in traffic operating conditions.
4.40        Traffic Accident Savings. Consideration was given to estimating the
number of traffic accidents, the economic cost of traffic accidents, and the accident
reduction likely to be brought about by the RSP. Traffic accident records indicate that the
number of traffic accidents on NR 320 is growing at about the same rate as traffic; in other
words, the traffic accident rate in terms of accidents per vehicle-km is constant. Total
accidents on NR 320 in Jiaxing in 1993 were as follows:
Fatal             265
Injury            361
Damage only       241
Based on available statistics, the ratio of slight to serious accidents was taken as 3:1.
4.41        For the purposes of evaluation, it was assumed that traffic accidents on
NR 320 would continue to grow in proportion to the growth in traffic. On this basis,
traffic accidents would continue to grow up to year 2000, drop upon opening of the
Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway in early 2000, and continue to grow thereafter. It was
assumed that the standard rate of diversion to the new expressway would apply (i.e.,
67 percent of all medium- and long-distance traffic) which is a worst-case scenario for
estimating RSP benefits.
4.42        Regarding accident reductions brought about by the project, experience
elsewhere indicates that a 40 percent reduction could be achieved through the intersection
improvements alone. Little data is available on the impact of providing separate traffic
lanes for slow-moving vehicles, but significant accident reductions should be achieved.
For this evaluation, a reduction in accidents of 60 percent for the total RSP was assumed.



- 59 -
4.43        Little research has been done on the cost of traffic accidents in China.
Official statistics undervalue these costs by considering only the direct costs of damage to
vehicles together with compensation (if any) paid to individuals and families. A thorough
economic valuation should include much more, including the full range of social costs
associated with providing emergency and medical services and the loss of economic
productivity resulting from injuries or death. The most recent comparable estimates of the
economic cost of accidents were made in 1987 as part of the China Road Safety Project
(Sichuan Pilot Study) under the Bank-financed Highway Project (Loan 2359-CHA/Credit
1594-CHA). Accident costs derived in Sichuan in 1987 were updated for evaluation of the
proposed Road Safety Program. Since the components of accident cost are very person-
intensive (productive work time lost, cost of medical and emergency services), unit costs
of accidents rise both with per capita GDP as well as with inflation. On this basis,
economic unit accident costs have likely risen by about three times since the Sichuan
estimates were made. The updated costs used for 1993 were as follows:
Fatal             Y 65,600
Serious injury    Y 18,160
Slight injury      Y 3,400
Damage only        Y  1,700
It was assumed that the unit cost of accidents would continue to grow in line with the
economy; a conservative 5 percent per year growth in costs was assumed for this analysis.
4.44        Construction Costs. Estimates of construction costs for the RSP were
derived using the same approach as for the expressway (para 4.29). Total financial costs
of construction were estimated at Y 247 million, and economic costs at Y 180 million
(Table 4.6). It is expected that works under the RSP can be completed by the end of
1997, with construction undertaken in nine separate packages.
4.45        Evaluation Results. The results of the evaluation are set out in Table 4.12.
The EIRR is estimated at 54 percent, with a first year rate of return (FYRR) of 79 percent,
providing good economic justification for the proposed RSP investments. Sensitivity tests
with (a) cost overrun of 50 percent, (b) lower than expected traffic growth, and (c)
accident reduction of 40 percent and 20 percent instead of the assumed 60 percent used in
the base case may be seen in Table 4.13. Even in the worst case scenario involving cost
increases, lowest level of accident reduction (20 percent), and lower traffic growth
reducing the benefits considerably, the EIRR is over 19 percent, well above the test rate
of 12 per cent, justifying the RSP. The FYRR in this worst case scenario is estimated at
about 19 percent, justifying implementation of the RSP in the time frame proposed. The
evaluation is dominated by the vehicle operating cost savings and the RSP would be
justified based on these savings. However, consideration of traffic accident savings alone
would also be sufficient to justify the RSP.



- 60 -
D. SUMMARY OF EVALUATION AND ASSESSMENT OF PRoJEcT RISKS
4.46        The comparison of costs and benefits for the project as a whole yields an
overall EIRR of 33.4 percent (Table 4.14). The overall evaluation takes into account costs
and benefits of both the new Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway, that creates substantial
additional traffic capacity, and the road improvements under the Road Safety Program, that
further enhance highway capacity in the project corridor.
4.47        The comparison of benefits and costs for the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
component alone (the expressway operation under tolled conditions, without road safety
improvements in the corridor), yields an EIRR of approximately 32.8 percent (Table 4.8).
The result is influenced by the assumptions on traffic growth and the rate of traffic
diversion to the new expressway, both of which are difficult to assess under the current
conditions of very rapid economic growth. However, the evaluated EIRR is well above
the test discount rate of 12 percent, and would remain so even with quite different
assumptions on traffic growth and traffic diversion.
4.48        Assumptions on traffic growth and diversion do have a significant affect on
the optimum timing of the project, currently proposed for opening by 2000. Therefore,
the main risk is for slower traffic growth than anticipated, so that the planned expressway
construction schedule proves premature. This is considered unlikely, and not a sufficient
reason to delay construction. In fact, postponing construction would lead to a more
damaging risk of extreme congestion developing in the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor,
sufficient to seriously impede future economic growth.  It can be noted that the
conservative traffic growth assumed for the economic analysis above represents a
significant reduction in the traffic growths actually recorded over the past seven years.
4.49        Based on the standard traffic growth rates used for the economic evaluation,
the analyses indicate that expansion of the expressway from four-lane to six-lane standard
could be required by 2010. There is a risk that the extremely high current traffic rates
may continue longer than anticipated, sufficient to justify a six-lane standard for the initial
construction. However, there is uncertainty over future traffic growth rates such that
initial six-lane construction could not be warranted. The most advisable approach appears
to be the one adopted, of facilitating later expansion of expressway capacity by proper
design and certain advance works.
4.50        Because of the difficult subsoil conditions in sections of the alignment of the
Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway, there is a risk of delay in the completion of the
expressway and of reduced quality of the finished pavement. However, Zhejiang Province
(where most of the soft soils occur) is gaining experience of treating soft soils on the very
similar Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway now in construction under Bank financing, so the
risk is reduced.  Shanghai Municipality has also had relevant experience during
construction of the Xinzhuang-Songjiang Expressway.
4.51        The comparison of costs and benefits for the Road Safety Program yields an
estimated EIRR of 54 percent. Lower-than-anticipated traffic growth would reduce the rate
of return, but it would remain well above the test rate of 12 percent under all foreseeable



- 61 -
circumstances. Implementation of the RSP is expected to be well within the capability of
Zhejiang Province and little risk is anticipated. There is a risk that the traffic accident
savings would not be as great as anticipated, or might require some modifications after
opening, but in a pioneering effort such as this one, some risk is necessary in seeking
effective solutions. Also, the proposed works would be worthwhile even on the grounds
of improving traffic operations.
4.52        Based on Bank experience with ongoing highway projects, there is
significant risk of delay in project implementation. However, both Shanghai Municipality
and Zhejiang Province have had experience with Bank infrastructure projects, which should
help implementation of the proposed project. Project preparation has also benefited
substantially from the Bank's previous experience with similar highway projects in China,
including the Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project, still under implementation.
Preparation has also benefited from the active involvement of MOC, the participation of
foreign experts in the design of project components and the preparation of bidding
documents and technical specifications, the stringent criteria used for the prequalification
of contractors and the careful formulation of supervision arrangements to ensure regular
monitoring of implementation and effective quality control.



- 62 -
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1          Agreement was reached at negotiations with the Borrower that:
(a) The proceeds of the loan will be made available to Shanghai Municipality and
Zhejiang Province on the same terms as those of the Bank loan, with Shanghai
Municipality and Zhejiang Province bearing the foreign exchange risk (para
3.60); and
(b)  The project accounts and the Special Accounts, including SOEs, will be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and that audit reports will be sent
to the Bank for review within six months of the close of each fiscal year. The
audit report will contain a separate opinion on the SOEs (para 3.88).
5.2          Agreement was reached at negotiations with Shanghai Municipality and
Zhejiang Province that:
(a)  Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang Province will jointly prepare, discuss with
Municipal, Provincial, and Central governments and submit to the Bank by
December 31, 1995, a plan for coordinated management of the Shanghai-
Hangzhou Expressway, including description of toll operations, toll setting
arrangements, and measures to facilitate interprovincial traffic movement (para
3.22);
(b)  by December 31, 1998, Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang Province will submit
to the Bank an analysis of recommended toll levels for the Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway and will confirm the organizational arrangements for the Expressway
(para 3.22);
(c)  Supervision teams with qualified staff in adequate numbers will be maintained to
ensure that works are carried out in accordance with technical specifications and
that strict quality controls are exercised on site (para 3.24);
(d)  Prior to commencing upgrading of any section under the Road Safety Program
and as a condition of disbursement, the Bank will receive and approve
information on the design, technical aspects, construction supervision, and layout
plans for junctions, as well as a report containing an assessment of the likely
impact of the works on road safety (para 3.30);
(e)  Monitoring reports in a format agreed with the Bank will be prepared quarterly
to measure the impact of the road safety improvements under the subprojects of
the Road Safety Program in Zhejiang Province and will be submitted to the Bank
for review (para 3.31);



- 63 -
(f)  All training under the project will be carried out under terms of reference and in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank and, by September 30 of each year beginning
in 1996, Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang Province will submit to the Bank
for approval a plan for the next two calendar years of training under the
expressway and Road Safety Program components of the project (para 3.32);
(g)  Regarding the environmental and resettlement activities under the project, (i) all
EAPs will be implemented in a manner acceptable to the Bank (Annex 3), (ii) the
resettlement of people affected by the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway and
subprojects under the Road Safety Program (Annex 4) will be carried out
according to RAPs agreed with the Bank, (iii) internal and independent
monitoring of resettlement will be carried out against the agreed RAPs and
regular monitoring reports regarding the implementation and impact of
resettlement will be provided to the Bank, and (iv) any proposed revision of the
RAPs will be furnished to the Bank for its prior approval (paras 3.37, 3.38, 3.51
and 3.53);
(h)  The project implementing agencies for the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway and
Road Safety Program components will at all times be staffed with qualified staff
in adequate numbers (para 3.63);
(i)  Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang Province will, by September 30 of each year
beginning in 1996, submit to the Bank a detailed implementation plan, covering
all aspects of the project, including environment and resettlement for activities
during the coming year, and will thereafter carry out such work taking into
account comments made by the Bank (para 3.64); and
'i) Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang Province will each furnish quarterly progress
reports to the Bank and will each prepare an Implementation Completion Report
no later than six months after the loan closing date (para 3.89).
5.3          As a condition of effectiveness, Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang
Province would each enter into a legally-binding agreement with international construction
supervision consultants for supervision of construction of the Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway (para 3.23).
5.4          Subject to the foregoing, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of $260 million to the People's Republic of China. The loan would be for a term of
20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 64 -
Table 1.1: Traffic Turnover by Mode, 1980-1993
Turnover Volume of Freight Traffic
(billion ton-kn)
Civil         and Gas
Year       Total      Railway      Highway        Waterway      Aviation      Pipelines
1980       1,202.60    571.69      76.40         505.28         0.14           49.10
1990       2,620.70    1,062.24    335.81        1,159.19       0.82           62.70
1993       3,051.00    1,195.46    407.05        1,386.08       1.66            60.80
Compound
annual growth
rate, 1980-
1993          7.42%      5.84%        13.73%        8.07%          20.89%          1.66%
Compound
annual growth
rate, 1990-
1993          5.20%      4.02%        6.62%         6.14%          26.53%         -1.02%
Turnover Volume of Passenger Traffic
(billion passenger-kin)
Civil
Year           Total           Railway          Highway         Waterway      Aviikn
1980           228.1           138.316          72.95            12.91         23X
1990           562.8           261.263         262.032           16.491        230D
1993           785.8           348.33          370.07            19.645        47.76
Compound
annual growth
rate, 1980-
1993                 9.98%           7.36%          13.31%            3.28%        21 16
Compound
annual growth
rate, 1990-
1993                11.77%           10.06%         12.20%            6.01%        270



- 65 -
Table 1.2: Road Accident Risks in Various Countries, 1993
Population     Number of       Vehicles per     Number of       Fatalities per    Fatalities per
('000) /a      Vehicles          1,000          Fatalities        10,000          100,000
Country                             ('000) /b      Population       (Person) Lc       Vehicles       Population
CHINA                1,185,170          13,823              12           63,551            46.0              5.4
Shanghai              13,490            321               24              699            21.7              5.2
Zhejiang             42,660             810               19            4,913            60.7             11.5
Brazil                 153,900          13,469              88            5,500             4.1              3.6
Canada/d                27,400         20,632              753            3,485             1.7             12.7
Costa Rica               3,200            396              124              235             5.9              7.3
Denmark                  5,200           1,991             383              573             2.9             11.0
Egypt/d                 54,700           1,986              36            4,315            21.7              7.9
France                  57,400         32,440              565            9,052             2.8             15.8
Germany/d               80,600         43,826              544           10,643             2.4             13.2
Hungary/d               10,300           2,510             244            4,577             18.2            44.4
India/e                883,600          16,479              19           54,058            32.8              6.1
Indonesia/e            184,300           8,889              48           10,887             12.2             5.9
Japan                  124,500          79,761             641           10,942              9.6             8.8
Mexico/d                85,000          11,368             134            5,252             4.6              6.2
Norway                   4,300           2,981             693              281             0.9              6.5
Pakistan               119,300           2,279              19            6,299            27.6              5.3
Poland                  38,400           9,247             241            6,341             6.9             16.5
South Korea             43,700           8,210             188           10,402            12.7             23.8
Spain/d                 39,100          19,128             489            6,014             3.1             15.4
Thailand                58,000          10,243             177            9,496             9.3             16.4
Turkey                  58,500           5,648              97            6,444             11.4            11.0
UK                      57,800         25,448              440            4,229              1.7             7.3
USA/d                  255,400         195,706             766           39,235             2.0             15.4
Zimbabwc/d              10,400            377               36            1,021             0.1              9.8
La Mid -1992 population; World Development Report, 1994, pp. 162 -3.
/b Analysis of accident rates may be limited by the fact that number of vehicles sometimes includes only motor vehicles. However,
figures vehicles have been adjusted to include non-motor vehicles where data was available. Provincial data on the incidence of
accidents is based on motor vehicles plus tractors and motorcycles; however, does not include bicycles or other vehicles that may
contribute to the rate of accidents.
/c World Road statitics 19S9-1993, International Road Federation
/d Data for 1992.
/e Data for 1990.



Table 1.3: CalNA: BANK GROUP-FINANCED TRANSPORT PROJEcEs
Loan/                                                        Loan amount,
(credit)          Board         Date         Closing          S million (SAR)
Projoct name                           number           date        effective       date           Bank         IDA              Status
RAILWAYS
Railway Project                     2394             03/27/84      07/10/84       12/31/90        220.00                       CLOSED
Second Railway                      2540             05/14/85       11/22/85     06/30/94         235.00                       ONGOING
Third Railway                       2678/(1680)      04/15/86      01/13/87      06/30/93         160.00       70.00           ONGOING
Fourth Railway                      2968             06/23/88      03/27/89       12/31/93        200.00                       ONGOING
Inner Mongolia Local Railway        3060/(2014)      05/12/89      01/03/90       12/31/96         70.00       80.00           ONGOING
Fifth Railway                       3406             09/24/91      01/09/92       12/31/98        350.00                       ONGOING
Sixth Railway                       3581             03/25/93                     12/31/99        420.00                       ONGOING
Subtotal                                                                                       1.655.       150.00
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                               1.805.00
HIGHWAYS                                                                                                                                              0%
Highway Project                     2539/(1594)      05/14/85       12/04/85     06/30/91          42.60       30.00           CLOSED
Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway   2811/(1792)      05/12/87       12/08/87      12/31/92         25.00      125.00           ONGOING
Sichuan Provincial Highway          2951/(1917)      06/09/88       05/31/89      12/31/94         75.00       50.00            ONGOING
Shaanxi Provincial Highway          2952             06/09/88      05/31/89       12/31/94         50.00                        ONGOING
Jiangxi Provincial Highway          (1984)            02/07/89      05/31/89      12/31/95                     61.00            ONGOING
Shangdong Provincial Highway        3073/(2025)      05/25/89       12/11/89     06/30/95          60.00       50.00            ONGOING
Zhejiang Provincial Highway         3471             05/19/92      09/02/91       12/31/96        220.00                       ONGOING
Guangdong Provincial Highway        3530              11/17/92     04/16/93      06/30/99         240.00                       ONGOING
Henan Highway                       3531              11/17/92     04/16/93      06/30/98          120.00                       ONGOING
Fujian Highway                      3681              12/14/93      07/24/94     06/30/200         140.00                       ONGOING
National Highway                    3748              06/07/94      10/24/94     06/30/2000       380.00                        ONGOING
Xinjiang Highway                     3787              08/30/94      02/09/95      12/31/2000       150.00                       ONGOING
Subtotal                                                                                        S02.60      316.00
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                               1.818.60
... Connrd



Table 1.3: (cont'd)
Loan/                                                      Loan amount,
(credit)         Board          Date         Closing        $ million (SAR)
Project name                                  number           date         effective       date         Bank            IDA        Status
PORTS AND WATERWAYS
Tlhree Ports                                     2207       11/02/82      02/02/83      06/30/88         124.00                   CLOSED
Tianjin Port                                     2689       05/06/86      03/20/87      12/31/92         130.00                   ONGOING
Huangpu Port                                2877/(1845)     10/06/87      10/03/88      12/31/93          63.00         25.00     ONGOING
Dalian Port                                 2907/(1975)     02/09/88      10/03/88      12/31/93          71.00         25.00     ONGOING
Ningbo and Shanghai Ports                        3006       12/13/88      05/09/89      12/31/93          76.40                   ONGOING
Xiamen Port                                      3007       12/13/88      01/09/90      03/31/94          36.00                   ONGOING
Ship Waste Disposal                              2391       06/17/92                    06/30/96                        15.00     ONGOING
Shanghai Port Restructuring and
Development                                      3552      12/22/92                    06/30/99         150.00                   ONGOING
Subtotal                                                                                               650.40         65.00
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                                         715.40
MULTIMODAL
Jiangsu Provincial Transport                3316/(2226)     04/09/91      09/06/91      06/30/96         100.00         53.60     ONGOING
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                                         153.60
URBAN TRANSPORT
Shanghai Metropolitan Transport                 (2296)      09/10/91      09/10/91      06/30/98                        60.00     ONGOING
Second Shanghai Mctropolitan Transport            3652       10/14/93                                     150.00                  ONGOING
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                                         210.00
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                     4,702.60
Souwrce: Compiled by the niiion.



- 68 -
Table 2.1: ECONOMIC DATA, 1992
GOVAI /a Rer capita
Population    GOVAI /a                 As a multiple of
(million)    (Y billion)    (Y)       national average
China (national total)         1.171.7        4.615.0    3.939             1.0
Shanghai Municipality             12.9          250.9   19,450             4.9
Songjiang County                0.5            6.2    12,400            3.1
Zhejiang Province                 42.9          276.3    6,445             1.6
Northeast Zhejiang             21.8          202.8    9,293             2.4
Hangzhou                       5.8           63.6    10,931            2.8
Shaoxing                      4.2            32.6    7,813             2.0
Ningbo                        5.2            52.7    10,199            2.6
Jiaxing                        3.2           29.3    9,137             2.3
Huzhou                        2.5            18.6    7,480             1.9
Southwest Zhejiang             21.0           73.5    3,492             0.9
Wenzhou                       6.8            23.1    3,408             0.9
Other Provinces
Sichuan Province                 110.0          259.5    2,359             0.6
Jiangxi Province                  39.2           94.5    2,410             0.6
Shaanxi Province                  34.1           80.5    2,364             0.6
Xinjiang Autonomous Region        15.8           49.0    3,097             0.8
Shandong Province                 86.1          439.4    5,104             1.3
Guangdong Province                65.3          421.7    6,462             1.6
Jiangsu Province                  69.1          534.7    7,737             2.0
/a Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
Sources:    China Statistical Yearbook 1993; Shanghai Statistical Yearbook 1993; and Zhejiang
Statistical Yearbook 1993.



Table 2.2: DEMOGRAPHIC AND TRANSPORT NETWORK DATA, 1992
Total    Number of   Number of
Transport network leneth              Network density     number of  vehicles per  vehicles per
Population    Area       Road      Rail  Water  Road      Rail  Water   vehicles   thousand      kilometer
(million)   ('000 km2)       -('000 km)----  ---('000 km)----            ('000)   population     of road
China (national
total)          1.171.7     9.600.0  1.056.7    53.6   109.7  110.1    5.6    11.4    6.061           5.2         5.7
Shanghai Munici-
pality            13.4          -        3.6     0.2    2.1       -       -       -        184       13.7        51.2
Zheiiane Province    42.9      101.8     32.8/a  0.9      10.6/a  322.6/a   8.5  104.0      251/a      4.0          7.7/a
Other Provinces
Sichuan Province  110.0       560.0    98.9      2.9     7.9  176.6       5.1  14.1       342         3.1         3.5
Jiangxi Province   39.1        160.0    34.0     1.6      4.9  212.5      9.9  30.9       113         2.9         3.3
Shaanxi Province   34.1        190.0    38.3     1.8      1.0  206.8      9.6   5.3       150        4.4          3.9
Xinjiang Autono-
mous Region     15.8        1,200.0    26.0     1.3     0.0   21.7       1.1   0.0       145         9.2         5.6
Shandong Province  86.1       150.0    43.1      2.1      1.9  287.3    13.7  12.4        427        5.0          9.9
Guangdong Province 65.3        177.9    55.9     0.7    10.9  314.2       3.8  61.0       476        7.3          8.5
Jiangsu Province   69.1        100.0    25.3     0.7    23.7  253.0       7.4  236.8      305         4.4        12.1
/a Data for 1993.
Source: China Statistical Yearbook 1993.



- 70 -
Table 2.3: CLASSFCATION OF ROAD NETWORK IN SHANGHAI AND ZHEJIANG (1981-93)
1981                  1985                    1993
Total     Paved       Total      Paved        Total      Paved
Classification of Shanghai Roads (km)
Expressway                    -          -           -           -          36         36
Class I                       -          -           -           -         47          47
Class 2                     136        136          62          62         308        308
Class 3                   1,073      1,073       1,160       1,160       1,941       1,941
Class 4                     808        645         778         594       1,274       1,274
Unclassified                 70          0          58           0          18          0
Total                  2,087      1.854       2,058       1.816      3.625       3.607
Classification of Zheiiang Roads (kIm)
Expressway                    -          -           -           -           7          7
Class1                        -          -           -           -          0           0
Class 2                     311        NA          393         393       1,736       1,736
Class 3                     813        NA        1,339       1,139       2,719       2,719
Class 4                  11,254        NA       15,550       1,729      19,292       2,562
Unclassified             10,389        NA        8,329           0       7,098         64
Total                 22.767      2.368      25.611      3.261      30.852       7.088
Sources: Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau
Zhejiang Provincial Transport Department



Table 2.4: SHANGHAI AND ZHEJIANG: FREGHT AND PASSENGER TURNOVER BY MODE, 1982-92
Freight turnover (million ton-km)                      Passenger turnover (million passenger-km)
Highways    %    Railways    %       Coastal     %      Total   Highways    %    Railways    %       Coastal    %      Total
and inland                                                     and inland
waterways                                                      waterways
Shanehai
1982          897      0.5     8,800    5.1    163,900    94.4  173,597       2.2      8.6     18.5    72.5        4.8   18.8    25.5
1983          954      0.5     8,900    5.0    167,900    94.5  177,754       2.8    10.1      20.0    71.6        5.1   18.3    27.8
1984         1,031    0.6      9,700    5.3    173,900    94.2  184,631       3.4    11.0      22.3    72.2        5.2   16.8    30.9
1985         1,107     0.5    10,200    5.1    190,200    94.4  201,507       4.1    12.2      23.2    69.3        6.2   18.5    33.5
1986         1,342     0.6    10,500    4.5    222,500    94.9  234,342       5.0    13.9      24.8    68.9        6.2   17.2    36.0
1987         1,363     0.5    10,600    4.0    254,000    95.5  265,963       7.1    17.8      26.1    65.6         6.6   16.6    39.8
1988         1,300     0.5    10,500    3.7    270,900    95.8  282,700       7.2    16.6      29.4    67.7         6.8   15.7    43.4
1989         1,147     0.4    11,100    3.6    297,200    96.0  309,447       6.6    16.5      27.1    67.9         6.2   15.5    39.9
1990         1,194     0.4    11,100    3.3    323,600    96.3  335,894       6.1    16.7      24.8    67.9         5.6   15.4    36.5
1991         1,298     0.4    11,200    3.1    348,400    96.5  360,898        6.0    15.9     25.9    68.6         5.9   15.6    37.8
1992         1,300     0.4    12,500    3.4    352,300    96.2  366,100       6.0    15.1      27.5    69.3         6.2   15.6    39.7
Compound annual
growth rate,
1982-92      3.8%              3.6%               8.0%              7.7%    10.6%             4.0%                2.6%           4.5%
Zheiianf
1982         1,148     5.7    12,049   59.7       6,985    34.6   20,182    5,728    47.5    5,070    42.0        1,265   10.5  12,063
1983         1,358     6.4    12,302   57.9       7,589    35.7   21,249    6,454    47.9    5,746    42.6        1,273    9.4  13,473
1984         1,667     7.2    12,759   54.8       8,841    38.0   23,267    7,686    48.7    6,674    42.3        1,421    9.0  15,781
1985         3,345    11.4    13,254   45.2      12,755    43.5   29,354   10,723    53.3    7,524    37.4        1,886    9.4  20,133
1986         6,814    20.0    13,518   39.6      13,788    40.4   34,120   12,491    56.7    7,843    35.6        1,704    7.7  22,038
1987         8,252    22.4    13,807   37.4      14,862    40.3   36,921    14,585    59.1    8,394    34.0       1,719    7.0  24,698
1988         9,625    23.8    13,650   33.8      17,121    42.4   40,396   15,881    58.9    9,312    34.6        1,750    6.5  26,943
1989         9,275    22.7    14,651   35.8      16,973    41.5   40,899    15,387    59.8    8,763    34.1       1,578    6.1  25,728
1990        10,075    25.1    14,443   36.0      15,547    38.8   40,065   16,687    64.9    7,594    29.5        1,448    5.6  25,729
1991        13,625    29.3    14,495   31.2      18,380    39.5   46,500   19,095    66.8    8,091    28.3        1,399    4.9  28,585
1992        15,883    29.0    16,752   30.6      22,046    40.3   54,681   22,068    68.4    8,783    27.2        1,389    4.3  32,240
1993        16,121                               27,844                     28,056                                1,272
Compound annual
growth rate,
1982-92      27.1%/a           3.4%               13.4%/a          10.5%     15.5%/a          5.6%                0.0%/a         10.3%
/a Compound growth rate for 1982-1993 period.
Sources: Shanghai Statistical Yearbook, 1992; and Zhejiang Statistical Yearbook, 1992.



- 72 -
Table 2.5: SIIANGHAI: COMPARISON OF FREIGIT AND PASSENGER VOLUME
BY MODE, 1985 AND 1993
A. Freight Traffic
1985                      1993
Transport               Tons      Proportion      Tons       Proportion    Compound
mode                  (000)       of total       (000)       of total       annual
traffic (%)               traffic (%)    growth rate,
1985-93
Rail                  50,590       20.9          60,850       20.0          2.3 %
Road                  92,160        38.0         91,940       30.3          0.0%
Waterway              99,650        41.1        150,640       49.6          5.3%
Air                       30        0.0            140         0.0         21.2%
Total             242.430      100.0        303.570       100.0
B. Passenger Trafric
1985                       1993
Transport           Passengers    Proportion    Passengers    Proportion   Compound
mode                  (000)       of total       (000)        of total      annual
traffic (%)                traffic (%)    growth rate,
1985-93
Rail                 23,200         67.6        28,600          65.2        2.7%
Road                  4,100          11.9        5,200          11.8        3.0%
Water                 6,220          18.1        6,170          14.1       -0.1 %
Air                     820          2.4         3,920           8.9       21.6%
Total             34.340        100.0       42.83          100.0
Source: Shanghai Statistical Yearbook, 1993; Shanghai Statistical Handbook of Shanghai Statistical
Bureau, 1994.03.



Table 2.6: SHANGHAI AND ZHEIIANG: FREIGHT AND PASSENGER TRAmnC VOLUME BY MODE, 1982-92
Freight volume (thousand tons)                                      Passenger volume (thousand passengers)
Highways     %  Railways      %    Coastal      %   Air    %      Total Highways     %  Railways      %    Coastal      %    Air    %    Total
and iland                                                              and inland
waterways                                                              waterways
1982      78,260  37.0%    45,620  21.6%    S7,630   41.4%    20 0.0%   211,530    2,210   8.5%    18,530 71.3%      4,800   18.5%    440 1.7%   25,980
1983      80,520  37.3%    46,270  21.4%    89,130   41.3%    20 0.0%   215,940    2,770  10.7%    19,950 70.6%      5,110   18.1%    420 1.5%   28,250
1984      86,960  37.6%    48,410  20.9%    95,810   41.4%    30 0.0%   231,210    3,430  13.2%    22,280 70.7%      5,170   16.4%    620 2.0%   31,500
1985      92,160  38.0%    50,590  20.9%    99,650   41.1%    30 0.0%   242,430    4,100  15.8%    23,200 67.6%      6,220   18.1%    820 2.4%   34,340
1986     101,260  38.0%    53,060  19.9%    112,350   42.1%   40 0.0%   266,710    5,040  19.4%    24,770 66.6%      6,160   16.6%   1,230 3.3%   37,200
1987     101,590  37.3%    54,840  20.1%    115,920   42.6%    60 0.0%   272,410    7,130  27.4%   26,100 63.1%      6,590   15.9%   1,560 3.8%   41,380
1988     100,190  36.0%    53,220  19.1%   124,800   44.8%    60 0.0%   278,270    7,170  27.6%    28,380 64.4%      6,790   15.4%   1,750 4.0%   44,090
1989      95,260  34.4%    53,030  19.2%    128,260   46.4%    60 0.0%   276,610    6,570  25.3%   27,110 65.5%      6,210   15.0%   1,510 3.6%   41,400
1990      87,140  32.6%    51,860  19.4%    128,640   48.1%   70 0.0%   267,710    6,050  23.3%    24,760 64.6%      5,550   14.5%   1,990 5.2%   38,350
1991      88,880  32.3%    51,690  18.8%    134,850   48.9%    90 0.0%   275,510    5,980  23.0%   25,940 64.3%      5,920   14.7%   2,510 6.2%   40,350
1992      94,270  31.9%    55,270  18.7%    146,070   49.4%   110 0.0%   295,720    5,910  22.7%   27,480 64.2%      6,230   14.5%   3,210 7.5%   42,830
Comnpound annual
growth rate,
1982-92    1.9%             1.9%             5.2%          18.6%          3.4%    10.3%              4.0%            2.6%           22.0%          5.1%
Zhejisg
1982      36,160  33.6%    16,090  15.0%    55,210   51.4%     -     -  107,460  261,500  72.7%    27,350  7.6%     70,940   19.7%     90 0.0%  359,880
1983      37,280  34.2%    16,810  15.4%    54,860   50.4%     -     -  108,950  284,680  75.2%    29,190  7.7%    64,610   17.1%      80 0.0%  378,560
1984      39,880  33.9%    17,360  14.7%    60,570   51.4%     -     -  117,810  308,820  75.6%    32,520  8.0%    66,830   16.4%    100 0.0%  408,270
1985      93,970  42.0%    17,810   8.0%    112,070   50.1%    -     - 223,850  393,750  74.6%     32,250  6.1%    101,630   19.3%    130 0.0%  527,760
1986     166,800  54.2%    18,930   6.2%    122,020   39.6%    -     - 307,750  457,590  78.9%     31,260  5.4%    90,660   15.6%    220 0.0%  579,730
1987     194,260  60.1%    19,240   5.9%    109,960   34.0%    -     - 323,460  495,890  80.8%     32,580  5.3%     85,260   13.9%    300 0.0%  614,030
1988     241,280  64.3%    18,770   5.0%    114,970   30.7%    -        375,020  525,600  81.4%    35,950  5.6%     83,820   13.0%    340 0.1%  645,710
1989     243,540  67.0%    19,110   5.3%    100,930   27.8%    -     - 363,580  487,260  81.9%    34,530  5.8%      72,750   12.2%    230 0.0%  594,770
1990     228,790  68.3%    16,910   5.1%    89,040   26.6%     -     - 334,740  510,830  84.6%      30,180  5.0%    62,140   10.3%    320 0.1%  603,470
1991     241,620  68.6%    17,730   5.0%    92,630   26.3%     -     - 351,980  566,610  87.1%     30,400  4.7%     52,860    8.1%    850 0.1%  650,720
1992     289,570  70.4%    19,150   4.7%    102,430   24.9%    -     - 411,150  627,670  88.4%     30,510  4.3%     50,870    7.2%   1,120 0.2%  710,170
Compound annual
growth rate,
1982-92    23.1%            1.8%             6.4%                        14.4%     9.2%              1.1%            -3.3%          28.7%          7.0%
Sources: Shanghai Skadsnical Yearbook, 1993; Zhei#iang Stadsdcal Yearbook, 1993.



74 -
Table 2.7: ZHEJIANG: COMPARISON OF FREIGHT AND PASSENGER VOLUME
BY MODE, 1985 AND 1992
A. Freight Traffic
1985                      1992
Transport               Tons      Proportion      Tons      Proportion     Compound
mode                    (000)       of total      (000)       of total       annual
traffic (%)               traffic (%)    growth rate,
1985-92
Rail                  17,810        8.0          19,150        4.7          1.0%
Road                  93,970       42.0         289,570       70.4         17.4%
Waterway             112,070       50.1         102,430       24.9         -1.3%
Air                                                    
Total             223.850      100.0        411.150       100.0
B. Passenger Traffic
1985                       1992
Transport           Passengers    Proportion    Passengers    Proportion   Compound
mode                   (000)        of total      (000)        of total      annual
traffic (%)                traffic (%)    growth rate,
1985-92
Rail                 32,250          6.1        30,510           4.3       -0.8%
Road                393,750         74.6       627,670          88.4        6.9%
Water                101,630         19.3       50,870           7.2       -9.4%
Air                     130          0.0         1,120           0.2       36.0%
Total            527.760        100.0      710.170         100.0
Source: Zhejiang Statistical Yearbook, 1993.



- 75 -
Table 2.8: ZHEJIANG PROVINCE: TRANSPORTATION SERVICES BY SECTOR
Volume of Goods Transported (million tons)
1985   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Communications system
Railway                           17.81   19.24   18.77   19.11   16.91   17.33   19.15
Highway                           23.67   24.04   21.98   19.26   17.90   19.93  21.01
Waterway                          45.25   48.96   51.05  46.02   39.59  42.18   46.76
Subtotal                        86.73   92.24   91.80   84.39  74.40   79.44   86.92
Factories, mines, enterprises,
and institutions
Highway                           15.38  80.86  111.46  112.38  103.16  109.38  96.23
Waterway                          19.47   8.88   11.44    8.49   7.27    7.69    8.36
Subtotal                        34.85   89.74  122.90  120.87  110.43  117.07  104.59
Transport by private operators
Highway                           54.92  89.36  107.84  111.90  107.73  112.70  172.33
Waterway                          47.35  52.12  52.48  46.42  42.18   42.77  47.31
Subtotal                       102.27  141.48  160.32  158.32  149.91  155.47 219.64
Total                          223.85  323.46  375.02 363.58  334.74  351.98  411.15
Turnover of Goods Transported (ton-km)
1985   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Communications system
Railway                          13,254  13,807  13,650  14,651  14,443  14,495  16,752
Highway                           1,504   1,642   1,576   1,385   1,326   1,445   1,529
Waterway                          8,863  11,214  12,855  13,210  12,001  14,617  17,822
Subtotal                       23.621 26.663 28.081  29.246 27.770 30.557  36.103
Factories, mines, enterprises,
and institutions
Highway                             585  4,234  5,431   5,021   5,923   8,896   8,954
Waterway                          1,480    898   1,294   1,104   1,099   1,114   1,196
Subtotal                        2.065  5.132  6.725  6.125   7.022  10.010  10.150
Transport by private operators
Highway                           1,256  2,376  2,618  2,869  2,826   3,285  5,400
Waterway                          2,412  2,750  2,972  2,659  2,447   2,649   3,028
Subtotal                        3.668   5.126   5.590  5.528   5.273   5.934   82
Total                          29.354 36.921 40 09 40899 40,065 46,501  54.681



- 76 -
Table 2.9: SHANGHAI AND ZHIEJIANG: VEHICLE FLEET, 1984-93
Motorized vehicles                       Motor-
Year         Large  Small/  Buses   Cars  Special  Subtotal  Tractors  cycles    Total
Trucks medium           and  purpose
/a  trucks   lb    vans  vehicles
Shanghai MuniciRality
1984        55,657      -   4,724  15,568       -   75,949     3,836  15,538  95,323
1985        77,419      -   5,701  29,483       -  112,603     4,390  17,384  134,377
1986        88,709      -   6,429 38,926        -  134,064     4,902 23,638  162,604
1987        89,297      -   6,226 44,688        -  140,211    21,135 34,966  196,312
1988        92,053      -   6,498 47,644        -  146,195    20,329 35,686 202,210
1989        98,284      -   6,661 53,328        -  158,273    23,111  40,343  221,727
1990        102,786     -   7,206 59,340        -  169,332    23,015 42,598 234,945
1991        110,404     -  13,057 49,467    2,786  175,714    22,906 45,312 243,932
1992        119,685     -  15,272 62,512    2,828  200,297    22,944 56,779 280,020
1993        106,094     -  17,919 99,423    7,670  231,106    22,580 67,795  321,481
Compound annual
growth rates   7.4%     -  16.0%  22.9%    65.9%    13.2%     21.8%   17.8%   14.5%
Zheiiang Province
1984        39,167  3,197   6,039  6,772    3,649   58,824   102,227  13,486  174,537
1985        46,975  7,265   7,223  13,769   4,286   79,518    62,923  19,348  161,789
1986        54,065 13,121   7,530  15,629   3,558   93,903    79,713  39,622 213,238
1987        60,993 16,330   9,202 25,372   4,875   116,772   249,094 76,766 442,632
1988        63,615 23,470   9,677 31,363    2,813  130,938   202,711 112,969 446,618
1989        70,148 31,698  10,854 36,854   2,821  152,375   212,784 143,951  509,110
1990        72,546 32,782  11,411  38,745    3,032  158,516   213,379 162,557 534,452
1991        76,531 38,002  12,215 42,487    3,489  172,724   214,349 191,116 578,189
1992        77,488 47,798  12,486 58,956    3,769  200,497   227,964 233,210 661,671
1993        90,524 61,789  13,648 78,117    3,769  247,847   237,095 324,654 809,596
Compound annual
growth rates    9.8%  39.0%    9.5%  31.2%    0.4%    17.3%    9.8%  42.4%   18.6%
/a Includes trucks over 7-ton capacity in Zhejiang and all trucks in Shanghai.
/b Over 25-seat capacity.
Sources:  Shanghai Highway Department; Shanghai Traffic Department; and Zhejiang Provincial
Expressway Commission.



- 77 -
Table 2.10: ROAD SAFETY IN SHANGHAI MUICIPALrY AND ZHEJLANG PROVINCE
ROAD ACCIDENrS IN SHANGHA MumciPALr, 1986-93
Number of Accidents    Number of Injuries   Number of Fatalities
Shang-                Shang-               Shang-                             Fatalities
hai   Sub-            hai  Sub-            hai  Sub-           Registered   per 10,000
City  urbs  Total    City  urbs Total    City  urbs Total    Vehicles        vehicles
1986                   7,121                5,725                  688       162,604      42.31
1987                  10,078                6,379                  811       196,312      41.31
1988                   8,397                5,645                  707      202,210       34.96
1989                   7,527                4,875                  652      221,727       29.41
1990                   7,623                4,640                  610      234,945       25.96
1991     4,400 3,124  7,524                 4,450                  594      243,932       24.35
1992      3,571 2,665  6,236                3,568                  591      280,020       21.11
1993     5,245 2,806  8,051                 2,882                  699      321,481       21.74
Com-
pound
annual
growth
rate (%)                  1.77                -9.34                 0.23        10.23       -9.07
ROAD ACCIDENTS IN ZHEJANG PROVINCE, 1987-93
Number of Number of   Number of   Fatalities   Fatalities
Number of   Traffic    People      People   per 10,000   per 100,000
Year     Population    Vehicles   Accidents   Injured     Killcd     Vehicles    population
1987     41,211,900   442,632    15,986       10,918      3,120     70.49          7.57
1988     41,698,500   446.618    15,301        9,914      3,357     75.16           8.05
1989     42,088,800   509,110    14,081        9,588      2,954     58.02          7.02
1990     42,349,100   534,452    12,853        9,300      3,017     56.45          7.12
1991     42,613,700   578.189    13,595       10,379      3,471     60.03           8.15
1992     42,859,100   661,671    12,729        9,166      4,042     61.09          9.43
1993     42,660,000    809,596    14,494       9,210      4,913     60.68          11.52
Compound
Annual
Growth Rate    0.6%        10.6%     -1.6%       -2.8%      7.9%       -2.5%          7.2%



Table 2.11: TRAmc ACCIDENTS IN SHANGHAI SECTION OF PROJECT CORRIDOR
Jinshan County                  NR 320 in Jinshan Cotuty              SonRiian2 County /a               NR 320 in Son2iiane County
Number      Number      Number    Number    Number           Number    Number        Nuamber    Number    Number    Number            Number
of          of          of          of           of          of          of          of           of          of          of          of
Accidents    Injuries    Fatalities   Accidents   Injuries   Fatalities    Accidents    Injuries    Fatalities    Accidents   Injuries  Fatalities
1986                 1,045         226        45          410          100          20          175         150          16
1987                 1,063         257        47          427          104          21          214         140          23
1988                 1,102         233        49          446           99          23          289        213           31
1989                  S17          230        47          334           95          22          247         173          28
1990                  724          317        50          297          108          19          247         185          28
1991                   839         420         52         349          131          24          254         160          19          5S
00
1992                  925          468         52         389          204          25          276         134          23           77
1993                  989          423         65          425         201          26          461         246          21          217
1994                 1,021         503         84          511         248          40          540        276           32          169
Compound annual
growth rate        -0.3%       10.5%       8.1%         2.8%       12.0%        9.1%        15.1%        7.9%        9.1%        42.8%
Sources: Pubic Scculy Bureau of Jinshan County
Pulc Secty Buau of Sngliag County



- 79 -
Table 2.12: COMPOSMON OF SHANGHAi ROAD NETwoRK, 1985-2000
(km)
1985     1990      1993      1995      2000
Expressway                  --     36.0      39.4      65.4    120.4
Class 1                     -         -      84.5    104.5    147.8
Class 2                  62.0    233.0    328.9    421.9    721.9
Class 3                1,160.0   1,699.0   1,942.2   1,889.2   1,989.2
Class 4                 778.0   1,314.0   1,264.1   1,250.0   1,350.0
Unclassified             58.0      18.4      18.4      18.4         -
Total-             2.058.0   3.300.4   3.677.5   3.749.4   4.329.3
Source: Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau
Table 2.13: PROJECTED COMPOSrIION OF ZHEJIANG ROAD NETwoRK
(km)
1995           200
Total length of road network                  33,731          37,287
Of which:
Expressways                            158             864
Class II and above                   2,659           3,161
National and Provincial roads        7,339           8,396
Source: Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Construction Executive Commission



- 80 -
Table 2.14: ZHEJANG: MAJOR ROAD WORKS, 1993-2000
(km)
1993-1995         1996-2000
National roads
Construction
Expressways                              158.30           705.80
Class I and II roads                     119.06           252.20
Reconstruction
Class I and II roads                     523.57            87.20
Provincial roads
Construction
Class I and II roads                    34.10            36.60/a
Reconstruction
Class I and II roads                   447.50           367.60
Total km construction works               311.46           994.60
Total km reconstruction works             971.07           454.80
/a Includes widening of Class II roads.
Source: Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Construction Executive Commission



Table 2.15: SHANGHAi: HiGHwAY DEvELPMENT PROGRAM. 1986-2000
Name                                                     Period                              Scale/Description            Estimated Investment
(km)                                                                         C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ost (Y nmillion) |
Hutai Highway                      28.6     I      1992-95                                   4 fast lanes. 2 slow bicycle lanes                     480
Huyi Highway (NR 204)              34.0    U       Project delayed until 2000                (Current pavement width: 9 m)                          220
Shanghai-Jiading Expressway        15.9   Xway   1984-88 (open to traffic since Nov. 1988)   4 lanes in 2 directions, limited access,               220
(Completed)                                                                                  interchanges (on all exits)
Shanghai-Jiading Expre ssway,       6.5   Xway   1991-93 (open to traffic since Dec. 1993)   4 lanes in 2 directions, some controlled
Eastern Extension (Conwleted)                                                                access. interchanges on some exits
Jialiu Highway                     17.3     I      Open since 1994                           4 lanes in 2 directions                                 400
Caoan Highway (NR 312)             24.4    1       Completed in 1993                         4 fast lanes. 2 slow lanes (bicycle)                    120
Shanghai-Nanjing Expressway        25.9   Xway   1992-96                                     4 lanes in 2 directions, limited access,              1,500
interchanges on all exits               Y 1,080 tillion to be
invested between 1994
and 2000
Hupinenein Highway (NR 318)        54.0     1      1990-93 (oven since May 1993)             4 fast lanes. 2 bicycle lanes                           420
00
Huxingfeng Highway (NR 320)        31.0    n       To be improved during 9FYP                Adding bicycle lanes, beginning 1994, 1996              100
completed
eingwei Hiehway                    21.0    U       1989-90 (completed in 1990)               Plan to add bicycle lanes after 2000                    100
Shanghai-Hsangzhou Expressway                                                                4 lanes in 2 directions, reserving 2 lanes in          290
1   angzhug-So ngjiang             20.5   Xway   Comnpleted in 1990                          centald median full closed, full interchanges
Section                                                                                      on all exits
27.67  Xway   1995-98                                                                             2,500, including loan
2. Songjiang-Fengjiang Section                                                                                                         interest (600 million
from Shanghai High-
way Management
I_______________________________________ _      NDepartment)
Inner Ring Road                    45.0   Urban                                              4 traffic lanes for 32 km viaduct, 4 fast            46,000
artery   1992-94                                  lanes. 2 bicycle lanes for 45 km eround road
Suburban Ring Highway              48.0      I     Implementin2g48 km Tongjiang-Sanya ection   4 lanes in 2 directions                            47,600
by the year 20
Tongjiarng-Sanya Highway          26.0      I     IniRlementing Xinnong of Jinshan County-  4 lanes in 2 directions
(Artery of National Road)                         Oi iadun Poit Section beginning in 2000
Outer Ring Highway                 97.0      I     Southwest Ring ection of 34 km to be      4 lanes in 2 directions, plus adding 2 lanes        150,000
63 km after          completed between 1995 and 1998 and 63 km   (bicycles and vehicles)
2000             to be constructed after 2000



Table 2.16: ZHEIIANG: HIGEWAY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Mileage                   Cost
Name                                             Location/Route                              (km)        Period      (Y mil)
Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway          Begins at Pengbu Town in the cast Suburb of Hangzhou and passes through
Xiaoshan, Shaoxin, Shangyu, Yuyao, passes along Duantang of Ningbo City
and over Fenhuajiang River and ends at Dazhujia Village.                145.0    1992-1996      3,700
Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway        Begins at Pengbu Town in the cast Suburb of Hangzhou and passes through
Yuhang, Haining, Tongxiang, Jiaxing, Jiashan and ends at Fengjing      102.6    1994-1998       3,457
(boundary of the Zhejiang Province and Shanghai Municipality).
Ningbo-Taizhou-Wenzhou Expressway   Begins at Daqi of Beilun District of Ningbo Municipality and passes through
Yinian, Fenghua, Ninghai, Sanmen, Linhai, Huangyan, Wenling, Leqing,
Yongjia, Wenzhou, Longwan, Ruian, Pingyang, Cangnan and ends at        360.0
Fenshuiguan (boundry of Zhejiang and Fujian Provinces).
a. Daqi-Xiwu Expressway            Extends from Daqi to Wuxiang, through Panhuo, Jiangshan and ends at Xiwu.  47.4   1994-1998      1,472
b. Yangmeiling-Huwujie Expressway    Extends from Qingling to Huangtuling, through Huangyan City Yuanqiao,  44.5     1994-1998      1,584
Tangling, Daqiling and ends at Huwujie of Leqing.
c. Oujiang Second Bridge/Section   Begins at Guantouxi of Leqing County, passes through Qidu, Zhuangyuan and  17.5   1994-1998      1,180
ends at Longwan, Nanbeixiang. Oujiang Second Bride Includes 3,800 m.
Hangzhou-Jinhua-Quzhou Exprcssway   Begins at Honggen Plantation of Xiaoshan City and passes through Zhuji,
Pujiang, Yiwu, Jinhua, Lanxi, Longyou; ends at Quzhou and connects with  231.2    1996-2002     5,426
No. 320 National Road.
Hangzhou-Nanjing Expressway         Begins at Gouzhuang of Hangzhou City (a planned outer road around the city)
and passes through Yuhang, Deqing, Huzhou, Changxing and ends at Yizilin  101.5   1995-2000     3,045
(at the boundary with Jiangsu Province).
Shangyu-Sanmen Class I Special      Begins at Guzhu and passes through Shenxian, Xinchang, Tiantai and ends at
Road for Vehicles                 Gaojian of Saneen County.                                              147.6
a. First Phase of Shangyu Section  Extends from Guzhu to Zhangdin.                                        17.2      1994-1996      168
b. First Phase of Shenxian Section                                                                        27.0      1994-1998      300
c. First Phase of Xinchang Section                                                                        10.0      1995-1996      100
d. First Phase of Tiantai Section                                                                         18.0      1995-1998      200



- 83 -
Table 2.17: ZHEwJANG: TRANSPORT INVESTMES PLANNED FOR IMPROVED
ACCESS TO HANGZHOU CrrY LA
Project                                                          Investment
(Y million)
Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway -                                      45.92
Construction of Pengbu interchange
Hangzhou-Jinghua Road -                                           74.58
Rehabilitation of Xiaosan-Ciwu section
Third Qintang River Bridge                                       260.66 Lb
Outer Ring Express Road                                          500.00
NR 320                                                           720.00
Rehabilitation of Hangzhou-Shouchang
Section (upgrading to Class I)
Provincial Road 02                                                91.00
Upgrading of Wangjiabu-Linglong section to
Class I, inlcuding construction of two bridges
and tunnels and reduction of total length
Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway                                     240.00
Construction of Pengbu-Wengnier section
South Hangzhou Intercity Bus Terminal Expansion                   15.00
of facilities by 8,000 m2, increasing capacity
to 12,500 passenger trips per day
West Hangzhou Intercity Bus Terminal Expansion                    24.00
of facilities by 22,000 m2, increasing capacity
to 22,000 passenger trips per day
Hangzhou Harbor                                                   22.00
Construction of harbor and shipping adminis-
tration facilities (floor space of 22,000  ),
Beijing-Hangzhou Canal                                           110.00
Rehabilitation of Hangzhou intracity section
Total                                                    2,103.16
La    Projects to be completed concurrently with construction of the Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway.
lb    Yuan equivalent of $29.95 million at 8.70 yuan per $ exchange rate.



- 84 -
Table 2.18: SHANGHAI HGHWAY REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES,
1986-2000
(Y MILLION)
7FYP        8FYP          9FYP
86-90       91-95        96-2000
REVENUES
Road maintenance fee                              2,125.7      4,661.4       7,802.5
Capital construction (subsidy)
Central government (MOC)                          74.4        453.4         551.6
Local government                                  32.6        221.7         267.9
Road bond                                                       799.7         500.0
Passenger taxes                                     10.6        515.7        2,203.6
Bank loans                                            -         200.1         321.9
Other foreign capital                                 -         300.0        1,100.0
Total                                             2,243.3      7.152.0      12,747.5
EXPENDITURES
Transfer to Central government                     234.1        241.9         241.8
Transfer to traffic police                           9.1         22.0          25.0
Road construction and improvement                 1,595.5      6,171.6       7,400.0
Road rehabilitation (periodic)                      86.3        439.8         452.2
Routine maintenance                                244.3        409.8         632.8
Overhead, research and training                    151.5        475.9         575.0
Loan interest and amortization                        -          24.5         389.9
Total                                             2.320.7      7,785.5       9,716.8
Source: Shanghai Shanghai-Hangzhou Erpressway Construction Executive Commission



- 85 -
Table 2.19: ZHEJIANG: HIGHWAY REVENUES
AND EXPENDITURES, 1986-2000
(Y MILLON)
Compound
annual growth
7FYP       8FYP         9FYP          rate
1986-90    1991-95     1996-2000    1986-2000
Road maintenance fee          1,901.5     4,220.4      6,453.1      9.1%
Provincial subsidy               61.7        6.0          0.0       -
MOC subsidy                     249.0      590.9       1,021.5      10.6%
Fund for high-class highways    518.9     1.475,0      2.224.0      11.0%
2,731.0    6,292.3      9,699.6       9.5%
Expressway construction          81.2    2,393.4       2,250.0      26.8%
Other construction and upgrading   1,482.3  2,867.6    4,463.9      8.2%
Routine maintenance             255.1      574.4         953.0     10.9%
Periodic maintenance            217.9      381.8         635.3      7.9%
Overhead and other               90.4      317.7        549.6       13.8%
2,096.0    6,534.9      8,851.8      10.8%
Surplus/(deficit)               635.0    (-242.6)        847.8
Source: ZAejiang Provincial Highway Administration Bureau



Table 3.1: CHiNA: HIGHWAY DESIGN STANDARDS
Motor vehicle only highways                             General-purpose highways
Expressway                Class 1       Class 2        Class 2       Class 3           Class 4
Flat  Rolling  Mountainous    Flat  Other  Flat  Other  Flat  Other  Flat  Other    Flat    Other
DESIGN CAPACITY (VEH/DAY)
Passenger car eq.          ......... 25,000 + .........  10,000-25,000
Medium truck eq.                                                            4,500-7,000  2,000-5,000   200-2,000 ..... <200 .
DESIGN SPEED (KM/H)             120      100       80     60    100       60    80    40       80    40      60    30          40        20
CARRIAGEWAY WIDTH (M)        2x7.5   2x7.5   2x7.5  2x7.5  2x7.5  2x7.0   8.0   7.5    9.0   7.0    7.0   6.0                3.5       3.5
SUBGRADE WIDTH (M)
General                     26.0    24.5    23.0   21.5   24.5   21.5  11.0   9.0   12.0   8.5    8.5   7.5                6.5       6.5
Variation                   24.5    23.0    21.5   20.0   23.0   20.0  12.0    --           --    --       --    --        7.0       4.5
HIN CURVE RADIUS (H)            650      400      250    125    400    135   250    60    250    60    125    30               60        15
MIN SIGHT DIST (H)              210      160      110      75    160      75   110    40    110    40        75    30          40        20                0%
MAX GRADE (x)                     3        4        5       5      4       6      5     7       5      7      6      8          6         9
SHOULDER WIDTH (M)
Hard - standard            >2.50   >2.50   >2.25  >2.00  >2.50  >2.00
minimrum                      2.25    1.75   1.50   2.25   1.50
Soft                       >0.75   >0.75   >0.50  >0.50  >0.75  >0.50  1.50  0.75   1.50  0.75   0.75  0.75   0.5-1.5  0.5-1.5
MEDIAN WIDTH (H)
Standard                    3.00    2.00    1.50   1.50   2.00   1.50
Minimum                     2.00    1.50                      1.50
Source: 'Gonglu Gongcheng Jishu Biaozhun' (Highway Engineering Technical Standards), 1983, Ministry of Communications.



Table 3.2: STAFF TRAiNG PROGRAM
SHANGH  SECTION-OVERSEAS TRAINNG
Number
participating and  Person-      Cost
Ara of training             duration of training    months S'000  Y'000                                       Description
Study tour abroad          16 persons/0.7 months   11.2   117.6  1,023.1  Comprehensive investigation by senior managers and technical staff from Shanghai municipality, bureaus,
departments, and Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway Engineering Construction Executive Commission. Proposed
topics include planning, fundraising, and systems for management and maintenance.
Desijn
Highway                   2 persons/2 months    4.0    33.6   292.3  Route location, interchange location and types, embankment, and pavement.
Structure                 2 persons/2 months    4.0    33.6   292.3  Large, medium, and interchange bridges.
Traffic                    I personl2 months    2.0    16.8   146.2  Highway safety facilities and systnms for surveillance, communications, and tolling.
Construction
Embankment, pavenment     3 persons/2 months    6.0    50.4   438.5  Construction and supervision methods for soft embankment, nechanical construction process for cenent   x
concrete, bituminous concrete pavement and anti-skid treatments for bituninous pavement.
Structure                 3 persons/2 months    6.0    50.4   438.5  Mechanical construction process for major bridge and interchange tructurcs.
Traffic                   2 persons/2 months    2.0    16.8   146.2  Debugging of surveillance device, advanced toll system facilities and highway safety facilities.
Conmrehensive Manascment
Maintenace                4 persons/2 months    8.0    67.2   584.6  Expressway pavement maintenance management system, mechanical maintenance equipment, traffic and
highway operations safety.
Prcoect management        3 persons/2 months    6.0    50.4   438.5  Expressway network planning, project management and purchas enthods.
Planning, statistics,     2 perona/2 months    4.0    33.6   292.3  Computer network managenent and intemational engineering financial mnanagement methods.
and financial management
Preparatory cost                                       23.5   204.6
Total                                                493.9 4.297.1
... Connnued



Table 3.2: (cont'd)
SHANGHAI SECTION-DOMiESTIC TRAINNG
Number
participating and  Person-      Cost
Area of training            duration of training    months  $'000  Y'000                                      Description
Domestic training by
foreign experts            2 persons/i month     2.0    40.0   348.0
Project management        50 persons/i month    50.0    28.7   250.0  Lectures on subjects such as planning, project management, engineering,
financial management, and operations management.
Domestic training by
local experts              5 persona/I month     5.0     2.9    25.0
Environmental protection    8 persons/2 months    16.0   7.4    64.0  Environmental sampling and testing.
Land acquisition          4 persons/i month     4.0      1.8    16.0  Standards and rules.
Construction management   20 persons/I month    20.0    11.5   100.0  Contracts, roadbed, pavement, and bridges.
Preparatory costs                                          4.6    40.2
Total                                               96.9   843.2



Table 3.3: STAFF TRAING PROGRAM
ZHEJIANG SECTION-OVERSEAS TRAxING
Number
participating and  Person-      Cost
Area of training            duration of training    months  S'000  Y'000                                      Description
Study tour abroad         40 persons/0.75 months  30    340.7 2,984.0  Comprehensive study tour for systems planning, design, construction, and management of expressways.
Design
Alignment                 I person/2 months     2       15.0   130.8  Computer-aided design of roads, optimized design of alignment.
Interchange               I person/2 months     2       15.0   130.8  Design of interchanges and configuration of ramps.
Traffic engineering       2 persons/2 months    4       30.1   261.6  Design of safety, management and service facilities.
Subsoil treatment           4 persons/2 months    8      60.1   523.2  Technology and monitoring methods for different Subsoil treatments.
Pavement construction       4 persons/2 months    8      60.1   523.2  Mechanized construction technology of cement and asphalt concrete pavements and antiskid treatment of
asphalt pavements.                                                                                   %0
Traffic engineering         4 persons/2 months    8      60.1   523.2  Construction technology of surveillance, communications, toll, and lighting facilities.
Operations management       8 persons/2 months    16     120.9  1,051.4  Toll and traffic surveillance management.
Highwav maintenance         10 persons/I month    10     95.2   828.0  Management systems for expressway maintenance, including organization and mechanization.
Proiect management          8 persons/I month     8      76.1   682.4  Expressway network planning, project management, and environmental protection.
Planning and financial
management                4 persons/2 months     8      60.1   523.2  Management of computer networks and review of international practice in construction financing.
Preparatorv Costs                                        46.7   406.1
Total                                              980.2 8.527.9
... Continued



Table 3.3: (cont'd)
ZEuANG SECrlON-DoMEsTIc TRAINNG
Number
participating and  Person-      Cost
Area of training            duration of training   months  S'000  Y'000                                       Description
Training by foreign experts    4 persons/I month  4      150.3  1,30S.0  Project mnagement and engineering (sponsored by Zhejiang Province), and financial and operations
management (sponsored by Shanghai).
Tramining by local experts    14 persons/0.5 months    7  154.6  1,346.2  Road and bridge design, traffic engineering, consuuction technology, mechanization of maintenance operations
and organization and management of toll operations.
Preparatory costs                                        15.2   132.7
Total                                              320.2  2f785.9
0



- 91 -
TABLE 3.4: EQUIPMENT TO BE PROCURED - SHANGHAI EXPRESSWAY SECRION
Total Base Cost Net of
Taxes and Duties
CIF Price
Per Unit                               Method of             Yer of
Item                          Quantity       ($US)        SUS        Yuan        Procurement (A        Procurenent
A. Central laboratory
1.  MarshaU stability apparatus                        I          14,000      14,000     119,000  lnternational shopping      14Y6
2.  Marshall automatc tamping instrument               1          10,000      10,000      85,000  Interntional shopping       1996
3.  Asphaltic concrete auto-extractor                  1          20,000      20,000     170,000  Inbtenational shopping      IYY6
4.  CBR field-testing system                           1           6,000       6,000      51,000  International shopping      1996
5.  Testing hammer for modulus of resilience           1           3,000       3,000      25,500    Not Bank-financed  &      1995
6.  PDA piing analyser                                 1         145,000     145,000    1,232,500    Not Bank-financed  f     Is
7.  Clinometer                                         1          15,000      15,000     127,500  International shopping     I1Y6
8.  Settlement gauge                                  4            7,000      28,000     238,000  International shopping      1996
9.  Pavement strength testing vehide                   1         300,000     30D00     2550         Not Bank-financed  A      IS5
541,000    4,598,500
B. Research & Pavement Management
1.  Pavement texture imstrument                       I          100,000     100,000     850,000    Not Bank-financed  &        9IY5
2.  Hammer deflectomneter                              I          90,0D0      90,000     765,000          NCB                 198
3.  Viameter                                           I          10,000      10,000      85,000  Interntiona shopping        1998
4.  Bridge testing vehide & platform                   1         500,000     SM.000    4,250.0D    Not Bank-financed  &       1995
700,000    5,950,000
C. Environment
1.  Combined monitor for noise and vibration          4             982        3,928      33,388     Local shopping           1997
2.  Sampler for atmosphere                            4             786        3,144      26,724     Local shopping           1997
3.  TSP sampler                                       4            1,179       4,716      40,086     Local shopping           1997
4.  Monitoring vehicle                                1           19,649      19,649     167,017     Local shopping          197
5.  Computer                                          1            4,912       4M2        4L,752     Local shopping           1997
36,349     308,967
D. Expressway Maintenance and Operation
1.  Medium type asphalt paver                         2         300,000      600,000   5,t00,000          ICB                 1999
2.  Pneumatic tyred roller, 8-12 ton                   I         1oo0,00     100,000     850,000    Not Bank-financed  ft     1995
3.  Pneumatic tyred roller, 6-8 ton                    1          90,00        0,o000    765,000    Not Bank-financed  ft     1995
4.  Vibratory roller, 8-12 ton                         I         100,000     100,000     850,000   Not Bank-financed  ft      1995
5.  Vibratory roller, 6-8 ton                          1          80,000      80,000     680,000    Not Bank-financed  ft     1995
6.  Road milling machine                               1         420,000     420,000    3,570,000         ICB                 1999
7.  Wrecker                                           2           90,000     180,000    1,530,000         ICB                 1999
&   Road sweeper                                      4          160,000     640,000   s,440,000   Not Bank-financed  ft    I5
9.  Automatic road line marker                         1          82,000      82,000     697,000          NCB                 199
10. Hand-operated road line mrker                     1          25,000       25,000     212,50      Local shopping           1999
11  Road sprinkler                                    2          29,915       59,829     508,547         NCB                  1999
12. Aerial work platform                              1          67,059       67,059     570,000    Not Bank-financed  ft     1995
13. Trailer power station                             3           6,838       20,513     174,356     Local shopping           1999
14. Multi-function road mantainer                     3          250,N       750A00 6O37500    Not Bank-financed  f           19
3,214,400   27,322,403
Base cost                                                                  4,491,749
Physical contingencies                                                       449,175
Price contingencies                                                          8232273
5,764,197
Import dutiesjd                                                              835,809
Value-added taxes IC                                                       L12M
1,957,810
Total cost of equipment for institutional strengthening - Shanghai         7,722,007
La      Procurement metiods were determined based on expected contract values of equipment (induding taxes and duties).
di      Equipment to be procured by Shanghai Highway Managemnent Department by December 31, 1995.
ft      Equipment was procured by Shanghai HIghway Management Department before June 30,1995.
Id     Import duties were esimated at 14.5 %.                                                                                                         I
Is      Value-added taxes were esUmated at 17% ofi(CIF price plus import duty).



- 92 -
TABLE 3.5: EQUIPMENT TO BE PROCURED - ZHE;JIANG EXPRESSWAY SECTION
Total Base Cost Net of
Taxes and Duties
CIF Price
Per Unit                               Method of             Year of
Item                          Quantity       (SUS)        SUS        Yuan         Procurement /I       Procurement
A. Central LAboratory
1.  Rock sawing machine                                1          10,000      1,000       85,000  I|ternational shopping      I96
2.  Rock polishing machine                             I@0 0                  10000       85,eo0  liternational shopping      1996
3.  Rock core drill                                    1           6,e00       6,000      51,000  Internationa shopping       1996
4.  Non-neta detector                                  1          15,000      15,000     127,500  International shopping      1996
5.  Nucear mnisture/density puge                       I          10,000      10,000      85,000  International shopping      1996
6.  Continuous skid resistance teter                   1          30,000      30,000     255,000  International shopping      1996
7.  Hard water tester                                  1           3,000       3,000      25,500  International shopping      1996
R   Boring survey system                               1          70,000      70,000     595,M00          NCB                 199
9.  Automatic high temperture fsrnace                  1           7,000       7,00       594900  International shopping      1996
10. Liquid/plastic limit tester                       I           10,000      10,000      85,000  International shopping      I996
11. Sail bounce tester                                1           20,000      20,000     170,000  International shopping      I996
12. ConsWolidation testing system                     1           20,000      20,000     170,000  International shopping      1996
13. Triaxial testing system                           1           60,000      60,000     510,000         NCB                  1996
14. Anti-pressure strength meter                       I          20,000      20,000     170,000  Internationml shopping      1996
15. Automatic ductilitY tester                         I          10,000      10,m00      85,M00  International shopping      1996
16. Automatic asphalt penetrometer                     I           5,000       5,000      42,500  Internatonl shopping        1996
17. Flexural and tramverse nsachine                   1           10,000      10,000      85,000  Interntional shopping       I996
18  Concrete buoyancy balance                         1            5,0W0       5,0W0      42,500  International shopping      1996
19. Digital water pH meter                            1            3,000       3,000      25,500  International shopping      1996
20. Rock wearing nachine                               I          10,000      10,000      85,000  International shopping      1996
21. Automatic bridge esting system                     1         400,M00     40t0i     3AOsO0            ICB                  1996
734,0D0    6,239,0D0
B. Research, Design, end Administration
i.  Facsimile or telex                                2            2,500       5,000      42,500  International shopping      1998
2.  Coswputer and administrative software             2           10,0W0      20,0W0     170,000  International shopping      199
3.  Elevator (passenger)                              4           30,000     120,000    1,020,000         NCB                 1998
4.  Video recording, editing, & display equipment      1          40,000      401        340,000          NCB                 1998
185,000    1,572,500
C  Environmental Protection
1.  NN.1 noise monitor                                1            1,500       1,50       12,750  International shopping      1997
2.  ND2 precise sound level meter                      1           2,500       2,500      21,250  International shopping      1997
3.  R&K 4420 nose level nalyzer                        1           8,00o       8,0D0      68,000  International shopping      1997
4.  Atomic absorber                                    1          12,000      12,000     102,000  International shopping      1997
S.  EP esting machine                                  1          45,000     4AL         3SMQ             NCB                 1997
69,000     586500
D. Expressway Maintenance and Operation
1.  Dust absorption sweeper, heavy-duty               2          150,000     300,000   2,550,000          ICB                 199
2   Sweeper, light-duty                               3           70,000     210,0W0    1,785,000         ICB                 1999
3.  Hot water machine with electric motor             2            5,000      10,000      85,000  International sbopping      1999
4.  Line marker                                        2          35,000      70,000     595,000          NCB                 1w9
5.  Mobile hydraulic hammer                           2          130,000     260,000   2,210,0W0          ICB                 199
6.  Watering cor                                      2           50,000     100,000     850,000          NCB                 1999
7.  Multi.purpose malntainer                          2           100,000    20Q000    1,700,000          ICB                 19"
R   Asphalt concrete mxer                              1          180,000    180,000    1530,000          ICE                 1999
condnued..



- 93 -
TABLE 3.5 (coNT'D)
Total Base Cost Net of
Taxes nd Dutie
CIF Price
Per Unit                               Mehod of              Year Of
Item                          Quantity       (SUS)        SUS        Yuan         Procurement /A       Proesarunent
D. Expressway Maintenance and Operation (continued)
9.  Asphalt concrete paver                             1         300,w0      300,000    2,550,000       1ICR                  19
10. Surface milling machine                           1          280,000     280,000    2,30,000     |   ICR                  199
11. Vibratory roller, double steel rollers            1          150,000     150,000    is75,00o         1CB                  199
12. Tyred rotter                                      2           80,000     160,000    1,36,000          1CB                 19
13. Asphalt concrete deliver truck                    2           75,000     150,000    1,275,000         1CB                 199
14. Rush tow truck, IS ton or greater                 2          170,000     340,000    2,890,000         ICB                 199
15. Truck crane, 40 ton or greater                     1         3s5,000     350,000    2,975,000         1CB                 1999
16. Travelling floodlighting machine                  4           45,000     180,00    1,530,000          ICB                 199
17. Equipment repair center                            1         150,000     250,000    1,275,000         ICB                 1999
I&  Curber                                             1          60,000      60,000     s10,000          NCB                 199
19. Traffic cruiser                                   6           25,0e      15,000    1,275,000          ICB                 199
20. Vehicle ror road administration                    5          30,000     IS0,00    1,275,000         ICB                 1999
21. Bus for ticket colector, 40 or more seats          S          60,000     300,000    2,ss5,000         ICB                 199
22. Vehicle for toll collection                       2           30,000      60,000     510,000          ICRB                19
23. Emergency service van, medium-sized               2           35,000      70,000     595,W00          ICEB                19
24. Flat bed truck, 25 ton                             I          100,000    100,000     0s,000           1CB                 1999
25. Tow truck                                         2           170,000    340,mo    2,0,0m             ICB                 19
26. Multipurpose maintainer                           2           100,000    200000   LZ                  ICB                 199
4,820,000   40,970,000
Base cost                                                                  5,80,000
Physical contingencies                                                      s5,8so0
Price contingencies                                                         LS3B6
7,926,863
Import duties &                                                             1,585,373
Value-added taxes &                                                        3,61708
Total cost of equipment for institutional strengthening- Zhejiang          11,129,16
hn      Procurement methods were determined based on expected contract values oF equipment (including taxes and duties).
Al      Import duties were estimated at 20% of the CIF price.
&       Value-added taxes were estimated at 17% of (CIF price plus import duty).



-94 -
TABLE 3.6: EQUIPMENT TO BE PROCURED - ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
ToW Dae Coft Nrt of
Tao. and Dud.
CIF Prim
Per Unit                                Me_hod or             Ye rof
Itm                           Q_uaty          ($US)        SUS        Yuan         Promment /a           Prcurenamt
1. Traic couadg equpmnt                                    I          l000        1606        5lllO            NCB                  1996
2. Coqmpen ad perphera                                     16           S,AO       3,         610M             NCB                  196
3. Odber                                                    1          2,"00       m                       L-cl ipplng              196
Be cat                                                                            200,000   1,700,060
Phyded cadiaasa&                                                                   20i.m
Price mtigendes 
254,36
Impwr dutksh                                                                       501,S73
Vuoldded tax. &                                                                      5am
102,762
Toal cost of eupnent for Road Safety Progrm                                       357,125
n  Promm m          o  wr deterined bad   expcted  cmbed vahe of eqlpmt (loduda taue  Nd dudt).
&  I_ort dtwereeimtd at20%oftieCFprimc
IC  V        d ta   wer        ate   17% of (CIF price plu   port duty).



- 95 -
TABL 3.7: SuMmARY oF EQuiPMENT TO BE PROCuRED UNDER THE PROJECr
Procurement ($1.1) /n
Cost                                           International and       Not Dank-
Category                                       (SUS)                     ICB         NCR         Local Shopping         financed
BDae cost of equipment for:
Institutional strengthening/i
Central laboratories                            1,275,000                400,000     130,000               297,000         441,000
Research, design, and mdmlnistration              885,000                     0      250,000                35,000         60D,000
Environmental protection                          105,349                     0       45,000                60,349               0
Expressway maintenance and operation            8,034,400              5,780,000     371,829                55,513        1,827,059
Road Safety Program                                                               n      184                    2QSD                 A
Total base cost                                         10,499,749             6,180,000     976,829               467,862        2,875,059
Physical contingencies                                  1,049,975                618,000      97,683                46,786         287,506
Price contingencies                                     2L395 699              16B5932        8228 4944 44                         31t722.
3,445,674             2,303,932     326,182               140830           674,729
Total cost induding contingencies                   13,945,423              8,483,932    1,303,011             608,692        3,549,718
Import duties f                                         2,472,054
Value-added taxes /d                                    2 790971
5,263,025              3,321,013    506,052               230,274        1,205,686
Total cost including contingencies and taxes        19,208,448             11,804,945    1,809064              838965        4,755,474
It Procurement methods were determined based on expected contract values of equipment (induding taxes and duties).
& Comprises equipmsent to be used during the construction and operation of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
and other roads in Shanghi Municipality nd Zbejiang Province.
t Import duties were estimated at 14.5% and 20% of the CIF price in Shanghai and Zhejiang, respectively.
id Value-added taxes were estimated at 17% of (CIF price phus import duty).



- 96 -
Table 3.8: ESTIMATED DISBuRsEmENT SCEDULE
($ million)
Disbursement
profile of
Bank fiscal year         Estimated disbursements         transport projects
and semester       Semester     Cumulative        %      in China (%) La
1996
December 31, 1995 lb    25           25            10            6
June 30, 1996           12           37            14           11
1997
December 31, 1996       18           55           21            16
June 30, 1997           24           79           30            26
December 31, 1997       26          105           40            38
June 30, 1998           28          133           51            48
1999
December 31, 1998       28          161           62            60
June 30, 1999           26          187           72            69
2000
December 31, 1999       25          212           82            78
June 30, 2000           25          237           91            90
2001
December 31, 2000       23          260           100          100
Note: (1) Project Completion Date: December 31, 2000.
(2) Loan Closing Date: June 30, 2001.
La As of August 1993.
Lb Includes initial payments into Special Accounts, advance payments to contractors, and
payment for retroactively-financed works.
Source: Mission estimates.



- 97 -
TABLE 4.1: ZHEJIANG: TRAFC GRowTH ON NATIONAL ROUTE 320 (AADT)
T,                         Y_ Vd              Co & ^           MmaYd*                      Tnl                                   TOTAL
VY       No.  S51o                 Sod    Mod       Lp          So      L4             Trlls          Toal        Cooo             Sod  Lgo        C.sb       B            CONV
16   3202  Jbs..                 322       1,198    235         473     234             lt             2,(2l       2,464          32       5        5E       2,161        2,745
ISO    320-2  D_-                31E      1,269    22V          474    203               122           2,12        2,4a3          52      14       5s        4,164        2,943
298    320-3  No-h.              509       1.720    150         716    332              422            3,48        3.701          84      26        57       3,910        4,221
16   320-4  HAlq                456       1,762    233         761    337               396           3,845       3.663          53       9       252       3.947        4,245
293    320-5  So.o               39        2,293    224         614    328               264           4,122        3,947        538      8        296       6,539        9,176
190    3204   Ssdhosooo          594       2,09    291          937    410               441           4,672       4a434         476    U3E         66       27957        5,358
1296   320-7  HIgyog             675      2,962    467         I,0     527            2,300           6,62        7,092          I5       2       536      12,0S         8,666
2997   320-1  JAh.               468       2,539    237         787    320              220            3,55E       3,263          59      9         29      2,009         3,550
2987   320-2  DoabW              38        2,555    258         852    266               208           3,535       3,213         225      Is        52       4,642        3,836
167   320-3  Noh,                737       2,113    122        2,039    373              933           4,987       4,654          228     29        59       4.473        5,20
1987   3204  HNit.               571      2,248    225         2,005    376              432           4,657       4,371         222    12         355       4,556        5,137
1957   320-5  So.oqIoo.          634       2,091    384         867     401              286           4,573       4,253         829    223        204       9.336        5,86o
2T7  3264  Ss_dhoos               696     2,075    2s          1 2.7    4a0              4r7           5,2u3       4,038         404      26         4       2,933        5,603
297   320-7  HInoWooo            658      2,374    409         1.433    587             BID            6,271       5,90           29       1       322      10,507        7,126
198   320-2   Jh.                 64       1,425    223        1,073    223              291           3,793       3,402          84       6        44       2,245        3,739
195    320-2  D..                538       1,503    156        1,144    206              327           3,966       3,459          140     24       S9        4,457        4,106
18   320-3  Nah.                792       2,550    118        2,197    372              519           5,548       5,209          110     29        47       2,545        5,616
29S    3204  HutOog              033      2,403    250         1,405    340             462           5,53        5,222          26      9        176       5,678        5,954
29M8   320-5  Saokqlo            828      2,363    202         2,245    315            5s3             5,359       5,830         772      n        287      4,036         6,406
1988   3204  Soiioodo            907      2.6      299         2,92     426              639           7,093       6,431         306      8        245      3,149         7,233
298S   320-7  H lao g            999      2,265    I2n         2,044    446             S54            6,710       6,115          39       3     1,102      14,075        5,234
2949   320-1  JLos               638       2,580    243         958    312              277            4,000       3,668          75      29        36      2,218         3,59
1M     320-2  DAOI               443       2,539    301        1,018    249              236           3,796       3,395          97      22        69       4,442        3,93
2M     320-3  Ndoo               85`4     2,502    116         1,169    359              542           5,842        ,227         222     25         65      3,229         5,719
19N9   320-4  Hdosg              721      2,390    122         2,149    340             463            5,192       4,84          239      la       252      5,432         5,757
2989   320-   S         .        761       2,898    354         946    378              442            4,778       4,522         954    167        221       7,094        6,461
129    320-6  Sodoio             577       1,706    36         1,975    30              459            4,572       4,264         373      23       5s        3,264        5,085
1291    320-7  HIogo             709      2,337    344         2,337    6f              503           6*,S0        5,628          40       8       537      11,328        7,069
190   320-2  Modh                710       2,735   I          2,545    334             374            4,807       4,302          6o       5        52       2.423        4,635
19"0   322  D - h  l             775      1,870    23S         ',666    342             426            5,336       4,716          67    22         204      4,572         5,313
299    320-3  N o                9ss      2,754    138         2,6o8    534              549           6,563       6,039          94      25        73       2,95         6,494
19"0   3204  HIsoo               f9f       2,755    28         2,895    537              534           6,960       6,20          123      iS       131      5s,o5         6,99
29    320-5   staq.              776      2,559    252         2,257    428              509           5,722       5,327         653      72        86       2,322        6,225
2"9   320-64  sdho.oa           1,094     3,772    811        2,795     526             627            8.98        7,896         330       4       147      2,903         8,622
2998   328-7  HAo 0              924       2,7M2    216        2,911    240             854            5,906       5,9            50       1     1,482     2,924          8,876
299    320-2  MoMs,              864      2,543    275         l,890    436             484            6,492       5,789          82      9         65      2,506         6,192
199    320-2  Donjoho            945      2,449    273         2,081    461              642           6,782       6.,07          91      24       138       4,233        6,694
199    320-3  Nets.             2,343     3,502    257         2,222    642              95            8,5s44      7,532         220      2         2 8is   3,338         8,374
2"9    320-4  Hdi               2,60      3,025    335         2,232    482             605            8,32S       7.565          102      1        65      3,263         S,036
129    3205  Soaolo             2,045     3.568    235         1,8s         0s2         539            7,666       7,083         g8l     75        126       2,487        7,871
1"2    320-4  sWohaoi           1,450     3,956    621         3,272    69              98S           20,533       9,700         339      27       268      2,799        10,630
1991   320-7  H-V.a             1,110      2,965    216        2,122    262            1,100           6,7125      6,154          42       1     2,681      17,565       8s,53
I92   320-1  JlI -              1,202     2,798    375        2,929     578              53            8,235       7,197         120      9         a       2,356         7,596
299    320-2  D0awhu            2,195     2,951    252        2,466    557              704            8,125       7,244         169      14       255      4,224         7,942
Im     320u3  Noah.             2,8s      4,561    In         3,073      SS             929           12,582      10,429         199     33        227      3,673        22,137
192   32-4  Hul.og             2,293      3,325    226         2,766    681             706            9,987       8,9s7         iss      28         b      2,640         9,420
I2     320-5  osh-l.            2,165     3,874    229         2,270    668             723            8,819       3,092         917    268        131       1,226        9,364
I12   3264   Sdh.onmlb          1,582     4,358    723        3,573     786            1,052          12,397      18,09          434      2s       224      2,572        11,763
5992   320-7  HFoys             1,270     2,142    442         2,658    371            2,202           8,005       7,277          40       1     2,942      20.632        ,952
29    320-3  Nmho               2,426     5,193   I          3,783   1,264            2,212          13,964      122.i6         300     27        28       3,508        23,406
M4   320-3  N-hs                2,965     5.666    282         4,306   2,69S           1.097          29,934      24,330         378     26        312      3,225        29,214
190         }                    456       1,918    241         716    337              44             4,097       3,942         178     39        186      4,917         4,745
1987         )                   594       1,972    240        1,027    39              419            4,673       4,369         237     29        156      4,934         5,20
298         ) A-go               779      2,196    277         1,424    333             523            5,423       4,98          232     23        268      5,254         S,804
99            All                672       2,593    265        2,095    387             429            4,840       4,57          269     35        277      5,285         5,423
1990        ) Solos              88s      2,450    202         2,827    437             556            6,339       5.7o0         297     28        29       5,459         6,422
1991                            I ,20     2,990    257        2,196     526              710           7,920       7,267          293     22       343      5,223         0S,
m2          }                   1,49      3,430    347        2,791     643             82             9,94        8.592         205     36        395      4,768         9,596
A - -l GnMth
1986-19,311                         22%        InS    6%           255    2I S1%                           15%          145          9%    -1%        23%        42%           122
2909-9,9 .12                        32%        20%     9%          37%    1%              26%             25%         24%           3%     1%       31%         -3%          21%
113986-19, N-.h                     25%        16%     4%          25%    23%              23%             19%          18%         22%     6%       24%         -2%           17%
1989-1"4, Nhs.                     2I%         18%    22%          30%    36%              25%             24%          22%        2I%      is        37%         o%          22%
12) VoikImo ,Ok (Inow  m od,Sohrlr .o1566 or.  dolb.o. - iOnhd.
(2) Cosoonl. radon 4repf s qIaon   dab fldk  1.I, .0  *0 p ..r  &kbs 251.5) trolo 00d o        r  tikh  (1.5), o  10.51,
sod bkylr (0. 1)
SOURCE: ZMJl.og P-s4l Cosoolnkot, Dprp



- 98 -
Table 4.2: SHANGHAI: TRAFFIC GROWTH IN ExPRESSWAY CORRIDOR
Tracks          Passenger Vehkles Trailers        Motor Vebs                                       TOTAL
Year         Smi   Med   Lge           Smi  Lge /Contalners        Total Converted  Tractors    Carts       Bikes       CONV
NH 320, Fenjug
196           326    623   397         314   221         221       2,102    2,056        14        10       1,044      2,179
1967          291    481   367         305   171         194       1,809     1,754       18         3       1,258       1,S99
19S8          262    475   363         286   231         159       1,776     1,713       sO         4       1,213       1,886
19S9          302    372   381         347   187         120       1,709     1,596       25         2       1,510       1,773
1990          796    790   435         921   269         254       3,465    3,132        62        12       2,248      3,424
199           987   1,034   492      1,322   335         414       4,584    4,130        S5        45       2,285      4,466
199         1,094    886    866      1,502   362         474       5,184    4,670        98        62       1,326      4,932
Maegwg Buidge
1989          179    174   157         227    96          76        909       834       139        38       6,213       1,613
199           244    181   223         272   112          97       1,129     1,042      126        51       5,251       1,718
1991          286    214    55         190   122          14        881       793       178        58       4,275       1,428
i19           317    237    34         335   169           6       1,098      934        63         6       3,046       1,304
SMng-Yun-Smn-Chang
1989          216    154    81         288   1ll          15         865      729       186       123       7,200       1,696
19s           312    156   206         429   157          37       1,297     1,101      190       170       8,901       2,266
1991          474    405    107        722   166          34       I,908     1,564      229        81       5,207       2,354
i19           699    532    116      1,053   233          60       2,693     2,197      270        77       5,146       3,020
SHANGHAI WEST, TOTAL
i198          697    700   619         862   394         211       3,483    3,158       350       163      14,923       5,081
199         1,352   1,127   S84      1,622   538         388       5,891    5,274       378       233      16,400       7,409
1991        1,747   1,653    654     2,234   623         462       7,373    6,487       492       184      11,767      8,248
19          2,110   1,655  1,016     2,890   764         540       8,975    7,800       431       145       9,518       9,255
n Grth:
89-92           45%    33%    18%        50%   25%         37%         37%       35%        7%       -4%       -14%         22%
NH 320, Chedun
1986          731    985   700         874   483         481       4,254    4,058       274       119       4,038      4,795
1987          676    865   539       1,029   461         406       3,976     3,665      198       110       3,739      4,291
198U          818   1,043   689      1,123   535         49        4,707     4,395      212        82       4,191       5,067
19S9          794    858   728       1,078   481         386       4,325     3,979      149        87       4,193      4,591
1990          831    651    741      1,281   434         353       4,291    3,827       131        63       4,427      4,432
1991        1,135   1,601   15      1,938   504         541       5,904    5,206       117        28       4,193      5,756
i19         1,480   1,956   309      2,405   590         557       7,297    6,373       126        27       4,062      6,919
Xinqiao(Shnghai-Songjiang Rvprssweay)
1l9           280    285     50        934    78           1       1,628     1,162                                      1,162
12            592    742   242       1,527   374          28       3,505    2,756                                      2,756
Sgyug (Sh-aghai-Songjig Expressway)
1986          418    545    132        588   394         149       2,226    2,007       327        69       1,66s      2,535
1987          477    661   221         979   549         197       3,084    2,693       352        73       2,114      3,293
19S8          581    755   360       1,076   553         179       3,504     3,056      343        39       4,303       3,848
1989          753    664   493       1,396   553         252       4,111    3,539       298        58       5,462      4,412
199           683    554   467       1,491   595         203       3,993    3,349       225        23       5,080      4,094
1991          875    787   351       1,235   591         171       4,010    3,478       314        29       4,500      4,257
i19           958    988   247       1,220   568         234       4,215     3,722      269        37       3,395      4,349
SHANGHAI EAST, TOTAL
1986        1,149   1,530    832     1,462   877         630       6,480    6,064       601       Iss       5,706       7,330
1987        1,153   1,526   760      2,008  1,010        603       7,060    6,358       550       183       5,s53       7,584
1988        1,39    1,798  1,049     2,199  1,08         678       8,211    7,451       555       121       8,494       8,915
1989        1,547   1,522  1,221     2,474  1,034        638       8,436    7,518       447       145       9,655      9,003
199         1,514   1,205  1,208     2,772  1,029        556       8,284     7,176      356        86       9,507       8,526
1991        2,290   2,673    586     4,107  1,173        713      11,542    9,845       431        57       8,693      11,174
i19         3,030   3,686    798     5,152  1,532        819      15,017    12,851      395        64       7,457      14,023
Annuat Growth:
86-92           18%    16%   -1%         23%   10%          4%         15%       13%       -7%      -16%         5%         11%
86-88           10%      8%    12%       23%   11%          4%         13%       11%       -4%      -20%        22%         10%
89-92           25%    34%  -13%         28%   14%          9%         21%       20%       -4%      -24%        -8%         16%
/g See footnote to Table 4.1



- 99 -
Table 4.3: PROJECTED TRAmC IN TIE SEANGHA-HANGzHOU CORRIDOR
(thousands of equivalent passenger car units per day)
Section:                      Pengbu-Yuhang      Yuhang-Fengjing     Fengjing-Songjiang
New highway length:               (18 km)             (85 km}n           (27 km)
Year:                        1993  2000  2010  1993  2000  2010  1993  2000  2010
Without Expressway
Existing Highway             29.1  67.8  83.9  25.1  57.8  87.5  24.5  57.5  71.3
With Expressway
Assuming no tolls:
Existing Highway                  35.9  84.0          27.7  76.1          22.4  60.7
Expressway                        36.7  108.0         34.6  102.0         40.4  119.0
Subtotal                                             92.23 .17 8 6 19:
Assuming tolls:
Existing Highway                  40.9  84.0          32.4  81.8          27.9  66.0
Expressway                        30.4  89.6          28.7  84.7          33.5  98.8
Subtotal             1       7 3   I6           6 1. i6                 C1A  l4o"
Note: Traffic estimates for the existing highway include estimates of local traffic, and also reflect congestion-induced
restrictions on traffic growth.
Source: Bank estimates based on data provided bry Shanghai and 2Zejiang.



-100-
Table 4.4: SHANGHAI-HANGZHOU CORRIDOR ESTIMATED TRAVEL
TIMES AND SPEEDS /a
EXISTING NR 320 HIGHWAY                     EXPRESSWAY
(165 km)                            (130 km)
Without Road              With Road
Safety Program /b         Safety Program /b
Time         Speed        Time         Speed      Time         Speed
(hrs)       Qkmlh)        (hrs)       (kn/h)      (hrs)      (km/h)
Without Expressway
1993                  3.3           50
1995                  3.5           47
1997                  4.0           41
1999                  5.1           32          4.7            35
2001                  7.2            23          6.1           27
2005                 13.0            13         12.5           13
2010                 13.1            13         13.1           13
With Expressway
2000                  3.4            49          3.2           52       1.9            69
2002                  3.5            47          3.3           50       1.9            68
2005                  4.6            36         4.3            38       2.0            67
2010                  7.2            23          6.2           27       2.1            63
/a      As estimated by 1993 Appraisal Mission. Actual speeds on NR 320 in 1995 have declined to 35 km/h, due to
higher traffic volume and congestion (see para 4.13).
/1      The Road Safety Program provides for the segregation of high- and low-speed traffic through the provision of
separate lanes and bridges for slow vehicles along 86 kilometers of the existing NR 320.
Source: Bank Estimates.



- 101 -
Table 4.5: VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
Estimnated costs at speeds (km/h)
Vehicle                Equation coefficients (1)  70      50      40       30      20
type                   A        B      R2         ----------- (Yuan per 100 km)--  --
Existing Highways, fair condition
Car                  0.265    8.389    1.000    38.4    43.2    47.4    54.4    68.4
Small bus            0.267   15.497    1.000    48.9    57.7    65.5    78.4   104.2
Medium bus           0.553   13.181    1.000    74.2    81.7    88.3    99.3   121.2
Large bus            0.698   13.657    1.000    89.3    97.1   103.9   115.3   138.1
Small truck          0.285   15.023    1.000    50.0    58.6    66.1    78.6   103.7
Medium truck         0.546   13.243    1.000    73.5    81.1    87.7    98.7   120.8
Large truck          0.846   16.769    1.000   108.6   118.1   126.5   140.5   168.5
Truck-Trailer         1.442   17.963   0.999    169.9   180.2   189.1   204.1   234.0
Expressway, good condition
Car                  0.239    8.384    1.000    35.8    40.6    44.8    51.8    65.8
Small bus            0.225   15.477    1.000    44.6    53.4    61.1    74.0    99.8
Medium bus           0.464   13.195    1.000    65.2    72.8    79.4    90.4   112.4
Large bus            0.621   13.676    1.000    81.7    89.5    96.3   107.7   130.5
Small truck          0.253   15.006    1.000    46.7    55.3    62.8    75.3   100.3
Medium truck         0.481   13.233    1.000    67.0    74.6    81.2    92.2   114.3
Large truck          0.772   16.796    1.000   101.1   110.7   119.1   133.1   161.1
Truck-Trailer         1.315   17.981   0.999    157.2   167.5   176.5   191.5   221.4
Note: (1)  Constants A and B for an equation: Economic cost/km = A + B/(SPEED IN KM/H) R2 = Correlation
coefficient of fitted curve.
(2)  The geometry of the existing highway is virtually identical to that for the expressway; the only difference
relates to the surface conditions. Since roughness affects speeds, operating costs between the two highway
classes will generally be measurably different, all else being equal.
(3)  Costs above represent free-flow operating costs; to obtain congested link costs, they should be factored by
[1 +0.2*v/c^2], where v/c is the link volume to capacity ratio.
Source: Bank estimates using VOC model.



- 102 -
Table 4.6: ESTMATED CONSTRUCTION COSTS
(Y million)
Sections of Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
Pengbu Yuhang  Fengding                        Road
to      to       to                         Safety
Cost item                                                Yuhang Fengding Songjiang   Total             Program
Clvil Engineering Costs                                      342    1,699      1,097    3,138               138
Electrical and Mechanical                                     49       67        28       144                 0
Construction Supervision                                      13       45        34        92                 2
Design, survey, testing, other la                              8       40        15        63                 1
Base Cost                                                    412    L82        1.174    3A37                141
Physical Contingency L                                        40      181       116       337                14
Price Contingency                                            117      757       528     1,403                60
Subtotal                                                     52    2.791       J1.1     5.177               216
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                             76      218       173       467               32
Taxes                                                         19       94        61       113                 4
Financial Cost                                                64    3102       2.052    5.757               247
Economic Cost (                                              522    2,213      1,436    4,171               180
Distribution by year a
1994                    163     258         15      437                32
1995                   119      278        238      635                 7
1996                    70       322       225      616                79
1997                    170      362       269      801                62
1998                     0      405        293      698                 0
1999                     0      403        282      686                 0
2000                     0       184       114      298                 0
Total                   522    2212       L436    4.171                180
la   Based on preliminary engineering cost estimates prepared by Shanghai and Zhejiang.
Lb   10% of civil works and construction supervision cost.
Ic   Construction cost less contractor taxes and price contingency, adjusted
by overall conversion factor of  1.05
id   This distribution is consistent with assumptions made for project cost estimation
and project implementation.



Table 4.7: SHANGHAI_HANGZHOU EXPRESSWAY: ECONOMIC EVALUATION WITmOUT TOLLING
(Y million)
PENGBU-YUHANG (13 K                    YUHANG-FENGJING (35 K                  FENGJING-SONGJIANG (27 KM)                    TOTAL (130 KM)
Cost    Benefit Net Benemft             Cost      Benefit Net Benefit            Cost    Benefit Net Benefit           Cost    Benefit Net Benefit
1994            163.5        0.0     (163.5)            258.4         0.0     (253.4)             15.0        0.0       (15.0)         436.9         0.0     (436.9)
1995            119.5        0.0     (119.5)            287.0         0.0     (287.0)            237.8        0.0     (2.37.)          644.3         0.0     (644.3)
1996            60.7         0.0       (60.7)           321.7         0.0     (321.7)            225.1        0.0     (225.1)          607.4         0.0     (607.4)
1997            160.9        0.0      (160.9)           362.3         0.0     (362.3)            269.1        0.0     (269.1)          792.3         0.0     (792.3)
1998             0.9       251.1       250.2            405.0         0.0     (405.0)            292.3        0.0     (292.3)          698.7       251.1     (447.6)
1999             0.9       366.6       365.7            372.5         0.0     (372.5)            257.3        0.0     (257.3)          630.7       366.6     (264.0)
2000              0.9      535.5       534.6            354.3         0.0     (354.3)            257.4        0.0      (257.4)         612.5       535.5      (77.0)
2001              0.9      606.2       605.3              4.3       633.6      629.4               1.4      492.3       491.5            6.5    1,732.6    1,726.1
2002              3.5      686.3       677.8              4.3    1,142.2    1,133.0                1.4      750.7       749.4            14.1    2,579.3    2,565.2
2003              0.9      777.1       776.2              4.3    1,545.0      1,540.8              1.4      853.1       856.7            6.5    3,130.3    3,173.3
2004              0.9      830.2       379.3              4.3    2,091.0    2,036.3                1.4      981.1       979.7             6.5    3,952.3    3,945.8
2005              0.9      997.0       9%.1              39.7    2,831.4    2,791.3               24.7    1,122.1     1,097.5            65.2    4,950.6    4,835.4
2006              0.9    1,084.5     1,083.6              4.3    3,195.3    3,191.0                1.4    1,244.6    1,243.3              6.5    5,524.4    5,517.9
2007              0.9    1,179.8     1,173.9              4.3    3,607.0    3,602.7                1.4    1,33l.0     1,379.6            6.5    6,167.8    6,161.3
2008              0.9     1,2U3.9    1,283.0              4.3    4,073.0    4,068.7                1.4    1,532.9    1,531.5             6.5    6,889.8    6,333.3
2009              0.9     1,397.5    1,3%.6               4.3    4,600.6    4,596.4                1.4    1,702.2    1,700.8             6.5    7,700.3      7,693.8
2010              0.9    1,521.5     1,520.6              4.3    5,198.3    5,194.0                1.4    1,891.0     1,889.6            6.5    8,610.8    8,604.3
2011              0.9     1,649.6    1,648.7              4.3    5,670.3    5,666.5                1.4    2,040.6    2,039.3             6.5    9,361.0    9,354.5
2012             11.5     1,783.9    1,777.4              4.3    6,187.9    6,183.6                1.4    2,202.7    2,201.4             17.1   10,179.5   10,162.4
2013              0.9     1,940.3    1,939.4              4.3    6,754.1      6,749.8              1.4    2,378.4    2,377.1             6.5    11,072.7    11,066.2
2014              0.9    2,104.9     2,104.0              4.3    7,374.2    7,369.9                1.4    2,568.8    2,567.5             6.5   12,047.9   12,041.4
2015              0.9    2,284.0     2,283.1             53.8    8,053.6    7,999.3               34.0    2,775.4    2,741.4            88.7   13,113.0   13,024.2
2016              0.9    2,398.2     2,397.3              4.3    8,456.3      8,452.1              1.4    2,914.1    2,912.8             6.5   13,768.6   13,762.1
2017              0.9    2,513.1     2,517.2              4.3    8,879.1    8,874.9                1.4    3,059.8    3,058.5             6.5   14,457.0   14,450.5
2018              0.9    2,644.0     2,643.1              4.3    9,323.1    9,318.8                1.4    3,212.8    3,211.5             6.5   15,179.9   15,173.4
2019              0.9    2,776.2     2,775.3              4.3    9,789.2    9,785.0                1.4    3,373.5    3,372.1             6.5   15,938.9   15,932.4
2020           (251.4)    2,915.0    3,166.3          (1,176.3)   10,278.7    11,455.0          (775.9)    3,542.1    4,318.0        (2,203.5)   16,735.8   18,939.3
NPV             333.2    4,733.8     4,400.6           1,469.6   12,472.8    11,003.2            923.9    4,900.7    3,976.8          2,776.7   22,157.4   19,380.6
B/C RATIO                                12.48                                    8.49                                    5.30                                   7.98
EIRR                                   47.4%                                   33.7%                                   30.4%                                  35.3%
FYRR                                   41.2%                                    19.1%                                    3.5s%                                 24.5%
NOTES: Cos are for construction (1994-2000), routine maintenance, pavement remedial work (Year 5) periodic maintenance (Year 15). Construction salvage value @ 50% of original cost
(2020) AddItiol annualroutinemaintenance YSO,000perkn,remedial works ndperiodicmaintenance @1.5%, and 2.1% respectivelyoforiginalconstructioncost
Benefita re dne to diverted highway traffic and newly generated trafilc and time savingL



Table 4.8: SHANGHAI_HANGZHOU EXPRESSWAY: ECONOMC EVALUATION WITH TOLLING
(Y million)
PENGBU-YUHANG (18 K                   YUHANG-FENGJING (85 K                 FENGJING-SONGJIANG (27 KM)                  TOTAL (130 KM)
Cost    Benefit Net Benefit             Cost    Benefit Net Benefit            Cost    Benefit Net Benefit           Cost    Benefit Net Benefit
1994           163.5        0.0      (163.5)           258.4        0.0     (258.4)             15.0        0.0      (15.0)          436.9        0.0     (436.9)
1995           119.5        0.0      (119.5)           287.0        0.0     (287.0)            237.8        0.0     (237.8)          644.3        0.0     (644.3)
1996            69.7        0.0       (69.7)           321.7        0.0     (321.7)            225.1        0.0     (225.1)          616.4        0.0     (616.4)
1997           169.9        0.0      (169.9)           362.3        0.0     (362.3)            269.1        0.0     (269.1)          801.3        0.0     (801.3)
1998             0.9      216.0       215.1            405.0        0.0     (405.0)            292.8        0.0     (292.8)          698.7      216.0     (482.7)
1999             0.9      315.3       314.4            403.5        0.0     (403.5)            282.3        0.0     (282.3)          686.7      315.3     (371.4)
2000             2.0       460.5      458.5            394.6         0.0     (394.6)           283.2        0.0      (283.2)         679.7      460.5     (219.2)
2001             2.0       521.3      519.3              9.4      544.9       535.6              2.2      423.8       421.7           13.5    1,490.0    1,476.5
2002             9.8       590.2      580.4              9.4       982.3      973.0              2.2      645.6       643.5           21.3    2,218.2    2,196.8
2003             2.0       668.3      666.4              9.4    1,328.7    1,319.4               2.2      737.9      735.8            13.5    2,735.0    2,721.5
2004             2.0       756.9      755.0              9.4    1,798.3    1,788.9               2.2      843.7       841.6           13.5    3,398.9    3,385.4
2005             2.0       857.4      855.5             45.7    2,435.0    2,389.3              26.2      965.0       938.8           73.9    4,257.5    4,183.6                    O
2006             2.0       932.6      930.7              9.4    2,748.0    2,738.6               2.2    1,070.4    1,068.2            13.5    4,750.9    4,737.5
2007             2.0    1,014.7      1,012.7             9.4    3,102.0    3,092.7               2.2    1,187.6    1,185.5            13.5    5,304.3    5,290.8
2008             2.0    1,104.2      1,102.2             9.4    3,502.8    3,493.4               2.2    1,318.3    1,316.1            13.5    5,925.2    5,911.7
2009             2.0    1,201.8      1,199.9             9.4    3,956.5    3,947.2               2.2    1,463.9    1,461.7            13.5    6,622.2    6,608.7
2010             2.0    1,308.5      1,306.5             9.4    4,470.5    4,461.2               2.2    1,626.2    1,624.1            13.5    7,405.2    7,391.8
2011             2.0    1,418.7      1,416.7             9.4    4,876.9    4,867.5               2.2    1,754.9    1,752.8            13.5    8,050.5    8,037.0
2012            13.0    1,538.4      1,525.5             9.4    5,321.6    5,312.2               2.2    1,894.4    1,892.2            24.5    8,754.4    8,729.9
2013             2.0    1,668.6      1,666.6             9.4    5,808.5    5,799.2               2.2    2,045.4    2,043.3            13.5    9,522.6    9,509.1
2014             2.0    1,810.2      1,808.2             9.4    6,341.8    6,332.5               2.2    2,209.2    2,207.0            13.5   10,361.2   10,347.7
2015             2.0    1,964.2      1,962.2            60.2    6,926.1    6,865.9              35.8    2,386.8    2,351.0            98.0   11,277.1    11,179.1
2016             2.0    2,062.4    2,060.4               9.4    7,272.4    7,263.1               2.2    2,506.2    2,504.0            13.5   11,841.0   11,827.5
2017             2.0    2,165.5    2,163.6               9.4    7,636.1    7,626.7               2.2    2,631.5    2,629.3            13.5   12,433.1   12,419.6
2018             2.0    2,273.8     2,271.8              9.4    8,017.9    8,008.5               2.2    2,763.0    2,760.9            13.5   13,054.7   13,041.2
2019             2.0    2,387.5      2,385.5             9.4    8,418.8    8,409.4               2.2    2,901.2    2,899.0            13.5   13,707.4   13,694.0
2020          (259.3)    2,506.9    2,766.2          (1,202.2)    8,839.7   10,041.9          (800.7)    3,046.2    3,847.0        (2,262.2)   14,392.8   16,655.0
NPV            399.2    4,114.1     3,714.9           1,519.7   10,726.6    9,206.9            950.1    4,214.6    3,264.6         2,868.9   19,055.3   16,186.4
B/C RATIO                                10.31                                    7.06                                    4.44                                  6.64
EIRR                                  43.6%                                  31.6%                                   28.1%                                 32.8%
FYRR                                  34.4%/                                  16.1%                                   19.7%                                 20.5%
NOTES: Costs are for construction (1994-2000), routine maintenance, pavement remedial work (Year 5) periodic maintenance (Year 15). Construction salvage value @ 50% oforiginal cost
(2020). Additional annual routine maintenance (} Y50,000 per kIn, remedial works and periodic maintenance @1.5%, and 2.11% respectively oforiginal construction cost Annual toll
operations cost Y60,000/0m. Benefits are due to diverted highway traMrc and newly generated traffic and time savings.



Table 4.9: SHANGHA-HANGZHOU EXPRESSWAY: ECONOMIC EVALUATION wrriT TOLLING
AND wrrH ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM MPROVEMENTS
(Y million)
PENGBU-YUHANG (18 KM)             YUHANG-FENGJING (85 KM)              FENGJING-SONGJIANG (27 1M)                  TOTAL (130 KM)
Cost    Benefit Net Benefit       Cost       Benefit Net Benefit        Cost   Benefit Net Benefit       Cost   Benefit      Net Benefit
1994       163.5        0.0     -163.5       258.4          0.0    -258.4           15.0       0.0      -15.0        436.9         0.0       -436.9
1995       119.5        0.0     -119.5       278.0          0.0    -278.0          237.8       0.0    -237.8         635.3         0.0       -635.3
1996        69.7        0.0      -69.7       321.7          0.0    -321.7          225.1       0.0    -225.1         616.4         0.0       -616.4
1997       169.9        0.0     -169.9       362.3          0.0    -362.3          269.1       0.0    -269.1         801.3         0.0       -801.3
1998         0.9      216.0      215.1       405.0          0.0    -405.0          292.8       0.0    -292.8         698.7       216.0       -482.7
1999         0.9      315.3      314.4       403.5          0.0    -403.5          282.3       0.0    -282.3         686.7       315.3       -371.4
2000         2.0      460.5      458.5        192.9         0.0    -192.9          116.6       0.0    -116.6         311.4       460.5        149.1
2001         2.0      521.3      519.3          9.4       304.3      295.0           3.0     423.8      420.9         14.3      1,249.4      1,235.1
2002         9.8      590.2      580.4         9.4        626.4      617.0           3.0     645.6      642.7         22.1      1,862.2      1,840.1
2003         2.0      668.3      666.4         9.4        968.5      959.2           3.0     737.9      735.0       . 14.3      2,374.8      2,360.5
2004         2.0      756.9      755.0         9.4       1,500.1    1,490.7          3.0     843.7      840.8         14.3      3,100.7      3,086.4
2005         2.0      857.4      855.5        42.6       2,327.8    2,285.2         24.5     965.0      940.5         69.1      4,150.2      4,081.1
2006         2.0      932.6      930.7         9.4       2,663.7    2,654.3          3.0   1,070.4    1,067.4         14.3      4,666.6      4,652.3                   >
2007         2.0    1,014.7    1,012.7          9.4      3,048.7    3,039.4          3.0   1,187.6    1,184.7         14.3      5,251.0      5,236.7
2008         2.0    1,104.2    1,102.2          9.4      3,490.3    3,480.9          3.0   1,318.3    1,315.3         14.3      5,912.7      5,898.4
2009         2.0    1,201.8    1,199.9          9.4      3,996.7    3,987.4          3.0   1,463.9    1,460.9         14.3      6,662.5      6,648.2
2010         2.0    1,308.5    1,306.5          9.4      4,577.9    4,568.5          3.0   1,626.2    1,623.3         14.3      7,512.6      7,498.3
2011         2.0    1,418.7    1,416.7          9.4      4,975.6    4,966.2          3.0   1,754.9    1,752.0         14.3      8,149.2      8,134.9
2012        13.0    1,538.4    1,525.5         9.4       5,409.5    5,400.2          3.0   1,894.4    1,891.4         25.3      8,842.3      8,817.0
2013         2.0    1,668.6    1,666.6         9.4       5,883.2    5,873.8          3.0   2,045.4    2,042.5         14.3      9,597.2      9,582.9
2014         2.0    1,810.2    1,808.2          9.4      6,400.4    6,391.1          3.0   2,209.2    2,206.2         14.3    10,419.8      10,405.5
2015         2.0    1,964.2    1,962.2         55.9      6,965.4    6,909.5         33.1   2,386.8    2,353.7         91.0     11,316.4     11,225.4
2016         2.0    2,062.4    2,060.4         9.4       7,313.7    7,304.3          3.0   2,506.2    2,503.2         14.3    11,882.3      11,868.0
2017         2.0    2,165.5    2,163.6         9.4       7,679.4    7,670.0          3.0   2,631.5    2,628.5         14.3    12,476.4      12,462.1
2018         2.0    2,273.8    2,271.8         9.4       8,063.4    8,054.0          3.0   2,763.0    2,760.1         14.3    13,100.2      13,085.9
2019         2.0    2,387.5    2,385.5         9.4       8,063.4    8,054.0          3.0   2,901.2    2,898.2         14.3    13,352.0      13,337.7
2020      -259.3    2,506.9    2,766.2     (1,098.9)     8,063.4    9,162.3       -716.9   3,046.2    3,763.2      -2075.1     13,616.5     15,691.6
NPV        399.2    4,114.1    3,714.9      1,425.0    10,254.5    8,829.6         880.4   4,214.6    3,334.2      2704.6    18,583.2      15,878.7
B/C RATIO                               10.3                                 7.2                               4.8                                    6.9
EIRR                             43.6%                               30.6%                              28.8%                                 32.5%
FYRR                             30.7%                                 8.6%                              19.1%                                 18.4%
NOTES: Costs are for construction (1994-2000), routine maintenance, toll operations, pavement remedial work (Year 5)
periodic maintenance (Year 15). Construction salvage value at 50% of original cost (2020).
Additional annual routine maintenance (_ Y50,000 per km, remedial works and periodic maintenance @ 1.5%, and
2.1% respectively of original construction cost Annual toll operation cost @ 60,000 Yuan/km.
Benefits are due to diverted highway trafric, and newly generated trarnc, and time savings.



Table 4.10: SHANGHAI-HANGZHOU EXPRESSWAY: ECONOMIC EVALUATION WITH TOLLING AND ROAD SAFETY
IROVEMEwNS - LOW GROWTH AND LOW DIvERsION SCENARIO
(Y million)
PENGBU-YUHANG (18 K           YUHANG-FENGJING (85 KM)           FENGJING-SONGJIANG (27 KW)                 TOTAL (130 KMV)
Cost  Benefit et Benefit         Cost  Benefit Net Benefit         Cost  Benefit et Benefit         Cost  Benefit   Net Benefit
1994       163.5      0.0   -163.5          258.4      0.0      -258.4          15.0      0.0     -15.0         436.9      0.0       -436.9
1995       119.5      0.0   -119.5          278.0      0.0      -278.0         237.8      0.0   -237.8          635.3      0.0       -635.3
1996        69.7      0.0    -69.7          321.7      0.0      -321.7         225.1      0.0   -225.1          616.4      0.0       -616.4
1997       169.9      0.0   -169.9           362.3      0.0     -362.3         269.1      0.0   -269.1          801.3      0.0       -801.3
1998         0.9    82.1      81.2           405.0      0.0     -405.0         292.8      0.0    -292.8         698.7     82.1       -6.16.6
1999         0.9   112.3    111.4            403.5     0.0      -403.5         282.3      0.0    -282.3         686.7    112.3       -574.3
2000         2.0   153.9    151.9            192.9      0.0     -192.9         116.6      0.0    -116.6         311.4    153.9       -157.6
2001         2.0   174.8    172.8              9.4     71.2       61.9           3.0   144.4      141.5          14.3    390.5        376.2
2002         9.8   198.6    188.8              9.4    123.2       113.8          3.0   223.8    220.8            22.1    545.5        523.4
2003         2.0   225.6    223.7              9.4    159.9      150.6           3.0   260.1      257.2          14.3    645.7        631.4
2004         2.0   256.4    254.4              9.4    207.9      198.6           3.0   302.6    299.7            14.3    767.0        752.7
2005         2.0   291.4    289.4             42.6   270.8       228.2          24.5   352.3    327.8            69.1    914.5        845.3
2006         2.0   320.0    318.0              9.4   379.7       370.4           3.0   395.0    392.1            14.3   1094.8       1080.5
2007         2.0   351.5    349.5              9.4    533.1      523.7           3.0   443.1      440.2          14.3   1327.7       1313.4
2008         2.0   386.2    384.2              9.4   749.1       739.7           3.0   497.3    494.3            14.3   1632.6       1618.3
2009         2.0   424.4    422.5              9.4   1053.8      1044.5          3.0   558.3    555.3            14.3   2036.5       2022.2
2010         2.0   466.6    464.6              9.4   1484.3      1474.9          3.0   627.0      624.0          14.3   2577.9       2563.6
2011         2.0   479.2    477.2              9.4   1691.1      1681.7          3.0   669.9    667.0            14.3   2840.2       2825.9
2012        13.0   492.3    479.3              9.4   1927.3     1917.9           3.0   716.1      713.1          25.3   3135.6       3110.4
2013         2.0   505.8    503.8              9.4  2197.1      2187.7           3.0   765.8      762.8          14.3   3468.6       3454.3
2014         2.0   519.7    517.8              9.4  2505.4      2496.1           3.0   819.3      816.3          14.3   3844.5       3830.2
2015         2.0   534.2    532.2             55.9   2858.0     2802.1          33.1   877.0    843.8            91.0   4269.2       4178.1
2016         2.0   548.4    546.4              9.4   3000.9     2991.6           3.0   920.8    917.8            14.3   4470.1       4455.8
2017         2.0   563.1    561.1              9.4   3151.0     3141.6           3.0   966.8    963.9            14.3   4680.9       4666.6
2018         2.0   578.2    576.2              9.4  3308.5      3299.2           3.0  1015.2    1012.2           14.3   4901.9       4887.6
2019         2.0   593.8    591.8              9.4  3308.5      3299.2           3.0  1066.0   1063.0            14.3   4968.2       4953.9
2020      -259.3   609.9    869.2          -1098.9   3308.5     4407.4        -716.9  1119.2   1836.2         -2075.1   5037.6       7112.8
NPV        399.2  1325.0    925.8           1425.0  3067.1      1642.1         880.4  1552.4    672.0          2704.6   5944.5       3239.9
B/C RATIO                            3.3                                 2.2                             1.8                                  2.2
EIRR                         25.3%                                17.6%                          17.12%                              18.64%
FYRR                          11.7%                                2.0%                            6.5%                                 5.8%
NOTES: Cost are for construction (1994-2000), routine maintenance, toll operations, pavement remedial work (Year 5), periodic maintenance (year 15), construction
salvage value ( 50/. of original cost (2020);Additional annual routine maintenance @ Y50,000 per km, remedial works and periodic maintenance @ 1.5%,
and 2. 1% respectively of original construction costs. Annual toll operation costs are Y 60,000/km. For traMc growth assumptions see para 4. 17.
Benefit are due to diverted traMc, consequent savings in vehicle operating coats, and time savings, and newly generated traMc..



Table 4.11: SHANGHAI-HANGZHOU ExPRESSWAY: SENSITnvrrY ANALYSIS
(with Road Safety Program improvements and tolling)
Base Case              Cost Overrun (3)        Benefit Reduction (4)     Cost Overrun and
Bencfit Reduction (5)
EIRR       NPV            EIRR       NPV            EIRR       NPV            EIRR         NPV
(percent)  (Y billion)   (vercent)  (Y billion)     (percent)  (Y billion)    (percent)   (Y billion)
Expressway
(without Road Safety Program)   32.8%        16.19        27.6%        14.92        19.6%         3.88         16.1%          2.62
Expressway(2)
(with Road Safety Program)      32.5%        15.88        27.2%        14.53        18.5%         3.17         14.9%          1.82
Notes: (1) All scenarios assume that the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway is operated as toll road.
(2) The rates of return relate only to the Expressway investment. Sensitivity results vary based on whether or not the Road Safety Program is
implemented on National Route 320, a parallel highway in the corridor.
(3) Cost overrun of 50%.
(4) Benefit reduction triggered by traffic growth reduction, generated traffic reduction each by 50%.
(5) Reflects scenarios (1) and (2) occurring simultaneously.



Table 4.12: RoAD SAFET PROGRAM: ECONOMIC EVAWATON
(Y million)
Capital         VOC           Time       Acddent         Total
Codt (2)        Savings      Savings       Savings      Benefits    Net Benefit
1994             31.6             0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0          -31.6
1995              7.2             0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0          -7.2
1996             79.1             0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0         -79.1
1997             61.9             0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0         -61.9
1998              0.0            129.2         18.4         32.4         179.9         179.9
1999              0.0            197.9         31.2         38.6         267.7         267.7
2000              0.0            33.3           3.7          34.0         71.0          71.0
2001              0.0            42.0           5.0         39.2          86.2          86.2
2002              0.0            52.9           6.8          45.3        105.0         105.0
2003              0.0             66.7          9.1          52.4        128.2         128.2
2004              0.0            84.1          12.4          60.5        156.9         156.9
2005              0.0            106.0         16.8          69.9        192.6         192.6
2006              0.0            132.7         21.5          77.6        231.8         231.8
2007              0.0            166.2         27.5          86.3        280.0         280.0
2008              0.0            208.2         35.3          95.8        339.3         339.3
2009              0.0           260.8          45.2         106.5        412.5         412.5
2010              0.0            326.7         57.9         118.3        502.8         502.8
2011              0.0            354.8         62.1         124.2        541.1         541.1
2012              0.0            385.3         66.6         130.5        582.3         582.3
2013              0.0            418.4         71.4         137.0        626.8         626.8
2014              0.0            454.4         76.6         143.8        674.9         674.9
2015              0.0            493.5         82.2         151.0        726.7         726.7
2016              0.0            518.2         86.3         158.6        763.1         763.1
2017              0.0            544.1         90.6         166.5        801.2         801.2
2018             -89.9           571.3         95.1         174.8        841.3         931.2
NPV          124.3           814.9         131.0        329.5       1,275.3        1,151.0
B/C RATIO                                                                                  10.3
EIRR                                                                                54.4%
FYRR                                                                                78.8%
(1) Annual traffic growth approx: Standard = 21% to 1995, 14% to 2000, 10% thereafter.
(2) Construction salvage value at 50% of original construction cost (2018).



- 109 -
TABLE 4.13: RoAD SAFhFY PROGRAM: SENSIIVIVTY ANALYSIS
Scenario                               EIRR             NPV
(in per cent)  (in million Yuan)
Base Case                                 54.4            1,151.0
Cost increase scenario
Cost overrun of 50 %                      41.8            1,088.9
Benefit reduction
scenarios
Low traffic growth                        30.8             416.5
Low traffic growth plus
lower accident reduction
(40%)                                     28.4             359.6
Low traffic growth plus
lower accident reduction
(20%)                                     26.0             302.8
Scenario assuming both
cost increase and benefit
reduction
Cost overrun, low
growth, and 20%
accident reduction                        19.1             240.6



TABLE 4.14: OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION FOR SHANGHAI -ZEJANG HIGHWAY PROJECr
(Y MILLION)
Expressway (130 km)                    Road Safety Program                            TOTAL
Cost     Benefit    Net Benefit       Costs  Benefits    Net Benefit          Costs      Benefits    Net Benefits
1994        436.89       0.00      -436.89         31.56      0.00       -31.56            468.45         0.00       -468.45
199S       635.27        0.00      -635.27          7.24      0.00        -7.24            642.51        0.00        -642.51
1996       616.41        0.00      -616.41         79.13      0.00       -79.13            695.54         0.00       -695.54
1997        801.26       0.00      -801.26         61.87      0.00       -61.87            863.13         0.00       -863.13
1998       698.71      215.97      -482.74          0.00    179.91       179.91            698.71       395.88       -302.83
1999        686.66     315.28      -371.38          0.00    267.71       267.71            686.66       583.00       -103.66
2000        311.44     460.50       149.06          0.00     70.97        70.97            311.44       531.47        220.03
2001         14.30    1,249.44     1,235.14         0.00     86.22        86.22             14.30     1,335.65       1,321.35
2002         22.14    1,862.24     1,840.11         0.00    105.00       105.00             22.14     1,967.25       1,945.11
2003         14.30    2,374.79     2,360.49         0.00    128.21       128.21             14.30     2,503.00       2,488.70
2004         14.30    3,100.75     3,086.45         0.00    156.94       156.94             14.30     3,257.69       3,243.39
2005         69.10    4,150.24     4,081.13         0.00    192.61       192.61             69.10     4,342.84       4,273.74
2006         14.30    4,666.65     4,652.35         0.00    231.84       231.84             14.30     4,898.49       4,884.19
2007         14.30    5,251.00     5,236.70         0.00    280.02       280.02             14.30     5,531.02       5,516.72
2008         14.30    5,912.69     5,898.39         0.00    339.32       339.32             14.30     6,252.01       6,237.71
2009         14.30    6,662.45     6,648.15         0.00    412.45       412.45              14.30    7,074.91       7,060.61                  0
2010         14.30    7,512.58     7,498.28         0.00    502.84       502.84             14.30     8,015.42       8,001.12
2011         14.30    8,149.18     8,134.88         0.00    541.07       541.07              14.30    8,690.24       8,675.94
2012         25.27    8,842.30     8,817.03         0.00    582.32       582.32             25.27     9,424.62       9,399.35
2013         14.30    9,597.25     9,582.95         0.00    626.83       626.83             14.30    10,224.08      10,209.78
2014         14.30   10,419.83    10,405.53         0.00    674.87       674.87             14.30    11,094.70      11,080.40
2015         91.03   11,316.45    11,225.42         0.00    726.74       726.74             91.03    12,043.19      11,952.16
2016         14.30   11,882.27    11,867.97         0.00    763.07       763.07             14.30    12,645.34      12,631.04
2017         14.30   12,476.38    12,462.08         0.00    801.23       801.23             14.30    13,277.61      13,263.31
2018         14.30   13,100.20    13,085.90       -89.90    841.29       931.19             -75.60    13,941.49     14,017.09
2019         14.30   13,352.05    13,337.75                                                 14.30    13,352.05      13,337.75
2020     -2,075.12   13,616.48    15,691.60                                              -2,075.12    13,616.48     15,691.60
NPV           2,704.55   18,583.23   15,878.67        124.30   1,275.34    1,151.03          2,828.86    19,858.56     17,029.70
B/C RATIO                                 6.87                                10.26                                         7.02
EIRR                                   32.49%                              54.37%                                        33.41%
NOTES: Coats are for construction (1994-2000), routine maintenance, toll operations, pavement remedial work (Year 5)
periodic maintenance (Year 15). Construction salvage value at 50% of original cost (2020).
Additional annual routine maintenance (} Y50,000 per km, remedial works and periodic maintenance @ 1.5%, and
2.1% respectively of originsl construction coat Annual toll operation cost @ 60,000 Yuan/km.
Benefits are due to diverted highway tra&Mc, and newly generated traffic, Ume savings, and accident reduction.



-111-                     ANNEX 1
MANAGEMENT OF THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
IN SHANGHAI AND ZHEJIANG
A. HIGHWAY ADMINETRATION
1.     The Shanghai Highway Management Department (SHMD), under the leadership
of the Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau, is responsible for highway
planning, construction, maintenance and general administration of all highways in the
municipality. SHMD's activities include fund raising, planning and implementing new
construction projects. Routine administration activities include preparation of annual
construction and maintenance plans, completion of designs for new and upgraded roads,
review and approval of construction budgets, auditing of construction units, conduction of
supervision, monitoring, adoption and commissioning of all new construction projects, and
transferring of commissioned projects for operation and maintenance to relevant county (or
district) highway management bureaus.
2.      There are 21 administrative and technical sections functioning under the Highway
Management Division, with a total of 422 staff, including 266 engineering and technical
professionals. The SHMD has affiliated branches and in different localities and a highway
management office in each of ten counties. Seven organizations directly below SHMD
provide expertise in the areas of road and bridge engineering, municipal engineering,
management of specific expressways, toll collection, bridge prefabrication, and a technical
education.  In these subordinate organizations are 1,884 staff, including nearly 300
technicians. About 4,500 staff are working in SHMD's ten county (or district) highway
management departments, including 300 professional technicians (Chart 1).
3.      The Zhejiang Provincial Transport Department (ZPTD) controls all highway and
waterway transport undertakings in the Province. The ZPTD reports directly to the
Zhejiang Provincial People's Government (ZPG) and acts as an administrative arm of ZPG
for planning, budgeting and financing of transport in the Province. However, the ZPTD
conforms to the general transport policy and technical guidelines issued by MOC. The
Zhejiang Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (ZPHAB), under the administration
of ZPTD, has 190 headquarters staff and is responsible for construction and maintenance
of all roads in the Province. Both the ZPTD and the ZPHAB are supported by local
administrations the various municipalities, prefectures and counties of the Province.
Zhejiang's 11 municipalities and prefectures. Each of the 69 counties has responsibility
under the municipality and prefectures for the maintenance of the county roads. The 11
municipalities and prefectures and the 69 county units have a permanent staff of 8,895, of
which technical personnel comprise about 10 percent (Chart 2).



-112-                     ANNEX 1
4.     The Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Project Executive Commission (ZPEC) is
a department level institution, reporting directly to ZPG and responsible for the
organization, direction and coordination of the Shanghai-Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway
Project (including construction of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway under the Zhejiang
Provincial Highway Project). Staff currently number 300, including 120 in offices in the
cities along the Hangzhou-Ningbo section, and 100 along the Shanghai-Hangzhou section
(Chart 3).
B. STAFF TRAIING
5.     To meet the requirements of highway development in Shanghai Municipality and
Zhejiang Province, great importance is attached to staff training programs. The training
process involves stages of planning and monitoring to improve the quality, management,
and benefits of training. The major areas of training include training for technical staff
and management; adaptive professional training to deepen various standardization; and
emergency training to meet the requirements of absorbing and digesting imported
techniques, renewing equipment, and of new technology, new materials, and new
equipment. During 1992, SHMD organized more than 100 training classes, involving
about 1,400 trainees from a wide variety of departments. The content of training covered
contract management for engineering, planning, computerized budgeting, quality standards,
road administration, management, construction project management, computer skills, and
automated toll collection.
6.      Staff training is offered to highway sector employees in Zhejiang Province
through the Transport Cadre School under the administration of ZPTD, covering the areas
of highway management and technology. Polytechnic students are also trained in the
school. In addition to classroom training, staff may pursue vocational study, learning from
the experiences of other provinces and municipalities. Practical experience in construction
and management is afforded through highway units for college and polytechnic students.
C. HIGHWAY PLANNING, BUDGETING AND FINANCING
7.     Planning and budgeting for highway sector activities are carried out by the
relevant provincial agencies in Shanghai and Zhejiang (paras 1-4 above), with technical
guidance and approvals of major investments provided by central and provincial
government authorities. The MOC is the central agency coordinating construction of
national trunk highways, including examination and approval of preliminary design, and,
in some cases, including grants for investment (paras 1.16-1.17). Planning for the
Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway has involved MOC, State Planning Commission (SPC),
State Council at central government levels, and at provincial levels, a coordination team
with representatives from municipal government, and construction, foreign economic
relations and trade, finance, and engineering design agencies. For smaller scale highway
investment and maintenance works in Shanghai and Zhejiang, implementation responsibility
is often assigned to municipal, county, prefecture, or village level transport and highway



- 113-                    ANNEX I
agencies. As with major investment and recurring expenditures, a system of investment
planning, technical reviews and project approvals is used, but would typically be
coordinated at the provincial level.
8.     SHMD is the operational unit responsible for planning and budgeting highway
sector activities in Shanghai Municipality.  Each year, a yearly construction and
maintenance plan is formulated, early stage design of new reconstru;tion engineering is
undertaken, the budget is examined and approved, and qualificationi of contractors are
examined.  SHMD  supervises, inspects, and approves the quality of engineering
construction; after completion of works, authority is transferred to counties or districts for
maintenance and management. ZPTD has overall responsibility for planning investments
in and maintaining the Zhejiang provincial highway network. ZPTD prepares the five-year
road development plan and semi-annual budgets using inputs from lower level
administrative groups and incorporating national or provincial development policy
guidelines and objectives for the plan period.
9.      China's highway sector agencies have traditionally followed a balanced budget
policy, where proposed highway investment and recurring expenditures are balanced
against the revenue earmarked for highway development and available road user charges.
This pattern was followed in Shanghai Municipality and Zhejiang Province until the late
1980's: since then, the matching of revenues and expenditures has not been possible.
Shanghai has adopted measures to expand and diversify funding, including borrowing,
trying to attract investment from other sectors, and rationalization of the environment for
private investment. In Zhejiang, a special fund is now maintained for the construction of
high grade highways. The fund is capitalized by contributions from MOC and allocations
of earmarked and surplus road user charges.
10.    As elsewhere in China, the main source of funds for road construction and
maintenance in Shanghai and Zhejiang is the road maintenance fee (RMF). These funds
are collected by highway units at different levels and managed by the provincial highway
agency.  The revenues from  road maintenance fees are distributed as follows:
(a) 15 percent is remitted to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) as the Energy and Transport
Fund; (b) 10 percent is transferred to the State Budget Adjustment Fund; (c) 3 percent is
remitted to the traffic police (Public Security Bureau); and (d) 72 percent is retained by
provincial highway authorities.
11.    The current standards for RMF in Shanghai are based on use and weight of
vehicles. The RMF rate is 15 percent of annual revenue for vehicles of state-owned
transportation companies, 8.5 percent of income for vehicles of taxi or tourist companies,
and 5 percent of income for mass transit vehicles. Vehicles of the communist party and
government organizations, public agencies, and schools are exempted from certain RMF
fees: there is no RMF collected for cars and jeeps, and a 50 percent reduction for other
vehicles. The remaining vehicles in Shanghai pay Y 140 per month per ton capacity as
RMF. RMF rates in Zhejiang vary according to the type and size of vehicles, as follows:



-114-                     ANNEX 1
15 percent of gross revenue for state transport companies; Y 120 per month per payload
ton or Y 120 per month per 10 passenger seats of vehicles owned by collective and private
transport companies; and Y 70 per month for passenger cars.
12.    The highway department revenues and expenditures in both Shanghai and
Zhejiang show a trend of rapidly increasing expenditures for construction and highway
reconstruction since the mid-80s. By 1993, these categories comprised 90 percent and 79
percent of expenditures in Shanghai and Zhejiang, respectively. In Shanghai Municipality,
total revenues and expenditures for the highway sector grew by 29 percent and 37 percent
per year respectively between 1985 and 1993. Municipal government contributions have
been the fastest-growing category of revenues, and RMF revenues have grown at 21
percent per year. The fastest growing categories of expenditure were new construction and
reconstruction at 51 percent per year, followed by periodic maintenance and
Expressway/Class I highway construction, both at 30 percent per year. In Zhejiang
Province, total revenues and expenditures for the highway sector grew by 25 percent and
24 percent per year between 1985 and 1993. The fastest growing category of revenues
was the fund for high-class highways (para 2.33), at 50 percent per year. The fastest
growing categories of expenditure were expressway construction at 67 percent per year,
and overhead and administration at 30 percent per year (Attachments 1 and 2).
13.    Other sources of highway sector funding in Shanghai and Zhejiang include vehicle
purchase fees, central and provincial government grants, loans raised from domestic and
international banks, tolls, surcharges on passenger and freight transport (Zhejiang only),
and funds raised from local enterprises (Shanghai only).
14.    Tolls are an increasingly important revenue source for the Shanghai road
authorities. In 1993 alone, about $15 million was raised through tolling. At present, all
tolls are charged on a fixed rate basis (i.e., not dependent on distance travelled). A system
of tolling has been introduced on two urban expressways, the Shanghai-Jiading and
Xinzhuang-Songjiang Expressways. Toll standards are based on loading capacity, as
follows: vehicles of 2 tons or less, 5 yuan; vehicles over 2 tons and up to 5 tons, 10
yuan; vehicles over 5 tons and up to 10 tons, 20 yuan; and for vehicles over 10 tons, 20
yuan for every 10 tons capacity. Toll revenues are used for maintenance, loan repayment,
administration of toll operations and, as available, for new construction.
15.    Since March 1993, tolls have also been levied on all vehicles entering Shanghai,
through collection points on the ten major roads providing access to the Municipality. The
toll standard is based on capacity, as follows: for two- or three-wheel motorcycles, 5
yuan; vehicles up to 2 tons, 10 yuan; vehicles from 2 tons to tons, 30 yuan; from 5 tons
to 10 tons, 70 yuan; and for more than 10 tons, the 10-ton toll plus 30 yuan for each
additional 10 tons. Vehicles registered in Shanghai pay these tolls in conjunction with the
RMF, at a rate of 49 yuan per ton per month (or a 25 percent surcharge on the RMF) and
therefore are not stopped at the Shanghai border to pay tolls. While an effective fund-



-115 -                     ANNEX 1
raising mechanism, the collection of tolls at the border creates congestion and obstacles to
interprovincial traffic movement.
16.    There are no major tolled highways or expressways in operation in Zhejiang.
However, tolls are collected for certain bridges and tunnels. Revenues collected are used
to cover the cost of toll management operations and repayment of bank loans. Surplus
revenue is used for construction and reconstruction of local highw ys. Toll rates are
established according to the financing characteristics of the project aid approved by the
provincial government.
D. HIGHWAY ENGINEERING, CONSTRUCTION AND MAINENANCE
17.    The design of highway projects in Shanghai and Zhejiang is entrusted to
municipal and provincial design institutes. The relevant institutes for highway and bridge
design are Shanghai Municipal Engineering Design Institute (SMEDI) and Shanghai
Municipal Construction Design Institute (SMCDI). SMEDI is a special design unit for
municipal engineering and public engineering, qualified to undertake the design of
plumbing work, gas heating, road, bridges, tunnel, flood control works, and environmental
protection engineering for first class cities and the survey and geological examination for
first class engineering. SMEDI has staff of more than 900, including 650 professional
technicians, in which 170 are senior technicians. SMCDI has staff of 322, including 257
professional technicians and senior staff. For less complicated projects, universities and
other institutes (such as the design institutes of Tongji University, Design Institute of
Shanghai Municipal Construction Institute, and Shanghai Municipal Engineering Research
Institute) are retained. Design of the Shanghai expressway section under the proposed
project has been entrusted to SMEDI, which also completed design of the adjacent
Xinzhuang-Songjiang section of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway.
18.    The construction of road projects is usually arranged by provincial highway
authorities in Shanghai and Zhejiang under administrative planning, mobilizing different
direct-reporting units and highway bureaus to carry out construction works. For key
construction projects, engineering bureaus at municipal level take direct responsibility, but
this responsibility may be devolved for smaller-scale works. It is becoming more common
to award civil works contracts through competitive bidding and to hold contractors
responsible for the timely completion of the project, quality, price, and safety. However,
implementation experience suggests that the provincial highway agencies would benefit
from more specific knowledge of and practical experience in managing the construction
under contracts.
19.    Road and bridge projects in Zhejiang Province are engineered by the planning and
design institutes at provincial, prefecture, and county levels. The Zhejiang Provincial
Transport Design Institute (ZPTDI) is responsible for designing all major road, bridge, and
tunnel projects, with total staff of 370 including 158 professional engineers.



- 116-                    ANNEX I
20.    After the completion of construction and inspection, the responsibility for roads
is transferred to county (district) highway management bureaus for routine maintenance.
Maintenance is carried out through mostly labor intensive means: however, in recent
years, the level of mechanization of road maintenance, facilitated by the import of
specialized equipment, has reduced labor intensity. There are currently 2,760 maintenance
staff and engineers working for the SHMD including 2,491 in maintenance, 182 in
gardening, and 87 in administration.
21.    Roads are examined by provincial and lower-level highway bureaus on a regular
basis to ensure that MOC's Highway Maintenance Standards are being met.  Among
MOC's rating criteria (fine, good, poor, bad), the percent of total mileage in "fine' and
"good" categories is monitored. Maintenance operations are divided between routine
maintenance and periodic (heavy) maintenance. Periodic maintenance is performed
according to criteria of pavement structure, traffic volume and road importance, and based
on actual damaged of pavement. In Zhejiang Province, for example, periodic maintenance
is carried out every seven to eight years or when daily traffic volume exceeds 5,000 to
7,000 vph/d on bituminous surfaces. The average annual cost of routine maintenance for
all roads in Shanghai was 14,900 yuan per km in 1993. The average cost of maintenance
for county and village roads in Zhejiang in 1993 ranged from 800 to Y 1,200 per km. The
average cost of maintenance for national roads in Zhejiang in 1993 was Y 14,300 per km.



-117-                            ANNEX I
SHANGHAI: HIGHWAY REVENuES AND ExPENDrIURES, 1985-93
(Y million)
Compound
annual
1985  1986  1987 1988  1989  1990 1991   1 1992   1993  growth
Revenues
Road maintenance fee         200.9  241.2  366.2 381.7 428.1  484.9 649.7   760.9  930.6  21%
Fees collected from
local enterprises               -     -      -    -  15.9  15.8  13.5   275.3   30.0  17%
MOC contribution                 -     -      -    -  20.0  14.0  22.6    95.8   33.4  14%
Vehicle purchase fee             -     -  (2.8)  0.9  26.7  15.5  20.7    15.2   52.8         -
Municipal government
contribution                   -      -      -  0.7   0.3      -    -   100.0  369.5  270%
Toll revenue                     -     -      -    -      -      -    -        -   122.0      -
Total Revenues            200.9 241.2  363.5 332  491.0 S302  10.  1247.2 1538.3   2
Expenditures
New construction and
reconstruction               51.1  73.0  166.8 212.2  336.1 355.3 466.2   713.0  1,358.6  51%
Routine maintenance           21.3  20.0  17.2  53.5  79.5  68.0 108.4   629.4   55.9  13%
Periodic maintenance           9.8  10.9  15.7  21.0  17.6  21.2  26.7    60.1    80.1  30%
Subsidy for county and
village roads                10.4  15.0  20.1  20.6  20.2  7.2  19.8    57.0    35.5   17%
Expressway and Class I
highway construction         66.0  63.0  56.9 108.0  91.0  50.0  33.0   155.0  545.0  30%
Administration and other     19.91  19.18 51.07  28.7 27.12 34.42 40.38   64.69   107.9  24%
Total Exxpenditures       178 5 201.1  327.7 444.0 571. 5    . 694.4  1679.2 2.183.0   2
Surplus/(deficit) /a          22.4  40.1  35.8 (60.8) (80.5)  (5.8)  12.0  (432.0) (644.7)
/a   Deficits are met through short-tcrm borrowing from the Shanghai Bank of Construction and other financial
institutions. Surplus funds arc also managed through (deposits in) banks.
Source:  Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau.



- 118 -                           ANNEX  I
ZHEJANG: HIGHWAY REVENuES AND EXPENDiTuRES, 1985-93
(Y million)
Compound
annual
1985  1986  1987 1988  1989  1990  1991    1992    1993 growth/"
Revenues
Road maintenance fee         223.5  276.8  342.5 381.6  430.0 470.6 597.7   677.9  916.0   19%
Provincial subsidy             7.9  20.9  21.2  7.0   4.6   8.0  4.0          2.0       -  -18%
MOC subsidy                      -  47.0  39.0  58.5  62.5  42.0  69.1    55.6   145.0   17%
Fund for high-class
highways                        -     -      - 39.5  242.2  237.2 247.6   282.4  299.0   50%
Total Revenues            231.4 344.7  402.7 486.6  739.3  757.8 918.4  1.017.9 1.360.0   25%
Expenditures
Expressway construction          -      -      -    -  44.5  36.7  97.2    81.2  343.0   67%
Other construction and
upgrading                   173.7  243.9  327.3 317.7 377.2  216.2 291.7   375.9  697.9   19%
Routine maintenance           25.6  33.4  38.0  48.0  52.1  53.6  51.9   134.3   117.3  21%
Periodic maintenance          22.4  32.1  41.6  52.7  45.6  45.0  54.7    68.3    78.2   17%
Overhead and other             9.6   9.8  11.5  16.6  37.0  15.5  35.9    31.0    78.0   30%
Total Expenditures        231.3  319.2  418.4 435.0  556.4  367.0 531.4   690.7 1.314.4  24%
Surplus/(deficit) /b           0.1  25.5 (15.7) 51.6  182.9  390.8 387.0   327.2   45.6
/a   Growth rate for the 1985-93 period or for shorter periods, as appropriate.
/b   Surpluses and deficits (including short-term borrowing, as needed) are reflected in the fund for high-class
highways, managed by the Provincial Finance Bureau.
Sources:   Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Project Executive Comnmission and Zhejiang Provincial Highway
Administration Bureau.



Chart 1: ORGANIZATION OF THE SHANGHA HIGHWAY MANAGEMET DEPARTMENT
Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau (SMEAB)
Shanghai Highway Management DepartmIt
Expressway Managemient Deprtments
ShagShanghai              - gzhou         X
Joading        Expressway (Huhang)   Songjifag
Expressway      Engineerinig Con-        Expressway
Management      struction Execu-         Management
Department       tive Commission         Department
Administration 
Orie          MLhnicipal          To"                                                               Brfdg               Highway
Engineering   Engineering    Collection                                                          Prefabricating          Technical
Team           Team            Station                                                             Factory              Schoot
County and District
Highway ManaIement Departments
Baoshan        Shanghai        Chuansha                     Fengx an        Songj iang      [nshan|          ngpu       Jiading      [chong
Districtl      |                                                     County ount  County      oun            oun          oun           oun



Chart 2: KEY ORGANIZATIONS IN THE ZHEIANG TRANSPORT SECTOR
ZhejLang Provincial
People's Government
ZhejLang Provincial.]
Transport Department
Shipping                 Highway                Transport              Transport                                      Transport
Administration         Administration               Design                 Research                Transport                Cadre
Buteau                  Bureau                  Institute              Institute                 School                  School
Genera      Panning                  Audting    Mechanical & Materials    T1rasportation    Engineering Manag                 Supervisioni
Office  Section    Section    Section       Section                 Section                Section                Section
Source: ZPTD.



Chart 3: ORGANIZATION OF THE SHANGHAI-HANGzUOu-NINGBO
EXPRESSWAY ADMINSTRATTON IN ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
Zhejiang Provincial
People's Government
I
Zhejiaug Provincial Shanghai-
Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway
Project Steering Committee
(A Temporary Body)
I
Zhejiang Provincial Shanghai-
Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway -Branch Offices (220)-
Project Executive Commission
] anOffice_
80 (Employer's Staff)                                  (94)
eration                       neer-  Land Acqui-   Planning  Office   Super-                   Hangzho        oxin         o  Yung  Jiaxing
Management  Control         ing &    sition & Re-         &       of Di-   vision
Haaement  settlement    Finance   rectors
(12) ()(13)  (10)          (16)        (27)     (14)                (40)       (40)       (40)     (20)     (80)
Source: ZPEC.



- 122 -                       ANNEX 2
ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
A. INTRODUCTION
1.          The proposed Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project has as one of its main
objectives the improvement of road safety in the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor. This Annex
provides background information on road safety in China, provides a more in-depth review
of road safety in Jiaxing Municipality and then details the pilot Road Safety Program (RSP)
included in the proposed project.
2.          The People's Republic of China has included in its series of five-year plans
at national and local levels an ambitious program for development of the road network.
During the past four decades, over 1.02 million kilometers of highways have been
constructed and consequently vehicle numbers have also increased substantially during this
period. China imported its first motor vehicle in 1901; by 1949, registrations were
approximately 50,000. By 1978, registrations had grown to 1.36 million, and by the end
of 1993, close to 8.8 million. Vehicle traffic growth rates of up to 30 percent per annum
are recorded on some roads in the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor; nationally, the average
growth rate in registered motor vehicles is now around 20 percent per annum. Road traffic
accidents have, of course, followed the broad upward trend in growth of traffic, resulting
in an ever-increasing toll on human life and damage to property. Road safety is now
becoming recognized as a serious problem (paras 1.15-1.16).
3.          Road safety in Jiaxing Municipality follows a similar pattern to that which
exists in other southern provinces of China. This municipality, chosen for the RSP pilot
program, represents a single administrative area within Zhejiang Province that contains
major portions of the proposed Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway as well as National Route
(NR) 320, one of the principal highway routes between Shanghai and Hangzhou.
4.          The object of the RSP is to reduce, and eventually to reverse, the current
trend in the growth of accidents in the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor. Clearly this will not
be possible within the short duration of the RSP. For this reason the program contains
elements of technical assistance, training and institution building to support the engineering
proposals, so that an improvement in general road safety procedures and institutional
capability will result, increasing the likelihood of sustainable road safety activity in the
longer term.
B. RoAD SAFETY IN CHNA
5.          Although vehicle ownership levels in China are still very low, the motorized
fleet has sustained very high rates of growth in recent years. If the current growth rates



- 123 -                         ANNEX 2
(at or above 20 percent per year in some areas) continue, the year 2000 will see a
quadrupling of existing traffic levels. While China's transport network has also been
developing rapidly, the density of the network remains comparatively low. The annual
increases in road network length have only been around 6 percent to 7 percent, clearly
failing to keep pace with the growing traffic demand.
6.           Although road safety is already a major problem in China, the complex
nature of the problem is only beginning to be addressed; detailed information on road
accidents at a national level is not readily available. It is therefore not possible to make
reliable national comparisons of accident characteristics.   Nevertheless, based on
information obtained from some areas of China, it can be estimated that national road
accident fatality rates are (in relation to number of motor vehicles) as much as 30 times
those experienced in the industrialized world. While a high rate would be expected in a
country at early stages of motorization, the level, and the fact that current accident rates
suggest an ever-increasing number of accidents, point to the seriousness of the issue and
the continual, expanding drain on resources.
7.           An earlier World Bank study with the Chinese Institute of Highwaysl/
indicated that road accidents accounted for around 40 percent of all accidental deaths in
the Sichuan area. Since traffic levels in China have at least doubled since that time, it is
likely that this proportion could have increased. Even if it has remained static this
represents a huge loss in manpower to the economy of China. It has been estimated 2/
that road accidents cost developing countries at least 1 percent of their Gross Domestic
Product, a cost which such countries can ill afford. Evidence from the above-mentioned
study indicates that China is experiencing a similar magnitude of losses due to road
accidents.
8.           Some road safety work is carried out at a national level in China, and the
multi-disciplinary nature of the problem is recognized. For instance, there is a system of
road safety education built in to the school curriculum and compulsory driver education
has been introduced as part of the driver licensing procedure. There is also evidence of
attempts at standardization to ensure safer road designs, for example, through the
formulation of national standards for the design of highways. These documents provide
specifications for many safety aspects of highway design including sight distances, merging
lanes and minimum radii. The Road Traffic Signs and Markings manual contains details
of traffic signs, road markings and sets out how various types of junctions should be laid
out. Unfortunately, many of these standards were developed when traffic levels were low;
some are no longer relevant and require revision.
9.           Additional draft standards for the newly introduced expressways have been
drawn up more recently to deal with a number of issues, such as grade separated
interchanges, not covered by the general design standards, but as many of those responsible
1/  China Road Safety Project (Sichuan Pilot Study), December 1987.
2/  Information Note, Road Safety in Developing Countries, Overseas Unit, Transport and Road Research
Laboratory. Dr. G.D. Jacobs et al. 1987.



- 124 -                       ANNEX 2
for road safety and highway design in China cannot themselves drive, their ability to
recognize safety-related design problems is diminished. The result is that Chinese design
standards are not always appropriate, or appropriately applied. The revision of these
standards should be a longer term goal.
C. TH  ExsTNG ROAD SAFETY SITUATION IN JIANG
10.         The Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor is situated on the southeastern coastal
fringe of China to the south of the Yangtze river and southwest of Shanghai. The corridor
is very flat and is protected from the sea by a dike running the whole length of the
coastline. This coastal area includes Provincial Route 01. The region dominated by
Shanghai, extends between Shanghai and Hangzhou in a mainly agriculture-intensive area.
In comparison to much of the rest of China, the area is densely developed and, as a
consequence, has a higher density of roads. As a result, the area exhibits a particularly
high level of traffic growth; some roads have annual rates of increase in traffic volume of
around 30 percent, and average overall exceeded 20 percent during the past five years.
11.         The Zhejiang section of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway is contained
within three municipalities with only small sections in two of the municipalities. The
corridor runs the entire width of Jiaxing Municipality; for this reason, Jiaxing has been
chosen as the location for the proposed RSP.
12.         Information on the existing road safety situation has been obtained from
discussions with the Traffic Policy section of the Public Security Bureau. It is apparent
that current accident levels are of concern to the authorities. In Jiaxing 1,638 people have
been killed and over 22,000 accidents have occurred on the roads in the 10-year period
from 1983 to 1992. The numbers being killed and injured annually has increased steadily
in recent years: deaths have increased nearly 400 percent since 1985 while the number of
persons injured has increased by 250 percent. In 1992 alone, 288 persons were killed and
474 persons were crippled or injured in the 2,727 road accidents reported to the police.
Increasing numbers of accidents lead to more and more manpower requirements for the
police. Recording accidents and the processing of the prosecutions which ensue is an ever
increasing task.
13.         At the same time, road accidents are often under-reported to the police.
Despite this, the reported road accident growth rate in Jiaxing Municipality is currently
running at about 3 percent to 5 percent per annum. This situation will exist for many
years, even if the authorities are able to allocate sufficient resources to ensure a turn-
around in the accident rate. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, there will be a
requirement for the municipal authorities to devote extra resources to the Traffic Police,
emergency services, medical services including hospitals and engineering repair services.
The table below indicates how accidents have increased in the municipality over recent
years.
14.         In order to appreciate the true scale of the accident problem in a country it
is common practice to relate traffic accidents to demographic or other data, and to compare
such relationships between countries. The most meaningful statistic for international



- 125 -                         ANNEX 2
REPORTED AccIDENTs IN JIAxiNG MUNICIPALxTY
Accident                                 Year /a
Type       83   84    85    86    87    88        89      90     91      92
Fatal           71   63      74   67    134   181    173    221    274   268
Serious        151   144    186  174  2351   281    289    324    368   357
injury
Slight injury  387  517    742  493  2,049  2,132   22,42   1,593   2,065  2,102
& property
damage
Total          609   724  1,002  734  2,418  2,594   2,704  2,138   2,707  2,727
/a  From 1987, data on both rural and urban accidents were included. Prior to 1987, only rural accidents
were reported because different agencies were responsible for collecting data in rural and urban areas.
Source: Jiaxing Municipality Traffic Police records.
comparison is the "accident rate" (in units of accidents of deaths per million vehicle
kilometers). At this time, however, adequate information on vehicle usage is not available
to be able to calculate this rate for the whole of Jiaxing. Information is, however,
available for the NR 320 where the accident rate is nearly 2.7 per million vehicle-km.
Compared to a similar standard of road in the most developed countries this rate is four
to six times higher. While China's unique situation as a country in the early stages of
motorization as China is noted (para 2), the seriousness of the road safety problem should
not be dismissed.
15.          Cost of Road Accidents to the Jiaxing Economy. Apart from the human
losses incurred, road accidents can also be shown to be a very serious drain upon the
economy of Jiaxing. International research indicates that annual losses from road accidents
(when all related costs such as medical treatment, lost production, property damage, police
and court costs are taken into account) typically amount to 1-2 percent of Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) of a country. In China, Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
(GOVAI) can be used as a proxy for GDP. The equivalent losses resulting from road
accidents in Jiaxing in 1992 would have been around 1-2 percent of GOVAI. This gives
an annual loss from road accidents in Jiaxing alone of between US$28 and US$56 million.
Specific research undertaken to establish typical accident costs in China, as part of an
earlier study in 1987 (para 7) indicate that the absolute minimum cost of road accidents in
Jiaxing in 1987 was likely to have been nearly US$7 million per year. The studies showed
that the true costs were probably much higher than this figure. If these values are updated
at 10 percent per annum, the minimum total cost of accidents in 1992 would have been
around $20 million. Recurring annual losses of even $20 million/year are clearly a serious
drain on the provincial economy and, unless remedial action is taken, losses will continue
to increase.
16.          This magnitude of losses is likely to accelerate in future years if appropriate
action is not taken soon. The present motorized vehicle traffic is growing at rates as high
as 30 percent per annum on some roads in the Province. The present traffic levels are



- 126 -                       ANNEX 2
already causing serious congestion in towns and road safety problems on parts of the
existing road network; further increases in traffic will certainly worsen the situation and
increase the numbers of accidents and casualties. This is corroborated by the annual
accident rates which are currently increasing by 3 to 5 percent per annum. This rate
represents a doubling of accident numbers in about 14 years, which would impose large
public costs in terms of policing, medical facilities and other related remedial services.
17.         Many different factors contribute to Jiaxing's high rate of accidents: the
most effective way to make significant improvements is to develop a comprehensive road
safety improvement plan for the Province involving improvements to those areas which
most affect road safety. Such a plan should include vehicle roadworthiness testing, driver
training/testing, publicity/education, emergency medical services, traffic law enforcement,
legislation, road safety research, accident blackspot improvements, and traffic/highway
design standards. As a first step towards that provincial plan, under the project efforts
would be concentrated in those areas most closely related to highway construction and
which are likely to lead to large initial benefits in terms of accident reduction. This takes
the form of safety-conscious designs for jurisdictions and the links between them.
18.         While the Zhejiang Provincial Communications Department (ZPCD) cannot
resolve the road safety problem independently, it can undertake actions within the areas
under its direct control. At the same time, improving liaison and cooperation between key
agencies such as the Zhejiang Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (ZPHAB) and
Zhejiang Public Security Bureau at the provincial levels, and including the Jiaxing
Highway Administration Bureau (JHAB) and Jiaxing Traffic Police at local levels are also
essential, primarily in order to identify specific locations, for example, on the Jiaxing road
network where accidents repeatedly occur (i.e., accident blackspots). ZPCD can then
design appropriate engineering improvements which can be implemented in future years,
to reduce accident occurrence at such locations.
D. CURRENT ROAD SAFETY AcrvmEs
19.         A program of action aimed at accident reduction to be successful, needs to
address three main areas. These are:
(a)   Education;
(b)   Enforcement; and
(c)   Engineering.
A successful outcome for the program depends on a certain minimum level of action taking
place on each of these agendas. The three are loosely interlinked and whilst action in any
one area will produce results, efforts directed at the appropriate sections in all three areas
will yield additional benefits.
20.         Maximum reduction in accidents can only be achieved with a comprehensive
road safety effort encompassing all aspects of these three areas, ranging from interventions
such as school lessons to changes in Government policy. Clearly such a plan is beyond
the scope of this pilot project. However, it is important to ensure that the project



- 127 -                       ANNEX 2
proposals mesh with existing work so that the program maximizes the benefits which can
be gained by combining this program with ongoing efforts in the field of road safety.
21.         Education.  China has a comprehensive road safety education system
involving schools, drivers and the general public. Currently lessons on road safety form
part of the school curriculum, drivers attend compulsory training classes and there is
widespread publicity on road safety issues. All manner of media are used in this campaign
including television, newspapers, theater, radio, wall slogans and public notice boards.
A hard-hitting campaign using "shock" tactics is employed in all towns and cities where
notice boards contain photographs of actual accidents and the victims, explaining who was
at fault and what the consequences were. This is supported by a generalized road safety
slogan.
22.         Enforcement. While general observation of driver behavior is one good
way of identifying enforcement requirements, another is through the analysis of road
accidents. Currently accident data are stored in a computer system based on a classic
database-type program. This enables a limited amount of analysis work to be undertaken,
but only by interrogating the data base on specific locations or lengths of road. The
greatest drawback to this type of system is that the problem locations cannot be identified
from the data alone; a third party input is required to direct the initial search. Using this
system it is not easy to identify a problem requiring police enforcement without knowing
of its existence and searching for the appropriate data.
23.         Engineering. Similarly, unless an engineer is aware of, for example, a
turning problem at a particular type of junction, the existing data system will not identify
it unless the relevant data are searched. This is a weakness in the system and means that
scarce resources are not currently being directed to the problems most in need of attention
and resolution.
24.         All these point to a present weakness in the chain of events which must take
place in order to improve road safety. The proposed pilot road safety program described
below has been designed to reduce or eliminate present weaknesses in order to leave a
lasting improvement to the systems established to tackle road safety in the corridor.
E. OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVING ROAD SAFETY
25.         As outlined above a number of critical weaknesses were identified in road
safety activities during the various missions. The main ones are:
*     Accident analysis and identification of causes
*     Implementation of accident remedial measures
*     Change in attitude towards design philosophy
26.         In designing the pilot program, particular attention has been given to actions
which can be taken to improve road safety by supporting the work which is currently being
undertaken. These actions can be grouped into those which are related to accident



- 128 -                         ANNEX 2
prevention and those which are related to accident reduction. The sorts of activities which
need to be introduced under each of these areas is indicated below.
27.          Accident Prevention. While it is accepted that a certain level of road safety
is already implicit in existing design standards and practices, even greater emphasis is
needed on incorporating additional features/facilities which will enhance road safety
especially for the most vulnerable groups such as pedestrians and cyclists. This is
particularly important as increasing traffic levels will almost certainly bring increasing
accidents unless preventive action is taken.
28.          A vital element of any road safety program is therefore the provision of
technical assistance to make available the accumulation of experience gained in the more
motorized societies to those at the early stages of motorization.
29.          A more "safety conscious" approach to planning/designing road networks
is required so that newly built roads do not become unsafe in future years when traffic
levels increase. Standard layouts of signing, marking, etc. at commonly encountered
hazards needs to be developed so that drivers always encounter a consistent treatment when
they approach such features. This will aid driver recognition of potential hazards and
increase awareness, hopefully reducing errors.
30.          A road safety "audit" or checking, system could also be developed. This
would ensure that safety has been given adequate attention in the highway planning and
design process. Such safety audit systems are increasingly being introduced, even in the
industrialized countries, as they have been found to be a very effective way to avoid future
road safety problems. The UK, for example, requires all proposed road schemes to be
subjected to a road safety audit at three stages:
Stage 1      Completion of preliminary design (during feasibility stage)
Stage 2      Completion of detailed design
Stage 3      Completion of construction (prior to opening)
31.          While both the Provincial Communications Department and Highway
Administration Bureau have a major interest in road safety issues, enforcement is largely
a responsibility of the Traffic Police (a unit within the Public Security Bureau). As a
result, neither the Traffic Police nor the highway agencies are able to identify locations on
the network which would benefit from specific enforcement activity except by the fact that
accidents are occurring at such locations. This is basically due to the type of accident
recording system which is used. Although computer-based, it lacks the ability to provide
easy identification of accident clusters, either geographically or by type. The provision
of equipment which can do this will contribute to the objective of reducing accidents.
32.          Accident Reduction. Accident reduction is concerned with making the
existing highway network operate as safely as possible. It requires that those responsible
for introducing improvements make themselves aware of the locations of, and nature of the
accidents at, the worst accident blackspots on the network. Appropriate engineering
improvements can then be made to reduce the number of accidents. This requires either:



- 129 -                       ANNEX 2
regular and systematic collection of information on the most dangerous locations from
Traffic Police offices in each region; or, the introduction of a computerized accident
analysis system (such as MAAP, proposed under "Technical Assistance, Training, and
Equipment" below) so that accident data can be easily interrogated to produce detailed
analyses of data at accident blackspots for each region.
33.         Speed is often a major contributory factor in accidents, yet there are at
present no portable speed measuring devices available from the engineering staff to assess
current actual speeds at accident locations.
34.         Despite the problems of lack of equipment and lack of awareness of modem
analysis techniques, some work aimed at accident reduction does take place in Jiaxing and
some accident remedial measure work is undertaken. Observation and discussions suggest
that the identification of blackspots seems to be on a very limited scale, haphazard, and
relies on local knowledge of the Traffic Police or on local pressure to ask for an
investigation to be undertaken. The types of measures resulting from this approach are
very limited. Examples are the provision of traffic signs and limited road marking
schemes. There appears to be no system for providing funding for changes in the highway
layout even where this may be a primary cause of accidents at that location.
35.         Adoption of modem techniques and methods outlined above will, in the
longer term, enable the development of suitable engineering measures which should
improve road safety province wide. However, as a first step in the reduction of accidents,
under the proposed RSP, a program of accident reduction measures has been developed
with the objective of reducing accidents on NR 320, a road that is the source of over
60 percent of the accidents in the Jiaxing area. The RSP was designed as a pilot scheme,
containing elements which will be applicable to the majority of roads in the Shanghai-
Hangzhou corridor, and potentially to other corridors in China.
F. PILOT ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
36.         The format for a typical comprehensive road safety component of an
assistance package would normally concentrate on institutional strengthening across a
number of sectors, rather than only identifying a major program of site-specific measures.
The consequence of such more comprehensive programs is that it often takes a
considerable time before effective physical measures can be implemented and the benefits
of the component can be demonstrated. This also assumes that the recipient country can
make sufficient funds available for the continuing work of the road safety teams set up
under the project.
37.         The road safety component of this project has, however, been given a
different emphasis.  While it includes institutional strengthening in selected areas of
weakness, the program would ensure that some road safety benefits be provided in the
short-term with a demonstration effect that could encourage other local highway authorities
to emulate the work, expanding the overall benefits of the program. This approach
required the early identification of appropriate physical works which could be implemented
in parallel with the construction of the expressway. The high incidence of accidents on



- 130 -                       ANNEX2
NR 320 warrants the introduction of remedial measures along this route, in particular in
greater Jiaxing.
38.         As identified earlier there are three major areas of weakness in the current
chain of action required to improve road safety. These are:
(a)   Accident analysis and identification of causes;
(b)   Implementation of accident remedial measures; and
(c)   Change in attitude towards design philosophy.
Accordingly, the RSP has been designed to strengthen each of these three areas. Actions
required are fairly basic at this stage as the concept of improving road safety by proactive
rather than reactive means appears still to be a novel approach in China. Subcomponents
aimed at improving these three main areas of weakness were agreed for the RSP
component of the project: Civil Works, Equipment/Software Provision, and Technical
Assistance/Training.
G. Cvi WoRKs SuBcoMoNENT
39.         Along the roads in the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor, safety problems of a
similar type occur repeatedly on all classes of roads and throughout the highway network.
There are also specific problems relating to particular classes of roads. Some of these
problems can be resolved through engineering improvements; the main thrust of these
improvements needs to be directed towards segregating motor vehicle and non-motor
vehicle traffic. As a consequence, a program of civil works has been devised, aimed
specifically at improving design philosophy and providing practice in implementing some
typical features based on safer designs. This component divides naturally into three
sections, for the purposes of description, NR 320 main carriageway, junctions with NR
320 and structures required to facilitate the first two sections.
40.         Main Road. For the NR 320, the component consists of widening the
carriageway and segregating different traffic types. The carriageway is to be widened by
the addition of two separate 3.5 m wide "slow vehicle" lanes, one on either side of the
existing road. Segregation is achieved by separating the new lanes from the existing by
both a horizontal shift of 1.5 m and a vertical shift of 0.5 m.
41.         In addition to the extra two "slow vehicle" lanes, the main carriageway
would also be widened. Currently it consists of two 3.75 m motorized traffic lanes, one
on either side of the centerline, and two outer 2.0 m wide "other vehicle" lanes adjacent
to them. Whenever a vehicle breaks down, or stops to load or unload goods, it parks in
this 2.0-m lane. Since most trucks are about 2.5 m wide and drivers allow 0.5 m
clearance to the edge of paved carriageway, the parked or broken down vehicle often
projects at least 1 m into the motorized vehicle lane, reducing its width to 2.75 m. Many
trucks in China have steering systems which make placing them to within 0.25 m difficult,
particularly at high speed. The result is that to pass the stationary vehicle they often



- 131 -                        ANNEX 2
infringe into the opposing lane, particularly if the load is wider than the vehicle body, with
potential for direct, head-on conflict with vehicles approaching from the opposite direction.
Since trucks form around 60 percent of the vehicle fleet this is a very common situation
and significantly increases the risk of head-on collisions at such locations.
42.          Another common scenario which increases risk is when a vehicle swerves
into the "slow" lane to avoid an oncoming vehicle which has crossed the centerline during
an overtaking maneuver.
43.         Mixed traffic of widely differing average speeds on the same carriageway
leads to the faster vehicles constantly having to reduce speed when obstructed by the
slower ones and then having to complete overtaking maneuvers. This simultaneously
reduces their average speed and increases the changes of a "nose to tail" accident. A by-
product of this scenario is reduced capacity. The provision of separate "slow vehicle"
lanes will reduce this type of problem and therefore reduce accidents of the type described
whilst at the same time increasing capacity.
44.          Since many users of NR 320 do not have a license to drive a motor vehicle,
except perhaps agricultural tractors, they have limited experience/knowledge of the
mechanical and dynamic characteristics of cars and trucks, and cannot appreciate the
stopping distances required by these vehicles. Indeed the fact that rapid growth of traffic
has only occurred in recent years has meant the many pedestrians, until recent times, have
had little experience of interacting with vehicles. It is therefore necessary to enforce the
segregation described above, which can be achieved in two ways.
45.          Firstly, use of the main carriageway by slow moving traffic such as tractors,
cycles and pedestrians needs to be prohibited. Since the Traffic Police have limited
resources for enforcement, it is unlikely that this action alone would be effective. A
second way of restricting use of the main carriageway is by encouraging/designing for self-
enforcement. It is physically difficult to lift a typical Chinese cycle 0.5 m off the ground
to gain access to the main carriageway; similarly, it is virtually impossible to drive or lift
a tractor up a vertical face of this dimension. While there is a chance that this segregation
could cause a vehicle leaving the main carriageway to overturn the chances are reduced
by the 1.5 m horizontal segregation which must be crossed before reaching the 0.5 m drop.
This situation is a significant improvement on the original arrangements which had only
0.75 m horizontal segregation before a vertical drop of about 1.5 m at the embankment
edge.
46.         Junctions. Junction improvement proposals in the RSP cover 37 major
highway junctions and 140 minor road junctions and agricultural tracks. Each major
junction involves the intersection of a classified road with NR 320. The 140 minor
junctions include some classified and some unclassified roads together with a number of
junctions with "tractor roads" (i.e., agricultural tracks).
47.          The initial section for treatment contains 25 junctions, comprising 5
connections to NR 320, 4 accesses to hotels/factories or gas stations, 13 junctions with
minor roads and 3 junctions with "tractor roads". The major and minor road junctions



- 132 -                       ANNEX 2
have been designed to maintain the "slow vehicle" lane segregation while allowing all
turning movements to be made at grade. This has been achieved by the provision of
heavily channelized designs.
48.         Bridges and Culverts. The program for the 80 bridges and culverts on NR
320 is substantial. It consists of widening the bridges/culverts themselves to accommodate
the new cross-section described above.  Rather than extending or adding separate
pedestrian/cycle bridges to the sides of an existing structure, as has been done in the past,
the bridge itself will be widened. The widening will be such that the new cross-section
can be accommodated. This approach applies to the 80 bridges and culverts, of which two
bridges will be demolished and reconstructed. Within the initial section for treatment there
are nine "small" bridges, two "medium" bridges and 44 culverts which will be widened.
The two medium bridges will be demolished and renewed as they are structurally deficient.
49.         There are nine bridges which are not going to be widened during the course
of this program, but where a temporary layout which maintains the segregated "slow
vehicle" lanes over the bridge deck has been agreed. Although not included under this
project, ZPHAB intend to widen these bridges using their own funding, as soon as
possible.
50.         Proposed Construction Program.  The civil works component of the
program has been planned in nine sections or subprojects. Review of the scope and design
of the first section was initiated during appraisal. The subsequent subprojects will be
prepared and submitted for Bank approval according to the criteria presented in Attachment
1. The nine sections are tentatively divided into three phases of three sections each. The
phasing may be modified during project implementation. The ZPHAB designation and
details are shown below.



- 133 -                           ANNEX 2
CIVIL WORKcS SECTIONS SUMMARY
ZPHAB Location  Contract   Cost    Major      Major    Minor             Other  Long
no.     (kcm)      no.   (Y mil) crossroad   junction  junction Culvert  bridge bridge
A-i  143-153       3      21.00      0         4          8      23        6      0
B-i   114-124      6      21.00      2         3         20      44       11      3
c-1   96-104       8       18.00     1         2         11       5        6      1
A-2  164-172       1       16.00     0         4         10       7        9      1
B-2  133-143       4       19.00     2         3         19      32        8      0
C-2   86-96        9      21.00      0         4         33      20        9      2
A-3  153-164       2      21.00      1         6         17      32       13      0
B-3   124-133      5       19.00     1         0         11      16        7      0
C-3   104-114      7      20.00      1         3         17      21        9      2
51.           A  proposed construction program  for the RSP has been prepared by
ZPHAB/JHAB as follows:
PROPOSED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR RSP Clvn. WoRKs
Phase/          1995                  1996                  1997
Package  J FM AM J JASONDJFMAMJJASONDJFMAMJ j A S  N D
A-1            ~kt.~...
I B-i                   -.u
C-1
A-3
III  B-3.                                                   . . . . . . . .
C-3
52.           ZPHAB will manage the contracts for the civil works component of the
RSP. JIHAB will assist ZPHAB by providing design services. Training courses will be
organized by ZPHAB in conjunction with relevant provincial and central government
authorities, and the existing Road Safety unit will manage the technical assistance program.
53.           Environmental and Resettlement Impacts.  Under the Road Safety
Program (RSP), nine subprojects have been identified for implementation in a phased
manner over about a three-year period. All subprojects require substantial widening and
acquisition of new ROW, and could have a potentially adverse impact on environmentally
sensitive areas such as noise, water pollution and soil erosion during the construction and
operation phases. An EA was carried out for the RSP (for all nine subprojects) and an



- 134 -                       ANNEX 2
EAP has been prepared based on the findings of the EA. An RAP covering the
resettlement impact for all nine subprojects has also been prepared. The EAP and RAP
have been found acceptable to the Bank.
54.         Procurement/Bidding Procedures. Procurement will be carried out under
NCB, in full accordance with World Bank procedures. ZPHAB/JHAB will prepare nine
separate sets of contract documents, one for each of the subprojects. It is expected that
a minimum of three contractors would bid for each subproject (for a minimum of 27 bids)
although a larger number of bids is considered likely. It is also possible that some bids
will be for more than one subproject. There should be no difficulty in getting this number
of bids since ZPHAB estimate that over 400 contractors would be reached by their normal
advertising process. There are at least two suitable contractors in each of the 70 counties
in Zhejiang Province alone. In addition, there are numerous railway and waterway
contractors who are qualified to bid for this type of work.  Further description of
procurement methods is provided in Attachment 1.
H. TEcHNIcAL ASSISTANCE, TRAiNING AND EQuIPMENT SUBCOMPONENTS
55.           The technical assistance, training and equipment subcomponents have been
designed to address shortcomings in all three areas identified earlier. A major input is
related to changing attitudes towards design philosophy and this is to be implemented as
detailed below. Draft Terms of Reference are included in Attachment 2 to this annex.
56.         The Technical Assistance package will consist of:
(a)   The provision of an expert(s) in Microcomputer Accident Analysis systems
for three staff-months to set up the two systems provided under the
equipment part of this package. This would include writing a conversion
program to allow the existing traffic accident data, held by the Traffic
Police, to be used as data files, and conversion of at least the last three
years of data for Jiaxing.
(b)   The provision of one or more experts (6 staff-months) in the field of road
safety who will examine existing documents and design standards and
develop a Road Safety Manual which will set out the principles of good road
safety practice and standard design details specifically oriented towards
Chinese conditions.
Typical standard details which could be developed under this section of the RSP include:
*     Alternative, channelized, junction layouts to reinforce the "priority" rule;
*     Speed reducing measures at approaches to and through small communities
along inter-urban routes;
*     Approaches to narrow bridges;
*     Approaches to low radius curves;
*     Acceleration/deceleration lanes at intersections;



- 135 -                       ANNEX 2
*     Special features/facilities to create safer conditions for pedestrians, cyclists,
main/animal carts e.g., paved shoulders or even separate segregated lanes
near villages or where high volumes occur;
*     Periodic Lay-byes for breakdowns/rest-stops for long distance trucks;
*     Busbays (off-road and tail-to-tail for safety);
*     Clear markings/signs indicating priority at every major/minor road junction;
and
*     Alternative safer arrangements to relocate houses to be moved from the
right of way.
(c)   The provision of one or more experts (6 staff-months) in the field of road
safety who will examine existing highway design practices and procedures
and devise a Road Safety Audit system and guidelines which will explain
how to check highway designs to ensure they do not contribute towards the
occurrence of accidents. A series of checklists will be devised for Chinese
designers to use in checking road designs. Practical training in application
of safety audits will also be included to give local engineers experience in
carrying out safety audits.
57.         The Training component will comprise:
(a)   A local three-week Road Safety Course and practical workshop for 20
engineers.  This will include training on accident analysis and the
development and design of engineering remedial measures at accident
blackspots.
(b)   A three-week overseas study tour for eight staff involved in road safety
work. Locations visited will include examples of best international road
safety practice and the tour will include lecture periods or seminars on
aspects of road safety.
(c)   Preparation. The training component will require one or more experts to
prepare training materials to present the training courses in China and to
arrange the international study tour.
58.         The Equipment/Software provision under the RSP consists of:
(a)   Computers/MAAP. The provision of two IBM compatible 486/33 Mhz
computer systems and MAAP software in both English and possibly in
Chinese. A laser printer is included with each system for output. One
system is to be established at the Traffic Police (in exchange for the
continuing provision of accident data) and the second system will be
established at the ZPHAB offices for accident blackspot analysis.
(b)   Traffic Counters. The provision of one automatic classified counting and
weighing data collection system for installation at a permanent counting
station on NR 320, complete with hardware and software to provide data



- 136 -                        ANNEX 2
output. Four sets of temporary count/classifier systems with data capture
modules, analyzing software and accessories.
59.         Procurement for the components of technical assistance and training will be
made under the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency." It is anticipated that the contracts for the
assistance with the Design Manual and the Safety Audit Guidelines will run consecutively
from the beginning of the civil works while assistance in setting up the accident data
analysis system and converting the existing data will begin at the same time and run in
parallel to the Road Safety Manual contract.
I. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF RSP
60.         The economic benefits accruing from  the usual (generally low  cost)
institutionally-based road safety programs are normally easier to justify on accident savings
alone. However, costs for the physical works associated with this RSP are substantially
higher than usual due to the need to "rebuild" the existing road to new standards derived
from an analysis of the accident problems. This is necessary to enable the benefits of
accident analysis work and for remedial measures to be fully demonstrated.
61.         The true cost of road accidents in China is very difficult to assess since
many "hidden" costs, such as hospital construction and medical staff training, are not taken
into account. The present practice in valuing accident costs is to sum the costs for physical
repairs to vehicles and property and add in the standard compensation paid by the
authorities, as appropriate. The resulting figure could reflect, however, a significant
underestimation of the real economic costs. Because of this, the accident costs used to
calculate benefits of this project have been based on the most recent comparable estimates
of the economic cost of accidents made in 1987 as part of the China Road Safety Project
(Sichuan Pilot Study) and updated, taking into account inflation and per capita income
growth in the Zhejiang Province. The values used, updated for 1993, are as follows:
Fatality                        Y 65,600
Serious injury                  Y 18,160
Slight injury                   Y 3,400
Property damage only            Y  1,700
It was assumed that the unit cost of accidents would continue to grow in line with the
economy; a conservative 5 percent per year growth was assumed for the analysis.
62.         Assessment of the proportion of accidents likely to be saved by the
introduction of these measures is also difficult to assess. No research has been undertaken
into the potential accident savings from specific remedial measures in China and so an
estimate has been based on a combination of factors. Similar measures to some of those
introduced in this scheme typically produce accident savings of 40 percent in western
countries. However, a major feature of the scheme is the segregation of traffic which
eliminates the possibility of certain accidents from happening. An overall potential savings



- 137 -                       ANNEX 2
factor of 60 percent has been used. The total net present value of accident savings during
the project period is likely to be in the order of Y 330 million.
63.         A major benefit of the measures introduced to improve road safety is an
increase in capacity. This in itself contributes substantial economic benefits which can be
added to the safety benefits of the infrastructure program. Thus the overall benefits of this
infrastructure program are the sum of the vehicle operating cost savings, time savings and
the safety benefits, and these amply justify this project component as illustrated below:
Benefit                         Net present value
(Y million)
Vehicle operating costs savings                          815
Time savings                                             131
Accident savings                                         329
Total Savings                                   1L275
Total Cost of Program (present value)                    124
ERR                                             54.4%
64.         A more comprehensive economic evaluation for the Road Safety Program,
including the impact of the program on the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway, is provided
in Chapter 4.



- 138 -                       ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
PROCEDURES FOR PREPARING ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
SUBPROJECTS
1.          All of the subprojects under the RSP would be subject to prior review and
clearance by the Bank. The RSP comprises investments under nine already-defined
subprojects. Any changes to the pre-identified list of subprojects will require amendment
to the Loan Agreement and additional preparatory work to meet Bank lending
requirements. The criteria for obtaining the Bank's concurrence to finance subprojects
(many of which have already been satisfied) in the RSP are as follows:
(a)   an investment and road safety improvement study should be completed and
found acceptable to the Bank;
(b)   engineering design should be prepared in accordance with the design
standards approved by the Bank during appraisal and sound engineering
practice;
(c)   proposed procurement procedures should follow Bank guidelines;
(d)   the summary information on environmental and resettlement impacts and
actions taken for each subproject (i.e., to mitigate negative environmental
impacts or to be taken to restore incomes of the population affected by
resettlement) must be found acceptable to the Bank; and
(e)   an economic evaluation must be completed for the proposed sections.
A. SUBPROJECT INFORMATION FOR BANK REVIEW AND
FOR PROGRESS REPORTING
2.          The following information should be prepared and made available in order
to obtain the Bank's no objection for each subproject package and measure the longer-term
impact of each subproject under the Road Safety Program.
3.          Investment and Road Safety Improvement Study.  An economic
evaluation for the RSP has been prepared, and supports the viability of the program as a
whole. However, the sequencing of works, road safety conditions prior to investment
(accident characteristics, analysis of blackspots, rate and severity of accidents involving
non-motorized vehicles and pedestrians), expected impact on accident rates, recent traffic
counts and enforcement, and other criteria to be agreed with the Bank should be provided
as part of subproject information for the Bank's review.



- 139 -                       ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
4.          Engineering Design and Layout. The engineering pavement design should
be prepared according to national standards as deterrr, ied by MOC. A detailed description
of the design and technical aspects of the works and of construction supervision
arrangements should be sent to the Bank. The detailed design documentation and technical
specifications need not be forwarded to the Bank, but should be made available to Bank
missions on request in the field. The layout of all junctions should be in accordance with
current best international practice and the road safety conscious design principles embodied
in the book Towards Safer Roads in Developing Countries. Layout plans for all junction
types should be forwarded to the Bank.
5.          Procurement. Bank procurement procedures would be followed for all
categories of the Road Safety Program. Civil works contracts would be awarded under
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures using Model Bidding Documents
approved by the GOC and the Bank. Each contract would be subject to prior review by
the Bank. Consultant services for construction supervision and training would be procured
according to "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" and under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
Equipment would be procured in accordance with "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and as described in para 3.70.
6.          Environment.  An environmental impact assessment was carried out for
the RSP and an EAP was developed, and has been found satisfactory to the Bank. If a
subproject will be substantially changed, an additional environmental analysis should be
undertaken for the new/revised subproject. The environmental protection measures for
each subproject should monitored during implementation for progress reporting and
possible recommendations to improve environmental mitigation in future phases of the pilot
program
7.          Land Acquisition and Resettlement . A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
covering the entire Road Safety Program has been prepared by the Zhejiang Provincial
Highway Administration Bureau and submitted to the Bank. This RAP has been found
acceptable but would undergo minor revisions prior to negotiations based on the technical
comments made by Bank resettlement experts. This RAP follows the general principles and
policies adopted for the Zhejiang section of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway.
Implementation of the RAP began in late 1994 and is complete. Beginning June 15, 1995,
internal and external monitoring reports for the RSP resettlement activities would be
submitted to the Bank.
8.          Zhejiang Provincial Highway Administration Bureau should, during the
resettlement monitoring process, collect (or segregate existing) data on resettlement for
each RSP subproject. This information should be available for progress reporting and for
later review of the impact of each subproject.



- 140 -                        ANNEX2
Attachment 2
ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
A. INRODUCTION
1.          These terms of reference detail the requirements for consultancy services to
support the Road Safety Program (RSP) associated with the proposed Shanghai-Zhejiang
Highway Project.
2.          Road safety is of serious concern for Zhejiang Province, as elsewhere in
China. The Zhejiang Provincial Communications Department has responsibility for
highway design and construction, but most of the provincial responsibility for road safety
lies with Zhejiang's Public Security Bureau.
3.          On this basis, a Technical Assistance and Training program has been devised
to increase awareness of safety conscious design within the section of the Provincial
Communications Department dealing with highway design and provide basic information
to enable the limited resources for construction work and accident remedial measures to
be best targeted. Three of the weakest areas have been identified for assistance:
(a)   Basic accident information and analysis;
(b)   Provision of Road Safety Manual and Safety Audit System; and
(c)   Staff training.
The work has been divided into three areas of activity designed to address specific,
identified areas of weakness, as described below.
B. ACCIDENT DATA AND ANALYSIS
4.          The Public Security Bureau currently collate all reported accidents on a
computer system based on a standard data base. This type of system does not easily



-141-                         ANNEX2
identify developing problems but requires a specific inquiry by a police officer who must
then interrogate the system, guessing at relevant selection criteria.
5.          The objective of the proposed support is to install two TRL Microcomputer
Accident Analysis Package (MAAP) systems. Such systems easily identify developing
accident blackspots and are very flexible, identifying common factors in accidents at
specific locations or over wider areas.  Since the Public Security Bureau have
responsibility for road safety it has been agreed that one system will be installed within the
Traffic Police Headquarters. Training for the Traffic Police to operate all aspects of the
accident record and analysis system, including the production of annual reports, is
included. The Police will make available copies of the accident data on floppy disc to
ZPCD. The second system is to be installed in the ZPCD offices in Jiaxing for use by
their engineers in resolving accident blackspots identified by the Traffic Police. The
specific services include:
*     specification of accident location system in consultation with the Traffic
Police and ZPCD Road Safety Unit and oversight of preparation of coded
network data by the local municipal authorities;
*     adaptation of the various MAAP computer programs to analyze data from
the Police accident data collection form;
*     conversion of existing historic accident data from 1987 onwards to provide
a base from which to identify current accident blackspots.
*     installation of Chinese version of the MAAP system onto the computers and
certification of correct operation;
*     training of Police trainers and Traffic Police officers in correct completion
of Police accident data collection form and developing programs with such
staff for field training throughout Jiaxing prefecture;
*     training for ZPCD staff on data checking, coding, data entry, editing,
storage, updating and quality/accuracy control procedures;
*     training ZPCD staff in data analysis and manipulation; and
*     review and adjust the system on the basis of early experience, including
additional training as may be required.
6.          It is expected that the above will require three staff-months of a consultant
experienced in the TRL's MAAP computerized accident data storage and analysis system.
C. RoAD SAFETY MANUAL AND SAFETY AuDrr PRoCEDuRS
7.          Two documents are required for circulation to all staff concerned with road
safety and highway design. The first is a "Road Safety Manual" which, following



- 142 -                        ANNEX 2
examination of existing documents and design standards, will set out safety conscious
design procedures and standard details.
8.          The second is a Road Safety Audit Schedule which will comprise a series
of "check lists" which are to be applied to all highway designs to ensure unsafe features
are not built into new designs.
9.          The Road Safety Manual will cover standard details, such as:
*     Alternative, channelized, junction layouts to reinforce the "priority" rule;
*     Speed reducing measures at approaches to and through small communities
along inter-urban routes;
*     Approaches to narrow bridges;
*     Approaches to low radius curves;
*     Acceleration/deceleration lanes at intersections;
*     Special features/facilities to create safer conditions for pedestrians, cyclists,
man/animal carts, e.g., paved shoulders or even separate segregated lanes
near villages or where high volumes occur.
*     Periodic lay-bys for breakdowns/rest-stops for long distance trucks;
*     Busbays (off-road and tail-to-tail for safety);
*     Clear markings/signs indicating priority at every major/minor road junction;
*     Alternative safer arrangements to relocate houses to be moved from the
right of way; and
*     Any other items deemed necessary following the review of documentation.
This may be achieved through the services of a single consultant or through
the coordination of two consultants. The implementation schedule will
comprise six staff-months of consultant services spread over a period of 12
months with gaps in between the assignments. Assignments will be in the
order of one month each if two consultants are used, or two months for
single consultant. During interim periods ZPCD are to prepare any support
work and drawings as directed by the consultants.
10.         The Safety Audit Schedule will consist of a series of checklists and
guidelines which explain how to check highway designs to ensure they do not contribute
toward the occurrence of accidents.



- 143 -                       ANNEX 2
11.         This work is to be provided by a team of at least two consultants. The
implementation schedule will comprise four staff-months of consultant services to be spread
over a period of 12 months. Individual consultant assignments will be in the order of one
month each. During interim periods, ZPCD are to prepare any support work and drawings
as directed by the consultant.
D. TRAINNG
12.         The Duties of the consultant will be to prepare:
(a)   A local, three-week Road Safety Course and practical workshop for 20
engineers.  This will include training on accidental analysis and the
development and design of engineering remedial measures at accident
blackspots; and
(b)   A three-week overseas study tour for eight staff involved in road safety
work. Locations visited will include examples of best international road
safety practice and the tour will include lecture periods or seminars on
aspects of road safety.
13.         The training component will require one or more experts to prepare training
materials to present the training courses in China and to arrange the international study
tour. The total consultant time required for the training element is six staff-months.
14.         Consultant Qualirications. The consultants should have the following
qualifications for each of the sections as noted below:
Section A: Accident Data and Analysis
The consultant(s) must have a first degree in a relevant subject and at least
10 years' experience establishing computer-based accident data systems.
The consultant(s) must be fully familiar with the TRL MAAP system and
have a proven record of having adapted and installed it previously in
developing countries and of having trained accident data units in operating
all aspects of the system.
Sections B and C: Road Safety Manual and Safety Audit
Procedures and Training
One of the consultants will be a senior professional, having extensive
experience in road safety and traffic management, to cover broader issues
of road safety involving education, health and culture in addition to
providing overall guidance. The Senior Consultant is expected to be a very
experienced traffic engineer with extensive knowledge of road safety issues
who has managed-or established road safety units in the past, preferably in
the developing world.  He/she is expected to be familiar with the
TRL/MAAP and to have used it for accident analysis and the development



- 144 -                       ANNEX 2
of hazardous locations improvement programs. He/she must have extensive
experience of having developed/implemented hazardous location
improvement programs.
The other consultant is expected to have a first degree in Civil Engineering
or related subject and preferably a postgraduate qualification in Traffic
Engineering. He/she is also expected to have at least five years' experience
as a traffic engineer and to have been involved with a road safety and/or
traffic management unit in a developing country.



- 145 -                       ANNEX 3
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND
ACTION PLAN SUMMARY
A. BACKGROUND
1.          Environmental Assessments (Eas) were carried out for the Shanghai and
Zhejiang sections of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway ("the Expressway") by the
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences (SAES) and the Zhejiang Provincial
Research Institute of Environmental Protection (ZPRIEP) respectively. The Shanghai
section EA was completed in February 1993 and the Zhejiang section EA was completed
in October 1992, supplemented in October 1993. They identified social disruption, noise,
air pollution, water pollution, soil erosion, impacts on irrigation systems, etc. as major
potential impacts. Based on the findings included in the Eas and subsequent to the
discussion between the representatives of Shanghai Municipality, Zhejiang Province and
the Bank staff, the Environmental Action Plans (EAPs) for Shanghai and Zhejiang sections
were prepared in September 1993 and submitted to the Bank in October 1993. The Eas,
EA Summaries and EAPs were discussed and further modified as appropriate during the
appraisal mission in November 1993. The finalized EAPs were submitted to the Bank in
February 1994 and found to be satisfactory to the Bank. It has been ascertained that the
Expressway would not affect ecologically sensitive areas and if appropriate measures are
taken, its construction and operation should have no significant adverse impact on the
environment.
2.          The EAPs specified  the measures, organizations and  monitoring
arrangements required to mitigate the potential adverse effects on the environment during
the construction and operation of the Expressway. The main measures relate to social
disruption, noise, air quality including dust, soil erosion and water management, control
of construction traffic, operation of quarries, and waste disposal. The engineering design
and technical specifications for the Expressway have incorporated the appropriate measures
required to be taken for environmental protection.   Appropriate administrative
arrangements have been identified to ensure the enforcement of such measures during the
construction and operation of the Expressway. Summaries of the Eas and EAPs are
presented in this annex and copies of the EA and EAP reports are available in the Project
File.
3.          Since most of the works under the Road Safety Program (RSP) would be
directed to the upgrading of existing facilities, they are not expected to have significant
impacts on the environment. Nevertheless, in order to fully mitigate potentially adverse
effects of subprojects, the EA for the RSP was carried out by Environmental Protection
Institute of Zhejiang Province. The EA report was prepared in March 1994 and submitted
to the Bank in May 1994. Based on the findings of the EA, an EAP was prepared in



- 146 -                      ANNEX 3
August 1994 and submitted to the Bank in September 1994. They were reviewed by the
Bank staff and the comments were sent to the borrower for their consideration.
4.          The process of environmental review involved inputs from various units in
the region, including environmental bureaus, research institutions and universities. The
affected groups along the highway, and the people subject to resettlement and land
acquisition in particular, have been intensively consulted.
5.          The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessment of
development projects in China were followed during preparation and evaluation of the EA,
as well as the Bank's OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. Major laws and regulations
applied to the EA for the project include:
(a)   Environmental Protection Law of PRC;
(b)   Atmospheric Pollution Abatement Law of PRC;
(c)   Environmental Noise Control Law of PRC;
(d)   Water Pollution Control Law of PRC;
(e)   Land Management Law of PRC;
(f)   Safety Management Clause of Chemical Hazard;
(g)   Management Guidelines on Environmental Protection of Construction
Project, Number 003 (86), issued by the State Environmental Protection
Bureau (SEPB);
(h)   Measures for Environmental Protection Management of Transport
Construction Projects, Number 117 (86), issued by the Ministry of Urban
and Rural Construction and Environmental Protection; and
(i)   Measures for Environmental Protection Management of Transport
Construction Projects, Number 17 (90), issued by MOC.
6.          The environmental standards applied in the assessment are listed in Appendix
1 of this Annex.
7.          The road covered by the EA was the construction of the Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway, a 131 km four-lane divided access-controlled highway, linking Songjiang in
Shanghai to Pengbu in Hangzhou. It also included the upgrading of local roads to improve
access to the Expressway. The 29-km section in Shanghai adjoins the existing 20-km
expressway length between Xinzhuang and Songjiang. The 102-km section in Zhejiang
would link at Pengbu with the Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway now under construction. The



- 147 -                       ANNEX 3
EA for the Road Safety Program covered the nine subcomponents comprising upgrading
of approximately 86 km of National Route 320 in Jiaxing Prefecture.
B. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF SHANGHAI-HANGZHOU ExPRESSWAY
Baseline Envirommental Description
8.          Geographic Condition. The alignment of the Expressway is located in the
Hangzhou-Jiaxing-Huzhou river network plain in the north bank of the Qiantangjiang
River, which is the southern end of the Changjiang delta, featured by flat terrain,
networked rivers and numerous lakes. The Expressway passes the Hangzhou-Jiaxing-
Huzhou plan from southwest to northeast with many paddy fields and mulberry hills along
the alignment, descending at this way with a height of about 6-7 m.
9.          Hydrological and Meteorological Conditions. The region belongs to
sub-tropical monsoon climate zone, having moist temperature, demarcated seasons and
abundant rainfall with the average annual temperature of about 16-17C, annual average
humidity of about 80-82 percent and annual precipitation of about 1,000-1,200 mm.
Occasional typhoons strike in autumn and in summer. The surface runoff goes into the
river network through channels and finally into the Qiantangiing River and Hangzhou Bay.
The water system in the region constitutes a water transport network and formulates
various channels capable for vessel transportation.
10.         Population and Economy. The region, including Yuhang and Jiashan
counties as well as Haining, Tongxiang, and Jiaxing cities, has a population of 3.65 million
along the alignment. The average population density is approximately 600-900 persons per
km2, rising to 4,000-15,000 in the most crowded areas. About half the economic activity
of Zhejiang Province is concentrated in the 150-km corridor linking the cities of Hangzhou
and Shaoxing. In 1990, Zhejiang ranked second in the nation in terms of Gross Output
Value of Agriculture and Industry (GOVAI). The province as a whole enjoyed a per capita
GOVAI about 50 percent higher than the national average, and in the Hangzhou-Shaoxing-
Ningbo corridor, about 150 percent higher. The six counties and cities along the alignment
have paddy fields of about 200 km2, mixed up with mulberry fields and tea plantations,
with annual productions of about 2.3 million tons of rice and 1.3 million dan of silkworm
cocoons, which account for 15 percent and 30 percent of the total production of the
Province, respectively.
11.         Ecological Environment. Ecological environment of the areas along the
alignment is mainly an artificial agricultural system. Major crops are rice, wheat, cotton,
oil seed, vegetables and fruits.
12.         Air Quality. In the Zhejiang section, CO, NOx, SO2, Total Suspended
Particulate (TSP) and Total Hydrocarbons (THC) were measured and analyzed along the
alignment of selected residential areas, existing road crossings, etc. The results indicated
that the present air quality is relatively good along the alignment. In the Shanghai section,



- 148 -                       ANNEX 3
six points were selected for ambient air quality monitoring.  Co, NOX, TSP and
Non-methane Hydrocarbons (NMHC) were measured in December 1992. The results also
indicated that the present air quality is generally good.
13.         Noise. The results of selected representative spots such as villages, schools,
and road crossings showed that average noise levels were 43-51 dB(A) in the daytime and
32-38 dB(A) at nighttime in the Zhejiang section, and 47-55 dB(A) in the daytime and 42-
47 dB(A) at nighttime in the Shanghai section. The existing acoustic environment is
generally good, except the spots near the railway and the existing roads.
14.         Water Quality. The analysis of the water quality of major rivers and
cultivation ponds for aquatic products revealed that in some areas the water quality
standards, in terms of COD and BOD, were exceeded. The pollution was considered to
be mainly caused by discharge from cultivation ponds and the runoff from agricultural
fields.
15.         Cultural/Historic Locations. Hangzhou and Jiaxing are two main historic
cities along the along the alignment. Pog and Rain Pavilion at South Lake are ranked as
national key protected cultural relics. Hangzhou is well-known as a tourist center, and will
further develop its tourist business with the construction of the Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway.
Potential Environmental Impacts Identified in the EA
16.         The following key areas of environmental impacts were identified, where
adverse change may take place during the construction and operation of the highway:
(a) Air Pollution. The most significant factors contributing to air pollution will
be dust during the construction phase and vehicular emission during the
operation phase. Dust in the construction phase is mainly caused by
transport of construction materials, other earth moving activities, use of
construction vehicles, and emissions from asphalt plants. In the operation
phase, the major air pollutant is NOx. According to the predictions in the
EAs, CO will not exceed the standard at any point in the future. NOx
concentrations corresponding to daily traffic will meet the standard in all
road sections until the year 2018. During peak periods of traffic volume,
NOx will generally meet the standard except during the year 2018. In the
morning when the air is stable, NOx levels within 40 m from the roadside
will exceed the standard during the years 2010-2018.
(b)   Noise. In the construction phase, noise impacts will be significant. The
sound of blasting mountains and noise of construction machinery will affect
the lives of local residents, especially at night. According to predictions in
the EAs, at the beginning of expressway operation in the year 2000, the
noise levels will not exceed the daytime standard [70 dB(A)] in any sections



- 149 -                       ANNEX 3
and will not exceed the nighttime standard [55 dB(A)] in most sections.
The affected areas expand as the traffic volume increases. In 2015, the
noise levels within 70 m from the roadside will exceed the standard in
daytime and the affected areas will expand to 150 m from the roadside at
nighttime.
(c)   Soil Erosion and Water Quality. The main cause of water loss and soil
erosion during the construction is that, in the process of earth work, top soil
may be washed out by the rain water, which results in waterway silting up,
turbid water, and negative impacts on irrigation ditches. However, serious
soil erosion will not occur if adequate measures are taken during the design
and construction phases. Surface water quality will become worse in a short
period during the construction phase, which can be mitigated by strict
control measures.
(d)   Soil Pollution. Soil pollution by lead from motor vehicles could affect
crops along the highway. According to the field measurement, the lead
content in mulberry leaves along the roadside is 2-3 times higher than that
far away from the roadside. However, the present lead level in soil is
within the background range.
(e)   Social Disruption. The sub-grade elevates an average height of about 3 m,
causing social disruption by separating residential areas, farmland etc.,
unless passageways are designed in an adequate manner. Due to the
transport of a large quantity of building materials, the traffic volume during
the construction phase will certainly increase, which could have an adverse
effects on local communities along the highway.
(f)   Others.  The probability of accidents may increase but will not be
significant in the construction phase. The risk of traffic accidents and
accidents associated with the transport of hazardous materials will increase
during the operation phase.
Mitigation Measures
17.         The EAPs stipulate how the environmental impacts identified in the EAs will
be dealt with at design, implementation and operation stages, including what administrative
arrangements have been made for the execution of the EAPs during these three distinct
phases. Major mitigation measures for Zhejiang and Shanghai sections are highlighted
below and summarized in Appendix 2 and 3 of this Annex, respectively.
18.         Selection of Alignment. The proposed alignment (the so-called middle
route) was selected from among three alternatives, i.e., east, middle and west routes, with
a view to avoiding large residential areas and ecologically sensitive areas, and minimizing
resettlement and other adverse impacts on the local population. The alignment was



- 150 -                         ANNEX 3
selected to be away from villages, schools, hospitals, protected areas of cultural relics,
etc., as much as possible, under the principle of "being away but not far from cities and
towns."
19.         Air Pollution. During the construction phase, adequate measures will be
taken to minimize dust pollution, such as watering, covering of transported construction
materials, etc. Advanced technology will be adopted for heating asphalt. Asphalt mixing
sites will be carefully selected to avoid adverse effects on residential areas. During the
operation phase, public awareness campaigns and education will be undertaken to promote
compliance with traffic rules and tail gas emission standard. Trees will be planted along
the roadside, as appropriate, with a view to reducing adverse impacts.
20.          Noise. During the construction phase, construction work that generates
significant noise in the vicinity of residential areas will be undertaken during daytime hours
(6:00-22:00). Transportation of construction materials will be carried out with careful
consideration to minimizing noise impacts on residents along the roadside. Maintenance
of construction machines and trucks will be strengthened so as to keep them at low noise
levels. Traffic management, including dissemination of traffic rules and setting up of
speed limits, will be strengthened.
21.          Residences which are located within 20 m from the side ditch of the highway
and are seriously affected by noise will be resettled progressively. The construction of
new buildings, including residences, will be prohibited within 50 m from the side ditch.
Sound screens will be installed at 90 places during the initial operation phase, and
thereafter, noise barriers will be installed in five areas, and forest belts will be constructed
in two areas in the Zhejiang section in a phased manner. Additional noise barriers could
be installed as the need arises and as determined from the results of the monitoring
program. These measures, with total investment cost of Y 774,000, are summarized in
Table 1.
22.          Soil Erosion and Water Quality. Slope protection and drainage facilities
will be constructed in order to protect soil erosion.  Appropriate measures, either
rehabilitation or reconstruction, will be taken where the existing irrigation and drainage
systems are damaged. Appropriate waste water treatment facilities such as septic tanks
will be installed at construction sites and camp sites. Sludge in sewage purification pits
will be disposed of periodically. During the operation phase, sewage from service areas
will be treated appropriately and no waste water will be discharged directly into rivers or
irrigation canals.
23.          Soil Pollution. Lead levels will gradually increase in the future as traffic
volume increases. Since the EA failed to provide prediction of future lead levels along the
roadside, it is necessary to regularly monitor the lead level in the operation phase, in order
to safeguard people's health, and to provide a more scientific basis for identifying
necessary measures regarding road construction projects.



-151-                         ANNEX3
Table 1: NoISE MmGATION MEASURES FOR SENSITIVE POINTS
Location                            Measures                 Length (m)
Xuanjiahu Primary School        Noise protection barrier            300
Wanxing Primary School           Noise protection barrier           130
Zhaochang Primary School        Forest belt                         240
Residential area                 Noise protection barrier            80
Yancheng Primary School         Forest belt                        520
Tudinn Primary School            Noise protection barrier           160
Jianong Primary School           Noise protection barrier           100
24.         Social Disruption. A sufficient number of passageways (225 underpasses
including 85 pedestrian underpasses, one on average every 50 m) will be constructed to
meet the requirements of local people and vehicles for crossing the highway.
25.         Others. The management of transport of hazardous materials will be
strengthened.  Prior to transportation of hazardous materials, the Public Security
Department will examine the arrangements and plans for their transport.
Environmental Monitoring
26.         During construction and operation of the highway, environmental monitoring
will be carried out to verify the actual impacts on the environment, identify unexpected
environmental problems at an early stage, and adjust environmental protection measures
as appropriate. In the Zhejiang section, the Expressway Environmental Protection Sectors
(EEPS) of the Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Project Executive Commission (ZPEC) will
be responsible for environmental monitoring in the construction phase, and the future
Expressway Administration Department (EAD) and the Environmental Monitoring Station
for monitoring in the operation phase. In the Shanghai section, the Shanghai Academy of
Environmental Sciences (SAES) and the Shanghai Huhang Expressway Construction
Executive Commission (HHEC) will be responsible for the monitoring in the construction
phase and SAES and the Shanghai Huhang Expressway Management Department
(SHEMD) for monitoring in the operation phase.



ULi~ X 1C           UU
- 152-                        ANNEX 3
27.         The key areas for monitoring are air pollution, water pollution, noise and
vibration, and lead contamination in soil and crops.
28.         Air Pollution. Periodic monitoring will be carried out during both the
construction and operation phases. Items to be monitored will include TSP, NOx and CO
in the construction phase and NOx, CO, TSP and lead in TSP in the operation phase.
29.         Water Pollution.  Periodic monitoring will be carried out during the
construction and operation phases. Items to be monitored will include SS and oil, etc., in
the construction phase and DO, BOD, COD, SS, oil, heavy metals etc., in the operation
phase.
30.         Noise and Vibration. Periodic monitoring will be carried out once every
season both in daytime and at night near construction sites during the construction phase.
Monitoring will be carried out once every season during the operation phases. Ad hoc
monitoring will also be undertaken as appropriate.
31.         Other Items. Lead content in soil and crops will be carried out once a year
during the construction and operation phases.
C. ENviRoNMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
32.         Major infrastructure components of the Road Safety Program  include
widening and segregation of different types of traffic in nine sections totaling
approximately 86 km, improvement of 37 major highway and 140 minor road junctions,
and upgrading of 80 bridges and culverts along the National Road 320. Major mitigation
measures for the Road Safety Program are highlighted below and summarized in Appendix
4 of this Annex.
33.         Noise. During the construction phase, construction equipment such as piling
machines and loaders will cause significant noise. Construction work, therefore, will be
stopped during nighttime (from 20:00 to 6:00) within 150 m from sensitive sites. All
construction machines will be equipped with proper sound mufflers to reduce noise. In
order to reduce impact of noise and exhaust gas emissions during the operation phase,
houses within 20 m of the reconstructed road will be resettled. Construction of new
residences will be prohibited within 200 m from both sides of the road until 1998 when the
Expressway becomes accessible. Noise barriers will be installed around the Suburban
Primary School of Chongfu, Buyuan Middle School of Tongxiang and South Lake Middle
School of Jiaxing. Vehicles will be requested to equip with sound mufflers. Trees will
be planted along the road to reduce air and noise pollution.
34.         Air Pollution. During the construction phase, construction materials such
as earth, gravel and stones will be piled more than 100 m away from residential areas,
villages and schools, and will not be piled in the open air. In dry weather, construction
and piling sites will be watered to control dust (at least 4-5 times a day). Asphalt will be



- 153 -                        ANNEX 3
heated and mixed in a closed roaster. Asphalt heating factory will be located at least
100 m away from villages and towns. Asphalt will be mixed in a movable high-
temperature container without heating source. Trees and turf will be planted to reduce
impact of exhaust gas emissions and noise. Vehicles are requested to equip with exhaust
gas purifiers.
35.         Water Pollution. In the construction phase, to avoid direct discharge of
waste water from construction sites into rivers, temporary septic tanks will be installed.
Garbage and other wastes from construction sites will be collected and disposed of in an
adequate manner. In order to prevent pollution from garages, washing stations etc., such
facilities along the road will not be located near water bodies.
36.         Soil Erosion. Measures will be taken to prevent irrigation canals from
being filled with, or blocked by, construction materials. Excavated areas will be filled and
pressed tightly as promptly as possible. A sufficient number of escape channels will be
constructed at construction, disposal and material borrow sites. Trees and turf will be
planted on road bed slopes, in permanent or temporary filling places, and at disposal sites.
Top soil will be saved and returned to the excavated areas as much as possible after
construction works are completed.
37.         Cultural Relics. The main cultural relics along the National Road 320
number four-Wuzhen Tomb in Jiashan, the South Lake and Misty Rain Tower (Yan Yu
Lou) in Jiaxing, Pushu Pavilion in Jiaxing and Loujiagu Remains in Tongxiang. Each site
is located at least 1.5 km from the road and will not be affected by the Road Safety
Program.
38.         Social Disruption.  Detailed construction transportation plans will be
prepared to avoid transportation of construction materials at peak traffic hours. River
transport will be used where appropriate to avoid traffic congestion on the road.
Temporary entrances and exits will be set up at the crossroads to reduce impact on
passengers and vehicles. In order to enable passengers and local vehicles to cross the
roads smoothly and safely, 140 crossroads and passages will be constructed.
39.         Environmental Monitoring. During the construction and operation phases,
environmental monitoring will be carried out to verify the actual impacts on the
environment, identify unexpected environmental problems at an early stage, and adjust
environmental protection measures as appropriate.  Zhejiang Provincial Highway
Administration Bureau will be responsible for environmental monitoring during both the
construction and operation phases, and will entrust the work to the municipal
administrative stations. The key areas of monitoring include air pollution (CO, NOx, TSP,
dust and THC), noise pollution, and water pollution (pH, BODs, DO, COD, SS and oil).



- 154 -                      ANNEX 3
D. ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
40.         The Zhejiang Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (ZPEPB)
exercises unified supervision and management of the environmental protection activities
in the area under its jurisdiction. The Expressway Administration Bureau exercises
supervision and management for the prevention and control of environmental pollution.
41.         The responsibility of ZPEPB is to exercise unified supervision and
management of environmental protection in the areas under its jurisdiction, to make
investigation and assessment of environmental conditions under the cooperation of relevant
sectors, and to prepare an environmental protection plan. ZPEPB will assist ZPEC to
implement the environmental management in and around the construction sites, in
collaboration with local environmental protection administrations.
42.         The responsibility of ZPEC is to prepare the project documents under the
World Bank loan, to implement the project and to exercise the effective management of
environmental protection in the construction and operation phases. The corresponding
environmental protection Division will be set up under the Expressway Administration
Bureau (EAB) and 3-5 professionals will be staffed. EAB will also set up the Jiaxing
Administration Division, and an environmental monitoring station.  The Jiaxing
Administration Division will set up an environmental protection section (2-3 staff), and an
environmental monitoring station (10-15 staff) in Wangdian, which is responsible for the
environmental monitoring in the construction phase.
43.         The Shanghai Huhang Expressway Construction Corporation (SHECC) and
the Shanghai Highway Administration Department (SHAD) administer the environmental
management and monitoring of the project in the construction and operation phases
respectively.
44.        In the construction phase, SHECC should have an environmental supervision
group. The group is responsible to supervise implementation of the environmental
management plans, in conjunction with engineering supervision and management, to carry
out environmental investigations and address environmental problems.
45.         The Shanghai Highway Administration Department has a maintenance sector,
whose responsibilities include:
(a)  to undertake investigations and address environmental problems in the
operation phase;
(b)  to carry out environmental monitoring, collect and analyze environmental
and emission inventory information; and
(c)  to reinforce management and inspection of special facilities for
environmental protection.



- 155 -                      ANNEX 3
46.        The Shanghai Environmental Protection Bureau (SEPB) is the administration
for integrated supervision on the environmental protection. The function of SEPB includes
environmental supervision, management and coordination. There are several research units
under the SEPB, among which the Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences and the
Shanghai Municipal Environmental Monitoring Center are the main technical supporters.
47.        Regarding the Road Safety Program, the road reconstruction program will
be carried out by Highway Administration Bureau of Zhejiang Province, in cooperation
with the local environmental protection bureaus, which will be in charge of all the work
for environmental prevention and control. Environmental administration and monitoring
of different road sections will be carried out by Jiaxing Environmental Bureau, together
with the four subordinate environmental monitoring stations, and supervised by
Environmental Protection Bureau of Zhejiang Province.



- 156 -                        ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
MAJOR ENVRONmENTAL STANDARDS APPLIED iN ENviRomENTAL ASSESSMENT
Standard                                                           Number
Ambient air quality standard                                       GB3095-82
Ambient noise standard for urban areas                             GB3096-82
Maximum permissible concentration of atmospheric
pollutants for the protection of agricultural crops              GB9137-88
Environmental quality standards of surface water                   GB3838-88
Farmland irrigation water quality standards                        GB5084-85
Environmental vibration standards in city regions                  GB10070-88
Noise criteria for construction sites                              GB12523-91
AMBIENT NOISE STANDARD FOR URBAN AREAS
Area                                                       Day          Night
dB(A)         dB(A)
Special residential quarters                               45             35
Residential, cultural, and educational areas               50            40
Class I mixed area                                         55            45
Class II mixed area                                        50            50
Industrial zone                                            65            55
Sides of traffic artery                                    70            55



- 157 -                      ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
AMBIENT AIR QuAurry STANDARD
(GB3095-82)
Items                                       Concentration limits (mg/m3)
Class I     Class II    Class III
standards    standards    standards
Suspended      Daily average               0.15         0.30         0.50
Particulate    Spot sample La              0.30         1.00          1.50
Matter (SPM)
Dust           Daily average               0.05         0.15         0.25
Spot sample                 0.15         6.50         0.70
S0o            Annual average Lk           0.02         0.06         0.10
Daily average               0.05         0.15         0.25
Spot sample                 0.15         0.50         0.70
NOx            Daily average               0.05         0.10         0.15
Spot sample                 0.10         0.15         0.30
CO             Daily average               4.00         4.00         6.00
Spot sample                10.00        10.00        20.00
Ozone          Average over                0.12         0.16         0.20
one hour
Lead           Maximum                   0.0015       0.0015       0.0015
Note:  (1) Class I standards are to ensure that the ecology and people's health are not
damaged over a long period of time due to air quality.
(2) Class H standards are to protect people's health and the growth of plants
and animals both in cities and in the countryside from any damage over a
short or long period of time due to air quality.
(3) Class III standards are to ensure the normal growth of plants and animals
and protect them from chronic and acute poisoning.
La Spot sample means concentration at any time.
It Annual average means the annual average of daily average concentrations.



KEY ELEMENTS OF THE EAP FOR SHANGHAI-ZHIEJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Shanghai Section)
Env. Issues                        Action taken/to be taken                              Responsibility     Remarks
A. Design Ph
1. Route selec-    (1) The alignment was selected from three alternatives considering to  Shanghai Highway   See design documents.
tion               minimize land acquisition, impacts of air pollution and noise on envi-  Administration
ronmentally sensitive areas such as residential areas, historic sites and  Department
utilization of water and farmland.                                (SHAD) Shanghai
Municipal Engi-
neering Design
Institute (SMEDI)
2. Social dis-    (1) 56 underpasses including 6 pedestrian underpasses (average every 500  SMEDI, SHAD     See design documents.
ruption           m) were designed for pedestrians and local vehicles to cross the high-    and Community
way safely.                                                       and Township
Government (CTG)                                uo
3. Soil erosion    (1) Trees and grasses were designed to be planted in the median, side-  SMEDI, SHAD      See design documents.
slopes, and along the roadside, where appropriate.                and CTG
(2) Temporary and permanent drainage systems were designed to minimize
soil erosion and alteration of hydrological regimes.
(3) In order to mitigate negative impact on existing irrigation system,
current irrigation systems were designed to upgraded, where necessary.
4. Noise and      (1) All the houses within 20 m from the side ditch shall be resettled  SHAD, SMEDI        See design documents.
air pollution     progressively in accordance with village and township development  and CTG
plans. No new buildings including residences shall be allowed to be
constructed within 50 m from the side ditch.
(2) Trees were designed to be planted at environmentally sensitive areas in
order to reduce noise and air pollution.



Env. Issues                       Action taken/to be taken                             Responsibility      Remarks
5. Water pollu-   (1) Pavement drainage shall not link breeding ponds, cultivated land or  SHAD, SMEDI    See design documents.
tion              drinking water sources. Waste oil and waste water from service areas    and CTG
were designed to be adequately treated.
(2) Subgrade slopes were designed to be turfed and independent side ditch
drainage system to be established in order to minimize pollution of
water bodies, breeding ponds, etc.
6. Flooding and   (1) Bridges, culverts and other structures were designed to meet require-
navigation        ments of water conservation authority on navigation and safe discharge
of flood.
B. Construction
Phase
1. Dust and air   (1) Piled fine grain materials and fly ash shall be watered in a timely  Contractor,    See contract documents.
pollution         fashion (at least 4 times a day) to avoid flying dust.            Shanghai Huhang
(2) Fine grain materials, construction materials and fly ash shall not be  Expressway Con-    See contract clause 102.17  0
piled in the open air and the storage yards of such materials shall be  struction Corpora-   in Chapter 100, Vol. 2.
located at least 100 m from residential areas on the lee side of the wind   tion (SHECC) and
direction.                                                       Shanghai Academy
(3) Trucks to transport construction materials shall be covered to minimize    of Environmental
spills.                                                          Sciences (SAES)
(4) Asphalt mixing sites shall be located with adequate distance from
residential areas on the lee side of the wind direction.
(5) Asphalt mixers shall be equipped with a dust collector. Mixed materi-
als shall be transported to construction sites by mobile high temperature
tanks without heating sources.



Env. Issues                        Action taken/to be taken                               Responsibility     Remarks
2. Noise          (1) Construction activities with significant noise shall be undertaken during    Contractor,  See contract documents.
the daytime (6:00-22:00), and prohibited during nighttime in noise  SHECC and SAES
sensitive areas.                                                                      See contract clause 102.17
(2) Maintenance of machines and trucks shall be strengthened so as to keep                in Chapter 100, Vol. 2.
noise levels low. Unnecessary blasting shall be controlled.
3. Soil erosion   (1) Filling materials shall be excavated, transported and paved as simulta-    Contractor and  See contract documents.
and water          neously as possible, especially during rainy seasons.              SHECC
pollution      (2) Temporary drainage system shall be established and well maintained at                  See contract clause 102.17
construction sites, quarries and borrow sites during the construction                 in Chapter 100, Vol. 2.
period.
(3) All necessary steps shall be taken to prevent earth and stone from
silting up river, water channel, or the existing irrigation and drainage
systems. Temporary sedimentation basin shall be constructed, if
necessary.
(4) Waste water from construction activities shall not be allowed to be
discharged into water bodies unless adequate treatment methods (septic                                             o
tank, etc.) are used.
(5) Garbage and waste materials from construction sites and labor camps
shall be collected and disposed of adequately.
4. Conservation   (1) The use of farmland for borrow sites shall be minimized as much as  Contractor and     See contract documents.
of farmland        possible. If excavation has to be done in farmland, top soil shall be  SHECC
saved and returned after construction works are completed.                            See contract clause 102.17
in Chapter 100, Vol. 2.



Env. Issues                         Action taken/to be taken                                Responsibility      Remarks
5. Risk of         (1) Quarries shall be located far away from residences, schools and hospi-    Contractor and  See contract documents.
accident           tals.                                                                SHECC
(2) Effective protection and watching measures shall be taken against                       See contract clause 102.17
blasting, including timing of blasting, setting up of clear signals and                  in Chapter 100, Vol. 2.
warning lines, making security inspection, etc.
(3) Explosives shall be strictly managed to follow public security regula-
tions.
(4) Management of environmental protection and safety of quarries shall be
strengthened under the supervision of the environmental protection and
public security authorities of local governments.
6. Traffic         (1) Where appropriate, construction materials shall be transported by water   Contractor and  See contract documents.
problem            in order to avoid road traffic congestion.                           SHECC
(2) Location of the piling yards of construction materials from water to                    See contract clause 102.17
land shall be selected to avoid spill of fine grained materials into                    in Chapter 100, Vol. 2.
rivers.
(3) Traffic management shall be strengthened and adequate transportation
plans for construction materials shall be developed to minimize safety
risks and environmental impacts of extra traffic and construction
vehicles on local roadside populations.
7. Historical      If historical remains of geological or archaeological interest are found, the  Contractor and  See contract documents.
remains        local government shall be informed of such discovery, and excavation shall   SHECC
be stopped until identification of historical remains by the authorized                      See contract clause 102.17
institution of preservation is completed.                                                   in Chapter 100, Vol. 2.



Env. Issues                        Action taken/to be taken                             Responsibility     Remarks
C. Operation
Phase
1. Transporta-    (1) Safety spot checks shall be carried out as appropriate on vehicles using    Shanghai Huhang
tion              the highway.                                                     Expressway Man-
(2) For transportation of harmful and dangerous materials, a 'dangerous  agement Depart-
material transportation licenses/permission shall be obtained.   ment (SHEMD)
(3) Highway Administration Bureau shall be equipped with instnmnents and
trained staff to effectively control the leakage/spill of dangerous materi-   Traffic and Public
als.                                                             Security Authorities
(TPSA)
2. Noise and      (1) The minimum speed of vehicles on the highway shall be set at     Shanghai Environ-
air pollution     50 km/h.                                                          mental Protection
(2) Vehicles running on the highway shall follow the international driving  Bureau (SEPB)
practice. Use of horns shall be restricted.
(3) Vehicles shall be equipped with silencers and purifiers of exhaust gases   SHEMD and TPSA
progressively and in accordance with relevant regulations.
(4) Vehicles not complying with the noise standard shall not be given
nmning licenses.
(5) Public awareness and education shall be promoted to familiarize people
both with the air pollution and noise problems caused by vehicles and
with related regulations.
(6) Based on the results of future monitoring, adequate measures, including
noise barriers and noise proofing of buildings, shall be taken in the
areas where noise exceeds the standard.
3. Others         (1) Highway drainage system shall be cleared and dredged regularly.  SHEMD and CTG
Ditches on slope shall be back-filled and reinforced promptly when
they are eroded by rain water.
(2) Use of non-leaded gasoline shall be encouraged. It is also encouraged
not to plant certain vegetables along the highway.
D. Environmen-
tal moni-
torn-f
1. Construction    Regular monitoring of air pollution (TSP, CO and NO.), water pollution,  SAES and SHECC
noise and vibration will be carried out.
2. Operation      Regular monitoring of air pollution (TSP, CO, NO. and lead in TSP),  SAES and SHEMD
period         water pollution, noise and vibration, and lead in soil and crops will be



KEY ELEMENTS OF THE EAP FOR SHANGHAI-ZIIEJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Zhejiang Section)
Env. Issues                       Action taken/to be taken                            Responsibility      Remarks
A. Design Phase
1. Route selec-   (1) The alignment was selected from three alternatives considering to  Zhejiang Provincial  See design documents.
tion              minimize land acquisition, impacts of air pollution and noise on envi-  Communication
ronmentally sensitive areas such as residential areas and historic sites,    Design Institute
and utilization of water and farmland.                          (ZPCDI)
2. Social dis-    (1) 169 underpasses including 79 pedestrian underpasses (on average, one    ZPCDI      See design documents.
ruption           every 500 m) were designed for pedestrians and local vehicles to cross
the highway safely.
3. Soil erosion    (1) Trees and grasses were designed to be planted in the median, side  ZPCDI          See design documents.
slopes, and along the roadside, where appropriate.
(2) Temporary and permanent drainage systems were designed to minimize   ZPCDI
soil erosion and alteration of hydrological regimes.
(3) In order to mitigate negative impacts on the existing irrigation system,    ZPCDI
the upgrading of current irrigation systems was designed, where
necessary.
4. Noise and      (1) All the houses within 20 m from the side ditch shall be resettled  Zhejiang Provincial  See design documents and
air pollution     progressively in accordance with village and township development  Shanghai-Hangzhou  Resettlement Action Plan.
plans. No new buildings, including residences, shall be allowed to be    Expressway Project
constructed within 50 m from the side ditch.                    Executive Commis-
sion
(2) Forest belts and noise barriers were designed to be installed at environ-   ZPCDI
mentally sensitive areas. In addition, trees were designed to be planted
in order to reduce noise and air pollution.
5. Water pollu-   (1) Pavement drainage shall not link with breeding ponds, cultivated land  ZPCDI       See design documents.     >
tion              or drinking water sources. Waste oil and waste water from service
areas were designed to be adequately treated.
(2) Subgrade slopes were designed to be turfed and independent side ditch    ZPCDI
drainage system to be established in order to minimize pollution of                                         CD
water bodies, breeding ponds, etc.



Env. Issues                          Action taken/to be taken                                  Responsibility      Remarks
6. Flooding and    (1) Bridges, culverts and other structures were designed to meet require-  ZPCDI                See design documents.
Navigation          ments of water conservation authorities on navigation and safe dis-
charge of flood.
B. Construction
Phae
1. Dust and air   (1) Piled fine grain materials and fly ash shall be watered in a timely     Contractor           See contract documents.
pollution           fashion (at least 4 times a day) to avoid flying dust.                                     Technology Standard See
contract clause 802.02.6
and 802.05.1(1).
(2) Fine grain materials, construction materials and fly ash shall not be  Contractor          See contract clause
piled in the open air and the storage yards of such materials shall be                     802.02.5 and 802.05.1.
located at least 100 m  from residential areas on the lee side of the
wind direction.
(3) Trucks to transport construction materials shall be covered to minimize    Contractor      See contract clause
spills.                                                                                    802.02.6.
(4) Asphalt mixing sites shall be located with adequate distance from     Contractor           See contract clause
residential areas on the lee side of the wind direction.                                   802.02.4.
(5) Asphalt mixers shall be equipped with a dust collector. Mixed materi-    Contractor        See contract clause
als shall be transported to construction sites by mobile high temperature                  802.02.4.
tanks without heating sources.
2. Noise           (1) Construction activities with significant noise shall be undertaken during    Contractor     See contract clause
the daytime (6:00 - 22:00) and prohibited during nighttime in noise                        802.03.2.
sensitive areas.
(2) Maintenance of machines and trucks shall be strengthened so as to keep    Contractor       See contract clause
noise levels low. Unnecessary blasting shall be controlled.                                802.03.1.



Env. Issues                        Action taken/to be taken                               Responsibility     Remarks
3. Soil erosion   (1) Filling materials shall be excavated, transported and paved as simulta-    Contractor  See contract clause
and water          neously as possible, especially during rainy seasons.                                 802.04.1.
pollution      (2) Temporary drainage system shall be established and well maintained at    Contractor   See contract clause
construction sites, quarries and borrow sites during the construction                 802.05.2(1).
period.
(3) All necessary steps shall be taken to prevent earth and stone from  Contractor        See contract clause
silting up river, water channel, or the existing irrigation and drainage              802.02.2 and
systems. Temporary sedimentation basin shall be constructed, if                       802.05.03(2).
necessary.
(4) Waste water from construction activities shall not be allowed to be  Contractor       See contract clause
discharged into water bodies unless adequate treatment methods (septic                103.01.
tank, etc.) are used.
(5) Garbage and waste materials from construction sites and labor camps  Contractor       See contract clause
shall be collected and disposed of adequately.                                        802.02.13.
4. Conservation    (I) The use of farmland for borrow sites shall be minimized as much as  Contractor        See contract clause          tA
of farmland        possible. If excavation has to be done in farmland, top soil shall be                  802.04.3.
saved and returned after construction works are completed.
5. Risk of         (1) Quarries shall be located far away from residences, schools and hospi-    Contractor  See contract clause
accident           tals.                                                                                  802.03.1.
(2) Effective protection and watching measures shall be taken against  Contractor         See Special Conditions of
blasting, including timing of blasting, setting up of clear signals and               Contract.
warning lines, making security inspection, etc.
(3) Explosives shall be strictly managed to follow public security regula-  Contractor    See contract clause
tions.                                                                                801.03.4.
(4) Management of environmental protection and safety of quarries shall be   Contractor, Local
strengthened under the supervision of the environmental protection and    Public Security
public security authorities of local govemments.                  Depatment
(LPSD) and Envi-
ronmental Protec-
tion Bureau (EPB)



Env. Issues                          Action taken/to be taken                                  Responsibility      Remarks
6. Traffic         (1) Where appropriate, construction materials shall be transported by water   Contractor        See Special Conditions of
problem             in order to avoid road traffic congestion.                                                 Contract.
(2) Location of the piling yards of construction materials from water to  Contractor           See contract clause
land shall be selected to avoid the spillage of fine-grained materials into                801.03.1.
rivers.
(3) Traffic management shall be strengthened and adequate transportation  Contractor and
plans for construction materials shall be developed to minimize safety  local traffic admin-
risks and environmental impacts of extra traffic and construction     ist-ation sectors
vehicles on local roadside populations.
7. Historical      If historical remains of geological or archaeological interest are found, the  Contractor       See contract clause
remains        local government shall be informed of such discovery, and excavation shall                      802.01.1.
be stopped until identification of historical remains by the authorized
institution of preservation is completed.
C. Ovemtion
Phase
1. Transporta-     (1) Safety spot checks shall be carried out as appropriate on vehicles using    Future Expressway
tion                the highway.                                                          Administration
Department (EAD)
and Public Security
Sectors
(2) For transportation of harmful and dangerous materials, a 'dangerous
material transportation' licenses/permission shall be obtained.       EAD and Supervi-
sion Department of
Vehicle
(3) Highway Administration Bureau shall be equipped with instruments and    EAD
trained staff to effectively control the leakage/spill of dangerous materi-
als.



Env. Issues                        Action taken/to be taken                             Responsibility     Remarks
2. Noise and      (1) The minimum speed of vehicles on the highway shall be set at     EAD
air pollution     50 km/h.
(2) Vehicles running on the highway shall follow international driving  EAD
practice. Use of horns shall be restricted.
(3) Vehicles shall be equipped with silencers and purifiers of exhaust gases   Ministry of Com-
progressively and in accordance with relevant regulations.       munications
Supervision
(4) Vehicles not complying with the noise standard shall not be given  Department of
operating licenses.                                              Vehicle
(5) Public awareness and education shall be promoted to familiarize people   Traffic Department
both with the air pollution and noise problems caused by vehicles and
with related regulations.
(6) Based on the results of future monitoring, adequate measures, including   Environmental
noise barriers and noise proofing of buildings shall be taken in the  Monitoring Station
areas where noise exceeds the standard.
3. Others         (1) Highway drainage system shall be cleared and dredged regularly.  Maintenance Divi-
Ditches on slopes shall be backfilled and reinforced promptly when  sion of EAD
they are eroded by rain water.
(2) Use of non-leaded gasoline shall be encouraged. It is also encouraged    EPB
not to plant certain vegetables along the highway.
D. Environ-
mental moni-
torina
1. Construction    Regular monitoring on air pollution (TSP, CO and NO.), water pollution,  Expressway Envi-
period         noise and vibration will be carried out.                            ronmental Protec-
tion Sectors
(EEPU)
2. Operation      Regular monitoring on air pollution (TSP, CO, NO. and lead in TSP),  EAD and Environ-
period         water pollution, noise and vibration, and lead in soil and crops will be  mental Monitoring
carried out.                                                         Station



KEY ELEMENTS OF THE EAP FOR ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
Env. Issues                       Action taken/to be taken                            Responsibility     Remarks
A. Design Phase
1. Social dis-   (1) 140 crossroads and passages were designed for pedestrians and local  Zhejiang Provincial  See design documents.
ruption           vehicles to cross the highway safely.                           Highway Adminis-
tration Bureau
(ZPHAB)
2. Noise and      (1) All houses within 20 m from the reconstructed road shall be resettled.    ZPHAB    See Resettlement Action
air pollution     In addition, noise barriers shall be installed around the three schools             Plan.
along the road. The construction of new residences shall be prohibited
within 200 m from both sides of the road until 1998 when the Express-
way becomes available.
3. Flooding and   (I) Bridges shall be reconstructed to meet the requirement of draining  ZPHAB          See design documents.
navigation        floods and water transportation.
B. Construction                                                                                                                      00
Phase
I. Dust and air   (1) Construction materials such as earth, gravel and stones shall be piled  Contractor  See contract clause,
pollution         more than 100 m away from residential areas, villages and schools,                  Vol. 1, Section 2.VI. 18.1.
and will not be piled in the open air.                          Jiaxing Environ-
mental Protection
Bureau (Jiaxing
EPB)
(2) In dry weather, construction and piling sites shall be watered to control          See contract clauses,
dust (at least 4-5 times a day).                                                   Vol. 1, Section 2.VI.19.1,
20.1.
(3) Asphalt shall be heated and mixed in a closed roaster. Asphalt heating             See contract clauses,
factories shall be located at least 100 m away from villages and towns             Vol. 1, Section 2.VI. 19.1,  >  >
on the lee side of the wind direction.                                             20.1.
(4) Asphalt shall be mixed in a movable high-temperature container                     See contract clauses,
without heating source.                                                            Vol. 1, Section 2.VI. 19.1,
20.1.



Env. Issues                          Action taken/to be taken                                  Responsibility      Remarks
2. Noise           (1) Construction activities shall be stopped during nighttime (20:00-6:00)  Contractor          See contract clauses,
within 150 m from sensitive areas, such as near three schools at the                       Vol. 1, Section 2.VI.19.1,
roadside in Chongfu, Tongxiang, and Cardigon Market.                  Jiaxing EPB          20.1.
(2) All the construction machinery shall be equipped with proper sound
mufflers to reduce noise.
3. Traffic         (1) Detailed construction transportation plans shall be prepared to avoid  Contractor           See contract clauses,
problem             transportation of construction materials at peak traffic hours.                            Vol. 1, Section 2.VI. 19.1,
20.1.
(2) River transport shall be used where appropriate to avoid traffic      Jiaxing Highway      See EAP.
congestion on the road.                                               Administration
Bureau (JHAB)
(3) Temporary entrances and exits shall be set up at the crossroads to
reduce impact on passengers and local vehicles.
(4) Construction materials shall not be piled at any moment on National
Road 320.
4. Water           (1) Temporary septic tanks shall be installed to avoid direct discharge of  Contractor          See contract clauses,
pollution           waste water from construction and labor camp sites into rivers.       ESD                  Vol. 1, Section 2.VI.20. 1,
20.3.
(2) Garbage and other wastes from construction and labor camp sites shall
be collected and disposed of in an adequate manner.
(3) Fuel storage areas shall have surrounding drainage system and collec-
tion pools in order to avoid accidental leakage of fuel. Asphalt and
other chemicals shall be well managed and covered properly.
5. Soil erosion     (1) Measures will be taken to prevent irrigation canals from being filled  Contractor          See contract clause,
with or blocked up by construction materials.                                              Vol. 1, Section 2.VI.20.3.
(2) Excavated areas will be filled and pressed tightly as promptly as
possible.
(3) A sufficient number of escape channels shall be constructed at con-                                                   : 
struction, disposal and material borrow sites.                                                                        4s
(4) Top soil shall be saved and returned as much as possible after
construction works.



Env. Issues                       Action taken/to be taken                            Responsibility     Remarks
C. pemration
Phase
1. Noise and     (1) Houses within 20 m from the reconstructed road shall be resettled.  GAB             See EAP.
air pollution    (2) Vehicles shall be requested to equip with exhaust gas purifiers.  ZPHAB
(3) Construction of new residences will not be allowed within 200 m from
the road until 1998 when the Expressway becomes available.
(4) Noise barriers shall be installed around the Suburban Primary School
of Chongfu, Buyuan Middle School of Tongxiang and South Lake
Middle School of Jiaxing.
(5) Vehicles shall be requested to equip with sound mufflers. Use of
loudspeakers shall be prohibited.
2. Transpor-     (1) Permission shall be obtained for the transportation of hazardous sub-  Public Security  See EAP.
tation            stances.                                                         Bureau (PSB)                                  
(2) Stations shall be set up to check transportation of hazardous substances.  JHAB
3. Water          (1) Highway facilities such as garages and washing stations shall not be  IHAB         See EAP.
pollution         located near water bodies.
D. Environ-
mental
Monitoring
1. Construction    Regular monitoring of air pollution (CO, NO., TSP, dust and THC), water    ZPHAB      See EAP.
period        pollution (PH, DO, BODs, COD, SS and oil) and noise will be carried out.  Jiaxing EPB
2. Operation      Regular monitoring of air pollution (CO, NO1, TSP and THC), water   ZPHAB              See EAP.                  >
period         pollution (PH, DO, COD, SS and oil) and noise will be carried out.  Jiaxing EPB                                 Off



- 171 -                       ANNEX 4
LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.            This annex summarizes the land acquisition and resettlement impacts arising
from construction of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway (hereafter, "the Expressway") and for
road expansion and upgrading under the Road Safety Program (hereafter, "RSP"). The annex
is based on information collected during Bank missions and provided in the Resettlement Action
Plans (RAPs) prepared by the project implementing agencies (the Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway Construction Executive Commission or "HHEC", and the Zhejiang Provincial
Expressway Project Executive Commission, or "ZPEC", in Zhejiang). All resettlement activities
associated with the project are being carried out in accordance with these RAPs.
2.             The resettlement aspects of the project received considerable attention from the
Bank beginning in 1993 with the pre-appraisal and appraisal. The extensive preparation that has
resulted was warranted by the large scale resettlement impact, with more than 55,000 people
affected by the loss of land, employment, and assets under the project; the implementing
agencies' limited experience in preparing and implementing RAPs consistent with Bank
guidelines; and the Bank's increasing awareness and ability to assist the Chinese government
to address the complex issues related to resettlement.
3.            The advanced state of preparation of this project, with an estimated start of
major construction in September 1995, and early stage construction that began in 1994 has
resulted in implementation of the RAPs prior to Board approval. All resettlement activities in
Zhejiang Province (hereafter "Zhejiang") have been completed, and resettlement in Shanghai
Municipality (hereafter "Shanghai") would be carried out during June and July of 1995. The
early resettlement was implemented in a manner consistent with RAPs that were largely
satisfactory to the Bank but still under discussion. However, in order to ensure equity and
consistency of resettlement activities, Shanghai and Zhejiang are applying the principles,
eligibility criteria, and compensation standards of the final revised RAPs retroactively so that
all project affected people are resettled according to RAPs found acceptable to the Bank. In
Zhejiang, where this retroactive provision is relevant, all retroactive compensation will be paid
before the end of July 1995. In Shanghai, resettlement would be consistent with the final revised
RAP, so that the retroactive provision would not apply.
4.            Land acquisition and resettlement activities along the Pengbu-Wengmei advance
contracting section in Zhejiang were completed between October 1993 and April 1994. In order
to ensure that the land acquisition and resettlement for this section was carried out satisfactorily,
the Bank requested that an evaluation of the resettlement activities be prepared by an independent



- 172 -                        ANNEX 4
monitoring institution. The resulting report indicated satisfactory completion of relocation
activities, but cited delays in the process of providing eligible people with employment in
enterprises. The employment placement process for the Pengbu-Wengmei section was completed
by November 1994.
5.             The process and strategies used for resettlement in this advance contracting
section, and further, early lessons learned from implementation of resettlement in this section
and under other projects in China, were scrutinized and, in most areas, the approach to
resettlement strengthened as reflected in the final, revised RAPs for all project components.
Initially, the Bank's concerns about the large number of people affected by this project and the
limited previous experience with formulating RAPs warranted more intensive preparation of the
project's resettlement activities. In response to this concern, both Shanghai and Zhejiang, with
the assistance of specialized agencies, initiated a socio-economic survey of the project area in
late 1994 to: (a) verify the results of the earlier census surveys and (b) establish a baseline of
income levels and socio-economic conditions (including assets held) of the affected population.
The detailed data from socio-economic surveys became the basis for the final revised RAPs.
6.             During further preparation of the RAPs and in consultation with the Bank's
technical experts, other critical aspects of the resettlement process were addressed, including:
(a) the establishment of a policy framework to ensure that living standards all categories of
affected people are, at a minimum, restored; (b) the establishment of transparent mechanisms
to redress grievances of affected people and the procedure for appeals; (c) the necessity to
compensate all affected assets, and housing in particular, at full replacement values; (d) the
inclusion of contingencies, especially for inflation, in resettlement budgets; (e) the strengthening
of institutional arrangements for both internal and external monitoring of land acquisition and
resettlement activities; and (f) the planning and execution of detailed processes of job creation.
7.             All the above issues have been addressed in the RAPs prepared by Shanghai
and Zhejiang. Regarding the development of a RAP for the Road Safety Program, Zhejiang
authorities conveyed to the Bank that they would prepare the RAP covering all the sections of
the component as opposed to preparing a Phase I RAP for the project as a whole before project
approval and preparing separate Phase II RAPs for each of the specific sections before their
respective implementation. Zhejiang has accordingly submitted a RAP covering all the sections
to the Bank in May, 1995. This RAP has been found to be acceptable.
B. PRINCIPLES OF RESETruMENT
8.             In China, national, provincial, and municipal government principles guide the
process of resettlement, requiring that the incomes and standard of living of affected people are
restored or improved as soon as possible after the initial disruption caused by land acquisition.
These principles seek to (a) relocate houses and enterprises as close as possible to their initial
location; (b) maintain or improve the housing quality and size; (c) replace farm land through



- 173 -                       ANNEX 4
readjustment in the same village; and (d) arrange for jobs in nearby enterprises when farm land
cannot be replaced. These principles provide the basis for all RAPs in the proposed project.
Because of the pace of urban development in greater Shanghai, all surplus labor in Shanghai
section (the surplus labor is defined as the number of persons above the accepted labor to land
ratio for the affected village) will be resettled in new and existing enterprises.
C. PoIucY FRAMEWORK AND LEGAL PROVLgONS
The national regulations governing resettlement issues are as follows:
(a)   The Land Administration Law of the People's Republic of China for Land Acquisition
and Resettlement;
(b)   Regulations for Implementation of Land Administration of the People's Republic of
China;
The additional specific regulations governing resettlement in Shanghai Municipality are:
(a)   Administration Measures for Shanghai Land Construction;
(b)   Compensation standards and stipulations of various bureaus of Shanghai Municipal
Government; and
(c)   Administration Enforcement Regulations of Urban House Removal in Shanghai
Municipality.
The additional specific regulations governing resettlement issues in Zhejiang Province are:
(a)   Measures for Implementation of Land Administration of Zhejiang Province; and
(b)   City and county government stipulations for land acquisition and compensation
standards.
D. MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REPORTING
9.            Both internal and external monitoring units will be responsible for reporting and
analyzing the status of resettlement at all levels in order to facilitate timely and proper
distribution of compensation funds, and appropriate relocation and resettlement of affected
people. The scope of monitoring includes surveys and analyses based on completed land
acquisition and resettlement. The implementation of the Shanghai RAP will be monitored
internally by HHEC and externally by the Shanghai Federation of Social Sciences. The Urban



- 174 -                       ANNEX 4
and Rural Planning and Design Institute of Hangzhou University has been engaged by ZPEC
both for conducting baseline surveys and for independent monitoring and evaluation of
resettlement These agencies were originally retained to conduct socio-economic surveys and will
continue their involvement in the resettlement issues.
10.           The monitoring is designed to examine and monitor progress in implementation
of the RAPs, paying particular attention to the timeliness and adequacy of compensation funds,
proper relocation of resettlers, delivery of specified entitlement (including jobs and provisions
for meeting the needs of vulnerable people) to eligible resettlers, and the adequacy of measures
to restore the standards of living of the affected people. The independent monitoring institutions
will conduct surveys to determine the degree of success in meeting the objectives of the RAPs,
and will report their findings in writing to the HHEC, ZPEC, and ZPHAB, recommending
specific actions when warranted.
11.           A schedule for resettlement monitoring and reporting has been developed based
on the implementation schedules for land acquisition and resettlement, and has been agreed
between Shanghai and Zhejiang and the Bank. The first monitoring report on the Pengbu-
Wengmei section submitted to the Bank in September 1994, reported satisfactory completion of
new houses for all affected persons, but noted that job creation needed to be expedited. Future
monitoring reports will focus on the progress made in providing jobs to the eligible affected
persons. Monitoring reports covering the recently completed resettlement activities in Zhejiang
Province are under preparation; the first internal monitoring reports were submitted to the Bank
on June 15, 1995, and the first independent monitoring reports would be submitted to the Bank
by July 15, 1995. For resettlement activities in Shanghai, the first internal and independent
monitoring reports would be submitted to the Bank by July 15, 1995 and September 1, 1995,
respectively. After the initial reports, internal monitoring reports would be prepared and
submitted to the Bank every 3 months, and independent monitoring reports would be prepared
and submitted to the Bank every 6 months.
E. IMPACT OF THE PROJECT iN SHANGHAI
12.           Route Description.  The Shanghai segment of the Shanghai-Hangzhou
expressway will extend from Songjiang to Fengjing, covering a distance of 27.6 km out of a
total expressway length of 130.2 km. Resettlement will be necessary for the population residing
in 29 villages of 7 townships, located in the counties of Songjiang and Jin Shan. Efforts have
been made to minimize resettlement while designing the alignment.
13.           Assessment of Impact on Local Population. During the initial stages of
project development, the highway planning and design institute carried out the census surveys
of the affected people and properties. The Shanghai Federation of Social Science Societies
conducted a socioeconomic survey of the people and enterprises affected by land acquisition and



- 175 -                       ANNEX 4
resettlement, during October and November 1994. The socioeconomic survey report is available
in the project files.
14.           The expressway will require permanent acquisition of about 2,862 mu of land,
including land necessary for the reconstruction of houses and enterprises. An additional 529 mu
will be borrowed for temporary use during the construction phase. Virtually all of the land
required for the right-of-way (ROW) is cultivated or in economic use, as is generally true in
China. However, the land required for this project constitutes less than 0.5 percent of the
cultivated land in the two affected counties of Shanghai. Around 141 houses will need to be
relocated.
15.           An estimated 4,260 people will be directly affected by permanent land
acquisition for the main expressway and interchanges in Shanghai, comprising 2,823 people
affected by land acquisition, of whom, 1,814 people will be affected by the acquisition of farm
land, 604 people will be affected by house demolition (affecting 141 houses), and 833 people
will be affected by relocation of enterprises.
F. STRATEGIES FOR RESETLEMENT IN SHANGHAI
16.           The majority of individuals losing residences in Shanghai will be relocated
within their village. New sites have been selected by the local township and county land
departments, with the assistance of the villages. The distance between the original house and
the new house will not normally exceed 500 meters. The local government intends to construct
replacement housing; households will, however, have the option of making their own
arrangements for new housing. The local county governments will finalize transition period
arrangements for temporary housing during the period between demolition and construction of
replacement housing.  Y 1,200 per household will be provided for that purpose.  The
compensation budget for house demolition is Y 9.7 million.
17.           Enterprises to be demolished are being relocated in the vicinity of their original
sites, and workers affected by enterprise relocation retain jobs in the same enterprises.
Compensation amounts are decided by negotiation and are equal to the replacement value of
assets lost.  Enterprises are compensated for site purchase, removal and installation of
equipment. Demolition and reconstruction are the responsibility of the managing units. The
compensation budget for enterprise relocation is Y 4.62 million. The compensation budget
includes a provision for the payment of salaries during the period when work is stopped due to
relocation.
18.           People whose livelihood is affected by the loss of agricultural land are being
resettled by local governments. A portion of their total compensation assessed for crops and
trees is paid directly to the affected population. Since the local government is responsible for
resettling the affected people, the major part of the compensation as land compensation fees and



- 176 -                       ANNEX 4
resettlement subsidy goes to township or village governments. The compensation received by
the village and/or township governments is used collectively to develop villages-through, e.g.,
land reorganization-and establishing or expanding village or township enterprises. Local village
committees are expected to plan the investment of compensation monies in consultation with
their township government.
19.           The resettlement of farners in the Shanghai section will be accomplished
entirely through transfer to nonagricultural employment. The surplus labor will largely be
absorbed by existing township and village enterprises; however, a sizeable number of workers
will also be employed by new rural enterprises.
20.           Elderly persons (defined as males who are over 55 and females who are over
45 years of age and who have only a few years of education) the RAP provides for payment of
an old age pension at the current standard rate of Y 170 per month. The rate for old age
pension may be increased in future. The Shanghai authorities have agreed to consider the option
of using project contributions to the pension fund (Y 36,000 to 48,000 per person) to finance
self-employment for the more active among these older persons.  The compensation for
permanent land acquisition is nearly Y 119 million. This includes resettlement subsidies to be
paid to enterprises that agree to create jobs for resettlers. There is also a provision for payment
of a monthly unemployment stipend of Y 170 per person per month, until the time a job is
found.
21.           Temporary land acquisition (land borrowing) will affect nearly 529 mu of land.
Affected farmers will receive payments for lost crops from the township government, and the
land will be returned to the farmer by the contractor in the same condition as before. The
compensation budget for this item is Y 3.8 million.
22.           Compensation for all other assets includes payments for relocating tombs,
village irrigation systems, etc. In addition, the managing units of affected telecommunications
facilities and power lines are to be paid compensation for relocation.
G. COMPENSATION STANDARDS AND BUDGET IN SHANGHAI
23.           Compensation Standards. In accordance with the relevant policies and
regulations, compensation standards have been determined according to the following
categories: (1) land acquisition compensation; (2) compensation for relocation of houses and
enterprises; (3) compensation for relocation of infrastructure; and (4) compensation for
temporary land borrowing. A summary of compensation by category is shown below.
24.           Compensation Budget. The RAP provides cost estimates for the various
categories of expenditures related to land acquisition and resettlement. The cost estimates
include contingencies calculated at 2 percent of the total amount of compensation and provides



- 177 -                       ANNEX 4
10 percent allowance for inflation and risk. A provision for administrative costs equivalent to
two to three percent of total land acquisition and resettlement compensation has been established.
Contingencies of two percent of total compensation and labor resettlement expenses have also
been reserved in the overall budget.
COMPENSATION BUDGET IN ShANGHA
(Y million)
House relocation                                                        9.7
Enterprise relocation                                                  4.62
Permanent land acquisition                                            119.0
Temporary land acquisition                                              3.8
Telecommunication and power lines, etc.                                11.9
Administration Fees and Contingencies                                  13.8
Total                                                               173
H. IPLEMENTATION OF SEIANGHAI RAP
25.           The HHEC, on behalf of the Shanghai Municipal Government, is responsible
for implementing the RAP in a manner that ensures timely restoration of incomes and the
standards of living of the affected people.  Consequently, HHEC is responsible for
implementation, and monitoring of land acquisition and resettlement activities, coordinating,
negotiating agreements on resettlement with the other levels of government and allocating the
compensation budget.
26.           Responsibilities for resettlement at lower levels of Shanghai government are
divided as follows:
(a)   County Level. Songjiang and Jin Shan Counties assume the responsibility to arrange,
coordinate and supervise land acquisition and resettlement activities within the
framework of the RAP approved by the Municipal Government. The RAP, together
with municipal city agreements, direct counties to: undertake land acquisition and
resettlement for the expressway and access roads; fix compensation standards; give
directions to townships for agreements with affected population; and disburse
compensation funds to towns and townships.
(c)   Town or Township Level. The township level governments assume responsibility on
behalf of the county to: arrange, execute, and coordinate land acquisition and
resettlement activities; carry out land and relocation surveys; make compensation



- 178 -                       ANNEX 4
payments to affected individuals, enterprises, and villages; make arrangements for
rehabilitation of surplus labor; and rehabilitate civic infrastructure.
27.           Resettlement offices have been established in the affected counties and
townships. Each affected village has also assigned two to three persons from the village
committee to be responsible for land acquisition and relocation activities.
28.           Implementation Schedule. A timetable for resettlement activities in Shanghai
is provided below. During project preparation, Shanghai authorities confirmed that the schedule
for compensation and demolition of houses is designed to allow completion of replacement
housing before or just after demolition of houses. In the latter event, adequate transition
arrangements will be made for the affected persons: a sum of Y 1,200 per person has been
allocated for this purpose.
IPLEMETATION SCHEDULE IN SHANGHAI
Notify affected population                                  May - Jun 95
Approve plan for house relocation                           May - Jun 95
Sign land acquisition agreement with counties              June 95
Payment of compensation                                     June - Aug 95
Demolish and relocate houses                                June - Aug 95
Demolish and relocate enterprises                          June - Aug 95
Labor resettlement                                         Jun 95 - Jun 96
Hand-over ROW to contractors                                September 95
Remove and relocate utilities, etc.                         Jun 95 - Mar 96
Monitoring                                                  May 95 - Sep 96
I. IMPACT OF THE PROJECT IN ZHEJIANG
29.           Route Description. The Zhejiang segment of the expressway will extend from
Pengbu (near Hangzhou) to Fengjing (on the border with Shanghai Municipality), covering a
distance of 103 km. Resettlement will be necessary for the population residing in 106 villages
of 24 townships, located in Yuhang and Jiashan counties and the county-level cities of
Hangzhou, Haining, Tongxiang, and Jiaxing along the route. Efforts have been made to
minimize resettlement while designing the alignment. Advance construction of the Pengbu-
Wengmei section adjoining Hangzhou began in late February 1994.  In mid-1994, an



- 179 -                       ANNEX 4
independent monitoring and evaluation agency reviewed the resettlement. The independent
monitoring report confirmed that the physical relocation and construction of new houses had
been satisfactorily completed. However, the report recommended that the process of providing
jobs to eligible persons be accelerated. Resettlement of the population affected by the RSP
component has largely been completed according to the principles set out in the RAP.
30.           Assessment of the Impact on Local Population. The Rural and Urban
Planning and Design Institute of Hangzhou University conducted a socioeconomic survey of the
persons, properties and enterprises to be affected by land acquisition and relocation in the
Zhejiang section during October and November 1994. The detailed survey report is available
in project files. A total of 11,108 mu of land has been permanently acquired for the expressway
ROW in Zhejiang Province. Over 2,361 mu has been acquired temporarily for use during the
construction phase. Virtually all of the land required for ROW is cultivated or in economic use,
as is generally true in China. However, this constitutes less than 1.5 percent of the cultivated
land in Zhejiang Province. In August 1994, the demolition of the 1,436 houses and relocation
of affected households began. For the RSP component, 1618 mu of land has been permanently
acquired, resulting in about 0.3% reduction of cultivated land in the affected area.
31.           The population affected by the permanent acquisition of land for the expressway
construction-including all persons living in houses to be relocated and workers in relocated
enterprises-is 38,047 persons. Of these, 5,138 people are affected by house relocation; 740
are affected due to enterprises relocation and 6,425 people need to be economically rehabilitated
(have their incomes restored). Of these, about 308 persons will be affected only by house
demolition; and 31,861 persons will be affected by land acquisition only. The need for economic
rehabilitation of local groups is determined based on a maximum allowable ratio of labor to
cultivated land, as governed by public policy. About 14,000 people are affected by the
permanent land acquisition for the RSP. Of these, 384 people are affected by the loss of house
only and 786 are affected by relocation of houses and enterprises.
J. STRATEGIES FOR REsETmLEMENT IN ZHEJIANG
32.           The majority of individuals losing residences are being relocated within their
village, with compensation set at "full replacement cost" in order to ensure that housing
standards are maintained. House owners are responsible for the demolition of their property as
well as any reconstruction involving the scrap materials. Sites for rebuilding the houses were
finalized and compensation for houses paid to the affected families before they were required
to move from their original houses. The compensation budget for house demolition is Y 92.18
million for the expressway component, and Y 12.23 million for the RSP component including
a provision for mitigating the hardship caused by demolition in advance of completion of
replacement housing.



- 180 -                      ANNEX 4
SUMMARY OF LAND ACQUITON AND REsETSMENTF  I MPACr
FOR ZHEIIANG EXPRESSWAY SECTION
Pengbu-     Wengmei-
Wengmei      Fengjing
section      section     Total
Length of section (km)                     13.2         89.4      102.6
Permanent land acquisition (mu)                                11,108
Temporary land acquisition (mu)           277        2,085      2,362
Houses to be relocated (number)                                 1,436
Houses to be relocated (m)                                    291,961
Persons affected by permanent land
acquisition (including house and
enterprise relocation)                                        38,047
Persons losing house only                                         308
Persons affected by both house removal
and land acquisition                                           5,138
Persons affected by enterprise relocation                         740
Total compensation budget (including
administration fee and contingencies)
(Y million)                                                    294
33.           Enterprises to be demolished are compensated for site purchase, removal and
installation of equipment, building, demolition and relocation and for the losses resulting from
stopping of production. All workers affected by relocation of enterprises will remain employed
in the same enterprises.  Sites for relocation of affected enterprises were finalized after
consultation with the management of the affected enterprises and in accordance with the
development plans of the respective townships and villages. The compensation budget is



-181-                         ANNEX 4
Y 26.21 million for the expressway component, and Y 2.41 million for the RSP component,
including a provision for the compensation of work interruption.
34.           People whose livelihood is affected by the loss of agricultural land are being
rehabilitated through land redistribution (provision of new land) or employment in non-
agricultural enterprises. Compensation for standing crops and trees was paid directly to the
affected people. This task, the major share of resettlement compensation (land compensation
fees and resettlement subsidies) is retained and managed by county, township, or village
governments. Local village committees and township governments jointly plan the investment
of these compensation funds. According to Chinese practice, village and township govemments
play an important role in resettlement by initiating special development projects, for example,
involving land reorganization, aquaculture and village and township enterprises.
35.           Resettlement offarmers was achieved through readjustment and redistribution
of land to the extent feasible. Where this was not possible, remaining laborers are securing jobs
in state and collective enterprises or have elected the option of cash compensation for self
employment. The majority of the economically active population affected by permanent land
acquisition will remain primarily engaged in agriculture, after readjustment of land. A total of
3,374 enterprise jobs was required to resettle full-time farmers in areas of the route where
urbanization has substantially reduced farm land, such as Hangzhou City and Yuhang County
(in the Pengbu-Wengmei section). The compensation for permanent land acquisition is over
Y 125 million for the expressway component, and Y 14.5 million for the RSP component. This
includes resettlement subsidies to be paid to enterprises that agree to create jobs for resettlers.
36.           Provisions have been made for elderly unskilled people considered unsuitable
for enterprise jobs. They are being paid an old-age pension of about Y 100 per month.
37.           Farmers affected by temporary land acquisition (land borrowing) will be paid
compensation for lost crops and for the loss of production for the duration of the temporary land
borrowing, and their land will be returned to them by the contractor in its original condition.
38.            Compensation for other assets includes payments for relocating tombs. In
addition, the managing units of affected schools, telecommunications and power lines were paid
compensation for relocation of their facilities and assets.
K. COMPENSATION STANDARDS AND BUDGET IN ZHEJIANG
39.            Compensation Standards.  In accordance with the relevant policies and
regulations, compensation standards have been developed for the following categories:
(1)   land requisition;



- 182 -                          ANNEX 4
(2)   borrowed land;
(3)   building relocation;
(4)   power and telecommunication infrastructure; and
(5)   other infrastructure.
The total amounts of compensation paid for these categories were as follows:
COMPENSATION BUDGET FOR ZHEJIANG SECTION OF SHANGHAI-HANGZHOU EXPRESSWAY
(Y million)
Express-
Pengbu-    Wengmei-    way
Wengmei    Fengjing     Total     RSP
House relocation                             20.17      72.01      92.18       12.23
Enterprise relocation                         6.80       19.41     26.21       2.41
Permanent land acquisition                   54.16      71.01      125.17      14.48
Temporary land acquisition                    4.65       9.59      14.24
Telecommuniication and power lines, etc.      5.90       9.12       15.02      0.52
Administration fees                           2.16       4.63       6.79       0.45
Physical Contingency"                         4.69       9.29       13.98       1.66
Total                                     98.53     195.06     293.59      31.75
Includes survey, monitoring and evaluation costs and other allowances
40.             Compensation Budget.  The RAP provides cost estimates for the various
categories of expenses related to land acquisition and resettlement. Special provisions has been
made for contingencies at the rate of 5 percent of total land acquisition and resettlement cost,
in order to meet any unforeseen expenses. Areas differ in the compensation per unit of land and
per household because of urban land values, productivity differences due to cropping patterns,
quality of soils, etc.
L. IMPLEMENTATION OF ZHEJIANG RAP
41.             ZPEC, on behalf of the Zhejiang Provincial Government, is responsible for
overall implementation of resettlement plans, and specifically for the timely restoration of living
standards and income.  Consequently, ZPEC  is involved in negotiating agreements on
resettlement with the various levels of government, allocating the compensation budget, and
coordinating the implementation and monitoring of land acquisition and resettlement activities.
It has also the responsibility to implementation and monitoring of land acquisition and
resettlement activities. The corresponding institutional responsibility for the RSP is with the
ZPHAB.



-183 -                           ANNEX 4
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE IN ZHEJIANG FOR LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT IN ZHEJIANG
SECTION OF SHANGHAI-HANGZHOU EXPRESSWAY
Pengbu- Wengmei   Wengmei-Fengjing   RSP
Sign land acquisition agreement with village  Oct - Dec 93  Aug - Sep 94    Sep - Oct 94
Pay compensation for land acquisition   Oct - Dec 93      Sep - Oct 94   Sep - Oct 94
Land readjustment or resettlement into enterprises Jan - Feb 94  Oct 94 - Mar 95  Oct 94 - Feb 95
Issue notice of demolition              Nov - Dec 93      August 1994    Oct 94
Sign compensation agreement             Nov - Dec 93      Aug - Sep 94    Oct 94
Pay compensation for relocation         Nov 93 - Jan 94   Aug - Sep 94    Oct 94
Building relocation                     Feb 93 - May 94    Sep 94 - Feb 95  Dec 94 - Feb 95
Reconstruction of structures            Feb - Jun 94      Oct 94 - Apr 95  Dec 94 - Apr 95
Hand over ROW to contractors            Dec 93            May 95         May 95
Monitoring                              Feb 94 - Jun 96   Jan 95 - June 96  Apr 95 - Jun 96
42.             Responsibilities for resettlement at lower levels of Zhejiang government are
divided as follows:
(a)    City Level. The cities of Hangzhou and Jiaxing assume responsibility to arrange,
coordinate and supervise land acquisition and resettlement activities within the
framework of the RAP approved by the provincial government.
(b)    County Level. The RAP and city agreements provide the direction for the counties
to: undertake land acquisition and resettlement for the expressway and access roads;
fix compensation standards; direct townships in formatting agreements with the
affected population; and allocate compensation funds to towns and townships.
(c)    Town or Township Level. Township, on behalf of the county authorities, arrange,
execute, and coordinate resettlement activities, undertake land and relocation surveys,
and make compensation payments to affected individuals, enterprises, and villages.
43.             Resettlement offices have been established in the affected cities, counties and
townships. Each affected village will also assign 2-3 persons to be responsible for land
acquisition and relocation activities. Administrative costs were equivalent to 2 percent of the
estimated costs of land acquisition and resettlement. A contingency fund equivalent to 5 percent
of compensation plus administrative costs has been established.
44.             Implementation  of Resettlement for the  Pengbu-Wengmei Section.
Construction of the Pengbu-Wengmei section began in February 1994. Compensation to affected
persons was paid during the period October 1993 to January 1994. Structures were demolished



- 184 -                        ANNEX 4
about three months after payment of the first installment (between February and April 1994).
Construction of new houses was completed in August 1994. The compensation for house
relocation included a hardship allowance for the period between house demolition and completion
of new housing. Farm land was acquired between October and December, 1993; compensation
to local government and farmers was paid during the same period. Acquisition of and
compensation for borrowed land was completed between January and March, 1994. The process
of resettling surplus labor into enterprises is complete.
45.           Implementation of Resettlement for the Wengmei-Fengjing Section. Land
acquisition and demolition of structures was carried out between September 1994 and February
1995. The major part of compensation payments were made by December, 1994. Readjustment
of land and resettlement of surplus labor has been completed.
46.           Implementation of Resettlement for the Road Safety Program.  Land
acquisition, demolition and reconstruction have been carried out between September 1994 and
April 1995.  The major part of compensation payments were made in October 1994.
Readjustment of land and resettlement of surplus labor has been completed.



-185-              ANNEX 5
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
1.    This annex summarizes the estimated project cost and financing arrangements for the
project. The costs were estimated on appraisal in November 1993, and updated after devaluation
of the yuan in 1994. The following inflation rates were assumed:
Foreign        Local
1994          3.00%         25.00%
1995          6.90%         14.00%
1996          2.00%         10.50%
1997          1.60%         8.50%
1998          2.10%         7.00%
1999          2.40%         6.50%
2000          2.20%          6.20%
2001          2.50%         6.20%
2.    The assumed exchange rate is Y 8.5 per dollar (the effective exchange rate as of January
1995). Taxes and duties applicable to civil works and goods were included in the cost estimates.
The project entities in Shanghai and Zhejiang have included such taxes in their own cost
estimates and made provision for these costs.
3.    Taxes and duties on equipment and works have been included in the cost estimates. The
taxes and duties on equipment comprise import duties at an average rate of 14.5% of CIF price
for equipment to be procured in Shanghai, and 20% for equipment to be procured in Zhejiang.
Value-added taxes would also apply to equipment purchases, at a rate of 17% of the local price
of equipment in both provinces. Taxes on civil works were estimated at 3.5 % of base cost. The
IBRD loan would not be used to finance taxes and duties.



-186-                       ANNEX 5
SHANGHAI-ZEIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY La
Local     Foreign     Total       Local   Foreign    Total  Foreign
(Y million)                    (S million)            %
A. Works
ThSTanghai Section
(a) C~vil works                  578.90     517.67     1,096.57      68.11   60.90    129.01     47%
C5) E&M supply and installation   14.40      13.40       27.80        1.69     1.58     3.27     48%
2. Zegiang Section
(a) Civil works                1,020.37   1,020.37     2,040.74     120.04  120.04   240.08      50%
(b)E&Msupply& installtion         23.16      92.65       115.81       2.72    10.90    13.62     80%
3. Road Safety Program               96.77      41.47       138.24       11.38    4.88     16.26     30%
Subtotal                1,733.60   1,685.56     3,419.15      203.94  198.30   402.24     49%
B. Eauimernt
1. Shanghai Section
()peration & maintenance        2.73      24.59        27.32       0.32    2.89       3.21    90%
Laboratories                    0.46       4.14         4.60       0.05    0.49      0.54     90%
Research                        0.60       5.36         5.95       0.07    0.63       0.70    90%
Environment                     0.03       0.28         0.31       0.00    0.03      0.03     90%
Other                           0.38       3.44         3.82       0.04    0.40      0.45     90%
2.     iang Section
(a) Operation & maintenance        4.10      36.87        40.97       0.48    4.34      4.82     90%               p
(b) Laboratories                   0.62       5.62         6.24       0.07    0.66      0.73     90%
(c) Research                    0.16       1.42         1.58       0.02    0.17       0.19    90%
(d) Environiment                0.06       0.53        0.59        0.01    0.06      0.07     90%
(e) Other                       0.49       4.44         4.93       0.06    0.52      0.58     90%
3. RoadSafety Program                 0.19        1.68        1.87        0.02    0.20      0.22    90%
Subtotal                        9.81      88.36        98.17        1.15   10.40    11.55     90%
C. Technical Assistance
1. Lmp ementation Support /b
I. Snamghai Section                  17.01      17.01        34.02       2.00    2.00      4.00    50%
b. Zhejiang Section                  29.15      29.15        58.30       3.43    3.43      6.86     50%
c. Road Safety Program                2.26       0.00        2.26        0.27    0.00      0.27      0%
Subtotal                       48.42      46.16        94.58       5.70    5.43    11.13      49%
2. Institutional Development /c
a. Shanghai Section                  0.77       4.38         5.15       0.09    0.52       0.61    85%
b. Zhejiang Section                  4.36       6.96        11.32        0.51    0.82      1.33    62%
C. Road Safety Program               0.71       2.86         3.57        0.08    0.34      0.42    80%
Subtotal                        5.84      14.20        20.04        0.69    1.68     2.36     71%
BaseCost/a                            1,797.67   1,834.27     3,631.94     211.47  215.80   427.27    51%
Physical Contingency id                 178.20     173.18       351.38       20.96   20.37    41.33     49%
Price Contingency/e                   1.191.83     298.68     1.490.51      140.22   35.14    175.36    20%
E. La nd Acguisition & Resettlement If
I. Shanghal Section                 172.96       0.00       172.96       20.35    0.00    20.35       0%
2. Zhejiang Section                 293.59        0.00      293.59       34.54    0.00    34.54       0%
3. Road Safety Program               31.56        0.00       31.56        3.71    0.00      3.71      0%
Subtotal                     498.11        0.00      498.11       58.60    0.00    58.60       0%
Taxes and Duties I&                226.06       0.00       226.06       26.59    0.00    26.59      0%
Tot lProject Cost                  3.891.86   2.306.13     6.197.99     457.85   271.31    729.16    37%
/a     Base cost were estimted in yuan. The assumed exchange rate is Y 8.5 per dollar.
&      Comprises consultant services for construction supervision.
Comprises consultant services for technical assistance and training.
I     nPhysical contingencies were esigmated at 10.00% of the cost of works and construction supervision.
/i     Price contingencies asasumed the following rates of inflation:
1994      1995       1996       1997      1998       1999       2000       2001
USS       3.TU      6.90       2.WW       1.DWT      2.W        2.4U30     2.M)       2.3W
Yuan    25.00%    14.00%      10.50%      8.50%      7.00%      6.50%      6.20%      6.20%
/f      land acquisition and resettlement figures include contingencies.
/g      Includes import duties and valued-added taxes on equipment and taxes on civil works.



-187-                 ANNEX 5
SHANGHAI-HANGZHOU EXPRESSWAY
COST SUMMARY FOR SHANGHAI SECTION La
Local  Foreign  Total        Local  Foreign  Total    Foreign
-------Y million--- - -    -------US$ million----       %
A. Works
(a) Civil works         578.90  517.67  1,096.57       68.11   60.90  129.01       47
(b) E&M                  14.40   13.40    27.80         1.69    1.58    3.27       48
B. Equipment
(a) Operation & Maintenance 2.73   24.59    27.32       0.32   2.89    3.21        90
(b) Laboratories          0.46    4.14      4.60       0.05    0.49    0.54        90
(c) Research/PMS          0.60    5.36      5.96        0.07    0.63    0.70       90
(d) Environment           0.03    0.28      0.31        0.00   0.03    0.03        90
(e) Other                 0.38    3.44      3.82        0.04   0.40    0.44        90
C. Technical Assistance
1. Implementation Support /b 17.01   17.01    34.02    2.00   2.00    4.00         50
2. Institutional development /c
(a) Overseas           0.26    4.04      4.30       0.03   0.48    0.51         94
(b) Local              0.51    0.34      0.85       0.06   0.04    0.10         40
Base Cost               615.28  590.26  1,205.54       72.37  69.44  141.81        49
Physical Contingencies /d   61.03   54.81   115.84      7.18   6.45    13.63       47
Price Contingencies /e  436.73   99.92   536.65        51.38   11.76   63.14       19
Land Acquisition and
Resettlement /f      172.96    0.00   172.96       20.35    0.00   20.35         0
Taxes and duties /g        77.91    0.00    77.91        9.17   0.00    9.17         0
Total Cost             1.363.91  744.99  2.108.90     160.45  87.65  248.10        35
/a Base costs were estimated in yuan. The assumed exchange rate is 8.50 yuan per dollar.
Figures are rounded.
/b Comprises consultant services for construction supervision.
/c Comprises consultant services for training.
/d Physical contingencies were estimated at 10.00% of the cost of works and construction supervision.
/_ Price contingencies assumed the following rates of inflation:
1994  1995    1996   1997  1998  1999   2000   2001
US$            3.10%  6.90%   2.00%  1.60%  2.10% 2.40%  2.20%  2.50%
Yuan         25.00% 14.00%  10.50%  8.50%  7.00% 6.50%  6.20%  6.20%
/f Land acquisition and resettlement figures include contingencies.
Iy Comprises import duties on equipment at a rate of 14.5%, value-added taxes on equipment at a rate of 17%,
and taxes on works at a rate of 3.5%. The IBRD loan would not finance taxes and duties.



-188-              ANNEX 5
SHANGHA-HANGZHOU EXPRESSWAY
FINANCING PLAN FOR SHANGHAI SECTIONL&
Base cost, including
contingencies /b   Financing (US$ million)    IBRD
Category                (US$ million)    IBRD      MOC      SM        %
Civil works and E&M        205.94        50.91    10.82   144.21    25%
Equipment                    5.76         2.21     --        3.55    38%
Technical Assoistance
Implementation support /b  6.13          6.13     --       0.00   100%
Institutional development /_    0.75     0.75     --       0.00   100%
Land acquisition and
resettlement /d           20.35         --       --       20.35     0%
Taxes and duties Le          9.17         --       --        9.17     0%
Total cost, including
contingencies /f         248.10         6Q0.0    10.82   177.28    24%
/a Figures are rounded.
/b Comprises consultant services for construction supervision.
/I Comprises consultant services for training.
/d Land acquisition and resettlement figures include contingencies.
Je Comprises import duties on equipment at a rate of 14.5%, value-added taxes on
equipment at a rate of 17%, and taxes on works at a rate of 3.5%.
/f Contingencies were calculated as described in the notes to the summary cost tables.



-189-                 ANNEX 5
SHANGHAI-HANGZHOU EXPRESSWAY
COSr SUMMARY FOR ZHEJIANG SECTION /g
Local   Foreign    Total    Local Foreign   Total  Foreign
---------- Y million------  -----$US million -----
A. Works
(a) Civil works          1,020.37  1,020.37  2,040.74   120.04  120.04  240.08    50
(b) E&M                     23.16    92.65    115.81      2.72   10.90   13.62    80
B. Equipment
(a) Operation & Maintenance    4.10    36.87    40.97     0.48    4.34    4.82    90
(b) Laboratories             0.62     5.62     6.24       0.07    0.66    0.73    90
(c) Research/Pavement
Management System       0.16      1.42     1.58      0.02    0.17    0.19    90
(d) Environment             0.06      0.53     0.59       0.01    0.06    0.07    90
(e) Other                   0.49      4.44     4.93       0.06    0.52    0.58    90
C. Technical Assistance
1. Implementation Support /b   29.15    29.15    58.30    3.43    3.43    6.86    50
2. Institutional Development /_   4.36  6.96   11.32      0.51    0.82    1.33    81
Base Cost                1,082.46  1,198.00  2,280.47   127.35  140.94  268.29    53
Physical Contingencies /d  107.27    114.22   221.49     12.62   13.44   26.06    52
Price Contingencies /_     698.91    192.40   891.31     82.22   22.63  104.85    22
Land Acquisition and If
Resettlement             293.59      0.00   293.59     34.54    0.00   34.54     0
Taxes and duties /g        139.98     0.00    139.98     16.47    0.00   16.47     0
Total Cost               2,322.22  1,504.62  3,826.84    273.20  177.01  450.21    39
/a Base costs were estimated in yuan. The assumed exchange rate is 8.5 yuan per dollar.
/b Comprises consultant services for construction supervision.
/_ Comprises consultant services for training.
/_ Physical contingencies were estimated at 10.00% of the cost of works and construction supervision.
/_ Price contingencies assumed the following rates of inflation:
1994    1995     1996    1997    1998    1999    2000   2001
Foreign   3.10%    6.90%    2.00%    1.60%    2.10%    2.40%    2.20%   2.50%
Domestic 25.00%   14.00%   10.50%   8.50%    7.00%    6.50%    6.20%   6.20%
/f Land acquisition and resettlement figures include contingencies.
/g Comprises import duties on equipment at a rate of 20%, value-added taxes on equipment at a rate of 17%,
and taxes on works at a rate of 3.5%. The IBRD loan would not finance taxes and duties.



-190-                 ANNEX 5
SHNGHAi-HANGZHOU EXPRESSWAY
FINANCING PLAN FOR ZHEJIANG SECTIONLA
Base cost, including
contingencies /b      Financine (US$ million)       IBRD
Category                      (US$ million)      IBRD        MOC        ZP         %
Civil works and E&M             379.02           169.83      47.29     161.90     45%
Equipment                         7.93            7.92       --          0.01     100%
Technical Assistance
Implementation Support /b       10.50           10.50       --         0.00     100%
Institutional development /_     1.76            1.76       --         0.00     100%
Land acquisition and
resettlement /d                 34.54            -          -         34.54       0%
Taxes and duties /e               16.47                      --         16.47       0%
Total cost, including
contingencies If               450.21          190.00      47.29     212.92      42%
/.  Figures are rounded.
lb  Comprises consultant services for construction supervision.
l_  Comprises consultant services for training.
I_  Land acquisition and resettlement figures include price contingencies.
It Comprises import duties on equipment at a rate of 20%, value-added taxes on equipment at a rate of 17%,
and taxes on works at a rate of 3.5 %. The IBRD loan would not finance taxes and duties.
/f  Contingencies were calculated as described in the notes to the summary cost tables.



-191-                 ANNEX 5
ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
COST SUMMARY /a
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total    Foreign
------- Y million--------       $USnillion----          %
A. Works
(a) Civil works        96.77    41.47   138.24   11.38      4.88    16.26      30
(b) E&M                 0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      80
B. Equipment                  0.19     1.68     1.87    0.02      0.20     0.22      90
C. Technical Assistance
Implementation support /b  2.26     0.00     2.26    0.27      0.00     0.27       0
Institutional development /c   0.71  2.86    3.57    0.08      0.34     0.42      80
Base Cost                 99.93    46.02   145.94   11.75      5.42    17.17      32
Physical Contingencies Id  9.90     4.15    14.05     1.17     0.49     1.65      30
Price Contingencies /e    56.19     6.36    62.55    6.61      0.75     7.36       10
Land Acquisition and
Resettlement /f          31.56     0.00    31.56    3.71      0.00     3.71       0
Taxes and Duties /g        8.17     0.00     8.17    0.96      0.00     0.96       0
Total Cost               205.74    56.52   262.26   24.20      6.65    30.85      22
/a Base costs were estimated in yuan. The assumed exchange rate is 8.5 yuan per dollar.
/k Comprises consultant services for construction supervision.
/c Comprises consultant services for technical assistance and training.
Id Physical contingencies were estimated at 10.00% of the cost of works and construction supervision.
/e Price contingencies assumed the following rates of inflation:
1994    1995      1996    1997      1998      1999    2000   2001
Foreign    3.10%    6.90%    2.00%    1.60%    2.10%    2.40%    2.20%   2.50%
Domestic  25.00%   14.00%    10.50%    8.50%    7.00%    6.50%    6.20%   6.20%
/f Land acquisition and resettlement figures include contingencies.
/g Comprises import duties on equipment at a rate of 20%, value-added taxes on equipment at a rate of 17%,
and taxes on works at a rate of 3.5%. The IBRD loan would not finance taxes and duties.



-192-              ANNEX 5
ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
FINANCING PLAN /a
Base cost, including
contingencies /_    Financing (US$ million)  IBRD
Category                (US$ million)     IBRD      MOC      ZPG    %
Civil works                 24.99          8.81    ---      16.18    35%
Equipment                    0.25          0.25    ---      0.00   100%
Technical Assistance
Implementation support /b   0.44          0.44    ---      0.00   100%
Institutional development /c    0.50      0.50    ---      0.00   100%
Land acquisition and
resettlement /d             3.71        ---       ---      3.71     0%
Taxes and duties /e          0.96          --       --      0.96      0%
Total cost, including
contingencies /f           30.85         10.00     0.00   20.85    32%
/a  All figures are rounded.
/b  Comprises consultant services for construction supervision.
/_  Comprises consultant services for technical assistance and training.
/d  Land acquisition and resettlement figures include price contingencies.
/e  Comprises import duties on equipment at a rate of 20%, value-added taxes on equipment
at a rate of 17%, and taxes on works at a rate of 3.5%. The IBRD loan would not
finance taxes and duties.
/f  Contingencies were calculated as described in the notes to the summary cost tables.



- 193 -                       ANNEX6
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.          This annex sets forth the major actions required for implementation of the
project and description of the key agencies for implementation. For the Shanghai-
Hangzhou Expressway component, the annex describes: implementing agencies (pages 1-
3); implementation schedule (page 4); construction supervision arrangements (page 3);
and procurement processes (pages 5-6). For the Road Safety Program component, the
annex addresses organizational arrangements (page 7) and implementation schedule (page
8).
2.          The annex also includes a schedule for resettlement monitoring (page 9) and
a listing of project performance monitoring indicators to be used during project
implementation (pages 9-13).
Implementation of the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway Component
3.          Implementing Agencies. The Shanghai section of the Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway (hereafter, "the Expressway") would be implemented by the Shanghai
Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway Construction Executive Commission ("Hu Hang"
Expressway Commission or HHEC). Six divisions would be established in HHEC for
project implementation: chief engineer, project management (comprising two units
responsible for quality, progress, and investment for the duration of the project),
preliminary phase (project formulation, planning design, and land acquisition and
resettlement), financial management, material resources (coordination with contractors),
and public affairs.
4.          The HHEC  reports directly to the Shanghai Highway Management
Department and to the Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau (SMEAB):
these planning and financial staff of these agencies were directly involved in the
preliminary phases of project development. The staff of HHEC were drawn from these
municipal agencies and from technical institutions in Shanghai. The HHEC was formally
established by the end of May 1994, and is expected to achieve its total staff complement
of 45 by July 1995.
5.          The Zhejiang section of the Expressway would be implemented by the
Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Construction Executive Commission (ZPEC), the same



- 194 -                       ANNEX 6
agency that is implementing the Bank-financed Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project (with
construction of the Hangzhou-Ningbo Expressway as the primary infrastructure
component). Implementation of the Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project (hereafter, "the
ongoing project") is currently satisfactory, but in 1994 there were implementation
difficulties resulting from serious construction quality problems and non-compliance with
the required submission of a plan for monitoring the socio-economic impact of
resettlement.
6.          A technical committee was convened by Zhejiang Province to address the
project performance and quality problems for the ongoing project.  The committee
determined that a major cause of quality problems was ZPEC's decision in September 1993
to sign contracts with local governments of six cities and counties along the alignment,
delegating some of its authority and responsibility for construction.  The resulting
supervision organization has been found weak and ineffective due to lack of competent
technical personnel, and the progress and performance of some civil works contracts has
suffered, with poor quality that is particularly evident on stone/soil embankments. The
committee also concluded that the contractor's internal quality control system was not
working.
7.          The recommendations of the technical committee related to contractor
performance included that: Zhejiang withhold payments until rejected work is corrected;
the resident engineer's position to be filled immediately with a more qualified highway
engineer; contractors strengthen their internal quality control system and replace staff;
contractors intervene to stop substandard works; contractors build up equipment and
manpower at the work sites to accelerate progress of remedial works; and performance
of quality inspectors should be improved. A review of performance for the ongoing
project also revealed that a large number of local staff (contractors' staff) did not have
previous experience in expressway construction.
8.          Zhejiang authorities have, in response to these findings, taken steps to
improve construction quality. At the project level, Zhejiang authorities have asked the
management of contracting firms to strengthen staffing and increase equipment and have
strengthened project monitoring covering number of staff per contract (planned and actual,
including senior staff), pace of works, use of materials, and use of equipment. Zhejiang
authorities have also addressed the supervision weaknesses with contracting firms' senior
management, central government authorities, and the governor in Zhejiang Province. For
the Zhejiang section of the Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project, Zhejiang Province have
proposed to recruit experts from domestic supervision firms to strengthen the base of
related supervision experience.
9.          The project management arrangements for the Zhejiang expressway section
of the Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project include about 100 local staff, including 20 to
be based in Hangzhou and 80 to be based in Jiaxing. The Zhejiang supervision team is



- 195 -                       ANNEX6
currently staffed with 20 personnel, who have been involved in supervision of the Pengbu-
Wengmei (advance contracting) section. A main office for supervision of the Zhejiang
expressway section would be established in Jiaxing (northern Zhejiang). A core group of
seven engineers who have been actively involved in project preparation would also work
on supervision of the Zhejiang expressway section. The staff in Hangzhou would, inter
alia, be responsible for civil works engineering, accounting, and land acquisition and
resettlement. Qualified local supervision companies are being retained to provide field
supervision staff as needed during construction.
10.         A Joint Supervision Team  (JST) will be formed for supervision of
expressway construction in both Shanghai and Zhejiang. The team would consist of
international construction supervision consultants, technical personnel from Shanghai
Municipality and Zhejiang Province, and experts from domestic technical institutions and
construction supervision companies.
11.         The construction supervision team in Shanghai would share office space with
HHEC but maintain separate operations. The Shanghai supervision organization twelve
staff, including two chief engineers, one for construction and one for supervision. The
supervision team in Shanghai would be drawn from staff of the highway division in
SMEAB, Tongxi University, Shanghai Municipal College, and Shanghia Municipal
Research Institute. SM intends to establish a construction supervision company, subject
to approval of MOC, that would become involved in project implementation. The
company is already functioning, and has been authorized by SMEAB to supervise
construction of a highway from Shanghai to Nanjing.
12.         Field supervision in the Shanghai section will be carried out in groups
headed by four resident engineers; a chief engineer from SMEAB will serve as chief
supervision engineer. Shanghai's construction supervision department comprises forty
staff: twelve office staff, plus four resident teams in the field (three eight-person teams
for civil works, and one four-person team for traffic engineering). Additional staff would
work on quality control and other specialized tasks (eg. laboratory tasks). A pre-
construction domestic training tour and lectures are planned for local staff to gain
experience in supervision.
13.        Implementation Schedule. The following chart illustrates the phasing of
major activities for the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway component:



Implementation Schedule for Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
1993      1994       19951   1996          1997       1998       1999       2000       2001
Songiiang-Fengiing Section (Shanghai)                   T                           I     I    r                          T     r
Land acquisition and resettlement
Soft soil test section                                                     - - C1.2F1J 
Expressway construction and ancillary works                             --
Wengmei-Fengiinn Section (Zhejiang)
Land acquisition and resettlement                                                                       EV 17K             I
Expressway and access road construction
Pengbu-Wengmei Section (Zhejiang)                                              T_,        ,1177
Land acquisition and resettlement
Expressway construction
T_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Construction supervision (Shanghai and Zhejiang)      I                                                           i
SupplyandinstallationofE&Mequipment
(Shanghai and Zhejiang)
Equipment (Shanghai and Zhejiang)                                              [                                   I
Laboratory, research, and environmental protection .                                       .4.
Expressway operation and maintenance                                    I                                  . ....
Training (Shanghai and Zhejiang)                                                                                        .
Formal supervision training
On-the-job supervision training                                         |111111 1+1j
Other staff training                                                                                      .                                            >
Planning/Design/Document Preparation/Pre-qualification/Terms of Reference
r ____   ]Bidding/Selection/Award
:     :~~]  Execution/Construction/Supervision/Delivery
I       ~~Monitoring
El ~~Training



- 197 -                              ANNEX6
14.           Procurement Processes. Both Shanghai and Zhejiang began planning and
preparing for procurement of goods and works for this project in 1993. The major civil
works for the Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway would be procured under International
Competitive Bidding, and smaller works contracts for the expressway section in Zhejiang
and for the Road Safety Program would be procured under Local Competitive Bidding.
Schedule for Preparation of ICB Contracts
Zhejiang               Shanghai
Issue general procurement notice  .....    ..... February 16, 1993  . February 16, 1993
Submit PQ documents to Bank .....       ....... July 24 ......... July 24
Submit PQ notice to Bank ......       ......... July 24 ......... July 24
Advertise PQ .............. .........  October 25 ....... September 6
Bank's review of PQ documents .....       ...... September 17 ..... September 6
Revise and issue PQ documents  .....      ...... October 25 ....... September 15
Last date to receive PQ submissions  .... .... December 25  ..... November 15
PQ document evaluation report/MOC review  . . . January 25, 1994 . . . January 20, 1994
Bank review PQ evaluation report .....     ..... April 15  ........ February 15
Finalize PQ report and notify contractors  ..... July 11 ......... March 15
Start preparing bid documents  .....     ....... April 1, 1993 ..... April 1, 1993
Complete preliminary engineering .....     ..... May 31 ......... May 31
International design review  ......    ........ July 31 ......... July 31
Complete MOC review   .......        ......... September 15 ..... May 31, 1994
Complete bid documents .......       ......... October 27 ....... November 25, 1993
Consultant review of bid documents ....    ..... December 18  ..... December 18
Submit bid documents to Bank .....       ....... December 31  ..... January 31, 1994
Bank review of bid documents .....       ....... February 9, 1994 ...  October 12
Finalize bid documents and issue  .....    ..... July 15 ......... December 9
Site visit, bidders conference .....   ........ August 16 ....... January 19, 1995
Respond to bidders queries ......      ........ September 23 ..... March 7
Bid deadline and opening  ......      ......... October 15 ....... April 28
Prepare bid evaluation report .....    ........ October 17 ....... June 10
Government review (MOC) ......         ........ December 10  ..... June 15
Bank review bid evaluation report .....    ..... May 11, 1995 ..... July 15
Notify successful bidders  ......    ......... July 1 .......... July 16
Negotiate and sign contracts  .....    ........ July 10 ......... August 10
Start of construction  ........     .......... September 10 ..... September 10



- 198 -                              ANNEX
Schedule of Supervision Consultants (Managed iointly by Shanghai and Zheiiang)
Prepare shortlist of consultants and TOR .... .. December 21, 1993
Bank review of shortlist and TOR .....J.....  anuary 6, 1994
Issue request for proposals  .....    ......... January 27
Receive proposals .........       ........... April 7
Evaluate proposals  ........       ........... August 15
Bank review evaluation report .....      ....... August 19
Negotiate and draft agreements .....     ....... July 7, 1995
Bank review of draft agreements .....     ...... July 19
Sign agreements .........        ............ July 25
Training of domestic supervision team staff ... . August 5
Start work on site .........      ........... August 25
Schedule for Preparation of LCB Contracts for Pengbu-Wengmei section (Zhejiang Province)
Submit bid documents to Bank .....       ....... August 9, 1993
Bank review of bid documents .....       ....... September 10
Finalize bid documents and issue  .....     ..... September 15
Bid deadline and opening  ......      ......... October 30
Prepare bid evaluation report .....     ........ November 30
Bank review bid evaluation report .....     ..... January 5, 1994
Negotiate and sign contracts  .....     ........ January 12
Start of construction  .......     ........... February 20



- 199 -                            ANNEX 6
Implementation of the Road Safety Program Component
15.           The following charts illustrate the organizational arrangements and the
phasing of major activities for the Road Safety Program component:
Proposed Organization for the Road Safety Program $
Zhejiang Provincial
Highway Administration
Bureau
World Bank Road Safety
Program
Working (Main) Office - Jiaxing
(3)                               Central DepartmenS
F        ;                  ~~~~~~~~~~Financial
Supervision      Enineering |Affairs
(4)              (2)                (2)
County-level Departments in
Haining, Tongshan, Jiaxing, and
Jiashan
(typical staff size: 7-8)
Supervision        Engineering          nanc  Affairs         Land Acquisition
and Resettlement
*Staff numbers are indicated in parentheses.



Inplementation Schedule for the Road Safety Program
1993      1994       1995       1996       1997       1998       1999       2000       2001
Land acquisition and resettlement                         S1 \\\j:;                      i
Civil works1                                                                       Tl       }
A-i section
B-1 section
C-1 section
A-2 section                                                                           1t
B-2 section
C-2 sectionI10
A-3 sectionI                                                             Ir 
B-3 section                                                                                            I
C-3 section                                                                               u
Construction suervision
Road Safety technical assistance, training.        I   i
and procurement of equipment                      7                                               L       1!
Planning/Design/Document Preparation/Pre-qualirication/Terms of Reference
Bidding/Selection/Award                                                                   >
1EIZZi~  Execution/Construction/Supervision/Delivery
Monitoring
Training



- 201 -                       ANNEX6
Project Monitoring and Reporting
16.         Regular reporting on performance against project objectives will be achieved
through the use of resettlement monitoring reports, progress reports covering all project
activities, audit reports, and specific monitoring indicators.
17.         Resettlement Monitoring (monitoring against the agreed RAPs) will be
conducted by the project implementing agencies and by independent (external) agencies.
The monitoring reports will be submitted to the Bank as follows:
Independent
Intemal               (Extemal)
Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
Shanghai expressway section    July 15, 1995           September 1, 1995
October 1, 1995       March 1, 1996
January 1, 1996        September 1, 1996
April 1, 1996
July 1, 1996
Zhejiang expressway section    June 15, 1995           July 15, 1995
September 15, 1995     December 15, 1995
December 15, 1995      July 15, 1996
March 15, 1996
June 15, 1996
September 15, 1996
Road Safety Program                  June 15, 1995          July 15, 1995
September 15, 1995     December 15, 1995
December 15, 1995     July 15, 1996
March 15, 1996
June 15, 1996
September 15, 1996



- 202 -                       ANNEX 6
18.         The specific monitoring indicators for the project include:
A. Indicators for Road Infrastructure
1. Efficient Service Delivery
a. Routine Maintenance Plus Agency Operations Cost
Divided by lane km
As a percent of total road budget
b. Road User Cost per Vehicle Km (cars)
2. Service Quality
a.Average Travel Speed (km per hour)
From Shanghai to Hangzhou
Via NR 320
Via Provincial Road 01
Via Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
From Hangzhou to Shanghai
Via NR 320
Via Provincial Road 01
Via Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
From Fengjing to Songjiang
Via NR 320
Via Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
From Hangzhou to Jiaxing
Via NR 320
Via other provincial/local roads
Via Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
b. Volume/capacity ratio of roads (%)
c. Proportion of roads with volume/capacity ratio < 80%



- 203 -                       ANNEX
A. Indicators for Road Infrastructure (continued)
3. Safety
a.Injuries and fatalities
Per vehicle
Per capita
Per vehicle-km
b. Pedestrian and non-motorized user fatalities as of percent of total
fatalities.
4. Accessibility
a. Road km/sq km
Urban areas (Shanghai, Hangzhou)
Non-urban areas (Songjiang County, Zhejiang Province)
5. Financial Sustainability
a. Lane km/GOVAI
b. Road budget/GOVAI (%)
6. Environment Quality
Fuel Consumption per Vehicle Km



- 204 -                       ANNEX 6
A. Indicators for Road Infrastructure (continued)
7. Operating Efficiency
a. Financial
Road traffic-related revenues returned to the Municipal/Provincial
Highway agencies (%).
Fixed plus variable user charge revenue as a percent of total road
expenditure:
Including taxes
Net of taxes
b. Labor
Cost per lane km constructed
Cost per lane maintained
Proportion of contract value procured by:
Competitive bidding
Limited bidding or force account
c. Capital Assets
Intensity of use (vehicle km per lane km per year)
Roads in "good" condition (% of total)
Roads in "fair" condition (% of total)
Roads in "poor" condition (% of total)
d. Management
Administrative expenses/total budget
Annual maintenance expenditure
Routine
Periodic
as a % of replacement value



- 205 -                       ANNEX6
B. Indicators for Road Freight Services
1. Service Quality
Average vehicle speed (km/hour)
Urban (Shanghai, Hangzhou)
Inter-urban (Shanghai to Fengjing
Shanghai to Hangzhou
Hangzhou to Jiaxing)
2. Safety
Accident rate per million vehicle-km
Fatalities
Other
3. Accessibility
Road network density (km/km)
Freight vehicle fleet capacity
4. Environment
a. Fuel consumption (gals/ton/km)
Leaded gasoline
Unleaded gasoline
Diesel
b. Unit emissions
Co, HC, and No.
(grams per vehicle-km)



- 206 -                       ANNEX6
B. Indicators for Road Freight Services (continued)
5. Operating Efficiency
a. Capital
Vehicle utilization
km per vehicle p.a.
ton-km per vehicle p.a.
empty km/total km
b. Overall
Vehicle operating costs
by representative vehicle type/GVM
(Yuan per km)
Road-related taxes and charges (Yuan per km)
as a percent of operating costs
Vehicle operating cost less road-related taxes and charges
by representative vehicle type, GVM
short haul/long haul
(Yuan per km)



- 207 -                      ANNEX 7
SUPERVISION MISSION PLAN
Timing                   Main Activities                Skill Reguirements    Staff-weeks
10/95    Proiect Launch
Review of all key procedures for interactions between Highway Engineering  5
the Bank and project executing agencies, including    Road Safetuey
procurement, disbursement, and project reporting  Economic
requirements. Overall project implementation    Training
schedule will be reviewed, including early stage  Procurement
activities for environmental protection and    Disbursement
resettlement.                                  Resettlement
Special emphasis on:
-Resettlement and environmental measures and
monitoring.
-Road Safety Program - subproject preparation and
monitoring systems.
-Training proposals for 1996 and 1997.
-Proposals for expressway management.
3/96     General Supervision
(i) review progress of each project component  Task Managing            4
identify pending issues and agree on follow-up  Highway Engineering
actions;                                       Procurement
Resettlent
(ii) reach agreement on resettlement monitoring
arrangements; and
(iii) review proposals for early stage equipment
procurement.
Special emphasis on:
-Procurement of laboratory, research, environmental,
and road safety-related equipment.
-Resettlement monitoring reports.
-Road Safety Program technical assistance and
training.



- 208 -                       ANNEX 7
Timing                   Main Activities                 Skill Requirements    Staff-weeks
10/96    Major Supervision
In-depth review of implementation status with   Task Managing            4
particular emphasis on:                         Highway Engineering
(i) contractor's performance;                   Road Safety
Procurement
(ii) effectiveness of supervision;              Environment
Economics
(iii) adequacy of environmental protection measures;
(iv) review proposal for equipment procurement for
the operation and maintenance of the highway
network; and
(v) review bidding documents for E&M supply and
installation contract for the Expressway.
Special emphasis on:
-Road Safety Program - mid-term review for civil
works.
-Operating results - Pengbu-Wengmei Section.
-Training proposals for 1997 and 1998.
-Procurement of expressway operations and
maintenance equipment.
3/97     General Supervision
(i) review overall progress for each component and   Task Managing       2
identify pending issues and agree on follow-up  Highway Engineering
actions; and                                    Procurement
(ii) review proposal for procurement of equipment for
operation and maintenance of Expressway.
Special emphasis on:
-Environmental protection measures.
10/97    Maor SuDervision/Mid-Term Review
In-depth review of implementation status with   Task Managing            5
particular emphasis on:                         Highway Engineering
(i) contractor's performance;                  Training
Environment
(ii) effectiveness of supervision;             Resettlement



- 209 -                       ANNEX 7
Timing                   Main Activities                 Skill Requirements    Staff-weeks
(iii) adequacy of environmental protection measures;
and
(iv) staff training programs.
Special emphasis on:
-Mid-term review of expressway construction, quality
and supervision.
-Mid-term review of training.
-Training proposals for 1998 and 1999.
-Electrical and Mechanical Works: procurement,
supervision and supervision training.
3/98     General Supervision
Reviewing overall progress for each component and   Task Managing        2
identifying pending issues and agreeing on follow up  Highway Engineering
actions.
Special emphasis on:
-Review of project resettlement actions and final
monitoring report.
10/98    Major Supervision
In-depth review of implementation status with   Task Managing            4
particular                                      Highway Engineering
emphasis on:                                    Road Safety
(i) contractor's performance;                   Environment
(ii) effectiveness of supervision;
(iii) adequacy of environmental protection measures;
and
(iv) staff training program.
Special emphasis on:
-Training proposals for 1999 and 2000.
-Progress on E&M contracts.
-Toll arrangements for Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway.



- 210 -                      ANNEX 7
Timing                   Main Activities                Skill Requirements    Staff-weeks
3/2000   General Supervision
Reviewing overall progress for each component and   Task Managing       2
identifying pending issues and agreeing on follow up  Highway Engineering
actions.
Special emphasis on:
10/2000 Inplementation Completion Report Mission
A consolidated review of project implementation.  Task Managing         4
Highway Engineering
Economics
Environment
Resettlement
Implementation Review
Preparation of Project Implementation Completion
Report.
Txota                                                   38



- 211 -                      ANNEX 8
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN
THE PROJECT FILE
Economic and Technical Studies
1.   Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway Engineering Feasibility Study Report, Zhejiang
Provincial Design Institute of Communications and Shanghai Municipal Engineering
Design Institute, November, 1992.
2.    Shanghai-Hangzhou  Expressway  Engineering  Feasibility  Study  Report -
Supplementary Information and Tables for Shanghai Section, Zhejiang Provincial
Traffic Design Institute of Communications and Shanghai Municipal Engineering
Design Institute, October, 1992.
3.    Shanghai-Hangzhou  Expressway  Engineering  Feasibility  Study  Report -
Supplementary Information and Tables for Zhejiang Section, Zhejiang Provincial
Traffic Design Institute of Communications, October, 1993.
4.    Report of Engineering Feasibility Study of Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway -
Supplementary Infonnation and Tables for Shanghai Section, Zhejiang Provincial
Traffic Design Institute of Communications and Shanghai Municipal Engineering
Design Institute, October, 1992.
5.    Engineering Design and Cost Estimation for the Road Safety Program - National
Road 320 in Zhejiang Province, Zhejiang Provincial Highway Administration
Bureau - Jiaxing Municipal Division, October 18, 1993.
6.    Mission Report No. I - Mission for the Review of Engineering Design and
Preparation of Bidding Documents, Shanghai-Zhejiang Expressway Project,
NEDECO Netherlands Engineering Consultants BV, August, 1993.
7.   Inception Report - Mission for the Review of Engineering Design and Preparation
of Bidding Documents, Shanghai-Zhejiang Expressway Project, Messrs. Bresser,
Spaan, and Verheijen, Haskoning Royal Dutch Consulting Engineers and
Architects, July 17, 1993.



- 212 -                       ANNEX 8
Road Safetv
8.    Detailed Report on Road Safety Program prepared during Pre-Appraisal Mission,
Mr. C. Robson, Ross Silcock Partnership, July 1993.
9.    Review of Road Safety in Zhejiang: The Shanghai-Hangzhou Corridor - prepared
during February/March 1993 World Bank Mission to Hangzhou, China, Mr. C.
Robson, Ross Silcock Partnership, March 1993.
10.   Guidelines for the Safety Audit of Highways, The Institution of Highways and
Transportation (London), September, 1990.
11.   CHINA: Road Safety Project (Sichuan Pilot Study) Final Report, Research Institute
of Highways (Ministry of Communications) and Ross Silcock Partnership,
December, 1987.
12.   Costs of Road Accidents in the People's Republic of China - Technical Note Number
3, China Road Safety Project (Sichuan Pilot Study), Ross Silcock Partnership,
December, 1987.
Environment
12.   CHINA:  Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project - Environmental Assessment
Summary, Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences and Zhejiang Provincial
Research Institute of Environment Protection, November 2, 1993.
13.   Environment Action Plan for Zhejiang Section of Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
Project, Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Project Executive Commission, January
1994.
14.   Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway, Shanghai Section - Environmental Action Plan,
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences, January 1994.
15.   Environmental Impact Assessment for Zhejiang Section (Hangzhou-Fengjing) of
Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway, Zhejiang Provincial Research Institute of
Environment Protection, October 1992.
16.   Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway Shanghai Section Project, Environmental Impact
Assessment Report (Vols. I and 11), Shanghai Research Institute of Environmental
Protection, February, 1993.
17. Illustrations on Several Issues ofZhejiang 's Part in Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
Project Environment Assessment Report, Environmental Protection Science
Research Institute of Zhejiang Province, October 1993.



- 213 -                      ANNEX 8
18. Environmental Impact Assessment of Road Upgrading Project on No. 320
National-Road (Jiaxing section) with the World Bank Loan, Environmental
Protection Institute of Zhejiang Province, March 1994.
19.   Supplementary Illustration of the Environmental Impact Assessment and the
Implementation Plan Project on the No. 320 National Road (Jiaxing Road Section),
Highway Administrative Bureau of Transportation of Zhejiang Provincial
Communication Department. Zhejiang Environmental Protection Institute, August
1994.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
20.  Resettlement Action Plan for Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway (Shanghai Section),
Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau and Shanghai-Hangzhou
Expressway Engineering Construction Executive Commission, June 19, 1995.
21.   Surveys on Land Acquisition and Resettlement and Social Economy with regard to
Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway-Shanghai Section, Supervision Group of
Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway (Shanghai Section) with regard to Land
Acquisition, Structure Removal and Resettlement, Shanghai Federation of Social
Sciences Societies, November 1994.
22.  Resettlement Action Plan for Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway Project (Zhejiang
Section) - Final Report, Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Project Executive
Commission, June 19, 1995.
23.   Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project (Zhejiang Section): Land Acquisidon and
Resettlement Action Plan for Traffic Safety Facility of National Road 320 (Jiaxing
Section) - Road Safety Program, Zhejiang Provincial Highway Administration
Bureau, June 19, 1995.
24.  Investigation Report for the Social Economy of Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
(Zhejiang Section), Hangzhou University City and Countryside Planning Design
Institute and Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Project Executive Commission,
November 22, 1994.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 25817
lnu_,                                   ~~~~~~~~FEDERATION7                                         
KAZAKHSTAN
r   X                                                   ,                    ,    HE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ILONG.IiANG/
UZBEKISTAN        ALMA                                                                         mONGOLIA
KYRG  ~                                                                                                                     MONNGLIACL
-e  REPUBLIC  J                             t                 >                                                  9               MOSGOL             AC 1              /
Sh0Se of    JAPAN
TAJIKISTAN                                                                         \                                                                              LlAf", GJ\ Juo
)O |   YNJIANG                                                                                BEIJING                    D..de, OF KOREA
TIPJNSH ~"REP OF
he  boundaries.  colors.  d                                                                                                                                                           KOREA
dt nominotions and  ony                                                                                                                                                    Se
on  this e or    do   n
fply   -  th                                                     .         p ar t                                                                                         YI
The World  Bank  Giroup. .                               7' -,                                                                 SHYJXI
stot    afny  terrtory,                                                                                                                          SHANHA
or any  endorsemetnt gQN,A _'@'      H'DN
or acceptance of s.ch 
boundaries.g                                                     S,                                     *        Z-) />J
\  )\2 '=o-n  \  <\ JIANGSU           East Cmiro
_!, .SHA4NXI                              \       HENAN H U \ (IHN                       Sea
_ ~     ~       ~       ~       -           rK          \jAS |'                  <' _I'-A- -            -          H          /          H
XJZANC                                                           '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  cj H~~~~~~~~~ANGH-A) SHI
E                                                        S  IBRD 256 1                            _
NEPALK                                                                                                                              EISA                                           CL>
CHINA                                          _                                                                       ".
MAJOR HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                                 -                        HUNAN/ L JIANGXJ>.    (
NATIONAL TRUNK HIGHWAY SYSTEM(NTHS)                                                                                                               FUJIAN(t
MAJOR HIGtAYAYS                                                                             GI
COMPLETED                                                     -                     2                  /                        Z       zt        TA!WAN
UNDER CONS5TUCTION / OTH FrE YEAR PLAN (1991.1995)                                                                   G   NA mR  D/  0  NOONG             rSs,uth
- -     PTAI9TAI EtAY PLAN 1 996.2000)                                                                                                                              S JUNA   \(GUANGXI g   C    s5'  Se
_  _    PLANNED BEYOND 2000                                                                                                           HO NG KN  U.K.
MAJOR PORTS                                                                                   M C O-   O     RT.
NTHS POR]TY CORRDORS   O 9    PROYNCE CAPTALS                                     VIET NAM                                                           PHILIPPINES
NTHS LONGTERMI CORRDORS       NATIONAL CAPITALS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                         G LAO PEOPLE'S  15ro         e ,,
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES     THAILAND   DEM. REP                        HAI'    I                                           l S        ,
JULY 1995






CHINA   119T N-Nss,isg                     120_'                                                                 122'
SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG
HIGHWAY PROJECT                                  ,JIANGSU
TRANSPORT SYSTEM                                                                                           Chsngting
IN SHANGHAI AND ZHEJIANG
SHAHIGHAI-HANGZHOU EXPRESSWAY
-           CONNECTING EXPRESSWAY - COMPLETED OR                                                                    Bqh..
UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                           -SHANGHAl
NATIONAL ROADS                                .       n Hi    )              f'-           X s f  -
PROVINCE ROADS                              \
RAILROADS                                 ->         .N-b,31
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                                                            G      I
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0 25     50      75    100                 4                     De       m     j 
I      I      I      I      Ij\\                               '         lT Hii              fHayl
KILOMETERS
\   1   <    Nt3zHOu^HXWstangzhou Bcjy                        S..e1BRD 25819          Daishan
30~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~3
/-t~~~~A    N                G    Z          u               iJ    Sh                                                         PO o
Beibu
.  1/        / ,0          s      huji             t_               (    /~~~~ T Fenghua
el hu.'an./W   hn  io   
( ho/o~nds                                                   -                      ,Xi/~/hnchsn;-  .g          -I!                  ,h-
.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
\9Kaihua              L    aJ /                                             /                 aneI
denominations~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ an   any/o                                                                                             2
other information (shon                    H       U    A    Y-,,f ,I
imy  on  th  p,  of                                                                                                       <   TIOU\\    .
ony judget an t       apSuich                        (yuh    a                                          Hh... gyan      Jiooion g       S Eg  A
JIANGXI                        J                 ' tehurr.t
'0~~~~ 19'U                                                 12                                 la (                          ' 1 <   1
(__ _ _ _ _J__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _i__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _Y                     u e q in g/__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _;__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.'1 1
/ /   Langquon   XYunhe     Z ~~~ '- Qingb2;;       K        57-. Y..qi
~~~~~~~~-gq /-2t/ - 2- (\..  s
oi / Y                         V -                        P4diorl
ur              S<#  ,   gt                                     XT i,h..                                    eg
Th.  boudds cor..g/2 . d.,1i 
on  hi. -mhP  d.to                    UIN, W                                    \(                                  f-     
Th. Wof   f3anl      'Pirop                                              /     zWJs,                                       s            ^ 
- roy   endg-1e6"Y _. th. '1, ..* g1                                                                                                                  A I ' 
u   boudorpeosne {such  1 1 91                             1 20)                             121'                     8              fr1






IBRD 25819
CHINA
SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROPOSED SHANGHAI-HANGZHOU EXPRESSWAY
INTERCHANGES
EXISTING EXPRESSWAY AND HIGHWAYS
EXPRESSWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION
-  -   -  FUTURE SHANGHAI OUTER RING ROAD                                        ,-,
/        Outer ~~Ring H,ghwoy
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN AREA        J I A N  G  S U                               ' "Ie Ring
----+RAILROADS
| z * | RAILROADS  \\          : ~~~ l-                 t             /      95        I      S H A N  G  H A I
ROADS
GRAND CANAL                          /
RIVERS /CANALS                                                                             XXnqio0  erqoo
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                           \
10      20        30       40             o                                         -      S     1        eein
KILOMETERS
Deqringn                                                                                                                                                          T i O 
this r=   n d   not
ewBQdo>/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ipy  anhPYwor t e parnt of)                                                     _           v
} i - j \C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \ o~~~~ny jiudg mentono therrlegay
V Oionjion    Hongzhou-Ningbo                                                           or any endorsement \ 
Interchonge    Eupressn.oy                                           '                 or acceptance of such-           FUWiAN         -J       ,2
i Ayu-hNmg      bouNies.
JULY 1 995









i MI A -' A   1 G                  .
T-Ie: rt   Ni,               14 1L34   7HA
T y pe:,   , 



