Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3929 CHA
Shanghai Project Agreement
(Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY
Dated November 2, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3929 CHA
SHANGHAI PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 2, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY (Shanghai).
WHEREAS: by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic 
of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred and sixty million 
dollars ($260,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that Shanghai and Zhejiang agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement and the Zhejiang Project Agreement, 
respectively;
WHEREAS: Shanghai, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Shanghai Environmental Action Plan" means the environmental action plan 
Page  2
for the Shanghai section of the Expressway of January 1994, and includes environmental 
protection measures as well as the administrative and monitoring arrangements to 
ensure the implementation of said measures; and
(b)
"Shanghai Resettlement Action Plan" means the resettlement action plan 
for the Shanghai section of the Expressway dated June 19, 1995, and includes the 
procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as the 
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Shanghai declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts A (2), C (2), and D (2) of the Project (the Shanghai Parts of the 
Project) with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Shanghai Parts of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Shanghai shall otherwise agree, Shanghai shall carry out 
the Shanghai Parts of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Shanghai Parts of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Shanghai shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Shanghai Project 
Agreement and the Shanghai Parts of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Shanghai shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Shanghai Parts of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Shanghai shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Shanghai Parts of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Shanghai of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Shanghai shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of  Shanghai responsible for carrying out the Shanghai Parts of the Project 
or any part thereof.
(b)
Shanghai shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
Page  3
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Shanghai 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Shanghai thereof.
Section 4.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are: 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Shanghai:
Shanghai Municipal Finance Bureau
60 Jin Jiang Road
Shanghai
People's Republic of China
Telex:
33685 SMFB CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Shanghai, or 
by Shanghai on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by Mayor of Shanghai or such other person or persons as Mayor of Shanghai 
shall designate in writing, and Shanghai shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence 
Page  4
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Prequalification
 
Bidders for all contracts for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Dispute Review Board
 
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
Page  5
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Goods estimated to cost between $50,000 and $200,000 equivalent per contract and 
$400,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and $300,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract:
(a)
for works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost $4,000,000 
equivalent or more;
(b)
for goods estimated to cost  $200,000 equivalent or more; and
 
(c)
for the supply and installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical 
equipment under Part A of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
Part A:
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in 
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been
agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by 
the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
Part B:
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, the provisions 
of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior  Bank review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to:
(a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; or
(b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall 
Page  6
not apply to:
(i)
the terms of reference for such contracts;
 
(ii)
single-source selection of consulting firms;
 
(iii)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Bank;
(iv)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raisingthe 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or
 
(v)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising 
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or 
above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Shanghai shall:
 
(a)
carry out the Shanghai Parts of the Project through HHEC;
 
(b)
ensure that  HHEC is at all times staffed with qualified staff in 
adequate numbers; and
(c)
maintain a supervision team with qualified staff in adequate numbers to 
ensure that works are carried out in accordance with technical specifications and that 
strict quality controls are exercised on site.
2.
Shanghai shall, in coordination with Zhejiang, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
by December 31, 1995, a plan for the coordinated management of the Expressway, 
including a description of toll operations, toll setting arrangements and measures to 
facilitate the movement of traffic across the
Shanghai-Zhejiang border.
3.
Shanghai shall, in coordination with Zhejiang, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
by December 31, 1998, recommendations for the toll levels and the organizational 
arrangements for the toll operations for the Expressway.
4.
Shanghai declares its commitment to the preservation of the environment and, to 
this end, shall: 
(a)
carry out the Shanghai Environmental Action Plan in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank; and
(b)
furnish any proposed revision of the Shanghai Environmental Action Plan 
to the Bank for its prior approval.
5.
Shanghai shall:
 
(a)
carry out the Shanghai Resettlement Action Plan in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank;
(b)
furnish monitoring reports regarding the implementation and impact of 
resettlement activities under the Shanghai Parts of the Project in a format acceptable 
to the Bank as follows:
(i)
reports prepared by HHEC shall be furnished to the Bank at three 
month 
intervals on or about January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 
1; and
(ii)
reports prepared by an independent agency acceptable to the Bank 
shall be 
furnished to the Bank on or about March 1 and 
September 1 of each year; and
Page  7
(c)
furnish any proposed revision of the Shanghai Resettlement Action Plan to 
the Bank for its prior approval.
6.
Shanghai shall cause HHEC to:
 
(a)
furnish quarterly progress reports on the implementation of the Shanghai 
Parts of the Project (not including resettlement) to the Bank within two weeks from 
the end of each quarter of the calendar year and in a format acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
by September 30 of each year, beginning in 1996, furnish to the Bank for 
its review a detailed implementation plan (including construction, training, 
environmental and resettlement activities) for the implementation of the Shanghai 
Parts of the Project during the following calendar year and in the case of training 
for the following two calendar years; and
(c)
thereafter, implement each such plan while taking into account any 
comments made by the Bank.
