Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3929 CHA
Zhejiang Project Agreement
(Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
Dated November 2, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3929 CHA
ZHEJIANG PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 2, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ZHEJIANG PROVINCE (Zhejiang).
WHEREAS: by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic 
of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred and sixty million 
dollars ($260,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that Zhejiang and Shanghai agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement and the Shanghai Project Agreement 
respectively; and
WHEREAS: Zhejiang, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Road Safety Environmental Action Plan" means the environmental action 
plan for the Road Safety Program (Part B of the Project) of August 1994, and includes 
Page  2
environmental protection measures as well as the administrative and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said measures;
(b)
"Road Safety Resettlement Action Plan" means the resettlement action plan 
for the Road Safety Program  (Part B of the Project) dated June 19, 1995, and includes 
the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as 
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan;
(c)
"Zhejiang Environmental Action Plan" means the environmental action plan 
for the Zhejiang section of the Expressway of February 1994, and includes 
environmental protection measures as well as the administrative and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said
measures; and
(d)
"Zhejiang Resettlement Action Plan" means the resettlement action plan 
for the Zhejiang section of the Expressway of June 19, 1995, and includes the 
procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation as well as 
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Zhejiang declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts A (1), B, C (1) and D (1) of the Project (the Zhejiang Parts of the 
Project) with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Zhejiang Parts of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Zhejiang shall otherwise agree, Zhejiang shall carry out 
the Zhejiang Parts of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Zhejiang Parts of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Zhejiang shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Zhejiang Project 
Agreement and the Zhejiang Parts of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Zhejiang shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Zhejiang Parts of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Zhejiang shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Zhejiang Parts of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Zhejiang of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Zhejiang shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Zhejiang responsible for carrying out the Zhejiang Parts of the Project or 
any part thereof.
Page  3
(b)
Zhejiang shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Zhejiang 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Zhejiang thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Zhejiang:
Zhejiang Provincial People's Government
No. 1, Sheng Fu Road
Hangzhou 310025
Zhejiang Province
Page  4
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
0074 HANGZHOU
35030 COSCO CN
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Zhejiang, or 
by Zhejiang on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by Governor or Vice Governor of Zhejiang or such other person or persons as 
Governor or Vice Governor of Zhejiang shall designate in writing, and Zhejiang shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Prequalification
 
Bidders for all contracts for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
Page  5
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Dispute Review Board
 
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract and 
$96,700,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost between $50,000 and $200,000 equivalent per 
contract and $1,400,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent per contract or less and $600,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract:
(a)
for works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost $4,000,000 
equivalent or more and for works under Part B of the Project;
(b)
for goods estimated to cost of $200,000 equivalent or more; and
 
(c)
for the supply and installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical 
equipment under Part A of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
Part A:
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
Page  6
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in 
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, 
other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
Part B:
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, the provisions 
of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: 
(a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; or
(b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review 
shall not apply to:
(i)
the terms of reference for such contracts;
 
(ii)
single-source selection of consulting firms;
 
(iii)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by  the 
Bank;
(iv)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or
 
(v)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising 
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or 
above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Zhejiang shall:
 
(a)
carry out Parts A (1), C (1) and D (1) of the Project through ZPEC and 
Part B of the Project through ZPHAB;
(b)
ensure that ZPEC is at all times staffed with qualified staff in adequate 
numbers;
(c)
maintain a road safety unit within ZPHAB to exercise overall 
responsibility for road safety activities with qualified staff in adequate numbers; 
and
(d)
maintain a supervision team with qualified staff in adequate numbers to 
ensure that works are carried out in accordance with technical specifications and that 
strict quality controls are exercised on site.
2.
Zhejiang shall, in coordination with Shanghai, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
by December 31, 1995, a plan for the coordinated management of the Expressway, 
including a description of toll operations, toll setting arrangements and measures to 
facilitate the movement of traffic across the
Shanghai-Zhejiang border.
3.
Zhejiang shall, in coordination with Shanghai, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
by December 31, 1998, recommendations for the toll levels and the organizational 
arrangements for the toll operations for the Expressway.
4.
(a)
The following nine sections of National Route 320 have been selected for 
upgrading as part of the Road Safety Program to be implemented under Part B (1) of the 
Project:
Page  7
(i)
from kilometer 86 through kilometer 96;
 
(ii)
from kilometer 96 through kilometer 104;
 
(iii)
from kilometer 104 through kilometer 114;
 
(iv)
from kilometer 114 through kilometer 124;
 
(v)
from kilometer 124 through kilometer 133;
 
(vi)
from kilometer 133 through kilometer 143;
 
(vii)
from kilometer 143 through kilometer 153;
 
(viii) from kilometer 153 through kilometer 164; and
 
(ix)
from kilometer 164 through kilometer 171.750.
 
(b)
Prior to commencing such upgrading on any section referred to in (a) 
above, Zhejiang shall furnish to the Bank:
(i)
a detailed description of the design and technical aspects of said 
section 
which shall meet engineering design standards 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
a description of construction supervision arrangements for said 
section;
(iii)
layout plans for all junction types for said section; and
 
(iv)
a report containing an assessment of the likely impact of the 
works on road 
safety of said section.
 
5.
Zhejiang declares its commitment to the preservation of the environment and, to 
this end, shall:
(a)
carry out the Zhejiang Environmental Action Plan and the Road Safety 
Environmental Action Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
furnish any proposed revision of the plans referred to in (a) above to 
the Bank for its prior approval.
6.
Zhejiang shall:
 
(a)
carry out the Zhejiang Resettlement Action Plan and the Road Safety 
Resettlement Action Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
furnish monitoring reports regarding the implementation and impact of 
resettlement activities under the Zhejiang Parts of the Project in a format acceptable 
to the Bank as follows:
(i)
reports prepared separately by ZPEC and ZPHAB shall be furnished 
to the Bank 
at three month intervals on or about March 15, June 15, 
September 15 and 
December 15 of each year; and
 
(ii)
reports prepared by an independent agency acceptable to the Bank 
shall be 
furnished to the Bank on or about July 15 and 
December 15 of each year; and
(c)
furnish any proposed revision of the plans referred to in (a) above to 
the Bank for its prior approval. 
7.
Zhejiang shall cause ZPEC and ZPHAB to:
 
(a)
furnish quarterly progress reports on the implementation of the Zhejiang 
Parts of the Project (not including resettlement) to the Bank within two weeks from 
the end of each quarter of the calendar year and in a format acceptable to the Bank;
Page  8
(b)
by September 30 of each year, beginning in 1996, furnish to the Bank for 
its review a detailed implementation plan (including construction, training, 
environmental and resettlement activities) for the implementation of the Zhejiang 
Parts of the Project during the following calendar year and, in the case of training, 
for the following two calendar years; and 
(c)
thereafter, implement each such plan while taking into account any 
comments made by the Bank.
