L O F~C II
LOAN NUMBER 3929 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                       , 1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3929 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 , 1995, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AID
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) Parts A (1), B, C (1), and D (1) of the Project will be carried out by Zhejiang
Province (Zhejiang) and Parts A (2), C (2), and D (2) of the Project will be carried out by
Shanghai Municipality (Shanghai), all with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Zhejiang and Shanghai the proceeds of the
Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement,
in the Zhejiang Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Zhejiang,
and in the Shanghai Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
Shanghai;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals
shall be made:


﻿-2-
(i)     on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, such territories; or
(ii)   for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of
the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations."
(c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (1) and a
new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(1)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Expressway" means the Shanghai-Hangzhou expressway, including related
facilities, to be constructed under Part A o' the Project, and shall, where the context
requires, be construed to mean the portion of the Expressway to be constructed in Shanghai
or Zhejiang, as the case may be.
(b)   "HHEC" means the Shanghai Hu-Hang (Shanghai-Hangzhou) Expressway
Construction Executive Commission, an executive agency established and operating under
Shanghai's Leading Group for Expressway Projects, and any successor thereto.
(c) "Project Agreements" means, collectively, the Zhejiang Project Agreement
and the Shanghai Project Agreement.
(d)   "Respective Proceeds of the Loan" means, in respect of:
(i)     Shanghai, the proceeds of the Loan allocated to the Shanghai Parts
of the Project; and
(ii)    Zhejiang, the proceeds of the Loan allocated to the Zhejiang Parts
of the Project.


﻿-3 -
(e)   "Shanghai" means Shanghai Municipality, a political subdivision of the
Borrower, and any successor thereto.
(f)   "Shanghai Parts of the Project" means Parts A (2), C (2) and D (2) of the
Project.
(g)   "Shanghai Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
Shanghai of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Shanghai Project Agreement.
(h)   "Shanghai Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) (ii) of this Agreement.
(i)   "Special Accounts" means the Shanghai Special Account and the Zhejiang
Special Account, collectively, and "Special Account" means one of the Special Accounts.
(j) "Zhejiang" means Zhejiang Province, a political subdivision of the
Borrower, and any successor thereto.
(k)   "Zhejiang Parts of the Project" means Parts A (1), B, C (1) and D (1) of the
Project.
(1)   "Zhejiang Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
Zhejiang of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Zhejiang Project
Agreement.
(m) "Zhejiang Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) (i) of this Agreement.
(n)   "ZPEC" means the Zhejiang Provincial Expressway Project Executive
Commission, an executive agency established and operating under Zhejiang's Provincial
Expressway Project Steering Committee, and any successor thereto.
(o) "ZPHAB" means Zhejiang Provincial Highway Administration Bureau and
any successor thereto.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE H
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall have an
aggregate value equivalent to the amount of two hundred and sixty million dollars
($260,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
dollars:
(i)     a special deposit account for the Zhejiang Parts of the Project; and
(ii)    a special deposit account for the Shanghai Parts of the Project;
each in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan
not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal
to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.


﻿-5-
(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)     "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
(ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum,
of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June
30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the
Bank has allocated to fund:
(A) the Bank's investments; and
(B) loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as provided
in paragraph (E) of this Section.
(iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of
a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as
follows:
"(a)    The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest
Period."
"(b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Quarter."


﻿-6-
"(c)    (iii)  'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 15
and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation
or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause
Zhejiang and Shanghai to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Zhejiang
Project Agreement and the Shanghai Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations of
Zhejiang and Shanghai therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all actions,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable Zhejiang and Shanghai to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)  The Borrower shall make available to Zhejiang and Shanghai their
Respective Proceeds of the Loan on the following principal terms:
(i)    the principal amount so made available to Shanghai and Zhejiang
shall 6e the equivalent in dollars (determined on the date or
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment
out of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or
currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of the cost of
goods, works and services required for the Shanghai and Zhejiang
Parts of the Project, respectively, and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan;
(ii)    Shanghai and Zhejiang shall each repay the principal amount so
made available to them over a period of twenty (20) years,
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years; and
(iii)  the Borrower shall charge (A) interest on the principal amount so
made available and withdrawn and remaining unrepaid from time
to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to


﻿-7-
time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement and
(B) a commitment charge on the principal amount so made
available and not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods,
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreements.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation
of the Project;
(b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan; and
(c)  thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the ank's comments thereon.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of:
(a)  the Zhejiang Parts of the Project shall be carried out by Zhejiang pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Zhejiang Project Agreement; and
(b)  the Shanghai Parts of the Project shall be carried out by Shanghai pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the Shanghai Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenzats
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿-8-
(i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii)    ensure that all records evidencing such expenditures (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) are retained
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made; and
(iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this
Section and those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
co.trols involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals; and
(iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified:
(a)   Zhejiang or Shanghai shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Zhejiang Project Agreement or Shanghai Project Agreement, respectively.


﻿-9-
(b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that Zhejiang or Shanghai will be able to perform its obligations under the Zhejiang Project
Agreement or Shanghai Project Agreement, respectively.
Section 5.02. Irsuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following
additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.0 1(c) of the General
Conditions, namely that each of Shanghai and Zhejiang has entered into a legally binding
agreement with international construction supervision consultants with respect to Part A of
the Project, procured in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 of the
Shanghai Project Agreement and Zhejiang Project Agreement, respectively.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within. the meaning
of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Bank:
(a)  that the Zhejiang Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
Zhejiang, and is legally binding upon Zhejiang in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  that the Shanghai Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
Shanghai, and is legally binding upon Shanghai in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-10-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                Telex:
FINANMIN                     22486 MFPRC CN
BEIJING
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
LITERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /7P'CAJ4              (    #7
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Categry                    Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
Zhejiang Part of the Project
1. Civil works under:
(a) Part A (1) of the            132,300,000            43%
Project
(b) Part B (1) of the              7,500,000            35%
Project
2. Supply and installation           12,100,000            73%
of equipment under Part
A (1) of the Project
3. Goods under:                       6,900,000            100% of foreign
Parts B and D (1)                                      expenditures,
of the Project                                         100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local expen-
ditures for
other items
procured
locally
4. Consultants' services              11,200,000           100%
and training under
Parts A (1), B and
C (1) of the Project


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   Dol larEquivalent)   to be Financed
5. Unallocated                      30,000,000
Shanghai Part of the Project
6. Civil works under                40,400,000             35%
Part A (2) of the
Prcject
7. Supply and install-               2,500,000            79%
ation of equipment
under Part A (2) of
the Project
8. Goods under Part                 2,200,000             100% of foreign
D (2) of the Project                                  expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local
expenditures
for other items
procured
locally
9. Consultants' services           5,800,000             100%
and training under
Parts A (2) and C (2)
of the Project
10. Unallocated                    9,100,000
TOTAL                         260,000000


﻿-14-
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of
any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made
in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, not to exceed the equivalent of the following aggregate amounts, may be
made in respect of Categories 1, 3, 4, 6, 8 and 9 on account of payments made for
expenditures totaling $26,000,000 equivalent before that date but after September 1, 1994;
and
(b)  Category 1(b) for any road section to be upgraded under Part B (1) of the
Project, unless the requirements set out in paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 2 to the Zhejiang
Project Agreement have been complied with for said section in a manner acceptable to the
Bank.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)  for works under Part A of the Project under contracts not exceeding
$4,000,000 equivalent;
(b)  for goods under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent;
(c) for consultants' services under contracts with firms or individuals not
exceeding $100,000 and $50,000 equivalent, respectively; and
(d) for training;
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿-15-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase highway capacity in the Shanghai-
Hangzhou corridor with a view to relieving congestion and promoting economic
development; (b) to improve road safety in Northern Zhejiang through the implementation
of a pilot road safety program; and (c) to develop highway sector institutional capacity in
Zhejiang and Shanghai.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Construction of Shanghai-Hangzhou Expressway
Construction of a four-lane divided access-controlled expressway, from Pengbu in
Zhejiang to Songjiang in Shanghai, including required bridges, crossroads grade
separations, farm access passageways, services facilities, the supply and installation of
electrical, electronic and mechanical equipment for tolling, traffic monitoring,
telecommunication and lighting along the Expressway, the upgrading and construction of
crossroads at Expressway interchanges, as well as construction supervision, as follows:
(1) In Zhejiang:
(a) construction of about 102 kilometers of a four-lane section of the Expressway
between Pengbu and Feng Nan, with embankments providing for four lanes and major
structures built for six lanes; and
(b) upgrading or construction of about 56 kilometers of crossroads at interchange
locations on the Expressway.
(2) In Shanghai:
(a) construction of about 28 kilometers of a four-lane section of the Expressway
between Songjia,g and Feng Nan, with embankments and structures providing for six
lanes;
(b) testing of soft soil remedies at sites on approaches to bridges along the
alignment; and
(c) ancillary works, comprising pumps, approach roads, underpasses, flyovers and
bridges, service area and administrative facilities, channelization of traffic and landscaping.


﻿-16-
Part B:  Road Safety Program
Implementation of a pilot program to improve road safety in Northern Zhejiang on
highways in the Shanghai-Hangzhou corridor, including:
(1) the upgrading of selected road sections (including related structures) up to a total of
about 86 kilometers of the Borrower's National Boute 320 in Jiaxing Municipality of
Zhejiang Province and construction supervision of these works; id
(2) developing detailed aspects of the pilot road safety program and strengthening the
capacity of ZPHAB through staff training and the provision of consultants' services and
equipment.
Part C:  Training
The development of HIHEC and ZPEC staff through training in such areas as highway
planning, management, design, construction and maintenance in (1) Zhejiang and (2)
Shanghai.
Part D:  Strengthening Technical Capacity
Strengthening of the technical capacity of HHEC and ZPEC through provision of
equipment for a central laboratory, environmental protection and research, and operation
and maintenance of the Expressway in: (1) Zhejiang; and (2) Shanghai.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿-17-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
April 15, 2001                                 5,000,000
October 15, 2001                               5,175,000
April 15, 2002                                 5,360,000
October 15, 2002                               5,550,000
April 15, 2003                                 5,745,000
October 15, 2003                               5,950,000
April 15, 2004                                 6,160,000
October 15, 2004                               6,380,000
April 15, 2005                                 6,605,000
October 15, 2005                               6,840,000
April 15, 2006                                 7,085,000
October 15, 2006                               7,335,000
April 15, 2007                                 7,595,000
October 15, 2007                               7,865,000
April 15, 2008                                 8,140,000
October 15, 2008                               8,430,000
April 15, 2009                                 8,730,000
October 15, 2009                               9,040,000
April 15, 2010                                 9,360,000
October 15, 2010                               9,690,000
April 15, 2011                                10,035,000
October 15, 2011                              10,390,000
April 15, 2012                                10,760,000
October 15, 2012                              11,140,000
April 15, 2013                                11,535,000
October 15, 2013                              11,945,000
April 15, 2014                                12,365,000
October 15, 2014                              12,805,000
April 15, 2015                                13,260,000
October 15, 2015                              13,730,000
* The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the respective
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on the
principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to -be prepaid shall be the percentage
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate expressed as a percentage
per annum applicable to the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                        0.15
before mat-rity
More than three years but                       0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                         0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                      0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                      0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                        1.00
maturity


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means for the Zhejiang Special Account,
Categories 1, 2, 3, and 4, (collectively the Zhejiang Categories) and for the Shanghai
Special Account, Categories 6, 7, 8 and 9, (collectively the Shanghai Categories), all as set
forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule I to this Agreement;
(b)  the 'term  "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and
(c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to:
(i)    $12,500,000, ior the Zhejiang Special Account; and
(ii)   $4,000,000, for the Shanghai Special Account;
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into such Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$7,000,000 for the Zhejiang Special Account and $2,000,000 for the Shanghai Special
Account until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$75,000,000 and $20,000,000 for the Zhejiang Categories and the Shanghai Categories
respectively.
2.   Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account has
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequn,,nt withdrawals
to replenish the said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank a request or requests for deposit into said Special Account of an amount or
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from


﻿-20-
the Loan Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into said Special Account at
such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments
in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into said Special Account such
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out
of the said Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not
be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to firnish to the Bank, within the period of
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and
accounts for said Special Account;
(c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or


﻿-21-
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to said
Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Aocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of a
Special Account:
(i)   was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii)    was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower*
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B)  deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into said Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in
said Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower niay, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in said Special Account.


﻿-22-
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


