Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7911-KZ 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 31, 2010  
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7911-KZ 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 31, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
(
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on 
the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program 
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one billion Dollars ($1,000,000,000), as such amount 
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 
sixty days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04.  
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Page  3
-2- 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM  
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the Borrower
’s macroeconomic policy framework and the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action 
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
Page  4
-3- 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried 
out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: the event specified in 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 30 days after 
notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the Bank is satisfied 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and with the 
adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
11 Pobedy Street 
Astana 010000 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
 
Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
265126 (FILIN)  
 
7- 7172-717785 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
-4- 
 
AGREED at Astana, Republic of Kazakhstan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN 
 
By /s/ Bolat Zhamishev 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Sebnem Akkaya 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
Presidential Decree No 962, dated April 2, 2010, has been issued limiting the size of the 
annual guaranteed transfer from the National Fund to the republican budget to US$ 8 
billion equivalent and obligating the National Fund to acquire only assets circulating on 
international markets. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has enacted Code No 95-IV, "The Budget Code of the Republic of 
Kazakhstan", dated December 4, 2008, as variously amended up to April 2, 2010, and has 
by undertaking the necessary normative acts: (i) developed and approved three-year 
rolling budgets at the republican and local level based on strategic plans; (ii) delegated 
authority to budget administrators at the republican and local level to reallocate money 
across sub-programs during budget execution; and (iii) issued regulations to establish 
internal audit units in budgetary organizations at Republican and Oblast level. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has enacted Law No. 219-
IV, “On the Republican Budget for 2010-2012”, 
dated, December 7, 2009, as amended on March 29, 2010, which provides,
 inter alia
,
for 
decreases in the share of non-priority administrative expenditures and capital transfers to 
state-owned enterprises in the budgetary allocation and increases the share of social 
sector spending. 
 
4.
 
Pursuant to
 
Law 185-IV, “On Improving Legislation on Banking Activity and Activity of 
the National Bank of Kazakhstan”, dated July 11, 2009, BTA and Alliance banks have 
each entered into a general terms sheet agreement with the credit committee of BTA and 
the credit committee of Alliance, respectively, which set out, 
inter alia
,
a
restructuring 
plan providing for the writing down of the majority of their foreign debts. 
 
5.   
The Borrower has enacted Law 185-IV, “On Improving Legislation on Banking Activity 
and Activity of the National Bank of Kazakhstan”, dated July 11, 2009, providing for 
strengthening of the bank resolution framework, including through the creation of 
stabilization banks, the execution of purchase and assumption agreements and the 
restructuring of banks by a specialized financial court. 
 
6.  
The Borrower has enacted Law No 72-IV, “On Financial Stability”, dated October 23, 
2008, establishing an early warning system which will empower the Financial 
Supervision Agency: (i) to monitor indicators of bank performance; (ii) in the event of a 
deterioration of such indicators, to require banks to submit to a contingency plan; and (iii) 
to take such other additional measures as are required to provide for financial stability, 
even in the absence of explicit violation of prudential norms.  
 
7. 
 The Financial Supervision Agency has issued Decree No 358, dated September 30, 2005, 
as variously amended up to November 30, 2009, which, 
inter alia
:
(i) introduces an 
Page  7
-6- 
 
increase in the capital adequacy for commercial banks, starting July 1, 2011; and (ii) 
limits the total liabilities of commercial banks to non-residents relative to their equity. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, 
from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.  The allocation of 
the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche 
 
1,000,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
1,000,000,000 
C. Payment 
of 
Front-end 
Fee. 
 
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until 
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
 
D. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is 
satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with the 
appropriateness of the
 Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is January 7, 2011. 
 
Page  8
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2013  
 
through September 15, 2034 
 
2.27% 
On March 15, 2035 
2.39% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
Page  9
-8- 
 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  10
-9- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Alliance” means the joint stock company Alliance Bank initially established in August 13, 
2001, subsequently renamed, and restructured by the Financial Supervisory Agency under 
Board Resolution No 268, "On Forced Purchase of Shares of JSC "Alliance Bank" and 
Selling Them to JSC "National Welfare Fund "Samruk-Kazyna""", dated December 30, 2009. 
 
2. 
“BTA” means the bank established by Government Resolution No 73 "On Reorganization of 
Kazakhstani joint-stock bank Turanbank and joint-stock bank AlemBank Kazakhstan", dated 
January 15, 1997, and officially renamed in February 2008, as joint stock company BTA 
Bank. 
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
Page  11
-10- 
 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party. 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
4.  “Financial Supervision Agency” means the agency initially established by Presidential 
Decree No 1270 "On Further Improvement of Public Sector Management System of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan", dated December 31, 2003, and responsible for financial sector 
regulation. 
 
5.  “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through February 12, 2008) 
with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
6. 
“National Fund” means the Borrower’s national oil fund, established by Presidential Decree 
No 402 "On the National Fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan", dated August 23, 2000. 
 
7. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote growth 
and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the letter DGZ-
1/4909, dated April 19, 2010 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
 
8. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Page  12
-11- 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee and 
Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of 
the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association (“Preparation Advance”), 
the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or 
after the Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to 
pay all accrued and
 
unpaid charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank 
shall pay the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and 
shall cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
Page  13
-12- 
 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”   
 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan Agreement 
and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
(e)  
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as herein 
defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by the Bank, on 
which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in the Conversion 
Guidelines.” 
 
