Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5408 
Operation Name 
Kazakhstan Development Policy Lending 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Public administration- Finance (60%); General finance sector 
(40%) 
Project ID 
P119856 
Borrower(s) 
KAZAKHSTAN 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
March 11, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 9, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May18, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Kazakhstan experienced a longer financial and economic crisis than most countries in the region.  It 
started with a sudden stop in capital inflows in August 2007 that precipitated a banking crisis. Before the 
country could recover from that shock, the global economic crisis and sharp declines in commodity 
prices hit Kazakhstan hard. The Government responded by adopting a large anti-crisis package of 
measures to support the financial sector, the real economy and the population, making use of part of the 
resources accumulated in the National (oil) Fund during the years of high oil prices. To support the 
counter-cyclical fiscal policy the Government also conducted a strategic reorientation of public 
expenditures through a significant reduction in general budgetary support to state-owned enterprises and 
increases in social sector spending on public works program and on higher pensions and higher wages 
for employees in the budgetary sphere, who are some of the lowest paid professionals in the country. 
The three year budget for 2010-2012 attempts some consolidation relative to 2008 and 2009, but 
significant deficits are nevertheless expected. 
 
The crisis provided additional motivation and urgency for the Government to advance its longer term 
reform agenda. Following exceptional on and off budgetary uses of the National Fund during the crisis 
and threats from a strong lobby to expand these uses, the Government believes it imperative to re-
establish discipline around the National Fund. The Government also recognizes that the overheating and 
economic instability that emerged in 2007 were related to problems in the financial sector, and therefore 
it has made financial sector a major focus of attention, undertaking measures to stabilize the immediate 
situation and reduce the foreign debt burden, and to improve financial sector regulation and supervision 
to promote future stability. Reforms in these areas were implemented during 2008 and 2009, and the 
Government is committed to continuing reforms during 2010-2012. 
 
The Government's requested the WB to support its anti-crisis response through a single-tranche 
Development Policy Loan. This reflects the 
Government’s financing needs for the 2010 fiscal year, 
which will decline later as the domestic financial markets recover, the economic stimulus is reduced, 
and the foreign debt restructuring of commercial banks is completed.  The Government also views the 
DPL as a vehicle for deepening existing cooperation and engagement with the Bank.   
Page  2
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objectives of 
the proposed DPL are to support the Government’s countercyclical fiscal policy aimed 
at mitigating the impact of the crisis on growth and living standards, along with the implementation of 
key structural reforms aimed at ensuring a more stable and fiscally secure future for the country. 
 
Prior actions for Board presentation include approval of a Republican Budget for 2010-12 that 
implements priorities for cuts in low priority spending on state-owned enterprises with equivalent 
increases in social sector spending, new regulations that will ensure greater discipline in the 
management of the National (oil) Fund, and the implementation of key budget reforms at the subnational 
level.  Other expected prior actions include successful bank restructuring, implementation of a new 
Early Warning System for the monitoring and supervision of the banking sector, and the strengthening 
of the bank resolution and framework through the adoption of new legislation.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The program proposed in the stand-alone DPL supports a ‘time-slice’ of the Government’s multi-year 
reform program in the areas of public resource management and the financial sector, both supported by 
the Bank through AAA and ESW as well as investment lending, that can assure continued engagement 
in these areas after the DPL in completed.  
 
In the area of the public resource management, the Government is enhancing budgetary discipline 
through restructuring the budgetary expenditures toward (mostly social) priorities, the introduction of 
new rules surrounding the uses of the National Fund, and implementation of the major budgetary 
reforms at the local level. The expected benefits of these measures include: (i) mitigation of the social 
impact of slower expected economic growth; (ii) improved public resource management of the country’s 
oil wealth; and (iii) increased effectiveness, efficiency, and strategic focus of public resource allocation. 
 
In the financial sector area, the Government, National Bank and Financial Supervision Agency have 
facilitated the restructuring of large problem banks, strengthened the bank resolution framework, and 
stepped up significantly banking supervision. The expected outcomes of these measures supported by 
the DPL are the recovery and growth of the Kazakhstan banking sector under a sounder regulatory 
framework that lessens greatly the risks of financial instability. The World Bank is well positioned to 
support these reforms, given its extensive and long-standing engagement on macro and fiscal issues, as 
well as high level advisory work in the financial sector area. This operation draws on recent analytical 
work in the Kazakhstan Government and World Bank Joint Economic Program of work and on-going 
policy dialogue. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The specific country policies supported by the DPL operation are not likely to have significant impacts 
on Kazakhstan’s environment and natural resources.  The measures contemplated under the loan are 
primarily geared toward assisting the poor to maintain their living standards, limiting a growth decline 
Page  3
and reestablishing the financial system solvency. None of these measures are expected to have 
significant links to the environment. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1000 
 Total 
1000 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Ekaterine T. Vashakmadze 
Title: Sr. Country Economist, Country Sector Coordinator 
Tel: 5775+246 / 7-727-298-0580 
Email: evashakmadze@worldbank.org 
Location: Almaty, Kazakhstan (IBRD) 
 
