Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5613 
Operation Name 
Kazakhstan Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Public administration- Finance (60%); General finance sector 
(40%) 
Project ID 
P119856 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
11 Pobedy Street 
Astana 
Kazakhstan 
010000 
Fax: (7-3172) 717-785 
Date PID Prepared 
April 20, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 5, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
May 25, 2010 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Kazakhstan was hit by two shocks and experienced a longer financial and economic crisis than 
most countries in the region. It started with a sudden stop in capital inflows in August 2007 that 
precipitated a banking crisis and disrupted credit flows to businesses, which was followed in late 
2008 by the global economic crisis that reduced  Kazakhstan's export revenues sharply.  The 
Government adopted a large fiscal stimulus making use of part of the savings accumulated in the 
National (oil) Fund.  The country was able to avert a recession, and the stimulus is being phased 
out gradually, as growth rebounds. The Government prefers to borrow, especially from the Bank, 
to finance part of the stimulus rather than use only National Fund resources, to signal the end of 
less disciplined access to these resources.  
 
Along with the fiscal stimulus the Government of Kazakhstan continued reform program built on 
two pillars corresponding to the state budget and financial sector, respectively.  The first pillar 
includes tasks pertaining to strengthening public resource management through greater efficiency 
and re-orientation of expenditures, while e the second pillar supports the program of the 
Government, National Bank, and Financial Supervision Agency for reducing vulnerabilities in 
the financial sector.which includes policy actions to be supported by the DPL. These two areas 
correspond to the two pillars of the proposed operation. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The program’s development objective of the proposed operation is to support the Government’s 
efforts in: (i) strengthening public resource management (including oil revenues) through 
increased efficiency and re-orientation of spending and (ii) reducing vulnerabilities in the 
financial sector through restructuring large problem banks, and strengthening the bank 
supervisory, regulatory and resolution frameworks.  
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Page  2
The World Bank has been and supporting the Government in the development and 
implementation of its reform agenda for many years through joint analytical and technical work 
and investment loans. The proposed DPL will add to the instruments being used by the Bank for 
its support and engagement in Kazakhstan. Though a DPL was not envisaged in the original 
CPS, its objectives are fully aligned with the first pillar of the CPS, 
“reducing losses in 
competitiveness through prudent management of the oil revenues and increased public sector 
efficiency”, and indirectly support the other three pillars by helping the Government to 
strengthen public resource management and address vulnerabilities in financial sector.  
 
4. Financing 
 
The loan will be financed by the International Bank for Restructuring and Development (IBRD). 
The borrower contribution is zero and total proposed amount is USD 1 billion. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The proposed loan will follow the Bank’s disbursement procedures for DPLs. The loan proceeds 
would be made available to the Borrower upon the effectiveness of the Loan. Upon receipt of the 
withdrawal application from the Borrower IBRD will disburse the amount in single tranche into 
a
foreign currency deposit account opened for the purpose in the National Bank of Kazakhstan 
(NBK). This account is available for budget financing and will be managed by and subject to the 
control of the Ministry of Finance (MoF). The proceeds of the loan deposited at the Treasury 
account with NBK will be converted into local currency to cover budget expenditures or will be 
used for refinancing foreign debt repayments. The MoF will be responsible for the loan 
administration and for preparing the withdrawal application, and maintaining the withdrawal 
application as required. The MoF, with the assistance of NBK, will maintain records of all 
transactions under the loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. The foreign currency 
deposit account will form part of the foreign currency reserves of the country. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed operation supports a program of policy actions taken by the Government of 
Kazakhstan to foster economic growth and protect living standards of the population in the after-
crisis period. Greater social commitments of the Government have direct positive benefits for the 
population already in short term period. The stronger discipline on the management of the 
National (oil) Fund will insure the budget against fluctuations in commodity prices, help prevent 
overheating and excessive real appreciation of the tenge, and the returns on international 
investments from this Fund will provide the budget and country with a major source of revenue. 
Budgetary reform has the potential to increase significantly the efficiency and potency of 
Government policy in Kazakhstan. Finally, more effective bank regulation and resolution 
framework supported by the proposed operation will help to prevent a repeat of the irresponsible 
foreign borrowing and excessive credit expansion that led to the financial crisis.   
 
There are four risks to program’s outcomes: insufficient follow through on actions supported by 
this operation and weakening medium-term impact; global risk from oil and commodity price 
decline; financial sector risk from its vulnerability to adjustments in real economy and from 
unraveling of restructuring agreement with banks' foreign creditors; and political risk. The 
Page  3
content of program helps to mitigate risks.  The design of the overall WB Economic Program in 
Kazakhstan helps to mitigate operational risks. The policy actions supported by the proposed 
DPL are all significant for mitigating economic and political risks described above. This includes 
especially measures aimed at establishing strong fiscal discipline, the program for alleviating the 
immediate impact of the economic crisis on the population and support growth, and reforming 
the regulation of the financial sector in a manner that will promote greater stability. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The set of measures that are supported by this operation are likely to have considerable positive 
social impact.  By improving oil wealth management discipline and public financial 
management, by empowering local authorities, reorienting the budget away from wasteful SOE 
expenditures, and reducing the fiscal risks in the financial sector, the Government’s Program will 
promote a greater availability of public resources for the vulnerable part of population.  The 
decentralization of service provision at the local level is also a key necessity for improving the 
quality of social services.  A more stable financial sector has strong advantages for the savings of 
the population and the availability of funding for small scale entrepreneurs.   
 
The specific country policies supported by the DPL program and this operation are not likely to 
have significant impacts on Kazakhstan’s environment and natural resources. The measures 
contemplated under the loan are primarily geared toward ensuring stability and future financial 
system solvency, to allow a resumption of economic growth once the global environment 
improves. None of the supported by the DPL policy actions is expected to have significant links 
to the environment. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Ekaterine T. Vashakmadze 
Title: Sr. Country Economist 
Tel: 5775+246 / 7-727-298-0580 
Fax:  
Email: evashakmadze@worldbank.org 
Location: Almaty, Kazakhstan (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
