                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR00001738



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-79110)



                                    ON A LOAN
                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1 BILLION


                                      TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

                                       FOR A

                         DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                               FEBRUARY 14, 2012




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Caucasus and Central Asia
Europe and Central Asia Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective February 5, 2012)

                           Currency Unit = Tenge
                          US$ 1.00 = 148.72 Tenge

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank
BTA     Bank TuranAlem
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CET     Common External Tariff
CFC     Committee of Financial Control
CDS     Credit default swap
CFCPP   Committee for Financial Control and Public Procurement
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
DPL     Development Policy Loan
FSA     Financial Supervision Agency
FSAP    Financial Sector Assessment Program
GDP     Gross domestic product
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA     International Development Association
IMF     International Monetary Fund
JERP    Joint Economic Research Program
KCSL    Countercyclical Support Loan for Kazakhstan
KKB     Kazkommertsbank
KTZ     Kazakhstan Temir Zholy
MOF     Ministry of Finance
NBK     National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan
NPL     Nonperforming loans
NF      National Fund
PER     Public Expenditure Review
PEFA    Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Assessment
SME     Small- and medium-sized enterprises
SOE     State-owned enterprises
TA      Technical assistance


                       Vice President:   Philippe H. Le Houerou
                     Country Director:   Motoo Konishi/Saroj Kumar Jha
                      Sector Manager:    Kazi Matin/Ivailo Izvorski
                    Task Team Leader:    John Litwack/Ekaterine Vashakmadze
                     ICR Team Leader     Ekaterine Vashakmadze
                                                    KAZAKHSTAN
                                              DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                                                                CONTENTS


      Data Sheet
      A. Basic Information
      B. Key Dates
      C. Ratings Summary
      D. Sector and Theme Codes
      E. Bank Staff
      F. Results Framework Analysis
      G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
      H. Restructuring

1.      Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................ 1
2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................................... 9
3.      Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 11
4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 26
5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................. 26
6.      Lessons Learned ................................................................................................................... 28

Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............................. 29
Annex 2. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .................................................................... 31
Annex 3. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....................................... 34
Annex 4. List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................................ 37
MAP ............................................................................................................................................... 38




                                                                         iii
A. Basic Information

                                                                           Kazakhstan
Country:                Kazakhstan               Program Name:             Development Policy
                                                                           Loan
Program ID:             P119856                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-79110
ICR Date:               02/16/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                      Borrower:
                                                                           KAZAKHSTAN
Original Total
                        USD 1,000.00M            Disbursed Amount:         USD 1,000.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 1,000.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process               Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/02/2010    Effectiveness:              07/09/2010         07/23/2010
Appraisal:             04/09/2010    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/25/2010    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                    01/07/2011         01/07/2011


C. Ratings Summary

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                          Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                          Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                         Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank               Satisfactory    Overall Borrower                      Satisfactory

                                                iv
Performance:                                      Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                  Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                             None
                                                  (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                           Quality of
                        No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                              44                  44
Central government administration                                    39                  39
Sub-national government administration                               17                  17


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                     56                  56
procurement
State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization               44                  44


E. Bank Staff

        Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou              Philippe H. Le Houerou
Country Director:          Saroj Kumar Jha                     Motoo Konishi
Sector Manager:            Ivailo V. Izvorski                  Kazi Mahbub-Al Matin
Program Team Leader:       Ekaterine T. Vashakmadze            John Litwack
ICR Team Leader:           Ekaterine T. Vashakmadze
ICR Primary Author:        Luis Alvaro Sanchez




                                                 v
F. Results Framework Analysis


Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The operation supports the Government's program of policy measures to foster economic growth
and sustain living standards of the population in the aftermath of the economic crisis. The
program's objective is to support the Government's efforts in: (i) strengthening public resource
management (including oil revenues) through increased efficiency and re-orientation of spending,
and (ii) reducing vulnerabilities in the financial sector through restructuring large problem banks,
and strengthening the bank supervisory, regulatory and resolution frameworks. The proposed
DPL is the major portion of the revised lending program in Kazakhstan, consistent with the CPS
objectives presented to the Board in 2004. The proposed DPL is aligned with the first pillar of
the CPS, "reducing losses in competitiveness through prudent management of the oil revenues
and increased public sector efficiency," and indirectly supports the other three pillars by helping
the Government to strengthen public resource management and address vulnerabilities in
financial sector.

NOTE: TABLE 6 (PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS) OF THE ICR DOCUMENT
PRESENTS THE DETAILED PDO INDICATORS INCLUDING THEIR BASELINE VALUES,
ORIGINAL TARGETS AND ACTUAL VALUES AT COMPLETION OF TARGET YEARS.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
NA

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                                documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Indicator 1. Official adoption of new NF rules
                                            Approve, adopt,
                                            and implement
                   President requested that action by the                      Met. New rules
Value
                   new rules be drafted for government of                      were adopted and
(quantitative or                                               NA
                   NF operations by Q1 new rules for                           are being
Qualitative)
                   2010.                    governing the                      implemented.
                                            operation and use
                                            of NF.
Date achieved      01/10/2010               06/15/2010         02/09/2011      06/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Solvency of the system as measured by the capital adequacy ratios (FSA ratio
Indicator 2 :
                   k1-1 and k1-2)
Value              Actual capital adequacy Capital adequacy                 Met.
(quantitative or   ratios as of Jan 1, 2010: ratios for entire NA           K1-1: .115
Qualitative)       k1-1: –0.115 (0.107*) system should be                   K2: .181

                                                vi
                   k1-2: –0.116 (0.126*)   no less than new
                                           prudential norms:
                   * Without BTA and       k1-1: 0.06
                   Alliance                k1-2: 0.09 as of
                                           July 2011 (0.06
                                           currently)
Date achieved      01/01/2010              06/15/2010        06/15/2010     07/01/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                             Values (from                      Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value                        Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :      NA
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs


                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                        IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)



H. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable




                                               vii
1.   Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Before the Crisis
1.      Kazakhstan grew rapidly from 2000 through 2007 and made considerable progress
in reducing poverty. Growth in output and incomes was supported by sizable revenues from
natural resources and market economic reforms. Annual GDP growth averaged 10 percent and
average real incomes more than doubled, transforming Kazakhstan into an upper-middle-income
economy relatively quickly. The estimated share of the population living below the official
poverty line declined from 44.5 percent in 2002 to 12 percent by year-end 2007. Meanwhile, the
unemployment rate as defined by the International Labor Organization declined from an
estimated 13 percent in 2000 to less than 7 percent by 2007. However, the rapid growth, which
was concentrated in large cities and resource-rich western regions, resulted in income disparities.
While the poverty headcount dropped below 10 percent in urban areas, in rural locations it
remained over 20 percent.

2.      Thanks to responsible fiscal and macroeconomic management, the National Fund of
the Republic of Kazakhstan had accumulated substantial resources before the crisis hit.
Total government spending averaged about 22 percent of GDP for most of the pre-crisis period,
and the non-oil deficit averaged about 4 percent of GDP even as oil prices and revenues rose.
Because the government resisted pressures for major increases in spending, by the end of 2008
the National Fund (NF) had built up savings of US$27 billion (21 percent of GDP) and inflation
was relatively low for most of the period. Sterilization of a large part of the oil inflows through
the NF and repatriation of a large share of oil profits also reduced pressure on the exchange rate.

3.       By 2008 large capital inflows to the banks, coupled with public and private foreign
investment spending, had overheated the economy, which led to currency appreciation and
planted the seeds of financial instability. Encouraged by soaring commodity and real estate
prices, international creditors supplied the large commercial banks with abundant unsecured
credit. As a result, the external debt of domestic banks rose from US$8 billion in 2005 (14% of
GDP) to $45.9 billion in 2007 (43.8 percent) and the nominal value of commercial bank credit to
the economy more than doubled, from 25 percent of GDP in 2004 to about 56 percent in 2007.
Most of this credit went to construction and real estate, which together accounted for loans
amounting to 30 percent of GDP at the end of 2007. Finance and construction had become the
major drivers of economic growth.

4.      While at the micro level the prudential position of banks seemed comfortable,
macro-prudentially there were signs of building pressures. The surge in real estate prices
supported bank comfort levels, but the heavy exposure to short-term external sources of financing
was becoming problematic. Efforts in 2006 to limit the ability of banks to borrow abroad brought
heavy resistance from the financial sector and housing lobbies, which prevailed. By the time
prudential regulations on foreign borrowing were tightened in early 2007, it was too little too late.

Responses to the Shocks of the late 2000s
5.      In 2007 and 2008 Kazakhstan was hit by two external shocks in quick succession.
The first came in August 2007 when a sudden brake on foreign inflows (loans) triggered a
banking liquidity crisis, which was exacerbated by a speculative run on deposits and on the
national currency. The authorities reacted rapidly, but just as the Kazakh economy was starting to


                                                 1
stabilize in 2008, it was again negatively affected by the plunge in oil prices and the world
financial crisis.

6.       In 2008 sinking commodity prices and intensification of the global crisis hit the
Kazakh economy hard. First, exports dropped. Monthly exports fell from US$3–5 billion in the
first 11 months of 2008 to less than US$1.5 billion in December and the first quarter of 2009.
Correspondingly, the current account moved from a surplus of US$3.7 billion in the first half of
2008 to a deficit of US$3.5 billion in the first half of 2009. Meanwhile, Kazakh banks lost
virtually all access to rollover opportunities in global financial markets, weakening the capital
account and putting excessive pressure on the tenge.

7.       As the financial crisis deepened and the economy fell into recession in late 2008, the
Government tapped into its National Fund to finance an Anti-Crisis package of US$ 10
billion. US$4 billion was spent on the recapitalization of the four largest commercial banks
through the purchase of ordinary (up to 25 percent ownership) and preferred shares. A small share
of this sum was placed as deposits in the two relatively less distressed banks to facilitate lending
to the economy. The remaining US$6 billion financed economic stimulus programs for
construction, agriculture, real estate, small business, and key infrastructure projects. A large share
of this Anti-Crisis spending package was financed off-budget from National Fund resources
through the State holdings Samruk-Kazyna and Kazagro, and was administered through larger
Kazakhstani banks.

8.       The Government also introduced measures to alleviate the social consequences of
the crisis. The Government protected social expenditures from budgetary sequestration, insured
all pension payments (including those from private pension funds) indexed to inflation, extended
unemployment benefits from four to six months, and promoted the signing of memoranda
between regional authorities and larger enterprises on preserving jobs. As of mid-2009,
memoranda with 5,215 enterprises employing 813,000 workers were reportedly signed. Special
shops selling subsidized food products and medicines to the poor which were set up during the
rapid food price increases in 2007-2008 continued to operate. In the spring of 2009, an additional
public works program of US$1.5 billion (1.5 percent of GDP) called the ―Road Map‖ was set up
for the creation of jobs, training, and the provision of temporary wage subsidies to vulnerable
groups at the regional level through special budgetary transfers to local authorities. Public
salaries were increased significantly. The share of social spending in the consolidated
Government budget increased from 52 percent in 2008 to 60 percent in 2009.

9.      The National Bank stepped up its liquidity support for commercial banks in late
2008 and 2009, while deposit insurance was increased seven-fold. By March 2009, reserve
requirements for commercial banks had been progressively decreased from 6 percent to 1.5
percent for internal liabilities, and from 8 percent to 2.5 percent for external liabilities. Reverse
REP0 operations were used for liquidity support (US$2.9 billion by the end of the third quarter of
2009). The accounts of a number of state-owned organizations were also shifted from the
National Bank to commercial banks. As a measure to support depositor confidence, household
deposit insurance was increased seven-fold from 700 thousand tenge to 5 million tenge (from
US$5,833 to US$41,667).

10.     Instead of the initial plan to recapitalize the four largest banks by buying minority
shares, the Government decided to seize control of BTA and Alliance on February 2, 2009,
while going ahead with the minority equity injection into the other two banks. The
downward spiral in real estate prices and the imminent devaluation of the tenge implied that the
approved recapitalization package for BTA and Alliance of October 2008 would be insufficient.
Consequently, the authorities feared that the remaining assets of these banks might be in


                                                  2
jeopardy. BTA had severe liquidity problems and, being the biggest bank in Kazakhstan at the
time, its failure had systemic implications. On February 2, 2009, the Government decided to
acquire control of BTA through a share issue, purchased by the state holding.

11.     The period August 2007 - December 2009 is associated with US$21 billion dollars of
anti-crisis support. The majority of this came from the Republican budget or the large state
corporate conglomerate Samruk-Kazyna). Table 1 summarizes the primary sequence of events
and programs of 2007-2009, as well as estimated costs to the Government and foreign creditors.
Approximately half of this money (US$11 billion) was devoted to direct assistance to struggling
commercial banks (primarily BTA), while the other half (over US$10 billion) financed anti-crisis
stimulus measures in various sectors of the economy. In addition to public works programs, the
Government increased other social spending significantly during this period, mainly through a
structural reallocation of budgetary spending.

Core Issues before Loan Approval

12.     Kazakhstan’s fiscal position deteriorated and the non-oil fiscal deficit widened to
10.5 percent of GDP in 2008 and hit 13.8 percent in 2009. Consolidated state budgetary
revenues dropped by about 4 percent of GDP in 2008 due to the recession, low commodity prices,
a lowered corporate income tax rate, and the granting of uniform investment credits. Outlays
increased from 23 percent of GDP in pre-crisis years to 27.9 percent in 2009 to finance higher
social commitments and off-budget stimulus spending. The guaranteed transfer from the NF
financed half of the deficit; the rest was financed by an additional transfer (1.5% of GDP), a loan
amounting to 0.5% of GDP from the Asian Development Bank, and local borrowing (2.4% of
GDP). It was decided to resist populist pressures to fully finance the deficit with NF resources.

13.      The fiscal difficulties highlighted the need for more budget flexibility and more
effective targeting of countercyclical fiscal policies. The immediate priority became to make
public spending more efficient so as to make budgets more strategic and budget execution more
flexible. The government undertook a major revision of the 2004 Budget Code and Parliament
approved its first three-year national budget for 2009–11 based on the strategic plans of
government ministries in 2008. Those reforms were in line with a Public Expenditure and
Financial Accountability Assessment (PEFA) published in early 2009, which reflected how
public finances were managed in 2006 and 2007, highlighted progress in expenditure
management, and identified areas that needed attention.

14.      How to protect the poor was a major challenge. The government had to quickly re-
prioritize spending toward social outlays and keeping social spending adequate despite the
deteriorating fiscal position. Kazakhstan had traditionally allocated fewer resources to social
expenditures than other countries with similar levels of per capita income. To maintain social
spending, the government cut administrative expenditures and phased out production subsidies
for construction, agriculture, and financing of loans to small and medium enterprises (SMEs),
which were channeled through the state-owned Samruk-Kazyna and Kazagro. To speed the
responses to the crisis, the authorities introduced a number of ad hoc measures: The
US$1.5 billion (1.5 percent of GDP) public ―Road Map‖ was set up in the spring of 2009 to
create jobs, offer training, and provide temporary wage subsidies to vulnerable groups at the
regional level through special transfers to local authorities. The government also protected social
expenditures from budgetary sequestration, ensured that all pension payments (including those
from private pension funds) were indexed to inflation, extended unemployment benefits from
four to six months, and promoted the signing of memoranda between regional authorities and
larger enterprises on preserving jobs.



                                                3
               Table 1. Timeline of Major Crisis Events, Programs, and Costs: 2007–2009
                                                                                                                                                                                 Fi><:oI 01   Otl~1   Cost
                                                                                                    2001-mid 2003
              S u dd ~ n    <top in copito l                                    Commil""'nl to d~~ n d                 ~.c h o n ~ rot~

              inl low<      Ilol ~ i r n   loo n<)                              liq uid ity lmo<tiy REPO)               plov i d~          to t>o nk<                            _~ I ow

              to h ,"k n '~ n b3 nk'                                            PrOI!,"m to c omp lM~ Iro '~n nou' iol! c oo",u<lioo                                             US$ 1.5 billi on
                                                                                SM E loo n       I~ i o o o c i o ,   01 <ub<id iud           i o t~I~ <1                        US$ 1.3 billio n


              World        ~o n om i c <l i ~ i . l u rt n ~1                   R~op i to li zol i o o      p,o,rom 101 4                l .r~ <1   t>o ok<                      US$ 4 billio n
              Ir i r nt~ n < ~.t~ rno l       con<lro ints.                     USS 5 billion         A n ~-aisi'_ n din g
                                                                                                                    package/or ZOOB-ZOO9
              commod ity ond               I~o l ..,; tot~      pric..,;            For complriio o 01 fro,"" n coo<lru<lio o Ploj«ts'                                           US$ 2 billio n
              lo ll                                                                 R~i o o nc~ 01 morlo"" .1 I""""r i ot~I..,;1 rot..,;'                                        US$ 1 billio n
                                                                                    R~i o o nc~ ood o~ 1 0< 101 SM E<'
                                                                                                        0.                                                                       US$ 1 billio n
                                                                                    Ai:r i c u l l u l~ : i n v~ <I"", o l ,    00
                                                                                                                               1 0< to lor"",,,,. ri"                            US$ 1 bilio n
                                                                                    Priority i olro <lru<lu l~ Ploj«ts'                                                          US$ 1 billio n
                                                                                Hou""ho ld          d ~ po,; i l i n < u ro n c ~ i n '~o~          1X to 5 millio n
                                                                                t~ o ~    IUS$ 42.(00)
              l ow commod ity pric..,;. I~o l                   ..,; tot~

              pr i c ~   <lo<h. ond I«..,;. io n cr ~ ot..,;                    O o ~ -<>fl    20   ~rc ~ n l d ~ o l u ol i o n         01 I h ~ t~ o ~
              I .r~ ~.t~rn. 1 i mM I . nc ~                  . nd lu rt h ~r    G"""rnrnenl tII k... coo lrol lown~", h i p)                                                     No .dd it io n. 1 i mrne-d i .t~ c",ts
              d i .II ~ «    101 t>o nk<                                        01 hir hly d i <I' ~ < ~ BTA ond                Al li o n c ~   t>o nk<                          Il i n o n c~   from US$ 4 billio n
                                                                                                                                                                                 r«opito lizolio n pro,rom)

              PI ~ « U I~     00 t~ o ~ cool inu..,;. 0< m. ny                  N.lio nol Bo nk p l ~"" to d~~ n d                        ~.c h o n ~ rot~

              ~.~I l u rt h ~1 d ~ p'« i ol i o o                               Gov~ rn""' n l        ,""" UI"'; commil"",nts 01 inl low< from Chino.
                                                                                ol h ~1   counlri..,;. ond IFI. 01             ov~ r      US$ 1 5 billio n

                                                                                Ikbt , ....". " nd o t~r unsaurra support for /)Qnh
              Gov~ rn""' n l k~ p <            BTA ond          Al li o n c ~   Somruk-Korvno cond ucts bond <wop< wil h                                                         US$ 5 billio n
Sprin,-()9    c u "~ n l    on d ~ bl      ""rv i ' ~ .   bul   d~ l o' ~ 5     BTA t>o nk IUS$ 4.3 billio n) ond                    Alli o n c ~   IUS$ 100 millio n).
              n~         101 d ~ bl   r~ <lr u <l u r i n ,                     r ivin,   I h ~ ""   t>o nk<   ,""" u r i l i ~ <   to   p l ~~     lor   '~ i n o n c ~

                                                                                Un ,""" u ,~ d ~ po,; i ts        01   I~ i n o n c ~                                            US$ 2 billio n

              Two lor~ i r n cr~ i to", co li o « ~ I ~ rol i o n               Gov~r n ""' n l       in. i<ts Ih.1      un ,""" u ,~ lor~ i r n

              do u=          in d ~ bl conlro , ts: BTA ond                     d ~ bts   01 I h ~ "" t>o nk< mu, 1 ~               1~ <lr u <l u ,~

              Al li . n ( ~d~ . u l t


              BoP po,;il io n         <I' ~ n il h ~ n < .   bul                Gov~ rn""' n l        introd uc..,; Rood M.p public wol k<                                       US$ 1.5 billio n
              conl inu in,       I«~ « i o n l u ~ l .                          p,o,rom
              worri..,; oboul           un ~ mp l oy""' n l


              Imp""" in d ~ bl             r~ <lr u <l u r i n ,                Gov~r n ""' n l       po <=      n~      Bo nk R~ ro l u l i o n low Ihol
Sum"",r-()9   n ~,ot i ol i o n <                                               ollow<        o l t~r n ol i v~ r~ ro l u l i o n P'oc~ u ,~         I,ood t>o nk-
                                                                                t>od t>o nk) lor        I ",~ i n ro l v~ n l       t>o nk<

              Non-bind in,            o , '~""' n l r~o c h ~           on
              d ~ bl r~ <lr u <l u r i n , 101 Al li o n c ~         t>o nk
              Ihol wri t~ < down rou, hly 15                      ~Ic ~ n t

              01 lo'~ i r n    d ~ bl


              No n - b i n d i n , o,' ~ ""' n l r~ ", h ~              on
              d ~ bl R~ <lr u <lr u i n ,      lor BTA Bo nk                                                                                 Proj « t~        US$ 1 billio n in co<ts tolo' ~ i r n    cr~ i to",

              Inol wri t~< down rou, nly 60 ~Ic~n t                                                                                          ICo<ts to Gov~rn ""' n l oh.dy coun t~ obov~)
              01 lo'~ i r n    d ~ bl


IO-MOI        R..,;lru<lurin,          d~o l   01 Al li o n c ~ comp l ri~ ond         i mp l ~ ""' n t~                                     US$ 3 billio n in co, ts tolo' ~ i r n      cr~ i to",

                                                                                                                                             I=ts toGov."n"",nl             o l r~. d y co un t~ o~ )




1
  Channeled half through the budget and half through S-K ($1 billion).
2
  Channeled half through S-K.
3
  Channeled through KazAgro.




                                                                                                                   4
15.      Another challenge was to complete restructuring of the debt of the troubled banks.
The Government actively pursued the recapitalization of BTA and Alliance through substantial
foreign debt restructuring. The government kept the two banks it acquired current on their
foreign debt obligations rather than go immediately for debt restructuring. However, two
international creditors, who had more than hedged their exposure to the banks using credit default
swaps (CDSs) called an acceleration clause in their contracts, citing change of ownership.
Because the government did not wish to accelerate the debt or give preferential treatment to
individual creditors, BTA and Alliance fell into default, pending negotiations to restructure their
foreign debts. The government position was that foreign creditors who made unsecured private
loans to BTA and Alliance did so at their own risk and should bear a significant share of the
losses. This strong signal to financial markets was deemed necessary to avoid future speculative
capital inflows. Through Samruk-Kazyna the government finally achieved agreements on general
terms with committees of foreign creditors for Alliance (October 2009) and BTA (December
2009). Because these general memoranda did not bind individual creditors, in December Alliance
reached binding agreements with a qualified majority of creditors that confirmed the terms of the
October memorandum. Similar agreements for BTA were concluded in 2010. These agreements
prescribed average haircuts of about 75 percent for foreign creditors of Alliance and 60 percent
for those of BTA and gave some preferential treatment to trade credits. It is estimated that the
write downs of foreign debts for BTA and Alliance amounted to around US$10 billion. The
challenge then became how to implement these agreements.

16.     The government also had to deal with reinforcing regulation of the financial sector.
The absence of a sound legal framework for resolving weak and troubled banks, insufficient
independent monitoring of the conditions of banks to generate early warning signs, and the
perception that the government might be willing to bail banks out meant that the banks had few
incentives to manage their risks. Also, the porous regulatory framework could not restrain
excessive external borrowing or domestic real estate lending, and supervision capacity was
inadequate.

17.      The interventions that helped stabilize both the financial sector and credit to the
private sector also increased fiscal risks and the cost of restoring the sector to health. The
US$11 billion (10 percent of GDP) that the authorities provided in direct equity and debt
financing helped stabilize credit to the private sector, and CDS spreads came down to 550–800
bps for the two largest banks (now Halyk Bank and KKB) from more than 3,000 in the summer
of 2009. The interventions were successful in maintaining depositor confidence in the rest of the
system, although depositors did leave BTA and Alliance. However, fiscal risks remained as
liquidity injections continued after nationalization, most notably as facilitated by a bond swap
between Samruk-Kazyna and BTA.1




1
  Samruk-Kazyna received BTA bonds in exchange for its own bonds, which for liquidity the banks could
then pledge to the National Bank. Because the BTA and Alliance bonds that Samruk-Kazyna received were
converted into equity as part of the restructuring, the true fiscal costs will remain uncertain until the market
value of the banks can be established.



                                                       5
18.      The banking sector was still vulnerable to external shocks and the growth in
nonperforming loans. Beyond continuing uncertainty in the international environment, an
emerging threat to the financial system was a rise in nonperforming loans (NPLs). Loans 90 days
in arrears as a percentage of total credit increased from 5.1 percent on January 1, 2009, to 21.2
percent on January 1, 2010. Fortunately, Halyk Bank, the former state savings bank that held a
large share of consumer deposits, and KKB, now the largest bank in Kazakhstan, had kept current
on their foreign debt obligations. However, given the difficulties on the asset side of bank
portfolios and their limited opportunities to attract resources.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

19.      The World Bank development policy loan (DPL) supported the government’s post-
crisis policies of fostering economic growth and sustaining Kazakh living standards. The
objective was to support the government’s efforts to (i) strengthen management of public
resources, particularly oil revenues, through increased efficiency and re-orientation of spending;
and (ii) reduce financial sector vulnerabilities by restructuring large problem banks and building
up the bank supervisory, regulatory, and resolution frameworks. Intended outcomes of the
program were (i) continued economic growth and improved social indicators; (ii) more effective,
strategic, and flexible public resource management; (iii) successful debt restructuring for the large
problem banks; and (iv) more effective bank regulation and resolution.

20.      The DPL was intended to finance part of the non-oil deficit in 2010 as markets
recovered and to signal the government’s intention to harden the budget constraint. In 2008
and 2009, large exceptional transfers from the NF financed both budget and off-budget
expenditures. The government moved quickly to restore discipline in the use of oil revenues and
to sustain it in a structured and transparent manner. The higher-profile engagement with the
World Bank through the DPL also accelerated technical work and deeper dialogue on
management of the NF and enhanced the effectiveness of government efforts to maintain fiscal
discipline and strengthen NF governance over the medium term. DPL-supported reforms were
directed to increasing the confidence in Kazakhstan of both domestic and foreign investors by
signaling that the government was willing to hold the line against domestic pressures, thereby
accumulating reserves in the NF despite an uncertain domestic and external environment.

21.      In the financial sector the DPL supported government efforts to stabilize the
banking system by intervening fast and effectively when the financial crisis broke. The loan
supported the government decision to resist the pressure to bail out private banks entirely and
force shareholders and private creditors to bear a large share of the cost. This was an important
signal from the government about the need to establish better discipline in the banking sector to
avoid moral hazard.

22.     Although the DPL had not been foreseen in the World Bank 2004 Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS), the policy areas it supported were fully aligned with the CPS
goals. The CPS, presented to the Bank Board on September 8, 2004, and updated in early 2008,
focused on assistance and support for achieving the government’s four main goals:




                                                 6
       Reduce losses in competitiveness through prudent management of oil revenues and
        increased public sector efficiency.
       Promote competitiveness by building government capacity to reduce barriers to
        businesses and private investors.
       Lay the foundation for future competitiveness by investing in human capital and basic
        infrastructure.
       Ensure environmentally friendly growth and mitigate past ecological liabilities.

23.     The DPL was directly aligned with the first pillar of the CPS: Reduce losses in
competitiveness through prudent management of oil revenues and increased public sector
efficiency. The loan also indirectly supported the other three pillars of the CPS by helping the
government to better manage public resources and address financial sector vulnerabilities. It also
supported the government priority to address the crisis and set the course for its aftermath. In
2009 the government approved an ambitious Concept for the Development of the Financial
Sector that outlined a medium-term strategy for improving incentives, including improvements to
corporate governance.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

24.     Because the DPL was a single-tranche operation, neither the program development
objectives nor the major indicators were revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

Pillar 1. Strengthening Public Resource Management

Fiscal Management of Oil Wealth

25.     The DPL supported the government’s central objective of imposing discipline on the
use of oil revenues. In April 2010 use of NF resources was restricted. The program thereafter
envisaged an engagement with the Bank through technical work and dialogue on use and
management of the NF. The accelerated technical work was to examine best practices in
governance and management of sovereign wealth funds elsewhere, adapt them to Kazakhstan,
and analyze what might be done in the medium term to refine the new rules. With the DPL, the
government committed to limiting to US$8 billion the annual guaranteed transfer from the NF to
the budget and mandating that the NF acquire only assets traded on international markets.

Budgetary Reform

26.     The DPL supported the government’s commitment to addressing the weaknesses in
budget management identified in the PEFA. DPL-supported actions included three initiatives
launched by the revised Budget Code at both national and local levels: medium-term budgeting,
expansion and regularization of internal controls, and execution flexibility for local budgets. Prior
actions were to ―(a) develop and approve three-year rolling budgets at the republican and local
level based on three-year strategic plans; (b) delegate powers to administrators of budgetary
programs at the republican (national) and local levels for redistribution of funds between specifics
and subprograms within one budgetary program in the process of budget execution; and (c) adopt




                                                 7
regulations for creation of internal control services in budgetary organizations to perform internal
state financial controls.‖

Reorient Budgetary Outlays

27.      The DPL supported efforts to increase social spending to mitigate the impact of the
crisis, especially efforts to streamline public expenditures while maintaining the share of public
outlays that went to social sectors. Specifically, it foresaw a decrease in the share of nonpriority
spending and transfers to SOEs. The increased allocations for social spending were to be
accompanied over the medium to long term with institutional reforms to improve the quality and
efficacy of social assistance programs and the delivery of health and education services. It was
also expected that the lessons of the temporary employment programs would be incorporated into
policies for generating employment, especially in rural areas. Because technical analysis was
limited, reviews of social spending were planned for FY 12–13 so that the impact of these
programs could be better assessed. The government program sought to decrease the share of
nonpriority administrative expenditures and transfers to SOEs in the budget and increase the
share of social spending.

Pillar 2. Addressing Financial Sector Vulnerabilities

28.       The DPL supported the reform agenda that the government, the National Bank, and
the Financial Supervision Agency (FSA) adopted to address the banking crisis and restore
domestic credit to firms. The core of the strategy was to overhaul incentives for commercial
banks. The immediate agenda had three priorities: (i) reinforce the bank resolution framework;
(ii) restructure large problem banks, with shareholders and creditors sharing the cost; and (iii)
improve regulation and supervision.

Bank Resolution and Problem Bank Restructuring

29.      Upgrading the resolution framework was fundamental to sorting out the crisis and
enabling the authorities to respond to future shocks. The new resolution framework was
drafted to give the regulators options for effectively addressing the challenges posed by weak and
troubled banks (see next paragraph). The resultant law, ―On Improving Legislation on Banking
Activity and Activity of the National Bank of Kazakhstan,‖ enacted on July 11, 2009, set out
mechanisms for the orderly restructuring of obligations, which filled a serious institutional void in
Kazakhstan’s banking regulation. It also improved the government’s bargaining position in debt
restructuring negotiations because it ensures that the costs of bailout are borne by shareholders
and creditors rather than taxpayers.

30.      The government also needed to signal to shareholders and creditors of troubled
banks that they would have to bear a significant share of the costs of bank restructuring
and to build on the restructuring to stimulate recovery of the banking sector. Agreements
with international creditors achieved a significant write-down, alleviated the burden of the crisis
on Kazakhstan’s taxpayers, and signaled that the government is not implicitly insuring private
unsecured foreign loans. Resolution of BTA and Alliance also helped relieve the debt overhang,
clarify the value of claims on these banks, and re-establish the international reputation of the
Kazakhstan financial sector. Restructuring the two large problem banks initiated the recovery of
the banking sector. The DPL prior actions were that (a) BTA and Alliance each enter into a
terms-sheet agreement with their credit committees on a restructuring plan that would restore
their financial viability and would write down the majority of foreign debts; and (b) a law would



                                                 8
be passed that would ease bank resolution through creation of stabilization banks, execution of
purchase/assumption agreements, and restructuring of banks by a specialized financial court.‖

Bank Regulation

31.     Strengthening supervision, especially through use of an early warning system, and
enhancing government capacity to intervene were also part of the reform agenda.
Limitations on the ability of the FSA to monitor banks and intervene when necessary was a
primary weakness that had made it impossible to avoid the financial instability that emerged in
2007. Government efforts to remedy these shortcomings included major increases in personnel,
number of inspections, and types of inspections, and placement of permanent FSA representatives
in systemically important banks. The Law on Financial Stability of October 2008 authorized the
early warning system but the system did not reach its current effectiveness until the FSA in
August 2009 revised its Resolution 200, which establishes concrete conditions for implementing
the system. The early warning system gives regulators power to monitor closely a series of basic
indicators of the financial health of a bank. If the indicators evidence a deterioration in
performance, the FSA can intervene in a number of ways to restrict the bank’s activities or force
managerial changes, even if the bank is not yet in explicit violation of any prudential norms.

32.      Improving prudential regulations to prevent excessive foreign borrowing and credit
expansion by banks was also part of the reform agenda. With the crisis, bank capital had
become negative. The plan was for banks to build capital and reduce foreign exposure gradually.
Increased capital adequacy requirements and tighter limits on foreign borrowings by banks as a
share of equity was scheduled to become effective in 2011. As the banking sector recovers over
the medium term, other prudential norms are due to be tightened, such as limiting foreign loans to
30 percent of liabilities. The DPL prior action required enactment of a law establishing an early
warning system to empower the FSA to (i) monitor indicators of bank performance; (ii) require
banks to submit to a contingency plan if the indicators deteriorated; and (iii) take additional
measures as needed to provide for financial stability, even if there had not been an explicit
violation of prudential norms. The second prior action called on the government to issue decrees
to (i) increase the capital adequacy requirements for commercial banks, starting in July 1, 2011;
and (ii) limit their total liabilities to nonresidents relative to their equity.

2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

33.      Table 2 presents the triggers the authorities met before Board approval. As noted,
the DPL supported only part of the government program to help ameliorate the impact of the
crisis. The Bank contributed to the design of complementary measures and has monitored their
implementation, sometimes providing advice. The government created an Inter-Ministerial
Working Group to be responsible for coordinating DPL preparation and implementation. The
authorities and the Bank team have maintained an active dialog throughout, with the Bank
providing technical assistance (TA) through the Joint Economic Research Program (JERP). This
dialogue has been more active on fiscal than on financial sector issues; for the latter the Bank has
concentrated on presenting alternatives for resolving the high level of NPLs and reinforcing the
insolvency framework.




                                                 9
                                         Table 2. Status of DPL Prior Actions

First Programmatic Reform: DPL Implementation

Prior Actions                                                           Status
I. Strengthen public resource management.
Issued a decree limiting the amount of the annual guaranteed            The decree was issued in April 2010. Efforts are underway
transfer from the National Fund to the budget to the equivalent of      to strengthen the rules for using countercyclical fiscal
US$8 billion and obligating the NF to acquire only assets traded on     policy to deal with shocks.
international markets.

Implemented a revised Budget Code to develop and approve three-         Mid-term budgeting is in place at the central and regional
year rolling budgets at the national and local levels based on three-   levels. Current efforts are directed to better aligning sector
year strategic plans.                                                   strategies with budgetary allocations using a results-based
                                                                        approach.
Implemented the revised Budget Code to delegate powers to               Powers have been provided for redistribution of resources
administrators of budgetary programs at the national and local          between specifics and subprograms within one budgetary
levels for redistribution of funds between specifics and                program when budgets are executed; measures are being
subprograms within a single budgetary program when budgets are          taken to strengthen the finances of oblast and local
being executed.                                                         executive bodies.

Implemented the revised Budget Code to create the internal control      Internal control services were created, but further analysis
services of central government bodies and executive bodies funded       identified weaknesses in related legislation. The regulatory
from budgets of oblasts, national cities, and the capital to perform    framework is now being reviewed.
regular internal control related to areas of the body’s activities to
improve the quality and productivity of its operations.

Enacted a law to decrease the share of nonpriority administrative       The law is in place. The government has removed the fiscal
expenditures and capital transfers to state-owned enterprises in the    stimulus provided during the crisis and has kept social
budget and increase the share of social spending.                       spending higher than before the crisis.

II. Address financial sector vulnerabilities.
BTA and Alliance banks each entered into an agreement with their        The agreements are being implemented satisfactorily.
credit committees on a restructuring plan that restores their
financial viability and writes down the majority of outstanding
foreign credits.

Enacted a law to strengthen the bank resolution framework               The law is in place and has helped the government
through, e.g., the creation of stabilization banks, execution of        intervene at the two large banks that were insolvent. The
purchase/assumption agreements, and restructuring of banks by a         government is preparing to present to Parliament legislation
specialized financial court.                                            to fine-tune banking regulatory powers;
Enacted a law that established an early warning system to empower       The law is in place and covers all the banks in the system.
the FSA to (i) monitor indicators of bank performance; (ii) require
banks to submit to a contingency plan if the indicators deteriorate;
and (iii) take additional measures as needed to sustain financial
stability, even before there is an explicit violation of prudential
norms.
Issued a decree to (i) increase the capital requirements for            This decree has been fully implemented.
commercial banks, starting in July 1, 2011; and (ii) limit the total
liabilities of commercial banks to nonresidents relative to their
equity.




                                                              10
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

34.      Government ownership of the program has been high. The government put in place
the DPL-supported policies and actions necessary to address the challenges of the crisis and the
institutional weaknesses that emerged. The DPL program also sought to help maintain the pace of
reform throughout the crisis. The authorities had full control of the process that led to design of
the program; its ownership then translated into prompt and flexible implementation. That is, to
meet program objectives the authorities could adjust it as needed to respond to emerging events.
The high degree of ownership also meant that the government was able to withstand internal and
external pressures working against the strategy.

35.      Tight alignment of the DPL agenda with government priorities facilitated design
and implementation. The DPL agenda was aligned with short-term stabilization priorities: It
supported the government on use of NF resources, giving priority to social spending, and prompt
resolution of the banking crisis. It also supported continued attention to improving budgetary and
banking institutions. This alignment and the high degree of government ownership meant that
substantive actions could be undertaken quickly, before the operation went to the Bank Board.

36.      A history of effective dialogue between the authorities and the World Bank Group
facilitated design and implementation of the program. The design of the World Bank Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Kazakhstan was innovative and flexible; it recognized that
Kazakhstan is an upper-middle-income country. The cornerstone of the CPS has been the JERP,
which began in 2002. JERP is a demand-driven AAA program cofinanced by the Bank and the
government that comprises ESW and TA, including periodic day-long brainstorming, on topics
identified by the government. Bank engagement had been particularly intensive in fiscal, public
financial management, financial, infrastructure, private sector development, agriculture, and
social areas (health and education). The CPS strategy also envisioned flexible lending with room
for additional borrowing should that be necessary. This approach meant that is was not necessary
to reshuffle the lending program to accommodate the DPL. No follow-up DPL is foreseen.

37.     The CPS now being prepared will support the government’s 2020 Vision, which
gives priority to the efficiency of the state, sound macroeconomic management, and strong
financial institutions. In these areas, the fourth cycle of JERP-4, also now being prepared, will
be the main instrument for dialog and support. Support will continue to be demand-driven; but,
building on the lessons of the previous JERP cycles, programmatic work will facilitate
implementation of the multiyear reform agenda.

3.   Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 The Structure of the Program

38.      The DPL design was appropriate given the needs and the priorities of the Kazakh
government. The DPL provided resources the government needed to implement its strategy of
sound fiscal management in a difficult external environment where access to international finance
had virtually come to an end. Moreover, the DPL was aligned with the government strategy of
softening the impact of the crisis, preparing for a strong recovery, and advancing the process of
strengthening fiscal and banking institution. The policy design combined support for short-term
priorities, such as protecting the NF and dealing with the troubled banks, while at the same time
advancing financial sector and public expenditure agendas that needed a longer-term perspective.
The decision to opt for a single tranche and standalone DPL avoided committing the incoming
administration to an inherited policy.


                                                11
39.     The focus on the financial sector helped the country protect against risks from the
global crisis and thus avoid a lasting blow to Kazakhstan’s competitive position. The DPL
focused on building up the powers of the authorities to intervene in insolvent banks and
implementing agreements with creditors of the two banks that had come under government
control. The Bank advised the government on its negotiations with creditors and helped
implement a solution where the financial costs of saving the two banks were shared by the
country and the creditors. This solution set an important precedent.

40.      The focus on public sector efficiency was relevant to Kazakhstan maintaining a
small, agile, and effective state capable of delivering priority services to its people. Protecting
the integrity of the NF was central to the preservation of a reliable national savings mechanism
that was also an instrument of countercyclical policy. The emphasis on social spending was
needed in the short term to mitigate the impact of the crisis and over the long haul to redress gaps
in social service delivery.

41.      The focus was on the year after the crisis in order to frontload actions that could
have medium-term impact. Phasing out the fiscal support provided during the crisis was a
priority, as was improving the quality of public expenditure to ensure that the efforts made during
the crisis were followed up.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

42.     This implementation Completion and Results Report rates the achievement of
development outcomes as being moderately successful in terms of the two pillars of the DPL, (a)
strengthening public resource management and (b) addressing financial sector vulnerabilities.

Fiscal and Macroeconomic Developments

43.      Economic recovery is well underway. Although the economy slowed to 1.2 percent
growth in 2009, in 2010 growth was 7.3 percent and it is estimated to have been 6.5 percent in
2011. In the medium term the expectation is that the economy will continue growing at over 6
percent annually.2 The recovery has been driven by rising revenues from oil, minerals, and related
services, such as transport and trade. In 2010 agriculture contracted due to a severe drought, and
real estate and construction were stagnant. The expectation is that the economy will prove to have
been more broad-based in 2011, with agriculture and construction again growing. Inflation
pressures have increased mostly because of external factors, such as international food prices.

44.     The fiscal position has improved considerably since the crisis (see Table 3). The non-
oil balance went from over 10 percent of GDP in 2008 and 2009 to less than 8 percent in 2011,
although it is still higher than the pre-crisis level of about 4 percent. The state budget deficit that
determines central government borrowing has improved notably,3 to an estimated 1 percent of
GDP in 2011.




2
    See IMF Article IV 2011.

3
  The ―state budget deficit‖ is that part of the total non-oil deficit not covered by oil revenue; it is therefore
equal to net government borrowing.



                                                        12
            Table 3. Kazakhstan: Government Fiscal Accounts (Percent of GDP)
                                                                    Actual              Estimate
                                                        2008        2009         2010   2011
          Fiscal accounts
          Non-oil revenues                              16.8        14.1         14.1   14.2
          Expenditures (on- and off-budget)             27.2        27.9         22.1   21.5
          Non-oil balance                               -10.5       -13.8        -8.0   -7.4
          Oil revenues spent                            8.4         10.9         5.6    6.4
          State budget balance                          -2.1        -2.9         -2.4   -1.0
          Foreign financing                             0.0         0.5          1.0    0.6
          Domestic financing                            2.1         2.4          1.5    0.4
          NF assets (stock)                             20.6        26.5         26.1   28.6
          Government debt (stock)                       6.7         9.9          10.4   9.7
          Sources: Ministry of Finance of Kazakhstan; World Bank calculations.



45.      The size of the state grew, however, and the measures to stem the impact of the
crisis increased fiscal risks. The government bailout of two systemically important commercial
banks, BTA Bank, the largest in Kazakhstan, and the mid-sized Alliance Bank, and its acquisition
of stakes in two other banks, Kazkommertsbank and Halyk Bank, drove the balance sheet of SOE
conglomerate Samruk-Kazyna from 46 percent of GDP in 2008 to 65 percent in 2009. Not only is
the size of the state larger, but the external debt of SOEs as a percent of GDP exceeds that of the
national government. The government has moved to increase oversight of SOEs, emphasizing the
use of strategic planning, and tightened monitoring of performance. As part of a broad effort to
improve governance, in March 2011 a new law on state property was enacted. It requires
enterprises to both formulate strategies and introduce performance indicators. Informational
requirements have also been tightened to monitor debt and quasi-fiscal activities.

Pillar 1. Strengthening Public Resource Management

Management of Kazakhstan’s Oil Wealth

46.      The role of the NF has been clarified and reinforced. The World Bank supported
government efforts (a) to successfully fend off political pressures to increase transfers out of the
NF and (b) to adopt countercyclical fiscal policy. An important instrument to shield the NF from
political pressure was the April 2010 presidential decree that capped annual transfers from the NF
to the budget at US$8 billion (calculated in domestic currency at a fixed exchange rate for the US
dollar and the tenge over a three-year period), and forbade off-budget transfers to SOEs. There is
compliance with both provisions. Together with increases in the value of oil exports, the decree
has meant continued increases in the NF balance, which is expected to have reached US$40
billion by the end of 2011, up from US$27.5 billion at the end of 2008.

47.    NF governance compares well with similar institutions in other countries, and the
new rule for transfers from the NF to the budget is consistent with current long-term goals.
A recent Bank review4 comparing the design of the NF and of similar funds in other countries


4
 World Bank-JERP (2010), Comparative Review of Global Experiences in the Management of Natural
Resource Related Sovereign Wealth Funds.



                                                      13
confirmed sound practices and outlined options for better aligning NF design with government
objectives (stabilization, savings, etc.). The review pointed out, however, that the fixed transfer
rule of April 2010 could lead to procyclical behavior and called for a design that integrates NF
operation with the general fiscal framework. A follow-up Note5 found the US$8 billion transfer
rule consistent with a permanent income approach, given expectations at the time; it also found
that other approaches, such as moving to a 3 percent non-oil fiscal deficit by 2020 as the
government had proposed, would be harder to implement. Given the problematic global
economy, thought should be given to designing a mechanism that embeds a countercyclical
approach into fiscal management. The issue is currently being debated in Kazakhstan.

Reorienting Budgetary Outlays

48.      Crisis support, budgeted and off-budget, has ended. In 2008 and 2009, government
spending increased by 5 percent of GDP due to both an anti-crisis budget and off-budget
transfers; ultimately it reached 27 percent of GDP. A conservative estimate for the DPL put the
share of budgeted spending on anti-crisis measures from government reserves plus transfers to
SOEs at 17 percent of total expenditures in 2008. By other accounts, if off-budget liquidity
support to the financial sector that year is added, the share could have been as high as 31 percent.
In 2010 the corresponding share was down to 7.9 percent and consisted only of transfers to SOEs,
mostly for targeted public investments; budget and off-budget outlays returned to about 22
percent of GDP as off-budget expenditures disappeared.

49.     The share of the budget allocated to social expenditures was higher in 2010 than in
2008. Allocations to social sectors increased from 52 percent in 2008 to 58 percent in 2010–11.
Spending on social security and welfare has contributed most to the shift in spending, mainly
because there were three consecutive increases in pensions over 2009–11, each in the range of 25
–30 percent a year. Spending on healthcare rose gradually. The shares of spending on education
and on housing and utilities were lower in 2010 than in 2009 because the temporary training and
public works program (the Road Map) were phased out. Still, in 2010 the shares in spending on
education and on housing and utilities were both higher than pre-crisis (see Table 4).




5
    World Bank (2011), The Fiscal Management of Kazakhstan Oil Revenues,



                                                 14
                       Table 4. Kazakhstan: Composition of Budget Expenditure
                                                                                      Actual                Estimate
                                                                         2008         2009          2010    2011
Budget outlays (billions of tenge)                                       3,761        3,999         4,827   5,705
Composition of budget outlays (% of total)                               100.0        100.0         100.0   100.0
  Of which:
    Budgeted expenses                                                    90.2         93.7          92.3    96.2
         Government administration & national security                   18.1         16.8          16.9    17.9
         Social sectors                                                  52.0         58.7          57.5    58.7
               Education                                                 15.2         16.5          15.6    17.3
               Healthcare                                                9.7          11.3          11.4    11.1
               Social security and welfare                               16.5         19.0          18.8    19.9
                 Of which: Pensions                                      9.7          11.4          11.5    12.3
               Housing and utilities                                     6.2          7.6           6.9     6.9
               Culture, sports, tourism                                  4.4          4.3           4.7     3.4
         Economic services 1                                             18.6         16.5          16.0    17.5
         Interest payments                                               1.5          1.7           2.0     2.2
    Capital transfers to SOEs 2                                          8.6          5.6           7.2     7.8
    Net lending                                                          1.1          0.7           0.5     1.2
  Sources: Ministry of Finance of Kazakhstan; World Bank calculations.
  1
    Includes other sectors, such as agriculture, transport and communication, industry, etc.
  2
    Expenditures in 2008 on recapitalizing the four largest banks were removed for comparability.

  Budgetary Reform
  50.      The institutional basis for a more effective, efficient, and strategic allocation of
  public resources has improved. A 2009 PEFA, based on findings from 2006 and 2007, noted
  that Kazakhstan had made significant progress on managing public spending since 2000. It also
  considered the 2004 Budget Code to give solid ground for institutional development and
  highlighted the single treasury system as a major achievement, though it identified some
  institutional gaps. The DPL was directed to areas the PEFA had identified as lagging, mainly (a)
  consolidation of mid-term expenditure frameworks around strategic objectives; (b) deepening
  internal controls; and (c) flexible use of resources, especially at the local level. The legal basis for
  addressing some of these gaps was the 2008 revision of the Budget Code. Although follow-up
  PEFA exercises that the DPL expected did not happen, the JERP work with the government made
  it possible to track progress in the areas the DPL identified as priorities.

  51.      The alignment of mid-term budget programming and strategic planning foreseen in
  the 2008 Budget Code revision code is making satisfactory progress. The code revision in
  December 2008 mandated (Art. 32) linking budgeted programs with strategic decisions, goals,
  tasks, and results indicators defined for each agency. In July 2009 the government introduced a
  system of strategic planning. The central administration has already drafted a first round of
  strategies, and medium-term budget frameworks for the national government and sectors are in
  place. Government efforts are now centered on merging strategic planning with budget
  preparation. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) is leading the effort to align program budgets to
  strategic objectives, while the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade is helping ministries
  perfect their strategic plans. Sector strategies are being aligned with the goals of the Country
  Vision 2020. The challenge now is to continue perfecting sector strategies so that they are not
  only aligned with national goals but also properly programmed and costed so that they are more
  consistent with mid-term budgeting.



                                                            15
52.      Local authorities now have more flexibility in allocating budgetary resources. In
2008 Parliament adopted the Budget Code, which has elements of results-oriented strategic
planning and budgeting. In 2010 results-oriented budgeting was implemented at the local level,
with three-year budgeting and use of strategic results-oriented plans. The 2008 Budget Code
delegated to program administrators the flexibility to adjust to uncertainty by reallocating
resources between specifics and subprograms within one budgetary program while budgets are
being implemented; lack of this authority had been a major source of inefficiency in the past. A
recent JERP review 6 found that introducing flexibility has had an impact because budgetary
organizations can now freely allocate their utilities budgets and change allocations within
programs with permission of the local oblast administrator. The review notes, however, that the
flexibility granted is limited and is handicapped by too narrow a definition of budget programs.
As the resources transferred to local governments increase, the central government is turning its
attention to designing a system of intergovernmental financing that will ensure the quality of
services throughout the country. The Bank will support these efforts through JERP IV.

53.      Decisions have been made about how internal audits can be institutionalized. The
2009 PEFA (Article 21) had reported that, although there was no consolidated internal audit
legislation, the legal framework for internal controls was adequate. Internal control services were
therefore created in central and local government agencies. However, reviews in 2009 and 2010
found that the current arrangements do not meet the major criterion for an effective internal
control system, which is to help management attain ethical, economical, efficiency, and effective
operations. The current internal control arrangement does not provide the heads of public bodies
with independent and impartial opinions and advice to help them improve performance and use
resources efficiently. Hence, the current recommendation is to give first priority to establishing a
solid legal foundation that takes into account the decision of the government to opt for
decentralized internal control, which requires a strong coordinating body (Central Harmonization
Unit) to guide internal control services. 7 With hindsight, the PEFA assessment that the laws
supporting internal control were adequate proved incorrect. Progress made in setting up an
internal control system in Kazakhstan must now be backed by supporting legislation and
development of control institutions that meet international standards. To transform internal
control services into internal audit services, the government plans to make changes in the Budget
Code and in subordinate legislation in 2012.




6
 World Bank (2011), Review of the System of Inter-budgetary Relations and Management of Local
Budget Expenditures for Education and Social Protection.

7
  This would be accompanied by development of internal control tools, such as manuals and methodology,
standards to be followed by the internal control fraternity, internal control charter, etc. A capacity
development strategy and plan will be necessary to guide all capacity-building activities, including training
and retraining to equip the internal control staff with modern audit skills. Also planned is training for
managers to sensitize them to their role in setting and maintaining effective systems of internal control as
part of their accountability. A number of workshops, seminars, and other events will be necessary to create
awareness among stakeholders about the role of internal controls in the management of public resources.



                                                     16
Pillar 2. Addressing Financial Sector Vulnerabilities
54.      The regulatory changes supported by the DPL allowed the government to
implement solutions tailored to the weaknesses and risks of each bank. The powers to
intervene in banks in trouble and the creation of an early warning system filled serious gaps that
had contributed to the crisis. These changes enabled the supervisory authorities to effectively
collect the information required from the banks and to intervene when needed.8 It also allowed
the authorities to follow a differentiated approach tailored to each bank. Alliance and BTA, as
noted, were acquired and their debt reprogrammed. The next largest banks, KKB and Halyk
Bank, had fewer solvency problems; for them the government strategy was mainly injecting
capital (US$300 million for KKB, US$500 million for Halyk) without taking control; the
government took less than 25 percent of the voting stock. The fifth and sixth largest banks were
also offered injections of capital but declined in favor of capital support from their parents,
Unicredito of Italy and Kookmin Bank of Korea. Smaller foreign banks like RBS, Citibank, and
HSBC, which were in the market mainly to serve local units of global clients, were less exposed
to the crisis and did not require government support. Small domestic banks tend to be
systemically unimportant and would be liquidated should the need arise.

55.     The government’s successful handling of the debt obligations of troubled banks
signaled to the financial community that it does not implicitly insure unsecured private
credit. Kazakhstan faced a difficult choice during the crisis about how to deal with bank debt.
Although the troubled banks had incurred debts before the crisis, some debtors chose to threaten
the government with acceleration clauses in the loan documents. World Bank advice was
instrumental in finding an equitable solution that signaled that resources lent without a
government guarantee are not government obligations. The agreements with creditors reflected
this advice, represented major savings for the country, and must be considered one of the most
successful results of the DPL.9

56.      Although the agreements between troubled banks and their creditors are being
acted on satisfactorily, high levels of NPLs loans are again raising concerns about bank
solvency. BTA and Alliance Bank have achieved the solvency targets set by the DPL, but both
are insolvent by International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). According to the FSA,
BTA’s NPLs constitute 66 percent of all its loans and Alliance NPLs are 60 percent. Thus,
restructuring has not yet been able to ensure solvent and viable banks. BTA’s problems are
particularly deep because income from its assets is lower than interest expenses, generating
losses. On November 14, Fitch downgraded BTA paper to CCC because of the bank’s negative
equity under IFRS, core poor profitability, and uncertain asset quality. In December 2011, BTA
called for a second reprogramming of its debt. As part of the reprogramming proposal, it withheld
payment of a US$160 million coupon on a US$2 billion Eurobond. With the grace period on the


8
  The 2011 folding of the regulatory agency (FSA) into the Central Bank (following similar practices in
other countries) further increases the power of the regulator and enhances its independence.

9
  BTA was the nation’s biggest lender before it taken over by the state in 2009 when credit markets froze
and Kazakhstan’s property bubble burst. The bank restructured US$16.7 billion of debt; creditors agreed to
reduce the bank’s debt to US$4.2 billion in exchange for cash and a stake in the company. Bondholders
also received 10-year ―recovery notes‖ under which they will receive 50 percent of anything BTA recovers
from impaired assets, including any award in a lawsuit against the previous management. BTA Bank and
Alliance Bank successfully emerged from a debt restructuring in which creditors accepted haircuts totaling
about US$11 billion on their claims.



                                                     17
debt payment over, Fitch downgraded the BTA from C to RD, a default status. S-K has
announced that it will contribute towards finding a solution in the context of an eventual
restructuring. Alliance is currently rated by Fitch B-. Alliance is smaller and has a more
manageable (retail oriented) loan book, but it remains insolvent under IFRS and some action is
likely to be needed.

57.      The current financial difficulties of BTA and Alliance are of concern but they not
pose a systemic threat to the banking sector. 10Systemic risks are moderated by the influence of
government ownership in the sector and a lack of traditional systemic risk transmission
mechanisms. There is little interbank market activity and almost no reliance on money market
funding, deposit insurance is generous and credible because the fiscal position of the government
is strong, and a large part of the domestic funding is from SOEs, which reduces the risk of a run
on deposits. However, given the global economic problems, the financial sector will remain
vulnerable if the NPL problem is not addressed forcefully now (see Table 5).

58.      Despite progress in improving banking sector prudential indicators, the high NPLs
are limiting the sector’s capacity to finance productive activities. The DPL development
outcome indicators have been met: specifically, the average capital asset ratios are above the floor
that was set and exposure to foreign liabilities related to equity has been brought far below the
DPL target. Debt restructuring has substantially reduced the external indebtedness of banks, from
US$30 billion a year ago to about US$20 billion. But the sector has yet to fully recover, mainly
because the real sectors are not yet doing well. As of July 1, 2011, 34 percent of all bank loans
were nonperforming. Loans classified as doubtful amounted to another 40 percent of total loans,
reflecting deep distress in the non-resource economy. The NPLs are concentrated by bank and by
sector (trade and real estate). Loan provisioning as of March 31, 2011, was inadequate given the
reported and expected NPLs, but the rapid increase in provisioning (now at about 30 percent of
assets) has tied up resources and prevented new lending. For firms not in default this limits
financing for investment and possibly also working capital; for firms in default it may hinder
normal operations. Indeed, new lending has been minimal since the beginning of 2009, and most
banks now have substantial liquidity.

59.      The government has a strategy to reduce the NPL burden on the banking system,
but it is off to a slow start. The Council for Financial Stability has approved a strategy to
improve the quality of bank assets by removing NPLs with an approximate face value of US$6
billion (about 37 percent of the total) from bank balance sheets so that lending can resume, costs
can be limited, and moral hazard mitigated. If successful, the plan would be expanded, drawing
participation from both domestic and foreign investors. The strategy proposes creation of a
national asset management company (the Second Distressed Asset Fund, DAF-2) and private
(bank-specific) asset management companies that would operate as special purpose vehicles into
which banks would separate nonperforming assets. Though a law to allow individual debts to be
written off has been passed, it has not yet taken effect, World Bank comments11 on this strategy
presented options based on global experiences. The Bank has called for a concerted, proactive



10
   The Bank has been following the potential sources of systemic risks and has informed the authorities of
its findings. A recent Note (―Systemic Risks in the Financial sector‖) and has advised on the need to
establish a framework for regular assessment of systemic risks in Kazakhstan.

11
  World Bank in June 2011 provided advice on NPLs in Enhancing Distressed Asset Management in
Kazakhstan. A revised version of the note was published in September 2011.



                                                    18
effort of the fiscal and the monetary authorities and for training on debt work-outs to avoid moral
hazard problems and reduce the potential fiscal impact. The recent Report on the Observance of
Standard and Codes (ROSC) on Insolvency and Creditor Rights noted weaknesses in credit
enforcement. The World Bank is currently helping the authorities to draft an insolvency law.12 It
has also recommended a detailed audit of all banks; so far only TA and Alliance have had full
reviews.


                  Table 5. Kazakhstan: Selected Indicators of the Banking Sector
                                                               Jan, 1,    Jan. 1,       Jan. 1,   Jan. 1,   Mar. 1,
                                                               2008       2009          2010      2011      2011
Assets (billion tenge)                                         11,683     11,890        11,557    12,031    12,360
Credit to the economy (billion tenge) 1                        8,033      8,285         7,644     7,597     7,666
Household deposits (billion tenge) 1                           1,565      1,625         1,893     2,195     2,277
Corporate deposits (billion tenge) 1                           2,637      4,264         4,680     5,203     5,550
External indebtedness (US$ billions)                           45.9       39.2          30.1      20.0      ..
Capital (billion tenge)                                        1,782      1,948         -914      1,832     1,786
Capital adequacy ratio (%)                                     14.2       14.9          -8.2      17.9      17.8
NPLs-90 days in arrears (% of total credit portfolio)          1.8        5.2           21.2      23.8      25.3
NPLs-category 5 doubtful and loss loans (% of total)           ..         8.1           36.5      32.6      32.8
Provisions (% of total credit portfolio)                       5.9        11.1          37.7      30.9      31.1
Liquidity (% share of liquid assets in all assets)             13.9       13.6          19.2      21.2      22.6
Profits - net income after taxes (billion tenge)               217        11            -2,834    1,420     0
Sources: National Bank of Kazakhstan; World Bank calculations.
Note: 1 Jan-2008 and Jan-2009 data are adjusted to account for the February 2009 devaluation.




3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

60.      The majority of objectives were achieved (see Table 6), and some were surpassed.
Eight of ten development impact indicators have been fully met. The recovery is well underway,
with growth in all sectors of the economy. Kazakhstan’s fiscal position is stronger. NF
management rules are clearer and have helped ease out the fiscal stimulus provided during the
crisis. Post-crisis the DPL supported a fiscal consolidation that has set the country on a stable


12
   The government has also prepared draft legislation that will move forward the comprehensive revision of
the laws regulating the activities of financial organizations. The draft legislation takes into account the
supervision experience and recommendations received by the authorities during the crisis and also
international standards, which would offset the shortcomings and in general make the activities of financial
organizations more transparent. The draft legislation provides for, among other measures, (a) strengthening
consolidated supervision of banking; (b) improving transparency; (c) reinforcing the early warning system,
and (d) setting clear governance criteria. Over the long term, the government seeks to harmonize its
regulatory standards with best international practice and the Basel III framework by, e.g., strengthening
core capital and reducing systemic risks through dynamic provisioning and enhanced capital buffers.




                                                          19
mid-term growth path. The government has set ambitious non-oil deficit goals for 2020. Current
work, with the support of the Bank, focuses on building up fiscal institutions to manage
fluctuations in the prices of oil and other natural resources and on implementing a countercyclical
fiscal policy. The government is also working to reduce fiscal risks, mostly through closer
oversight of the SOEs.

61.      Public spending is increasingly aligned with national priorities; as a result,
budgetary allocations to social sectors have increased. The government is implementing an
active employment policy, with special attention to isolated regions. The authorities continue to
perfect results-oriented budgeting with a view to ensuring that budgetary programs are linked to
the strategic directions and goals of government bodies. Local government has been given more
flexibility in the use of resources that amount to almost half of public expenditures.

62.     However, the share budgeted for transfers to SOEs was slightly higher than the
targets. Moreover, although as foreseen internal control services were expanded throughout the
government ministries and agencies, reviews of current audit practices show that inadequate
regulation undermines the effectiveness of these initiatives and the framework needs to be
amended. This evaluation differs here from the 2009 PEFA, which was the basis for the design of
the DPL.

63.     Government actions, supported by the DPL, helped to stabilize the financial sector
and provided tools for addressing vulnerabilities. A major achievement during the crisis was
the approach toward settlement of bank external debt: debtors and creditors shared the burden of
adjustment, which sent the signal that the government does not guarantee private debt. All
banking indicators have improved in terms of domestic accounting standards. Systemic risk has
been reduced.

64.     The NPLs that are keeping the banking sector vulnerable are concentrated in the
banks the government acquired. Given the worrisome international context, the unfinished
rescue of BTA and the insufficiently addressed NPL problem are retarding the development of
the financial sector in both the short and medium term. The government has yet to field a credible
strategy to address the NPLs. The NPL problem mostly materialized after the DPL was designed
as a second-round effect of the crisis. The government is working to facilitate debt resolution
through insolvency and out-of-court restructuring, but it must move more proactively on NPL
management to reduce sector vulnerability.




                                                20
                                                            Table 6. Program Objectives and Results

First Programmatic Reform Implementation Development Policy Loan P083927
and Second DPL, Loan P106724
                                                                                       Formally Revised Target               Actual Value at
     Indicator              Baseline Value             Original Target
                                                                                           (Target Years)                Completion of Target Years
Indicator 1. Official adoption of new NF rules

Values (qualitative    January 2010: President     2010, 2011: Approve,         No change.                       Met. New rules were adopted and are being
and quantitative)      requested that new rules    adopt, and implement                                          implemented.
                       be drafted for NF           action by the government
                       operations by Q1 2010.      of new rules for
                                                   governing the operation
                                                   and use of NF.
Comments:
Indicator 2. Annual transfers from the NF to the national budget and other uses of NF resources.

Values (qualitative     2009: Total use of NF      2010, 2011: Annual           No change.                       Met. In 2010 and 2011 transfers to the budget
and quantitative)       resources = US$11.3        transfer to the national                                      did not exceed U$ 8 billion.
                        billion. Annual            budget from NF not more
                        guaranteed transfer of     than US$8 billion and no
                        US$5.6 billion,            additional use of NF
                        additional targeted        resources.
                        transfer of US$1.7
                        billion, and NF
                        purchase of domestic
                        bonds worth the
                        equivalent of US$4
                        billion.
Comments:
Indicator 3. Approval of three-year rolling budgets at national and oblast levels, 2009–12
PEFA: PI-12




                                                             21
Values (qualitative      2009: Three-year            2010, 2011: Three-year       No change.                                Met.
and quantitative)       budgeting does not           budgeting being done in
                        exist at the oblast level.   all oblasts.

                        PEFA: PI-12=C
                                                     PEFA: PI-12=B

Comments: There has been no follow-up PEFA, but JERP reviews confirm that all oblasts have three-year budgets.
Indicator 4. Increased authority in budgetary organizations at the local level to adjust budgetary allocations within subprograms during execution.

Values (qualitative     2009: Local budget           2010, 2011: Authority to     No change.                                Met.
and quantitative)       administrators had no        reallocate across sub-
                        authority to reallocate      programs during
                        resources across             execution delegated to the
                        subprograms.                 local level.

Comments: JERP reviews confirm increased authority to reallocate resources within subprograms. They also confirm that they are being used their effectively.
Indicator 5. Establishment of internal audit units. PEFA: PI-21
Values (qualitative      2009: Internal audit        2010, 2011: Internal audit No change.                              Partially met.
and quantitative)        units in most central       units in most central and
                         government entities.        oblast government
                         PEFA: PI-21=C               entities.
                                                     PEFA: PI-21=C+
Comments: There has been no follow-up PEFA. Internal audit units have been extended, but recent reviews have found the enabling environment inadequate for effective
internal audit; although at the time of DPL design the PEFA analysis suggested otherwise.
Indicator 6. Share of budgetary spending on anti-crisis measures from the Government Reserve and transfers to SOEs in consolidated budget spending.
Values (qualitative     Share of such                Share of such spending,      No change.                                Partially met.
and quantitative)       spending, 2008: 17%.         2009–2010: < 7% ,

Comments: In 2010 transfers to SOEs amounted to 7.9 percent of GDP, slightly above the target.




                                                               22
Indicator 7. Indicators of financial health of BTA and Alliance improve due to implementation of these agreements (FSA capital adequacy ratios k1-1, k1-2, k2).

Values (qualitative    Capital adequacy ratios   Implied capital adequacy      No change
and quantitative)      as of January 1, 2010:    ratios of BTA and                                                        Met.
                                                 Alliance after agreement
                        BTA:                     on restructuring
                       k1-1: –0.97               are no less than prudential
                       k1-2: –0.67               norms:                                                                   BTA
                       k2: –0.67                 k1-1: 0.05
                                                 k1-2: 0.05 (0.08 as of July
                       Alliance:                 1, 2011)
                       k1-1: –0.85               k2: 0.1
                                                                                                                          K1-1 .123
                       k1-2: –0.45
                       k2: –0.45                                                                                          K1-2 .117

                                                                                                                          K2 .157



                                                                                                                          Alliance




                                                                                                                          K1-1 .082

                                                                                                                          K1-2 .104
                                                                                                                          K2: .135
Comments: Status on compliance with prudential requirements on January 5, 2011.

Indicator 8. Bank resolution procedures in Law 185-IV available to FSA and government.

Values (qualitative    Insufficient procedures   Procedures authorized by      No change.                                 Met.




                                                            23
and quantitative)       available to the           Law 185-IV increase
                        authorities for            government capacity to
                        restructuring and          deal with problem banks.
                        resolving problem
                        banks.
Comments:
Indicator 9. Number of banks monitored in the early warning system.
Values (qualitative     In 2009: 37 banks          For 2010: all banks         No change.                                   Met.
and quantitative)                                  (currently 38)
Comments: Information provided by the National Bank.
Indicator 10 . Solvency of the system as measured by the capital adequacy ratios (FSA ratio k1-1 and k1-2)
Values (qualitative and       Actual capital adequacy ratios as of Jan  Capital adequacy ratios for entire system           Met.
quantitative)                 1, 2010:                                  should be no less than new prudential norms:        K1-1: .115
                              k1-1: –0.115 (0.107*)                     k1-1: 0.06                                          K2: .181
                              k1-2: –0.116 (0.126*)                     k1-2: 0.09 as of July 2011 (0.06 currently)

                             * Without BTA and Alliance

Comments: Status on compliance with prudential requirements on January 5, 2011

Indicator 11. Foreign liabilities of the banking system relative to equity (FSA ratios k8 and k9).
Values (qualitative and        Actual ratios for entire system as of Jan    Ratios for entire system should not be more     Met.
quantitative)                  1, 2010:                                     than new prudential norms as of July 2009:
                               k8: –2.114 (0.686*)                          k8: 2 (previously 2.5)                          K8: .383
                               k9: –4.391 (1.504*)                          k9: 3 (previously 5)                            K9: .1271

                            *Without BTA and Alliance
Comments: As expected, the k8 and k9 indicators have foreign liabilities in the numerator and capital in the denominator.
Status on compliance with prudential requirements on January 5. 2011.




                                                              24
3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

65.      The government put in place special employment programs to address possible
impacts of the crisis. The authorities believe these interventions have been successful, especially
in rural areas. Government efforts to create temporary jobs during the crisis probably helped
bring official unemployment down to 5.5 percent recently. Youth unemployment especially fell
significantly, from 13.5 percent in 2005 to 5.25 percent at the end of 2010. The authorities now
are seeking to apply the lessons learned from these programs in medium-term strategies to expand
employment opportunities, especially in remote areas. This work was discussed in a
brainstorming session with the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan in February 2011 and provided
inputs for the government Employment Strategy 2020 unveiled then. These special programs and
the rapid economic recovery are further reducing poverty. Official information put the poverty
rate at 6.5 percent in 2010, compared to as much as 50 percent in the 1990s. The government is
also revising the system of social assistance to make it more efficient and effective by better
matching beneficiaries to jobs and auxiliary services (education, child care, etc.) so they can
graduate from the Social Security Network.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

66.    DPL support for building up banking and finance institutions and streamlining public
spending contributed to the following achievements:

       New laws have expanded the powers of the banking regulators. For instance, one law has
        established procedures for resolving problem banks by, e.g., creating stabilization banks,
        executing purchase/assumption agreements, and restructuring banks through a specialized
        financial court. The law that established the early warning system empowers the regulator
        to (i) monitor indicators of bank performance; (ii) require banks to submit to a
        contingency plan if the indicators deteriorate; and (iii) take other measures as required to
        ensure financial stability, even if there has been no explicit violation of prudential norms.
       The rules for operation of the National Fund were clarified by an April 2010 presidential
        decree limiting transfers to the national budget and forbidding off-budget transfers. All
        NF resources are to be invested in securities traded on international markets.
       The 2008 revision to the Budget Code made possible the widespread introduction of mid-
        term budgeting and strategic approach to planning and budgeting. This has been
        complemented by follow-up decrees.
       Guidelines for social spending are now in place.
       A law on state property (2011) tightens and improves management SOEs.




                                                 25
4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

67.      In its 2020 Vision, the government has committed to keeping fiscal policy prudent
over the medium term. Management of NF resources will continue to be prudent even if the
current rules are revised. The government is also committed to making public spending more
efficient in order to assure quality services throughout the country.

68.       However, leisurely implementation of the strategy to address the NPLs is a source of
risk. With the global environment still uncertain, to improve the health of the banks the
government needs to move proactively to apply the new insolvency framework to facilitate debt
resolution. Already there has been progress in stabilizing the situation since the crisis, when
banking sector capital was negative. At present, the NPL problem presents a moderate risk, but
that could escalate if the government’s failure to act promptly is exacerbated by a further global
slowdown and perhaps a drop in natural resources prices—financial difficulties could engender
fiscal risks.

69.       In November 2011 S&P upgraded Kazakh government paper to BBB primarily
because it considered the fiscal and foreign exchange conditions to be strong, although
international observers do recognize the risks in the banking sector. The upgrade notes the
reduction of foreign liabilities (from 50 percent before the crisis to 20 percent now) and the
critical role of state-influenced deposits in assuring sustainable liquidity. High oil prices and high
growth may make it possible to muddle through with the high level of NPLs, but prompt
government action is needed to reduce vulnerability to any further global economic slowdown.
The forthcoming political transition raises concerns about how it will affect the speed of
structural transformation, though not about the direction of the development program supported
by the DPL.

5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory
70.      Preparation of the DPL operation was a prompt and timely response to the client
request for support during the crisis. Slightly more than six months separated the Concept
Note discussion from presentation to the Board. Despite the speed, the operation was thoroughly
scrutinized within the Bank; however, the team was able to address reviewer concerns
satisfactorily. DPL design responded to both Kazakhstan’s short-term challenges and its need to
lay a solid foundation for recovery over the medium term. At the same time, the operation was
selective: It did not formally incorporate some areas that might be relevant, such as programs to
generate employment. However, the Bank did engage with these other areas. Sound JERP
analytical work supported DPL design and the policy dialogue. The Bank had also been involved
with the analysis of financial sector conditions, especially through brainstorming sessions with
the Prime Minister, the heads of FSA and the National Bank, and numerous associated analytical
notes as well as through the Financial Sector Assessment Program and updates produced with the
IMF. Contribution to development outcomes began before the Board approved the DPL through
the advice provided to the government on negotiations with the creditors of BTA and Alliance.



                                                  26
With hindsight, there should have been more emphasis in the original design on confronting the
NPL issue directly; this shortcoming could not be fully remedied in a single DPL operation, and
experience shows that after a crisis, resolving debt overhangs takes a long time.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

71.     The operation was supervised in the context of a continued dialogue about areas of
Bank engagement. JERP studies and reviews have been the main instrument, notably the
discussions for the new JERP (Cycle IV). The JERP dialogue included a review of the National
Fund in response to government queries about medium-term options for fine-tuning the transfer
rule. Through JERP the Bank has also prepared a review of local financing that has made it
possible to determine the impact of recent measures to increase flexibility in budget execution
and social expenditures. The Bank likewise has been helping build the capacity of government to
prepare sector strategies and move toward program budgeting, which will be a feature of the new
JERP. The Bank is still engaged on insolvency issues and has advised the Kazakh government on
options for dealing with the NPLs. However, dialogue with the government on broader issues fell
back during the program.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
72.      The government preferred to borrow rather than continue drawing resources from
the NF. However, because international financial markets were tight and access limited, the
authorities borrowed from the World Bank, where Kazakhstan’s borrowing capacity had not been
fully committed. The Bank resources made it possible to extend the maturity of the country’s debt
profile.

73.     The authorities moved quickly to respond to shocks and recognized the internal
weaknesses that magnified their impact. The Letter of Development Policy clearly states not
only the request for support but also government plans to address the crisis and its post-crisis
strategy. The government created an Inter-Ministerial Working Group to take responsibility for
coordinating DPL preparation and implementation. The government also has a strategy to reduce
NPLs, but given the international environment the slow pace of implementation is raising
concerns about the fragility of the system.




                                                27
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

6.   Lessons Learned

74.      A selective one-tranche DPL operation can be adequate to respond to an external
shock. Such an operation is particularly effective when the design of the program is aligned with
government priorities, ownership by the client is high, sufficient knowledge is available, and the
short-term actions adequately address the main concerns. A large operation in a country with
limited previous engagement with budget support in an uncertain global environment presented
considerable risks that were highlighted during the review process. Rather than seeking an all-
encompassing and multi-tranche design, the DPL opted for a selective single-tranche focus. The
DPL document argued that government ownership of the program, the level and areas of Bank
engagement, and the program design mitigated the main risks. A posteriori this judgment seems
partially correct. The government indeed carried out the program, including actions in
complementary areas that were not explicitly part of the DPL. The knowledge that the Bank
acquired during a relationship anchored in solid analytical work allowed it to provide guidance
and judge relevancy. However, with hindsight, full stabilization of the banking sector required a
clearer strategy for addressing the NPLs. Arguably, without a second DPL operation, the
engagement that characterized the Bank-government relationship at the height of the crisis was
not sustained.

75.     A well-designed DPL can send a powerful signal to the international community
about the capacity and commitment of the authorities to mitigate the impact of a crisis. The
DPL came at a point critical for Kazakhstan, which had been hit by successive crises that required
considerable expenditures. The operation translated the trust of the Bank in the commitment and
capacity of the authorities into a clear statement to the international community that Kazakhstan
could surmount the crises and look forward to renewed growth and stability over the medium
term.

76.     The effectiveness of the single-tranche operations is enhanced by a design that
balances addressing short-term challenges with concern for mid-term sustainability. The
debt restructuring made it possible for banks to write down foreign debts by about US$11 billion.
The financial community considers these deals to be a fair distribution of losses between
unsecured foreign creditors and the government, which spent US$10 billion to support the
banking sector in 2008–2009. The debt restructuring also reduced banking sector external
indebtedness by about a third, from US$30 billion at the end of 2009 to about US$20 billion
currently.

77.     The DPL design also helped address internal political economy concerns. The most
immediate concerns were the pressures to use more NF resources. The timeliness and size of the
operation allowed the authorities to protect NF resources.




                                                28
        Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

    Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                               Specialty
John Litwack             Lead Economist                       AFTP3   Task Team Leader
Ekaterine Vashakmadze    Senior Country Economist             ECSP1   Task Team Leader
                                                                      Economist,
Ilyas Sarsenov           Economist                            ECSP1
                                                                      Macroeconomics
Salamat Kussainova       Consultant                           ECSP4   Economist
                                                                      Poverty Reduction/Econ
Yulia Mironova           Consultant                           ECSPE
                                                                      Management
Liberty Reposar          Senior Executive Assistant           ECSOQ   Operational support
                                                                      ECS-ECA Sector Units,
Zakia Nekaien-Nowrouz    Program Assistant                    ECSP1
                                                                      Macroeconomics 1
                                                                      Country Sector
Elena Glinskaya          Country Sector Coordinator           ECSH3   Coordinator, Social
                                                                      Protection
                                                                      Private and Financial
Chris Uregian            Consultant                           ECSPF
                                                                      Sector Development
Andrea Mario Dall’Olio   Senior Economist                     ECSPF   Economist
Steen Byskov             Senior Financial Sector Specialist   ECSF1   Financial Sector Specialist
Yeraly Beksultan         Consultant                           ECCKZ   Financial Sector Specialist
                                                                      Private and Financial
Sophie Sirtaine          Sector Manager                       ECSF2
                                                                      Sector Development
Claire McGuire           Senior Financial Sector Specialist   FFSBK   Financial Sector Specialist
Krishnamurti Damodaran   Senior Financial Sector Specialist   FFSBK   Financial Sector Specialist
Adolfo Rouillon          Consultant                           LEGPS   Legal Consultant
Christophe Bosch         Sector Leader                        AFTUW   Urban & Water
Mirlan Aldayarov         Energy Specialist                    ECSS2   Energy Specialist
Cordula Rastogi          Senior Transport Economist           ECSS5   Transport Economist
Danielle Malek Roosa     Senior Counsel                       LEGEM   Legal Vice Presidency
Katelijn Van den Berg    Senior Environmental Economist       ECSS3   Environmental Economist
Irina Galimova           Country Program Assistant            ECCKZ   Operational support
Yuling Zhou              Lead Procurement Specialist          EAPPR   Procurement Specialist
                                                                      Financial Management
John Otiono Ogallo       Senior Specialist                    ECSO3
                                                                      Specialist
Aksulu Kushanova         Team Assistant                       ECCKZ   Operational support
Gulmira Akshatyrova      Program Assistant                    ECCKZ   Operational support
Tatiana Sedova           Consultant                           SEGOM   Transport, Gas and Mining
Alexandra Pugachevsky    Senior Energy Specialist, Mining     SEGOM   Energy Specialist, Mining
Victor Zafra             Consultant                           ECSPE   Budget Policy
David Shand              Consultant                           EAPFM   Financial Management
Oxana Shmidt             Team assistant                       ECCKA   Operational Support
                                                                      Poverty Reduction,
Luis Alvaro Sanchez      Consultant                           LCSPR
                                                                      Economic Management
Irina Rubashina          Consultant                           ECSPE   Budget Policy




                                                  29
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
               Stage                                         USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending                                    91.2                     456,205.90

                          Total:
Supervision/ICR                              5.6                     28,000.00

                          Total:          96.8                      484,205.90




                                        30
                     Annex 2. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


                                  Astana, September 11, 2010

Rationale: The Government of Kazakhstan is concerned about the fiscal risks associated with the
debt of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and seeks to strengthen its systems for monitoring SOE
debt in order to manage and mitigate these risks effectively.

Content: The workshop presented international experience in monitoring and managing SOE
debt and discussed its relevance and application for Kazakhstan and international principles that
guide good practice for SOE fiscal oversight, using approaches used in Korea, Turkey, New
Zealand, Malaysia, and France. It also featured a presentation by Marat Kussainov, vice-minister
of economic development, on a proposed new approach to SOE fiscal oversight and debt
management by the Kazakh authorities.

The discussion centered on two questions raised in the government’s presentation: (a) appropriate
institutional arrangements for effective management of the fiscal risks associated with SOE debt
in Kazakhstan, and (b) principles of SOE debt regulation in Kazakhstan. International speakers
offered their comments from the perspective of good international practices.

                       Major Points and Preliminary Recommendations

Importance of General Principles for Monitoring SOE Debt
   Monitoring SOE debt should be integrated into fiscal policy analysis and budgeting. SOE
    debt is a source of fiscal risks because it can lead to implicit contingent liabilities for the
    State, even though SOEs are an important revenue stream for the state in terms of dividends
    and taxes.
   Since there is an international consensus that SOEs should be operationally and financially
    autonomous, governments must find and maintain a balance between exercising reasonable
    oversight of SOE finances and respecting the operational and financial autonomy of SOEs in
    their business decisions.
   International experience with SOE fiscal oversight shows that countries tend to use three
    primary tools to manage the risks associated with SOE debt:
     (i)   A robust reporting and disclosure system that allows the government and stakeholders
           to monitor SOE economic performance and financial health effectively in real time.
           This means SOEs must observe high standards of financial reporting, publish financial
           statements regularly, and hire skilled and reputable external auditors. Transparency is
           essential if governments are to effectively manage fiscal risk. This requires that
           government and the public have access to timely and complete information about SOE
           operations and finances.
     (ii) Sound internal governance that relies on an active and competent board of directors
          with the government acting as a responsible shareholder. Many countries have
          established specialized ownership entities to monitor SOEs and act as focal points for
          SOE directors within the government.
     (iii) Marked-based mechanisms to impose financial discipline on SOEs, such as regular
           reviews by credit rating agencies and the listing of SOE debt or shares. These provide
           external, independent indicators of the SOE’s performance and financial condition.


                                                31
   Some countries also have in place mechanisms to limit SOE borrowing or control it more
    directly; however, limits and direct controls tend to be used only when the risk is considered
    very high (for instance, when the state has given explicit guarantees, when borrowing is
    predominantly in foreign currency, or it involves unusually high amounts).
   The previous principles form the basis for a system in which the state acts as a responsible
    shareholder, respecting an SOE’s operational autonomy while ensuring that its management
    and board of directors are accountable to the government and other stakeholders.

State Control over SOE Debt
   In general, direct state control of SOE debt in the form of borrowing ceilings should be
    reserved only for those SOEs that expose the government to excessive fiscal risk, and ceilings
    should then be tailored to the specific circumstances (e.g., the industry) in which the SOEs
    operate.
   Explicit no-bailout clauses (a guarantee waiver) is a good practice to mitigate the risk of
    moral hazard even if they do not necessarily eliminate the perception that there is an implicit
    guarantee.

Institutional Arrangements and Reporting Mechanisms
   Clearly defined institutional arrangements, backed by law, for monitoring SOE debt are
    critical.
   Legislation and government regulations need to define the primary data sources and specific
    indicators to be used in monitoring contingent liabilities originating in SOEs.
   Coordination mechanisms and information flow need to be streamlined and transparent (and
    preferably specified in the law), to ensure efficiency and protect data confidentiality.
    Duplicative lines of reporting should be avoided to reduce the administrative burden on both
    SOEs and government agencies.
   Laws and regulations should stipulate which agency is responsible for collecting SOE debt
    data from primary sources, consolidating the data, and maintaining the debt database (this
    should be the National Bank for foreign debt), and for analyzing the debt data (the Ministry
    of Economic Development and Trade [MEDT] or, preferably, the Ministry of Finance [MOF])
    Alternatively, a reinforced MOF unit might combine the functions of data collection,
    consolidation, and analysis. The institutional set-up must be discussed by the agencies
    involved and a consensus reached before the final decision assigning responsibility for data
    collection.
   Effective fiscal oversight depends on designing appropriate financial monitoring tools and
    conceiving financial monitoring as a proactive process rather than just gathering numbers for
    statistical purposes.

SOE Governance
   SOEs should have freedom to make business decisions. Government should avoid requiring
    approval for SOE commercial decisions except through government representation on SOE
    boards. It is widely accepted that requiring that SOE boards have adequate authority and are
    thoroughly professional and making them responsible for financial performance diverts
    central governmental interventions in SOE day-to-day operations.




                                                32
   SOEs should operate on a for-profit basis and make commercial returns. Loss-making SOEs
    and those with excessive borrowing or unproductive investments should be restructured to
    minimize government obligations and avoid bailouts.
   SOEs should operate in competitive markets on a competitively neutral basis and should be
    regulated just as private firms are; there should be no preferred procurement or preferential
    market access.
   Any non-commercial activities the government asks SOEs to undertake should have a clear
    public-policy purpose, and SOEs should be fully compensated for the costs.

                                  Conclusion and Next Steps:

In his concluding remarks, Prime Minister Massimov expressed his satisfaction with the
workshop and indicated that the government would use the discussions as a basis for finalizing its
proposed approach to the fiscal oversight of SOEs, with inputs from the MOF, the MEDT, the
National Statistics Office, and the National Bank.




                                                33
           Annex 3. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




World Bank
Country Office in Kazakhstan
12 Samal
010000 Astana


        Re: Loan 7911-KZ “Development Program Loan?

        Ministry of Finance of RK (hereinafter referred to as the Ministry), having reviewed the
draft Implementation Completion and Results Report on Development Program Loan that was
submitted with your Letter # 12/002 dated January 4, 2012, notifies of the following.
        According to Article 85 of the Budget Code of RK (hereinafter referred to as BC RK),
administrators of budgetary programs can independently make adjustments in plans of financing
for liabilities and payments, which are related to specifics of the economic classification of
expenditures and subprograms of budgetary programs and do not modify annual and monthly
volumes of expenditures of a budgetary program, i.e. redistribution of funds between specifics
and subprograms is done within one budgetary program.
        Therefore, the Ministry suggests the following:
        - use the following version of Sub-paragraph (b) Paragraph 25: ―delegation of powers to
administrators of budgetary programs at the national and local levels for redistribution of funds
between specifics and subprograms within one budgetary program in the process of budget
execution‖;
        - in Line 5 Column 1 Table 1. ―DPL Prior Actions and their Status‖ (hereinafter referred
to as the Table) use the following version: ―Implementation of the revised Budget Code for
delegation of powers to administrators of budgetary programs at the republican (national) and
local levels for redistribution of funds between specifics and subprograms within one budgetary
program in the process of budget execution‖;
        - in Line 5 Column 2 of the Table use the following version: ―Powers for redistribution of
resources between specifics and subprograms within one budgetary program in the process of
budget execution have been provided; measures are taken for further strengthening of finances of
oblast and local executive bodies‖.




                                                34
       Also, in Line 5 Column 1 of the Table replace words ―budget allocations‖ with words
―budget expenditures‖, because there is no notion ―budget allocations‖ in BC RK.
         Article 136 BC RK provides for creation of internal control services (hereinafter
referred to as ICS) by central government bodies and executive bodies funded from budgets of
oblasts, national cities and the capital to perform internal state financial control at national and
local levels. Planning of ICS transformation into internal audit services occurs this year.
        Therefore, we suggest the following:
        - in Paragraph 25 replace words ―internal audit‖ with words ―internal control‖;
        - use the following version of Sub-paragraph (?) Paragraph 25: “adopt regulations for
creation of internal control services in budgetary organizations to perform internal state
financial control?.
         - in Line 6 Column 1 Table 1. ―DPL Prior Actions and their Status‖ use the following
version: ―Implementation of the revised Budget Code for creation of internal control services by
central government bodies and executive bodies funded from budgets of oblasts, national cities
and the capital to perform regular internal control related to areas of the government body’s
activities in order to improve quality and productivity of its operations‖;
        - in Line 6 Column 2 Table 1. ―DPL Prior Actions and their Status‖ use the following
version: ―Internal control services were created, but further analysis identified weaknesses in
subordinate legislation; measures are taken to review the regulatory framework‖;
        In Paragraph 49:
        - replace words ―internal audit‖ with words ―internal control‖;
        In Paragraph 52:
        - replace words ―internal audit‖ with words ―internal control‖ throughout the paragraph;
        - instead of ―internal control units‖ use the following version: ―internal control services‖;
        We also suggest considering the following in this paragraph: ―To transform internal
control services into internal audit services, it’s planned to make corresponding changes in the
Budget Code and then in subordinate legislation in 2012‖.
        - In Paragraph 61 instead of ―internal control units‖ use the following version: ―internal
control services‖.
         Since in accordance with BC RK, results-oriented strategic planning and budgeting, as
well as the norm of Article 85, were implemented in RK in 2009 at the national level and in 2010
at the local level, we suggest the following:
         In Paragraph 51 replace words: ―The 2008 Decree decentralized budgetary
implementation and introduced elements of strategic results-oriented budgeting at all levels of
government. Local (oblast) level administrations have began to adopt reforms that mirror those
taken at the central level, including three-year budgeting and the adoption of strategic results-
oriented plans. The 2008 Decree also delegated to administrators of budgetary programs the
flexibility to adjust to uncertainty by reallocating resources between subprograms during the
period of budgetary implementation, a major source of inefficiency in the past‖ with words: ―In
2008, the Budget Code of RK, which included elements of results-oriented strategic planning and
budgeting, was adopted. In 2010, results-oriented budgeting was implemented at the local level,
including three-year budgeting and the adoption of strategic results-oriented plans. The Budget
Code of 2008 delegated to administrators of budgetary programs the flexibility to adjust to
uncertainty by reallocating resources between specifics and subprograms within one budgetary


                                                  35
program during the period of budgetary implementation, a major source of inefficiency in the
past‖.
        In Paragraph 60 instead of words ―The authorities continue perfecting the institutions of
public expenditure with a view to improving the alignment between strategic objectives and
budgetary allocations and put in place the institutions needed to track and evaluate impact‖, we
suggest using the following version: ―The authorities continue perfecting results-oriented
budgeting with a view to ensure the link between budgetary programs and strategic directions and
goals of government bodies‖.


       Sincerely,

       Vice-Minister                                                    R. Dalenov




                                                36
                         Annex 4. List of Supporting Documents



IMF (June 2011). Republic of Kazakhstan: 2011 Article IV Consultation—Staff Report;
      Supplement; and Public Information Notice.

IMF /World Bank (June 2009). Republic of Kazakhstan Financial Sector Assessment: Enhancing
      Distressed Asset Management in Kazakhstan.

World Bank (June 2011). Public Finance Management Review in the Republic of Kazakhstan:
       Review of the System of Interbudgetary Relations and Management of Local Budget
       Expenditures for Education and Social Protection.

World Bank (June 2011). Public Finance Management Review in the Republic of Kazakhstan:
       Review of Administrative Sector Expenditures and Creation of a System Promoting
       Outcome-Based Activities.

World Bank (June 2011). Kazakhstan Economic Report.

World Bank (June 2011). Kazakhstan: Issues in SOE’s Debt and Management.

World Bank (June 2010). Improvement of the System of Accumulation, Use and Management of
       the National Fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan.

World Bank (April 2010). Comparative Review of Global Experiences in the Management of
      Natural Resource–Related Sovereign Wealth Funds.




                                            37
                                                     55°N               50°E                     55°E                               60°E                       65°E                     To        70°E                              75°E                     To          80°E                               85°E
                                                                                                                                                                                     Tyumen‘                                                              Novosibirsk

                                                                                                                                                         To Kurgan
                                                                                                                                    To Chelyabinsk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                       R U S S I A N                                                                                                         NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Petropavlovsk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Novosibirsk

                                                                    F E D E R A T I O N                                                                   Toby                       KAZAKHSTAN




                                                                                                                                                             l
                                                     a
                                                                                                                                   To
                                                    lg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Er
                                                 Vo                        To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r
                                                                         Samara                                                    Ufa                   Kostanai                                                                          (Irt                                             To Barnaul




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kokshetau                                 ysh




                                                                                                                         Ural
                                             To                                                                                                                                                                                                     )
                                                                                                          To Orenburg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O
                                           Saratov




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             b‘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pavlodar
                                                                                                                                                     To r g h a y                             AKMOLA                                       PAVLODAR
                                                                                                                                                     Plateau                                                                                            Ekibastuz
               50°N                                           Ural'sk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50°N
                                                                                                                                                KOSTANAI                                    (Ishim)       ASTANA
                                                                                                                                                                                       Esil
                                                         Chapaevo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Öskemen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              skemen
                                                                        Z
                                                                        Zhaiy


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Semipalatinsk       (Ust-Kamenogorsk)
                                              WEST
                                                                              k
                                                                              k




                                                                                                    Aktobe
                                                                           (Ural)




                                           KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                            hai
                                                                                                                                                                       Arkalyk                               Karagandy                                                                 EAST                          Lake




                                                                                                                                   Yrgh
                                                                                                                                                            Torg




                                                                                                                                    r yz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Zaisan
                                                                                                                                                        Turgay
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ka za k h                                                                 KAZAKHSTAN
                               Vo
                                  lg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ayakos
                                                                    ATYRAU                                          Embi
                                 a




                                                                                                    hem
                                                                                                 Z
                                                                                                      AKTOBE                    Shalkar
                                                                                                                                                                                                         U pl an ds
               To Astrakhan‘




                                                                        Atyrau
                                                                                                                                                                                         Zhezkazgan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Balkhash
                                                                                                                                                                                                 KARAGHANDY                                                                                Leps                             To Urumqi
                                                                                                                                             Aral                                                                                                                                              i     Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        45vN




                                                                                                                                                                                       su
               45°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lake                                     Alakol




                                                                                                                                                                                        ry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Saryshaghan                                          ar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Balkash




                                                                                                                                                                                     Sa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l                                          To Urumqi
                                                                                    Beineu
                                                                                                                         Aral                            Baikonur
                                       C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ile
                                                                                                                         Sea                                                                                                                                  ALMATY                  Taldykorgan                      CHINA
                                       as




                                                               MANGYSTAU                                                                                                                                     ZHAMBYL
                                           pi




                                                                                                                                                                       Kyzyl-Orda                                 Shu      (Ch
                                                            Aktau                                                                          KYZYLORDA                                                                           u)                                                                                           To Korla
                                            an




                                                                                  Ustyurt                                                                                                                         Tal




                                                                                                                                                                       Sy
                                                                                                                                                                         da                                           as




                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                            ri y a                                                    Shu                                     Almaty
                                                                                                     To Nukus
                                                                                  Plateau                                                                                                    Turkistan                                                                                                   Pik Khan-Tengri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (6995 m)
                                                Sea




                                                                                                                                           2001 LEVEL OF ARAL SEA
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Taraz
                                                                                                                                    1990 LEVEL OF ARAL SEA
                                                                                                                                1960 LEVEL OF ARAL SEA
                                                                                                                                                                                      SOUTH                                                                To Naryn


               AZERBAIJAN                                                                                                                                                      KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                             Shymkent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KYRGYZ                                                        80°E

                                                                                                                                           UZBEK ISTA
                                                                                                                                           UZBEKISTA N
               40°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R E P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    K AZAK H STAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OBLAST CAPITALS
                                                                                                  KM ENISTAN
                                                                                             TU R K M ENISTA N                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                          Bukhoro
                                                                                                                                                                                                   To Dushanbe                                                                                     GALASY (CITIES WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                      TA J I K I S TA N                                                                            REGIONAL STATUS)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     This map was produced by                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                     KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                                      the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                0          100      200          300 Kilometers                                                                                      colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33425R1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     on this map do not imply, on
JANUARY 2007




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     the part of The World Bank                                    RAILROADS
                                                                                                0                100              200 Miles                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OBLAST BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                         FGHANI STAN
                                                                                                                                                                       A FGHA NISTA N                                                legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     acceptance of such
                 50°E                                                   55°E                                      60°E                                      65°E                                            70°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     boundaries.
