                                             Document of
                                           The World Bank


                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                                  Report No. 29389



                                 PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
                                         (CREDIT 3286-ZW)

                                                  ON A

                                                CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION

                                (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                TO THE

                                   GOVERNMENT ZIMBABWE

                              LAND REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT

                                             May 27,2004




Environment, Rural and Social Development Department -AFTSl
Country Department 3, Zimbabwe
Africa Region

 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
 their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Authorization.

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective AS OF July 15, 1999)

                       Currency Unit = Zimbabwe Dollar (Z$)
                               Z$l.OO  =  US$0.0262
                                US$I.OO   = Z$38.10

                              FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 to December 31



                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
                                   Country Assistance Evaluation
                                   European Union
                                   Government of Zimbabwe
                                   International Development Association
                                   International Fund for Agricultural Development
                                   Learning Innovation Loan
                                   Land Reform Support Project
                                   Ministry of Finance
                                   Non-Governmental Organization
                                   Operations Evaluation Department
                                   Office of the President and Cabinet
                                   Project Operational Manual
                                   Rural District Council
                                   Technical Support Unit




Vice President:            Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Hartwig Schafer
Sector Manager:            Rick Scobey
Task Manager:              Watson C. Chidawanvika




                                          2

                               Project Completion Note

                                         Zimbabwe

                    Land Reform Support Project Cr. 3286-ZW



1.      This is the Completion Note for the Land Reform Support Project (LRSP) of the
Government of Zimbabwe, a project that was approved on September 16, 1999as a
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL). The International Development Association (IDA)
Credit (Credit No. 3286) in the amount of SDR3.7 million was signed on November 15,
1999, but terminated on August 13, 2001, (in terms of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions) as a result of its failure to become effective. The initial Effectiveness Date of
the project was February 14,2000 and was extended four times in 18 months, with the
last extension expiring on August 12, 2001.

Given the importance of the land issue in the country and the need for the Bank to remain
actively engaged in dialogue on this issue, the project's effectiveness date was extended
four times to allow Government to fulfill the six conditions of effectiveness, all of which
were operational in nature. The Government, however, managed to meet only three of
these conditions of effectiveness and, at the expiry of the fourth extension on August 12,
2001, the Government did not formally request an extension beyond this date and
therefore the credit was allowed to lapse. These events were of course substantially
influenced by the fact that by May 2000, Zimbabwe had failed to honor its debt
obligations to the Bank, and the Bank had stopped disbursements on all projects.


Development Objective and Project Description

2.      The project development objective was to initiate, on a pilot basis, a limited
number of land reform approaches that show promise to reduce rural poverty and
increase agricultural productivity in the participating farms.

The project would have helped expedite the settlement process on farms already acquired
by government and would have facilitated the implementation of complementary land
reform approaches. The project would have directly benefited an estimated 1,000poor
rural families from congested communal areas through improved access to land (between
25,000 and 40,000 hectares) and thus would have a positive (though limited) impact in
alleviating poverty.




                                              3

Project Description

3.      The project would have introduced a number of innovations aimed at increasing
direct participation of the ultimate beneficiaries and of Rural District Councils (RDC) in
the planning and implementation of resettlement schemes. The high degree of community
participation in identification, preparation, contracting, implementing, and supervising
subprojects, would ensure ownership by beneficiaries.

The project was part of a broader Land Reform Program prepared by Government which
came about after the Donors Conference in September 1998.

4.      The project had four components:

          (i>        Land Acquisition Fund - to have been financed entirely with
          government counterpart funds, would finance community-initiated land
         purchases benefiting about 500 poor rural households. Under this approach,
         eligible self-selected rural-based communities or community groups
          ("beneficiaries") would identify suitable lands and negotiate the purchase of
         those lands directly with sellers, and would submit their proposals to their
         respective RDC for review and approval, following which funds would be
         released from the Land Acquisition Fund to pay the full amount of the sale
         price directly to the seller.

         (ii)        Infrastructure Investments for a "Community-initiated, Market-
         assisted" Approach - would have provided grants for settlement costs and
         infrastructure investments on farms acquired directly by communities.

         (iii)       Improved Government Models - would have provided funds also for
         settlement costs and community investment subprojects on farms already
         acquired by government or by a third party (and NGOs, for example), benefiting
         an additional 500 poor rural families.

         Communities under (ii) and (iii) would have become eligible to receive
         funding-with a per-beneficiary household public support ceiling (initially set
         at ZW$150,000 less the cost land)-for complementary social and economic
         investment subprojects and technical assistance to establish the land settlement
         and improve the productivity of the land. Community contributions in cash,
         labor or in kind would constitute the counterpart contribution for the
         complementary investment subprojects.

         Communities would decide internally as to how to distribute land among
         participating households and how to operate the farm.




                                               4

         (iv)        Finally, the fourth component would provide funds for building
         institutional capacity for the Inception Phase of the program, strengthening
         community associations and Rural District Councils, technical assistance,
         training, project administration, and monitoring and evaluation.

Project Financing

4.     US$ 7.0 million equivalent, of which the Bank would finance US$ 5.0 million
(71.4%). Government would finance US$ 1.25 million (for land acquisition) of the total
project cost (17.9%) and communities would contribute the remaining US$ 0.75 million,
mostly in-kind and labor (10.7%).


Reasons for Termination / failure of the project to become effective

5.     Major reasons for this were:

         (i)          Following amendments made to the Constitution and the Land
         Acquisition Act in mid 2000, the Government's land reform strategy moved
         away from land acquisition at market value and the piloting of complementary,
         community-driven models towards an approach entirely based on compulsory
         acquisition at below-market value. The Government lost the political will to go
         through with the community-initiated pilots as the political situation in the
         country changed drastically due to the emergence of a strong opposition party.
         To counteract the growing strength of the opposition, perceived as being heavily
         influenced by white farmers, the ruling party's political strategy aimed at
         maximizing the rural vote by accelerating land reform while making it more
         difficult for farm workers and other rural groups perceived to be sympathetic to
         the opposition party, to participate in political activities, including voting. The
         execution of this political strategy depended heavily on the mobilization of
         disgruntled War Veterans, who led invasions on white-owned farms. These
         developments completely undermined the project and the principles of the 1998
         International Donor Conference.

          (ii)       The Government argued that it was forced to embark on a more
         radical approach because while the political pressure to deliver mounted, the
         donors reneged on the commitments made during the 1998 international donor
         conference. Only the Bank came forward with concrete financial support, and
         IFAD mounted a technical assistance project in support of the complementary
         models. Coordinated by the UNDP, the US, Norway, Sweden and the
         Netherlands made only small grants for setting up a Technical Support Unit
         (total budget US1 m) available. The US funded research into land reform issues
         by an academic team (US$ lm). DFID appraised a land reform support project,
         but withdrew it for reasons related to worsening governance. At the same time,
         white farm owners, who had promised to release land for sale for the program
         did not release any farms, given an increasing lack of trust in the Government's
         commitment to full and timely compensation.



                                              5

       (iii)        The weak institutional arrangements, within the Government, for
       implementing the program were also to blame for the government's failure to
       meet many of the agreed actions. The institutional weaknesses included (a) turf
       fights and confusion among the various government ministries, departments and
       committees involved in implementing the program, and (b) very weak capacity
       in the co-ordinating agency, the office of the Minister Without Portfolio in the
       President's Office (OPC).

       (iv)         The suspension of disbursements by the Bank in May 2000,
       following Zimbabwe's failure to honor its debt obligations to the Bank
       substantially influenced the government's commitment to fulfilling the
       remaining conditions of effectiveness and ultimately to forego requesting for a
       fifth extension to the effectiveness date. The suspension made it less attractive
       for the Government to persist with fulfilling the remaining conditions as this
       would not necessarily lead to project effectiveness and the immediate release of
       funds.


Lessons Learned

6.   The lessons that were learned were:

       (0           The World Bank was actively (formally and informally) engaged in
       the land reform issue in Zimbabwe since the Donor Conference of September
       1998, helping to formulate and build a tenuous consensus around the inception
       phase land reform program to help achieve a peaceful, orderly outcome to this
       major issue. However, in retrospect, the Bank's engagement was "too little, too
       late." Even though the Bank knew that Zimbabwe had an unresolved land issue,
       it failed to pro-actively address this as part of any of its assistance strategies
       since the country's independence in 1980. In a 2002 Country Assistance
       Evaluation (CAE) the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) singled out this
       failure as a critical shortcoming in the Bank's pre-1998 assistance strategies in
       Zimbabwe.

       (ii)         The Land Reform Support Project was prepared and approved in
       record time but the project failed to take off due to the institutional weaknesses
       mentioned above and the need for government counterpart funding for land
       purchases, given the Bank's prohibition on disbursements against land. The
       lesson learned from this experience was that the Bank's goal of demonstrating
       that an orderly and market-assisted land reform process was possible-as
       contrasted to the highly politically charged and confidence-undermining process
       of compulsory acquisition-would always have a very limited probability of
       success, unless the Bank is able to finance all components of land reform,
       including land purchases. The limited support from other donors further
       undermined the ability of the Bank to move ahead. Fortunately, this weakness
       has now been recognized and the Bank has approved the use of project funds for
       land purchase in some recent land reform projects.


                                            6

(iii)      The risks associated with a rapid deterioration of the macroeconomic
and political situation associated with escalating rural violence and inability or
unwillingness of government to control it, and pressure for government to
acquire farms rapidly, all combined to render the implementation of the project
impossible. Although foreseen at the time of project approval, and in view of
the lack of capacity in the implementing agencies, the project team should have
tied up most of the project implementation requirements during project
preparation, rather than leave too many of these as conditions for effectiveness.
Consequently, the government's failure to meet these conditions resulted in the
Bank's limited ability to take advantage of the small window of opportunity that
the project presented to show the benefits of alternative approaches.




                                    7

  Zimbabwe Land Reform Support Project

  Project Processing Budget and Schedule


1 Proiect Schedule                              I Planned                1Actual
  Time taken to prepare the project months        4                       6
  Project Concept Document review mtg.            1O/ 1O/1988             11/10/1998
  First Bank mission identification/pre-appr.     11/11/1998              11/11/1998
  Decision to complete appraisahegotiate          1/31/1999               2/18/1999
 Negotiations                                    2/05/1999
I Planned Date of Effectiveness                 I 2/28/1999               -5/07/1999


  Zimbabwe: Land Reform Support Project

  Estimated Project Costs

  Project Cost By Component                                            Foreign
                                                                       $ million     :f~
  Land Acquisition fund for Community-Initiated, Market       1.25
  Assisted Approach
  Community Subprojects for Community-Initiated,              2.00     0.05
  Market-Assisted Approach
  Community Subprojects for improved government               2.00     0.05          2.05
I models and other comdement&v amroaches.                    I
  Technical Assistance, Institutional Strengthening,          0.45     0.10
  Project Administration, Studies, and Monitoring and
 Evaluation
 Total Baseline Cost                                          5.70     0.20
         Physical Contingencies                               0.20     -
         Price Contingencies                                  0.90
I                   Total Proiect Costs                       6.80     0.20

  Project Cost By Component



 Land                                                         1.25                   1.25
  Community Subprojects                                       4.55     0.10          4.65
  (investments, technical assistance, start-up grants)
  Consultant Services and Training                            0.40     0.05          0.45
  Other (operating costs)                                     0.10     0.05          0.15
                   Total Project Costs                       I6.80    10.20         17.00



                                                8

Zimbabwe Land Reform Support Project

Allocation of Credit Proceeds

Expenditure Category        Amount in US$ million Financing Percentage
1 . Consultant Services and         0.45                   100%
Training

2. Grants for Community             3.25          100%of amounts of
Subproiects (investments,                         community grants
technical assistance, and                         disbursed
start-up grants.                                  approximately 85% of
                                                  actual costs

3. Goods and Materials              0.75                   100%

4. Operating Costs                  0.30                   100%
                                                                          ~




5. Unallocated                      0.25




                                      9


