Report No. PID7780
Project Name                     Zimbabwe-Land Reform Support (+)
Project
Region                           Africa
Sector:                          Rural Development Operations
Project ID                       ZWPE63096
Implementing Agencies            Technical Support Unit (TSU), at the
Office of the President and Cabinet,
reporting to the Cabinet Committee on
Resettlement and Development (IMCRD)
Several Rural District Councils (RDCs)
Beneficiary Communities          Project Financial Institution (PFI)
Decision to Negotiate            February 18, 1999
Negotiations completed           May 7, 1999
Date PID Updated                 May 17, 1999
Approval Date                    June 25, 1999
1.      Background.    Land reform is one of the most important development
challenges that Zimbabwe faces today. Inequality in access to land threatens
the social, economic, and political stability of the country. Some 4,500
farms in the large scale commercial farming sector (LCFS) own 11.2 million
hectares of generally high quality land, while around one million communal
households (over five million people) live on 16.4 million ha of generally
poor quality land. At the same time, the intensity of land use in large farms
is lower than in communal areas, suggesting that some efficiency gains can be
attained by land redistribution.
2.      There is widespread agreement in Zimbabwe that land reform is essential
for the country's long-term development prospects. In November 1997,
government announced a list of 1,471 farms that were to be compulsorily
acquired and redistributed. This, combined with sporadic land invasions that
have taken place recently, created a climate of uncertainty in the farming
community. The release of a detailed Land Reform and Resettlement Programme
proposal in June 1998 sent a clear signal to civil society and the donor
community of the government's intention to move ahead with land reform.
3.      At an International Donors' Conference in September 1998, government and
donors agreed that the land reform program would be implemented in two phases:
an Inception Phase, which would start immediately with settlements on farms
already acquired by government, and an Expansion Phase two years later.
Government also agreed to enrich its program by:
(i)     Integrating it into broader national land and poverty alleviation
policies, which include the introduction of a land tax, streamlining of land
subdivision regulations, and improving land tenure arrangements.
(ii)    Continuous consultations with stakeholders and cooperating partners, as
well as learning from international experiences.
(iii)   Selecting beneficiaries from among the poor, those in congested communal



areas, and those with farming experience.
(iv)    Addressing gender issues more adequately.
(v)     Taking appropriate steps to ensure greater transparency, fairness, and
sustainability.
(vi)    Providing opportunities to test alternative market-assisted and
beneficiary-initiated approaches.
(vii)   Continuous monitoring during the Inception Phase and by a thorough
evaluation at the end of it.
4.      In February 1999, government presented the Inception Phase Framework
Plan that describes the policy context of the Land Reform and Resettlement
Program; the existing and improved government models, as well as the
complementary approaches, to be implemented; the refinements to land policy;
and the administration and evaluation of the Inception Phase. The Framework
Plan was well received by the major stakeholders in the country as well as the
international donor community.
5.      The project will directly support the implementation of the Inception
Phase Framework Plan and will allow implementing entities, public and private,
the opportunity to test and learn from different land reform models. As such,
the project has the potential to deliver results in the field quickly and
contribute to the consolidation of the land reform process in Zimbabwe.
6.      At the end of the Inception Phase, a full evaluation will be made of the
speed, cost-effectiveness, and sustainability of the various approaches tried.
This evaluation will constitute the basis for the design of the Expansion
Phase of the Land Reform Programme. The results of this evaluation will also
determine whether and which kind of continued Bank support to land reform in
Zimbabwe, through a larger operation, is warranted.
7.      Project Objectives.   The project development objective is to initiate,
on a pilot basis, a limited number of land reform approaches that show promise
to reduce rural poverty and increase agricultural productivity in the
participating farms. The project will help expedite the settlement process on
farms already acquired by government and will facilitate the implementation of
complementary approaches. The project would directly benefit an estimated
1,000 poor rural families from congested communal areas through improved
access to land (between 25,000 and 40,000 hectares) and direct participation
in the implementation of community investment subprojects.
8.      Project Description.     The first component (Land Acquisition Fund) will
be entirely financed with government counterpart funds. These resources will
finance community-initiated land purchases benefiting some 500 poor rural
households. The second component (infrastructure investments for a
"community-initiated, market-assisted" approach) will provide matching grant
funds for settlement costs and on-land investments on farms acquired directly
by communities. The third component will provide funds also for settlement
costs and community investment subprojects on farms already acquired by
government (Improved Government Models) or by a third party (and NGO, for
example), benefiting an additional 500 poor rural families. Finally, the
fourth component will provide funds for building institutional capacity for
the Inception Phase of the program, strengthening community associations and
Rural District Councils, technical assistance, training, project
administration, and monitoring and evaluation.
- 2 -



9.      Project Financing.   The total cost of the project, to be implemented
over two years, is estimated at US$ 7.0 million equivalent, of which the Bank
will finance US$ 5.0 million (71.4%). Government will finance US$ 1.25
million (for land acquisition) of the total project cost (17.9%) and
communities would contribute the remaining US$ 0.75 million, mostly in-kind
and labor (10.7%).
10.     Project Implementation.   Under a "community-initiated, market-
assisted" approach, eligible self-selected rural-based communities or
community groups ("beneficiaries") would identify suitable lands and
negotiate the purchase of those lands directly with sellers. Communities,
through their designated representatives, would present to the Rural District
Council: (i) the provisional agreement of sale of the land to the beneficiary
community and (ii) the request for financing for land acquisition.
Communities may seek assistance of an NGO or partner in preparing their
proposal, and such assistance could be considered for project financing by the
RDC.
11.     The Rural District Council would then review the community proposal and,
if approved, would authorize the project financial institution (PFI) to
withdraw funds from the Land Acquisition Fund (set up and financed by
government counterpart funds) and disburse the full amount of the sale price
directly to the seller. RDCs may seek outside specialized assistance to
complete this review, and such assistance would be considered for financing by
the Technical Support Unit.
12.     Once the land acquisition proposal is approved, communities would become
eligible to receive funding--with a per-beneficiary household public support
ceiling (to be determined)--for complementary social and economic investment
subprojects and technical assistance to establish the land settlement and
improve the productivity of the land. These complementary investment
subproject proposals would be approved (up to a US$ 50,000 limit) by the RDC
(or by the TSU if higher). Again, upon approval, the RDC (or TSU) would
instruct the financial institution to disburse funds directly to communities.
Community contributions in cash, labor or in kind would constitute the
counterpart contribution for the complementary investment subprojects.
Communities would decide internally as to how to distribute land among
participating households and how to operate the farm.
13.     The project would also finance land reform models where land has already
been acquired. In this case, beneficiary communities would take title to a
piece of land already acquired by government (or a third-party) and become
eligible to receive funding for complementary investment subprojects and
technical assistance to establish the land settlement and improve the
productivity of the land. This component would follow similar procedures for
subproject approval, the public support ceiling, and counterpart contributions
to the ones just described for the community-initiated, market-assisted model.
14.     Project Sustainability.   Community-based subprojects would finance
relatively small investments which are easily maintained by the communities
themselves, both technically and financially. The fact that subprojects would
have a high degree of community participation in identification, preparation,
contracting, implementing, and supervising subprojects, would ensure ownership
by beneficiaries. Other factors that favor sustainability include: (i) a menu
of technical design prototypes appropriate to local conditions which would be
-3 -



made available to participating communities, particularly for roads and rural
water supply subprojects; (ii) appraisal criteria which would require
presentation of an operation and maintenance plan; (iii) training provided to
local communities on how to operate and maintain facilities; and (iv)
involvement of local NGOs and other stakeholders.
15.     Lessons from Bank Experience.   The international experience on
unsuccessful land reform programs is quite large. Some of the important
lessons learned from these experiences include: (i) land reform is a highly
political issue, the government's willingness and commitment to the process is
a fundamental condition for success; (ii) central government identification of
targeted lands, as well as expropriation and land acquisition directly by
government, tend to create legal disputes, delays, high administrative costs,
and they often breed corruption; (iii) it is much better to involve
beneficiaries from the outset in a process of voluntary transactions with
landowners; (iv) centralized administrative designation of program
beneficiaries is not very effective; and (v) direct community participation in
the selection of beneficiaries is to be preferred.
16.     The evaluations and ongoing supervision of the Land Reform and Poverty
Alleviation Pilot Project in Brazil (4147-BR) have yielded the following
lessons so far:
A market-assisted approach to land distribution is considerably more expedient
and less costly than the traditional administratively-led process. For
example, in that project the process of land acquisition, from identification
of lands to purchase, typically has taken less than 90 days. On average, the
actual total cost of land redistribution (including the land acquisition
price, litigation, administrative, and other costs) of the traditional
approach is close to three and half times that of a market-assisted approach.
So far, communities have consistently chosen good quality land at costs that
represent savings of 40t or more relative to traditional land reform and
without upward pressure on land prices.
Self-selection of project participation has proven effective in pinpointing
the landless rural poor; the vast majority of beneficiaries have household
incomes and characteristics consistent with the target population.
Streamlined approval of complementary investment subprojects, such that funds
are immediately deposited with the community association and disbursed once a
subproject proposal is presented and approved, eliminates unnecessary delays.
17.     Poverty Impact. The proposed project would have a positive (though
limited) impact in alleviating poverty, as it would directly benefit some
1,000 poor rural families from congested communal areas. The lessons learned
during project implementation would constitute the basis for a possible
follow-on operation with a potentially larger poverty alleviation impact. The
project would employ a targeting mechanism similar to that of the existing
Community Action Project which relies on poverty-related criteria and other
key parameters that ensure that project resources reach areas with a high
concentration of the rural poor.
18.     Environmental Aspects. The implementation of the proposed project is not
expected to result in major adverse environmental impacts. Instead, the
project is likely to improve environmental conditions as communities move from
congested areas to better commercial farming areas. Because of the small-
scale and simplicity of design of the majority of community subprojects, they
- 4 -



are not likely to have a significant effect on the environment. Nevertheless,
the project would ensure proper environmental screening, review and
enforcement measures to prevent certain types of productive or infrastructure
subprojects, irrigation for example, from producing negative environmental
effects.
19.     The Project Operational Manual, to be approved by the Bank as a
condition of project effectiveness, would explicitly exclude the purchase or
settlement of protected lands or areas with primary forest. All land
purchases or settlements would be approved by the respective Rural District
Council, which would declare ineligible for financing under the project any
proposals that contain such lands.
20.     The Project Operational Manual would also clearly specify key
environmental screening and enforcement procedures to be followed. Proper
environmental screening at the subproject approval stage will be the
responsibility of Rural District Councils (RDC) which will review the standard
documentation on environmental aspects submitted by each subproject proposal.
The specific environmental guidelines to be followed will be part of the
technical standards for different subproject types and will be incorporated in
the Project Operational Manual.
21.     An environmental analysis (EA) for the project will be approved by the
Ministry of Mines, the Environment and Tourism before project effectiveness.
After that, community subprojects will be evaluated by RDCs using simple
environmental guidelines to decide if further environmental assessment is
needed. The lessons learned in this process (both in terms of the
environmental impacts of community irrigation subprojects and the
institutional capacity of RDCs to carry out environmental screening) will be
fully incorporated in the design of any future operation during the Expansion
Phase of the land reform program.
22.     Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 4, 1999.
- 5 -



ANNEX
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



