GOVERMENT OF ZIMBABWE
MINISTRY OF MINES, ENVIRONMENT AND TOURISM
E-360
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
FOR THE
LAND REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
Harare
November 19, 1999






TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preamble
I.         Background
II.        The Land Reform Support Project
III.       Legal and Institutional Framework
IV.        Environmental Concerns of the Project
V.         Environmental Management Plan for the Project
Procedures for Community Subproject Approval
Institutional Capacity Needs
Environmental Performance Monitoring
Environmental Monitoring Goals and Guidelines forCommunity
Subprojects
Annex 1    Checklist for Community Subproject Environmental Assessment
2






ABBREVIATIONS
CAP         Community Action Project
CaCO3       Calcium Carbonate
DNR         Department of Natural Resources
ha          Hectares
IMCRD       Inter-Ministerial Committee on Resettlement and Rural Development
IPM         Integrated Pest Management
EA          Environmental Analysis
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organisation
RDC         Rural District Council
mm          Millimetres
mg/l        milligrams per litre
MMET        Ministry of Mines, Environment and Tourism
N03         Nitrogen Oxide
N           Nitrate
P           Phosphates
PAAP        Poverty Alleviation Action Plan
3






Pr .amble
The Land Reform Support Project emerged as a result of the September 1998
International Donors' Conference, which was organised by the Government of Zimbabwe
to mobilise support for the second phase of the Land Reform and Resettlement
Programme. The Conference agreed to support the second phase of the Programme
through a 24-month Inception Phase. The Inception Phase, through which various
donors, including the World Bank, may make contributions to the Land Reform and
Resettlement Programme, seeks to redistribute one million hectares of land to 118,800
families through the existing improved Government models and complementary and
alternative models.
The Land Reform Support Project, to be co-financed by the Government of Zimbabwe
and the World Bank, will build upon the real experiences of Zimbabwe's first phase of
the Land Reform and Resettlement Programme. It is based on the existing Government
policy framework on Land Reform and Resettlement. On April 15, 1999, Cabinet
approved the Inception Phase Framework Plan, which outlines how the first 24 months of
the second phase of the Land Reform and Resettlement Programme will be carried out.
Waivers will be provided for when and wherever necessary to allow for the
implementation of new alternative and complementary approaches.
4






I.    Background
Climate.
Zimbabwe is a semi-arid country. The major limiting factor to biological production is
water. Generally, average rainfall in the country increases with altitude. Rainfall also
increases from south to north and from west to east. The highest rainfall of 1000
millimetres (mm) per year is received in the Eastern Highlands and decreases to 350 to
450 mm in the Lowveld in the south. Most of the northern third of the Highveld and
Middleveld receives more than 800 mm per year. About 90% of the rainfall is received
between mid-November and early April, with the rainy season becoming shorter from
south to west of the country. The low rainfall areas mostly receive their rainfall in short
intense falls, which are also erratic.
The winter season, which stretches from mid-May to August is characterized by mild to
cold temperatures with a possibility of frost. About three quarters of Zimbabwe's
population lives in low rainfall areas where the average rainfall is less than 600 mm per
year and therefore of limited crop production.
Agro-ecological Regions.
The country is divided into five agro-ecological regions, called Natural Regions, based on
how the climate, soils, and topography affect the appropriate farming system to adopt in
the area.
Region I.  This region is confined to the Eastern Highlands bordering
Mozambique. It receives more than 1000 mm of rainfall per year and the average
annual temperatures normally do not exceed 15 degrees Celsius. The conditions
favour specialized, intensive and diversified farming. The region is suitable for
dairy farming, forestry, tea, coffee, fruit farming, beef, and maize production.
Region II. This is an intensive farming region where average annual rainfall
ranges between 750 mm and 1000 mm per year. It is ideal for rainfed agriculture.
5



The major crops are maize, tobacco, and cotton. These conditions apply to the
Mashonaland East, Mashonaland West, Mashonaland Central and Manicaland.
Provinces
Region III. The region receives between 650 mm and 850 mm of rainfall per
year, mostly in infrequent heavy falls. Severe mid-season droughts are common.
The climatic conditions favour semi-extensive agriculture.   Good farm
management practices are required in order to conserve soil moisture during the
growing season. The larger proportion of this region is found in Mashonaland
West and Midlands Provinces, but the region extends to other Provinces as well.
Regions IV and V. These natural regions cover much of the west and southern
parts of the country, especially Matabeleland North and South and Masvingo
Provinces. The regions are also found in the low-lying areas along the Zambezi
River and adjacent to the border with Mozambique. Region IV receives an
average of 450 to 650 mm of rainfall per year, with periodic seasonal droughts
and severe dry spells during the rainy season. Region V on average receives less
than 450 mm of rainfall per year. It is a very hot, low-lying region, suitable for
extensive animal husbandry with drought resistant fodder crops under irrigation.
An estimated 75% of Zimbabwe's communal population lives in Regions IV and
V.
Distribution of Land and Soil Resources.
As a result of the Land Apportionment Act of 1930, the Animal Husbandry Act of 1951,
the Land Tenure Act of 1969 and other measures, the agriculturally more productive
areas in natural regions I, II and III, which are endowed with good soils and water
resources were allocated to white settler farmers, while the majority of the black
population was relegated to semi-arid natural regions IV and V suitable only for
extensive agriculture and ranching.
6



Water Resources.
The water resources of Zimbabwe are primarily surface and groundwater. The total
annual surface runoff, estimated on the basis of mean annual runoff of six hydrological
zones in the country, is 20 000 million cubic meters, of which the potential yield is 13
000 million cubic meters. About 3 800 million cubic meters is already committed.
Groundwater resources are scarce in Zimbabwe. However, they are the main source of
potable water for the rural population (70% of Zimbabwe's total population), business
centres, rural schools and health centres.
The agricultural sector utilizes about 85% of the estimated available water resources,
mainly through irrigation. Smallholder communal and resettlement areas only utilize 8%
of the irrigated area (about 10 000 hectares), with the rest being utilized by large scale
commercial farmers and government farms.
This inequitable allocation of land, soil, and water resources has been an important source
of discontentment among smallholder farmers and it is partly responsible for the poverty
in communal areas.
The Importance of Land Reform in Zimbabwe.
Land reform is one of the most important development challenges that Zimbabwe faces
today. The enormous inequality in access to land threatens the social, economic, and
political viability of the country. Some 4,500 farms in the large scale commercial
farming sector own 11.2 million hectares of generally high quality land, while around one
million communal households (over five million people) live on 16.4 million ha of
generally poor quality land. At the same time, the intensity of land use in large farms is
lower than in communal areas, suggesting that some efficiency gains can be attained by
land redistribution.
7



II.   The Land Reform Support Project
The main project objective is to support the Inception Phase of the Land Reform and
Resettlement Programme by financing improved government models and complementary
approaches, which have the potential to expedite the process redistributing land in the
country. The project was negotiated between the Government of Zimbabwe and the
World Bank in May 1999 and it is expected to become effective in July 1999. The
project will have duration of two years (from mid-1999 to mid-2001).
The project will benefit at least 1,000 poor rural households on farms covering at least
30,000 hectares. Specifically, the project will achieve:
1.) Purchase of land by Beneficiary Communities with financing from a
Government-funded Land Acquisitions Fund of at least 15,000 hectares and
benefiting approximately 500 poor rural households; approval of community
Subproject investment proposals and the commencement of the Subprojects
on those farms for the benefit of the same 500 poor rural households.
2.) Approval of community Subproject investment proposals and the
commencement of the Subprojects on an additional 15,000 hectares of land for
the benefit of at least 500 more poor rural households on farms already
acquired by Government, or by a third party, and transferred to Beneficiary
Communities.
For the implementation of the project, Government will establish a Land Acquisitions
Fund (of approximately US$ 1.25 million) for land purchases by communities and the
World Bank will provide the resources for community-initiated infrastructure investments
(approximately US$ 4.25 million) and project administration, monitoring and evaluation,
and technical assistance (approximately US$0.75 million). Communities are expected to
contribute, mostly in labour and materials, some US$ 0.75 million.
The responsible agency for project implementation is the Office of the President and
Cabinet (office of the Minister without Portfolio). The project will be implemented
8



primarily by Beneficiary Communities themselves, by Rural District Councils (RDC),
and a Technical Support Unit, which will be established as a technical Secretariat to the
Inter-Ministerial Committee on Resettlement and Rural Development (IMCRD).
The project will be implemented according institutional arrangements and procedures
similar to the Community Action Project (CAP), currently under implementation by the
Social Development Fund at the Ministry of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare.
The details of project implementation are described in a Project Operational Manual.
This Environmental Analysis for the Project constitutes the basis for the environmental
management plan, which is an integral part of the Project Operational Manual.
Most project resources would be used to finance small-scale community-initiated
subprojects in economic and social infrastructure (e.g., small water supply and sanitation
systems, local road improvements, schools) and productive subprojects (e.g., small-scale
irrigation schemes, fencing, dip tanks for cattle) on farms well within the existing
commercial farming area.
The fact that subprojects would have a high degree of community participation in
identification, preparation, contracting, implementing, and supervising subprojects,
would ensure ownership by beneficiaries. Other factors that favour sustainability include:
(i)    a menu of technical design prototypes appropriate to local conditions
which would be made available to participating communities, particularly
for roads and rural water supply subprojects;
(ii)  appraisal criteria which would require presentation of an operation and
maintenance plan;
(iii) training provided to local communities on how to operate and maintain
facilities; (iv) involvement of local non-government organizations and
other stakeholders; and
(iv)  incentives for self-selection of suitable beneficiaries include the
requirement to assume a loan for part of the benefits they receive and to
9



provide in-kind contributions (mostly labour and local materials) to cover
about 20% of total subproject costs.
III.   Legal and Institutional Framework for Environmental Management
In Zimbabwe
The legal and institutional framework for environmental management in Zimbabwe has
not changed since July 1998 when the Environmental Analysis (EA) for the CAP was
completed. There is a draft Environmental Management Bill which was approved by
Cabinet and is being considered by the Attorney General's Office. The draft bill among
other issues seeks to provide for the sustainable management of the environment and
natural resources and to consolidate the laws relating to the environment such as the
Natural Resources Act.
T'he Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Policy.
In August 1997, the Ministry of Mines, Environment and Tourism (MMET) introduced
an official Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Policy. The goals of this policy are
to:
(i)   encourage environmentally-responsible investment and development in
Zimbabwe;
(ii)   maintain the long-term ability of natural resources to support human, plant
and animal life;
(iii)  conserve a broad diversity of plants, animals and ecosystems, and the
natural processes that they depend upon; and
(iv)  conserve the social, historical and cultural values of people and their
communities.
The EIA Policy is administered by the Ministry of Mines, Environment and Tourism.
The Minister is the lead authority and he or she may delegate such authority to any other
individual or agency. The Director of Natural Resources (DNR) has been delegated the
responsibility for managing the EIA process. Proponents must fund EIA studies
10



themselves and Government is responsible for reviewing EIA submissions. The
preparation of Environmental Impact Assessment reports is the responsibility of
*                    proponents.
IV.   Environmental Concerns of the Project
The Land Reform Support Project does not raise any major environmental issues.
Instead, the project is likely to improve environmental conditions as communities move
from congested areas to better commercial farming areas. Because of the small-scale and
simplicity of design of the majority of community subprojects, except perhaps for
irrigation, they would not have a significant effect on the environment. Nevertheless,
some potential environmental impacts such as soil erosion, water quality, deforestation,
or environmental health could result from community infrastructure subprojects to be
funded under the project. These issues have been analyzed in the Environmental
Analysis for the Community Action Project (Ministry of Public Service, Labour and
Social Welfare, July 1998) and are summarized below.
Soil Erosion.
This is a serious problem in the congested communal areas of Zimbabwe, where current
land tenure patterns have been identified as having a severe negative impact on soil
conservation. The most eroded parts of the country are communal areas, while the least
eroded are commercial areas. It is estimated that soil erosion in communal areas leads to
the loss of 50 and 75 tonnes per hectare per year of soil in arable and grazing lands,
respectively. In the commercial farming areas the figures are 15 and 3 tonnes per hectare
per year, respectively.
Deforestation.
There are several reasons for deforestation in Zimbabwe. The most important reason is
clearing land for agriculture. It is estimated that 60,000 hectares of woodland are cleared
annually for agriculture. Besides that, the need for fuelwood is also another major factor
behind deforestation. About 80% of household energy demands in both rural and urban
11



areas are met through fuelwood.  This accounts for about 31%  of total energy
consumption in Zimbabwe.
The negative impacts of deforestation are many and varied. These include use of crop
residues and cattle dug as alternative fuel, depriving land or soil the much-needed organic
material and the huge cost associated with environmental degradation with long-term
impacts on agricultural production and food security.
Siltation.
Erosion in Zimbabwe is mainly caused by watershed deforestation, improper rain-fed
farming practices, overgrazing and other activities. The situation has been aggravated by
riverbank mining activities in some places. This has resulted in most of Zimbabwe's
rivers silting up. As a result, rivers dry up a few months after the rains. Major rivers, like
the Save and Limpopo bear testimony to this. Siltation is a serious problem, which
affects dams, intake structures, aquatic life, among other negative consequences to the
environment. A number of dams have lost their capacity and some small ones have been
completely silted.
Water Oualitv.
The pollution of surface and groundwater systems is not yet a major problem in
Zimbabwe. Runoff from agricultural lands can carry agrochemicals such as nitrates,
phosphates and pesticides, which pollute river and damn water. These nutrients accelerate
the rate of growth of algae in streams and dams leading to eutrophication, which in turn
kills aquatic organisms. This has been reported in the Chivero and Umgusa dams.
Pesticides also cause harm to aquatic flora and fauna. Besides that, the pesticides may
enter into the food chain through aquatic organisms consumed by animals and humans.
Environmental Health.
The major environmental health hazards associated with water resources development
projects in Zimbabwe are the spread and intensification of two water-related vector-borne
12



diseases, namely, malaria and schistosomiasis (bilharzia). Malaria distribution in the
country is linked to the rainfall season and low altitude areas. It is reported that about 5
million Zimbabweans live in areas where they risk malaria. The disease is responsible
for some 20%  morbidity and mortality.  Generally, the introduction of water
infrastructure projects, dams, and irrigation schemes, may extend the period of
transmission of malaria into the dry season due to the availability of water and may
increase the transmission intensity due to the extension of the mosquito life expectancy
by favourable humidity levels.
Irrigation projects provide a conducive environment for the introduction or increase in
schistosomiasis in an area. The greatest risk is associated with dams and surface
irrigation systems, while well-managed sprinkler systems provide the lowest risk. Some
of the areas that already have a prevalence of bilharzia are the high rainfall north-eastern
areas of Kariba and Zambezi valley (high prevalence), south-east, central and north-east
Zimbabwe (medium prevalence) and in western Zimbabwe (low prevalence). There are
in-built design control measures, like the use of free-draining hydraulic structures in
surface irrigation, which have already been adopted in smallholder irrigation subprojects
to reduce the vector habitat.
Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigating Measures of Community
Subprojects
The EA for the CAP has already identified and assessed potential environmental impacts
and mitigating measures for a wide range of small-scale community subprojects that are
fully applicable to the proposed Land Reform Support Project.
This section identifies potential environmental impacts and mitigating measures of
community subprojects, which the proposed project may finance. Checklists will be used
to enable identified subproject activities to be followed through their corresponding
issues, impact analysis and mitigation. Considering that this EA is fairly general, the
recommendations, mitigating measures and monitoring procedures are also general.
However, the guidelines should suffice for community subprojects not requiring a full
13



environmental impact assessment (categories B, C and D). Specific environmental
assessments would be needed for Category "A" subprojects. However, if they are small,
the guidelines provided here should suffice.
The following Category "A" subprojects may have significant environmental impacts
and normally require an environmental impact assessment:
(i)   Irrigation scheme construction
(ii)   Dam construction
(iii)   Access road construction or improvement
(iv)   Bridge construction
Irrigation Subproiects.
These projects bring about a lot of socio-economic benefits to communities, such us
increased crop yields, higher incomes, better nutrition, and increased employment. The
impacts of community irrigation subprojects are linked to the activities associated with
the planning, implementation, operation and maintenance of these enterprises. Some of
the negative environmental impacts of irrigation schemes relate to:
(i)    Public  health  (water-borne  and   water-related   diseases,
contaminated water);
(ii)   Soil degradation due to erosion, water logging and pollution, or
(iii)   Disruption of social and cultural practices of people.
It is a requirement in Zimbabwe to carry out an environmental impact assessment before
irrigation projects are embarked on. For small community subprojects, some of the
impacts may be too small to warrant a full EIA. The type of impact of a particular
subproject will depend on the circumstances of that subproject. Thus, the possible
impacts and mitigating measures in the three categories mentioned above should be used
as broad guidelines. Tables 1,2 and 3 show these broad guidelines.
14



Table 1       Management and Mitigating Steps Irrigation Project: Health Aspects
Potential Negative Impacts   Mitigating Measures
Public Health Risks          Minimise increase in water borne diseases and vulnerability
of rural communities within and around projects
. Introduction or increase in  Recommended practices are:
water-bome   or  water
related   diseases  (e.g.  * All unlined canals should be lined or pipes can be used in the
schistosomiasis, malaria,    delivery and distribution system, in order to minimise water
etc) and vulnerability of    seepage, consequently standing water which would be a habitat
rural communities within    for disease vectors
and around projects      * Incorporate free draining structures in the design of the water
delivery, conveyance and field canal system
* Install gates at canal ends to allow for flushing
* Fill up or drain depressions along canals and roads or in and
around irrigated area to discourage water from ponding
* Maintain drainage system by regular de-silting and weeding
* Level irrigated area to avoid ponding of water during irrigation
* Regularly de-silt and weed night storage reservoirs, canals and
weed canal banks
* De-silt and weed other hydraulic structures of the irrigation
* System, such as division boxes, weirs, flumes, drops and
others
*  Replace bitumen on canal joints to reduce water seepage
through canals
* Repair canal embankments, canals and other structures
* Where possible fluctuate water levels in the night storage dams
* In order to desiccate aquatic snail and anopheles mosquito
larvae
* As much as possible canals should regularly be allowed to dry
by the rotating water supply between them in order not to keep
them continuously wet.
* Carry out disease prophylaxis
* Treat diseases
* Injury or death associated with accidents such as during
construction and drowning in canals, night storage reservoirs
*  Injury or death associated  etc
with accidents such as  * Enforce safety regulations relating to construction
drowning in canals, night * Use qualified machine operators and adhere to regulations
storage reservoirs etc     regarding use and disposal of hazardous materials
* Use appropriate technology
* Protect people from structures which could pose dangers, eg
fencing off reservoirs and canals in which humans especially
children and animals can drown
15



Table 1       (continued)
Potential     Negative  Mitigating Measures
Impacts
Public Health Risks      Protect weliheads from potential contamination
Pollution of Soil, Water   Periodically inspect and maintain acceptable well construction
guidelines as needed
* Contamination of and  . Install backfiow prevention devices, non-return valves stay at
Accumulation of toxic    least 30 metres away from well when mixing, loading and
concentrations    of    storing agrochemicals Monitor well quality periodically by
heavy   metals  and      sending water samples for quality tests periodically in order
agrochemicals    in    to ensure adherence to limits given in table 1.1
surface         and  . Know site specific variables affecting aquifer vulnerability
groundwater
Manage irrigation to minimise transport of chemicals,
nutrients or sediment from soil surface or root zone
l  Schedule irrigation according to crop water needs and soil
moisture depletion, and apply water accordingly
l  Upgrade or maintain irrigation equipment and system  to
improve water application efficiency
l  Time the leaching of soluble salts to coincide with low
residual soil nitrate levels
Reduce water application rates to ensure that no runoff or
deep  percolation  occurs during  or immediately  after
agrochemical application
Manage nitrogen applications to maximise crop growth
and economic return while protecting water quality
. Sample soil to at least 0.6 metres or the crop rooting depth in
order to determine the residual N03 - N
l  Establish the yield versus the N application rate for at least
the previous 5 year period
l  Take account of all N sources in determining the N fertiliser
requirement. These sources can be organic matter and
previous crop residues, irrigation water nitrate, soil nitrate
and manure
* Use slow release N fertilisers and nitrification inhibitors as
required
. Split N  application  into as many applications as is
economically and agronomically feasible
. Avoid fall application of N fertilisers especially on sandy soils
and vulnerable aquifers
. Prepare a yearly nitrogen management plan for each crop
16



Table 1       (continued)
Potential Negative Impacts   Mitigating Measures
Public Health Risks         Employ pesticides judiciously and minimise off-target effects
Pollution of Soil, Water
l  All chemical applicators should receive thorough training and
* Accumulation  of  toxic    possibly certification prior to use
concentrations of heavy  * Select pesticides based on site and management variables to
metals and agrochemicals   minimise potential groundwater contamination
in soil                  * Chemical applicators should know the characteristics of the
application site including soil type, depth to groundwater and
erosion potential
* Chemical leaching hazard, persistence and toxicity should be
compared to the specific conditions to determine suitability of
the pesticide at that location
* Application equipment should be inspected, calibrated and
maintained regularly
* Minimise pesticide waste and storage by purchasing and
mixing only enough chemicals to meet the needs. Utilise
refillable containers to minimise container disposal problems
Maintain records of all pesticides and fertilisers applied
* Keep records on:
l  Irrigation water analysis
. Soil tests results
l  Projected crop yields
. N fertiliser recommendations
* Fertilisers and or manure applied
* Amount of irrigation water applied
* Actual crop yields
l  All pesticides applied including: brand name, formulation,
registration, amount and date applied, exact location  of
application, name, address and certification number of
applicator
* Records should be kept for at least 3 years
Animal wastes should be properly collected, stored and
applied at agronomic rates for crop production in order to
avoid discharge to surface or ground water. This can be done
as follows;
. analyse manures for nutrient content and percent dry matter
(see if there are recommendations for this)
. Transport of pathogens  * Reduce N fertiliser according to the amount of available N in
resulting  from  use  of    the manure
excreta as fertiliser    . Avoid manure applications on saturated soils and incorporate it
after application
17



Table 1       (continued)
Potential Negative Impacts    Mitigating Measures
Public Health Risks          Manage phosphorus requirements for crop production to
maximise crop growth and minimise degradation of water
Pollution of Soil, Water    resources
. Accumulation   of  toxic  * Implement standard SCS soil erosion practices and structures
concentrations of heavy  . Carry out soil tests of tillage layer and apply fertiliser according
metals and agrochemicals    to soil test recommendations
in soil                  . Take account of all P from manures and other sources in
determining P application rate
. Spread grass filters around erosive crop field to catch and filter
P in surface runoff
. Incorporate surface applied P into soil
Utilise Integrated Pest Management (IPM) approach in pest
control decision making
. Monitor pest and predator populations
. Select varieties which are resistant to pest pressures
. Time planting and harvesting dates to minimise pest damage
. Rotate crop sequence to break up pest cycles
. Spot treat or band pesticides instead of applying broadcasts
treatment
. Utilise beneficial insects and other biological controls
18



Table 1.1        Inorganic Constituents for Drinking Water Quality
Characteristic                                Health - based Guideline
Antimony (mg/I)                               0.005
Arsenic (mg/A)                                0.01
Barium (mg/l)                                0.7
Boron (mg/1)                                 0.3
Cadmium (mgA)                                0.003
Chromium (mgil)                              0.05
Copper (mg/l)                                2
Cyanide (mg/A)                                0.07
Fluoride (mg/I)                              1.5
Lead (mg/I)                                  0.01
Manganese (mg/I)                             0.5
Mercury (mgAI)                               0.001
Molybdenum (mg/I)                            0.07
Nickel (mg/I)                                0.02
Nitrate (mg/i)                               50
Nitrite (mg/I)                               3
Selenium (mg)                                0.01
Uranium (ugA)                                 140
Aluminium (mg/I)                             0.2
Chloride (mg/A)                              250
Hardness as CaCO3 (mg/I)                     500
Hydrogen Sulphide (mgA)                      0.05
Iron (mg/A)                                  0.3
Manganese (mgA)                              0.1
pH                                           6.5 - 9.5
Sodium (mg/I)                                200
Sulphate (mg/I)                              250
Total Dissolved solids (mg/I)                 1200
Zinc (mg/I)                                   4
(Source: FAO 53, Adapted from WHO, 1993)
19



Table 2      Management  and   Mitigating  Steps  Irrigation   Project:  Soil
Degradation
Potential Negative Impacts   Mitigating Measures
Soil Degradation           Minimise and control waterlogging through the
l   Waterlogging           . Regulation of water application to avoid overwatering through
good irrigation schedules
l  Installation and maintenance of an adequate drainage system,
including installing a sub-surface drainage system where the
need arises
. Use of lined canals or pipes to prevent seepage
l  choice of efficient water application systems, eg sprinkler or
drip at design stage
|  Increase in soil salinity,  Management strategies for reducing salinisation and its
alkalinity, sodicity, acidity   effects on crops are:
l  Leaching of salts by flushing regularly
l  Proper irrigation schedules with leaching requirements
incorporated, (normally 10-20% added onto the irrigation
requirement), or allowing for leaching in rainy season
. Installation of adequate drainage system
l  Changing tillage techniques
l  Adjusting cropping patterns through the cultivation of crops
with salinity tolerance and avoiding monocropping
l  Incorporation of soil ameliorates such as incorporating gypsum
in irrigation water to reduce sodium content of soils
l  Safe disposal of salty drainage water into unused land (if such
land is not threatened) or evaporation ponds (where impacts
can be contained)
i  Use of good quality water
Measures include:
. Soil  erosion   due  to  . Well planned settlement to avoid surpassing carrying capacity
intensified human activity    of surrounding area
in surrounding areas such  . Allowance for villages, livestock, fuel wood, and vegetable
as     more    rainfed     gardens within or around irrigation scheme.
agriculture,  increase  in
livestock  and  need  for
firewood
20



Table 2       (continued)
Potential Negative Impacts    Mitigating Measures
. Soil loss/accumulation due  Minimise soil erosion in irrigated lands through careful
to   water  erosion  in  design (considering field size, stream size (drop size), soils,
irrigated lands          slope and field layout) and by:
* The use lined canals or pipes for water conveyance
* Providing adequate drainage and soil conservation structures in
irrigated lands
* Selecting the correct stream flow for furrows, borders and
basins
. Using the correct command between field canals and the
irrigated land, usually between 15 and 30 centimetres
* Using plastic or other materials to reduce the impact of water
coming from the siphons onto the irrigated land
. The use of siphons, checks, gates, canal escape structures for
water application, control and disposal
. Selecting sprinklers with an application rate less than the
infiltration rate of the soil for use for that type of soil
. Land levelling and construction of conservation structures
. Ensuring proper cut and fill operations through water course
embankments
. Establishment of vegetation in cleared areas after irrigation
construction work
21



Table 3.1     Management and Mitigating Steps Irrigation Project: Resettlement
Aspects
Potential Negative Impacts   Mitigating Measures
Resettlement               Avoid resettlement where appropriate but where unavoidable,
the following should be taken account of
. Dismantling of production  . Appropriate resettlement plans should be developed prior to
systems                    commencement of the project with adequate resources
provided for the responsible institutions
* Relocation to environment * Facilitate community (both migrant and host) participation in
where productive skills are    resettlement planning to capture their options and rights in the
less applicable            plan
l   Community structures and  . Establish appropriate social organisation between migrants and
social   networks   are    hosts, utilising their own social and cultural institutions as much
weakened                   as possible
.  Ensure that both migrant and host communities benefit from the
project
. Loss  of  assets  and  . Compensate for land, housing and infrastructure and any other
income sources             customary rights to resources taken away by the project should
be rendered timeously
l   Loss of cultural identity,  * Where possible cushion disruption of communities by moving
traditional  rights  and   groups of people with the same pattems of group organisation
authority               . Ensure participation of vulnerable groups such as ethnic
minorities, the landless and women
. Provide better services such as education, water, health etc
. Take account of likely natural base degradation during planning
. Increase in deforestation,    and provide strategies such as project-financed afforestation.
overgrazing, soil erosion  . Make provision for an environmental monitoring and evaluation
etc                        during and after project implementation
22



Table3.2        Management And  Mitigating  Steps Irrigation  Projects: Culture
Aspects
Potential Negative Impacts    Mitigating Measures
Cultural
* Loss of spiritual sites (eg  * Avoid the conversion of spiritual sites by selecting alternative
graves, shrines)            land or isolating them from the irrigation layout with the full
. Restricted   access  to      participation of community leaders
traditional sites
* Influence on dietary norms  . Involve community in the planning, design and implementation
and taboos                  of the irrigation project, as much as possible communicating in
the local language
* Wherever possible provide dryland  irrigated  land where
communities can grow traditional crops, not normally grown in
irrigated areas
* Let the communities select the crops to be irrigated and advise
accordingly
* Prepare a culturally acceptable irrigation design
Dams and Reservoirs.
Zimbabwe has two major sources of water, surface and underground. Surface water,
stored in dams, is the predominant source, especially for major water consuming sectors,
such as agriculture, domestic, industrial and mining. On the other hand, ground water,
though relatively limited in quantity, is the major source of domestic water supply for
rural communities, health centres and schools. Some dams are built for livestock
watering and conservation purposed. They also provide options for fish farming, small-
scale irrigation schemes and gardens.
Zimbabwe has an erratic rainfall pattern, which is characterised by mid-season droughts.
For most of the year the rivers are dry, so they cannot sustain year-round water
abstraction. At the same time, the groundwater sources do not yield substantial amounts
of water on which water projects could depend. This makes dam water supply a vital
source of water for year-round use, especially for irrigation, urban and industrial sectors.
These circumstances make dam construction an indispensable stepping stone to economic
development.
23



However, there are some inescapable environmental risks associated with dam
development. Table 4 presents a checklist of some of the most common negative impacts
and mitigating measures of building and operating dams. These are the general criteria,
which have to be considered in the design, implementation and operation of dams. A
number of them are common to irrigation projects as well.
Table 4      Management And Mitigating Steps: Dams And Reservoirs
Potential Negative Impacts   Mitigating Measures
Measures include
. Increase in water-related    . Design and operation of dam to reduce habitat for vector
diseases                 . Vector control measures (see also management and mitigating
measures of irrigation and drainage projects)
. Disease prophylaxis and treatment
. Conflicting demands for    . Integrated Planning and management of dam in the context of
water use                  regional development plans. Equitable water distribution of
water between large and smallholders, or geographic regions
based on catchment plans, or river basin plans.
Measures include:
• Environmental            . Correct planning of resettlement site to avoid surpassing
degradation from           carrying capacity
increased pressure on    . Improve land use practices and productivity of the area to
land                       accommodate a higher population
* Environmental problems    * Provision of rural development and health services to try and
arising from developments  minimise impact
made possible by dam
(irrigated agriculture,  . CatchmentVbasin wide planning to avoid overuse, misuse and
municipal or rural growth)  conflicting uses of water and land resources
. Poor land use pattems in   . Land use planning efforts in watershed areas above dam
catchment areas above
reservoir resulting in
increased siltation and
changes in water quality
Measures include:
. Siltation of dam and loss    . Practising recommended land use practices and refraining from
of storage capacity        converting forests to agricultural land.
. Reafforestation and promotion of good soil conservation
practices in watershed
. Hydraulic removal of sediment eg flushing
. Mechanical or manual desilting
24



Table 4       (continued)
Potential Negative Impacts   Mitigating Measures
* Negative environmental   Measures to minimise impacts:
effects of construction:
l   Air and water pollution  * Air and water pollution control
from construction and     . Careful location of camps, buildings, borrow pits, quarries,
waste disposal              spoils and disposal sites
* Soil erosion              * Precautions to minimise soil erosion
* Destruction of vegetation,
sanitary and health
problems in construction
camps
l   Eviction of people living in   * Resettlement of evicted people in suitable area, with provisions
dam basin                   for compensation for resources lost. Facilities such as health
services, infrastructure to be provided at least to the pre-
eviction standard. Including evicted families in programmes to
benefit from dam
* Disruption/destruction of    * Avoid dislocation of people with same lifestyles and where
tribal groups               possible
* relocate them in a way which allows them to retain their
lifestyles and customs
* Loss of land (agricultural,   * Siting dam to reduce land loss, protect equal area elsewhere in
forest, range, wetlands)    catchment to offset losses, reduce size of dam or reservoir
though inundation
l   Loss of historic, cultural or  * Siting of dam or reduction of dam or reservoir size to
aesthetic features due to   avoid/minimise loss, of cultural sites
inundation
* Loss of wildlands and     * Siting of dam or reduction of dam or reservoir size to
wildlife habitat            avoid/minimise loss, establishment of compensatory parks,
reserve areas, and animal.relocation
* Proliferation of aquatic  * Clearing of woody vegetation from dam basin prior to
weeds in reservoir and      inundation of dam, provision of weed control measures, such
downstream of reservoir     as manual weed removal, biological measures and others,
harvest of weeds for compost, fodder or biogas, regulation and
manipulation of water levels to discourage weed growth.
Measures include:
* Deterioration of water    * Siting agro-industries to avoid pollutants being discharged in
quality of reservoir        dams
. Clearance of woody vegetation from reservoir basin prior to
inundation
* Practising recommended land use practices and agrochemical
I   application in watershed
25



Rural Roads.
Roads are constructed in order to access areas that hitherto were inaccessible or only
partially accessible. Rural roads in Zimbabwe are usually unpaved or only lightly paved.
They are normally constructed as a sub-component of other projects, such as agriculture,
mining, forestry or as a part of rural development. The construction of road offers
immense benefits to rural communities, such as improved access to markets and services
(schools, health centres, financial institutions), reduced transports costs and increased
mobility, greater employment opportunities, and others. Some of the potential negative
impacts of roads include:
(i)   erosion resulting from exposure of soils during and after road
construction;
(ii)   water logging of adjacent lands, due to poor drainage from roads;
(iii)  destruction of land, soils and vegetation during construction; and
(iv)   health hazards and damage to vegetation resulting from dust blown by
vehicles.
Table 5 presents a checklist of some of the most common negative impacts and
mitigating measures associated with rural roads. The mitigating measures provide
guidelines for the design, construction and maintenance of roads.
26



Table 5      Management and Mitigating Steps for Rural Roads
Potential Negative Impacts   Mitigating Measures
* Direct: During            Measures include:
construction
* Erosion from fresh road  . Limitation of earth moving to dry seasons
cuts and fills and      * Protection of most susceptible soil surfaces with mulch
temporary sedimentation    . Protection of drainage channels with berms, straw or fabric
or natural drainage ways   barriers.
* Installation of sedimentation basins, seedling or planting of
. Erodible surfaces as soon as possible
Measures include:
* Ground and water         * Safe disposal of lubricants,
contamination by oil, and   * Precautions to avoid accidental spills
fuel in equipment yards
* Assessment of vector ecology in working areas and
* Creation of stagnant water    employment of measures such as improved landscaping, filling
bodies in borrow pits,     or drainage, to avoid creating vector habitats
quarries, suited to
mosquito breeding and
other disease vectors
* Careful siting, construction and management of construction
* Environment and social      camps.
disruptions due to
construction camps          ._.
27



Table 5       (continued)
Potential Negative Impacts   Mitigating Measures
Direct: Permanent           * Measures are:
l   Destruction of buildings,    . Alternative alignments
vegetation and soil in the    . Harvest and utilisation of public domain forests prior to
right of way, borrow pits,  construction.
waste dumps, and         . Compensation to private landowners.
equipment yards          . Reclamation to restore sites to original condition where
possible
. Interruption of subsoil and   * Design and installation of adequate drainage works
surface drainage patterns
(in areas of cut and fill)
Measures include:
l   Landslides, slumps, slips   . Route alignment to avoid inherently unstable areas,
and other mass           * design of drainage works to minimise changes in surface flows
movements of earth in       and adequate to local conditions, according to prior surveys,
road cuts                . Stabilisation of road cuts with structures (concrete walls, dry
masonry, gabions, etc)
Measures include:
* Erosion of lands below the  . Increase in number of outlets,
roadbed receiving        . Drain outlets placed so as to avoid cascade effect,
concentrated outflow     * Lining of receiving surface with stones and concrete
carried by covered or
open drains
Measures include:
l   Increased suspended     * Establishment of vegetative cover on erodible surfaces as soon
sediment in streams         as possible
affected by road cut     * Establishment of retention ponds to reduce sediment load
erosion, decline in water   before water enters stream
quality and increased
sediment downstream
Measures include:
l   Marred landscape (scars   . Tourist site access roads to be planned with regard for visual
from cuts, induced          aesthetics,
landslides and slumps,   . Grade limitations to avoid cutting and filling where scenery
etc)                        would be spoiled,
* Maintenance and/or restoration of roadside vegetation.
. Health hazards and        a Dust control by application of water or chemicals, where
interference of plant       affordable
growth adjacent to road by
dust raised and blown by
vehicles
28



Table 5       (continued)
Potential Negative Impacts   Mitigating Measures
Direct: Pennanent           Measures are:
*  Contamination of surface   * Reduction of use,
and groundwater by       . Alternative, non-chemical methods of control,
herbicides for vegetation
control and chemicals (eg
calcium chloride) for dust
control.                 Measures include:
l   Accident risks associated   . Regulation of transport of toxic materials to minimise danger,
with vehicular traffic and  Prohibition of toxic waste transport through ecologically
transport, that may result  sensitive areas
in spills of toxic materials,
injuries or loss of life
* Creation of a new      . Establishment of plant and animal sanitation service and
pathway for disease         related checkpoints.
vectors affecting humans
and animals
l   Disruption/destruction of
wildlife habitats and noise-  . Siting to minimise impact
related problems
The community subprojects classified as Category "B" subprojects by IDA and
identified by the Ministry of Mines, Environment and Tourism as having specific but
minor environmental impact are broadly categorized as follows:
(i)    Social infrastructure (schools, toilets, housing, solar panels, boreholes and
deep wells, water supply and electricity connections to existing
infrastructure;
(ii)    Economic infrastructure (small dam construction and rehabilitation,
agricultural marketing depots);
(iii)  Improved natural resources management (gully rehabilitation, grazing
schemes, agro-forestry, alternative energy sources); and
(iv)   Communal activities (communal gardens, day-care centres, community
halls, social mobilization, information dissemination, community
awareness and organization).
29



Schools and Houses.
Table 6       Management and Mitigating Steps Development of Housing/Schools
Potential Negative Impacts   Mitigating Measures
Planning                    Planning
. Creation of unrealistic   a Measures include:
expectations             * Consultation with stakeholders
. Change in land values     . Public meetings
* Interaction between project staff and stakeholders
. ensure adequate open spaces and public facilities
. Ensure adequacy of public utilities (water, storm water,
sewerage, electricity, telephones) in relation to development
Construction                Construction
PhysicallBiological:
* Soil erosion           Measures include:
* Soil and water pollution    * Baseline studies to identify endangered species, consider
* Disruption of stream flow  altemative sites or relocate if possible
in local water bodies    . Proper disposal of waste
* Damage to ecosystems   . Proper drainage during construction
* Loss of rare species   . Revegetate exposed surfaces
* Land use conflicts - loss   . Restrict vehicles to certain roads
of prime agricultural land,   . Meet with community leaders to discuss land conflicts
forests or other special  . Involve community in chosing altemative sites
areas
Social/Economic:
. See Table 5
. Dust from construction
activities
a Noise and disturbance
during construction
. Increase in accidents
. Increase in communicable  * See Table 4
diseases among workers,
surrounding areas,
changes in mortality,
increased health costs
* Displacement and          . See Table 3
resettlement
. Community breakdown
* Destruction of sites of
historical or cultural
importance
. Decrease or increase of
number of people
employed
30



Agro-forestry.
Table 7           Potential Negative Impacts And Mitigating Measures for Agro-
Forestry Projects
Potential Negative Impacts      Mitigating Measures
* Direct site preparation:      * Measures include:
* Soil erosion from clearing site   . Establishment of forest cover as soon as possible after
clearng.
l  Use of fast growing, intermediate tree crops or mulching of
exposed soils.
l  No clearing on steep unstable slopes or highly erosive soils.
l  Limitation of plantation size or stand size.
l   Soil.compaction and puddling   9 Limitation of site preparation to dry season.
|* Soil compaction and puddling
by machinery                 a Limitation of use of machinery.
* Manual site preparation.
. Loss of organic matter and    Measures include:
nutrients by removal of      . Rapid replanting.
vegetation and leaching.     . Cover crops.
. Development of hard pans and  . Mulching.
laterization
. Where burning is involved, air
pollution from smoke.        . Limitation of use of fire and size of burning where possible.
. Buming in wet season.
Direct: management and
harvesting:                  Measures include:
. Soil erosion from harvesting
. Replanting as soon as possible after cut.
. Use of fertilizers, pesticides  . Avoidance of clear-cutting; practice of 'small coupe logging".
and herbicides having        * Limitations of harvesting to dry season or season of low rainfail.
negative impact on site and  * Stabilize skid trails as soon as possible after use.
quality of local water bodies.    . Use of animals instead of skidders for extraction.
Measures include:
* Chemical and biological       * Limitation of potential of pests and disease infestation by
changes in the soil as one or a  choice of resistant species.
few species and              * Choice of chemical with the least potential negative impacts.
decomposition dynamics       . Controlled use of chemicals.
dominant litter are altered.  . Limitation of size of stands and interspersal with stands of
native vegetation.
31



Table 7    (continued)
Potential Negative Impacts    Mitigating Measures
* Local soil erosion and      . In short rotation plantations use same tracks and loading areas
unequal distribution of debris  in harvesting operations as much of site as possible.
and organic matter over the
site.
l   In semi-arid zones depletion    . Choice of low water demanding species.
of soil moisture and lowering  Water catchment and conservation techniques to minimize
of water table in plantation  runoff and evaporation losses and minimize infiltration.
area.
|   Build up of organic matter  . Periodic clearing or burning to keep volumes low.
under plantations posing a
fire hazard.
Measures include:
|   Increased sedimentation of    . Buffer zones of undisturbed forest 20 -40 metres wide along
streams                       streams.
* Avoidance of earthfill dams as crossings.
l  Sediment traps in streams.
Measures include:
* Soil erosion from logging   a Siting of roads on ridge tops or valley bottoms and avoidance of
roads                         steep grades on hillsides.
* Stabilization of road cuts with mulch and wood chips
Measures include:
. Displacement of other       . Protection of natural forest with particularly high or unique
ecosystems:                   biological diversity.
* Loss of habitat and         . Limitation of plantation establishment to degraded sites of low
decreased biological diversity  diversity.
by replacement of natural   . Increase in number of species planted and avoidance of
forest by plantations with    monoculture over large area.
limited number of species and  * Conservation of islands of untouched forest or natural
increased uniformity of forest  vegetation.
structure.
Measures include:
l   Increased potential for   * Use of native species.
massive loss by pests or    * Choice of species and provenance with pest or disease
pathogens (through            resistance.
simplification of natural   * Rotation length to minimize susceptibility (e.g. cutting before
ecosystem, provision of       trees are overmature)
abundant food for pests,    . Direct pest or disease control.
increased pest habitat,
absence of controls (e.g. in
the cases of introduced exotic
species.
32



Table 7   (continued)
Potential Negative Impacts             Mitigating Measures
. Loss of forest products from native  * Careful evaluations of local use of forest products to
species                                accommodate continued use and determine feasibility
of developing local industries based on these goods.
Socio-economic impacts:
* Social impacts from influx of people from   * Controlled inflow of people through regulation
outside, both wage eamers and
spontaneous settlers, induced by road
building into remote areas (direct I
indirect impacts).
* Problems related to land tenure and land  * Genuine integration of local communities and peoples in
resource use rights leading to         project planning / implementation (the DEAP Approach).
unequitable sharing of costs and benefits  * Pre-project socio-economic surveys and assessments
of the project.                        and land resource use studies.
* Provision of alternatives, which fairly compensate local
l____________________________________     people who incur losses.
33



Community Grazing Schemes.
Table 8    Management And Mitigating Steps for Community Grazing Schemes
Potential Negative Impacts  Mitigating Measures
l    Degradation of vegetation    Measures include:
due to overgrazing       . Limitation of animal numbers
* Control of length of grazing time on particular areas
a Mixing of livestock species to maximise use of vegetation resource
l  Reseeding and fodder production
. Strategic placement of water points and salt
Measures include:
* Increased soil erosion due   . Restriction of livestock access to unstable areas (eg steep slopes)
to clearing of vegetation  . Soil erosion control measures (eg reforestation, reseeding of
and tramping                grasses, land preparation, terracing)
• Increased saltation of
surface waters
Deterioration of soil fertility
and physical             * Same as above
characteristics through:
I   removal of vegetation
• increased soil erosion
l   soil compaction         . Measures include those above and water conservation measures
and water spreading
. Increased rapid runoff due
to vegetation clearing and
soil compaction (decreased
infiltration capacity)    Measures include:
. Development of small capacity water sources
. Strategic placement of water points
* Degradation of vegetation    . Control of use of water points (animal numbers and time of year)
and soil around water    . Closure of permanent water sources when temporary pools and
points                      streams are available
* Overtapping of groundwater  . Limitation of well capacity by choice of technologies (eg.
. Lowering of watertable and   handpumps or buckets instead of motor pumps)
degradation of vegetation
locally by drilling and use of
boreholes
. Planning and implementation of range management strategies
* Displacement or reduction    (choice of species, livestock numbers, grazing areas) that
of wildlife populations by  minimise negative impacts on wildlife.
reduction of habitat
* Competition for food and
water resources
. Introduction of diseases
34



Table 8   (continued)
Potential Negative Impacts        Mitigating Measures
* Impact on burning               . Measures include:
* Increased poaching and killing of   . Establishment of compensatory wildlife refugees
wildlife considered as pests or  * Investigation of management of wildlife ranching which will
predators to livestock            help protect wildlife resources.
. Environmental pollution, health  Measures include:
hazards from disease and pest    * Choice of chemical that is species-specific, short residence
control measures                  time (active period) and has low impact on other biological
resources
. Spraying methods and timing to minimise potential of water
pollution
. Selection of disease-resistant livestock breed
* Reduction of genetic variability
due to selective breeding      . Conservation of genetic diversity in-situ (protection of
species in natural habitat and maintaining variability within
populations by breeding) and ex-situ (eg. preservation of
genetic material in "banks')
* Conservation of moist tropical
lowland forest for livestock   . Avoid clearing such forests for livestock production
production resulting in long term
environmental degradation and
unsustainable production
. Negative effects of uncontrolled    . Implementation of well-planned and controlled buming
buming for bush control on soil   programmes
and vegetation (deterioration of
soil fertility and soil structure,
altered wildlife habitat, destruction
of vegetation)
35



Pit Latrines.
Potential Negative Impacts                   Mitigating Measures
*  collapse of the toilet causing injury    .  These negative impacts are mitigated by the
.  draining of rain water into the toilet and the  proper siting of the toilet and use of
possibility of filling up too               recommended construction techniques.
*  early                                         Blair Research  Laboratory  (in  the
*  contamination of water supply due to the     Ministry of Health and Child Welfare)
drainage of waste material into              has done extensive research in this
.  drinking water supply                        area and should be consulted where
.  pollution of the air due to offensive odour from  detailed infonnation on the siting and
the toilet                                   construction of toilets is concerned
The community subprojects classified as Category "C" subprojects by IDA and
identified by the Ministry of Mines, Environment and Tourism as having no significant
environmental impacts or utilization of natural resources are broadly categorized as
follows:
(i)    medical equipment
(ii)   communal activities (support programs for aids sufferers
(iii)   social mobilization (leadership training, information dissemination)
36



Disposal of Medical Equipment and Waste.
Table 9      Management  and  Mitigating  Steps  for  Disposal of Medical
Waste/Equipment
Potential Negative Impacts    Mitigating Measures
Planning                      Planning
. Risks associated with the lack   . Provision of risk reduction measures:
of risk reduction facilities  . Emergence plan for site
* Emergency plan for neighbouring communities
. Emergency equipment on site
* Liability insurance coverage
Construction
* Measures include:
* Construction of incinerator
* Construction of pits with bottom/side lining to avoid/control
leachate
Operation
. Contamination of air from:  Operation
. Gases from incineration     * Safe disposal options:
activities                  * Co-disposal with inert waste
. Odours                      . Include incineration
. Toxic volatile organs
Contamination of landisoil
from:
. Leachate from toxic chemicals
in composed waste           * Secure pits with double lining to avoid any leachate causing
. Visual impact on landscape     contamination
. effect on flora/fauna
SociallEconomic
. Risks to health of workers in
contact with waste
materials/equipment         Compliance with standards:
* Risk of health of waste pickers  * Personnel controls (eg clothing, equipment)
in contact with waste/medical   . Training personnel - medical waste/equipment should be
equipment                      handled by personnel with appropriate training. Training should
. Risk of health of neighbouring  cover health and safety, appropriate emergency response and
population                    First Aid in case of accidents.
Decommissioning
. Periodic checks and monitoring
. Decommissioning plan to be carried out.
37



Category "D" subprojects:
Soil and Water Conservation.
Table 10      Management  and  Mitigating  Measures  for  Soil  And  Water
Conservation
Potential Negative Impacts    Mitigating Measures
Loss of Soil Productivity      Measures include:
* Stripped forest soils     . Avoiding construction on steep slopes
become laterised or         . Retention of forest/vegetation cover
subjected to rapid erosion
|   Removal of top soil during  . stockpiling and replacement of topsoil
grading
Measures include:
* soil loss through erosion   . conservation of prime agricultural land,
degrading soils             a application of good cultivation practices,
l  control of erosion and sedimentation through use of mulch
during construction,
l  Rapid replacement of vegetation cover on slopes,
l  construction of silt traps (siltation basins) and barriers of
straw or filter fabric to protect waterways
Modified Hydrology            Measures include:
I   Alteration of surface runoff    * Design and construction techniques to maintain or replace
and infiltration characteristics  local drainage channels, retention or control structures to
from                          minimise rates of runoff
. clearing                    . measures to offset/reduce infiltration (porous pavement,
* grading                        infiltration ponds)
l   filling                   . conversion of open spaces on critical aquifer recharge areas
* paving or construction
causing:
38



Table 10      (continued)
Potential Negative Impacts                 Mitigating Measures
Modified Hydrology
* local ponding and flooding - increased flood    See table 1
frequency and/or magnitude downstream
* lower water table
* diminished groundwater recharge and
increase in low flows in streams
Soil Contamination
. salinisation of irrigation systems not properly   . Mitigation measures for irrigation and
designed/operated                          drainage systems described in the section
. Disposal of hazardous waste                 on Irrigation and drainage, Table 1.
. improper operation of solid waste and land-
based wastewater disposal systems
Land clearing
. High temperatures in tropical areas which  See Table 7
have accelerate chemical degradation of
soils
* Higher intensity of rainfall leading to severe
soil erosion
* Type of clearing method contributing to soil
degradation
. manual methods
. chemical methods
* mechanical methods
. buming
a mechanical methods cause:
. loss of topsoil,
* destruction of soil structure,
. compaction leading to runoff
. burning causing loss of nutrients which are
otherwise beneficial to soil organisms
For project types which have not been included in the CAP list (e.g., dip tanks for cattle,
small-scale agro-processing facilities), an addendum may need to be prepared prior to
project effectiveness.
39






V.   Environmental Management Plan
Procedures for Community Subproiect Approval.
*                   Communities decide which investment subproject to implement. For a community
subproject to be approved by the respective RDC, the proposal should include a
prospectus that has to be reviewed by the District Natural Resources Officer so as to
determine whether a detailed EIA is required or not. This will be in line with the
requirements of the Government of Zimbabwe EIA Policy. A prospectus is a short
document (two to three pages) that provides a basic description of the proposed project,
status of the project and the potential environmental impacts. The District Natural
Resources officer will use the screening guidelines that are outlined in the EIA Policy
document to determine whether an EIA is required or not. Annex 1 outlines these
screening guidelines. Once a decision has been made that an EIA is required, it should
comply with the EIA policy requirements. EIA guidelines prepared by the MMET
should be used as a guide during the preparation of the EIAs.
As the Land Reform Support Project is part of several projects financed by the World
Bank which support local governments in Zimbabwe, the EIA guidelines for community
subproject approval may be revised from time to time as a result of changes in the
country's environmental legislation, such as the approval of an Environmental
Management Act, or as a result of customized guidelines which focus on local conditions
but are also acceptable to the World Bank.
Since the proposals for investment subprojects would come from communities settled in
the existing commercial farming area, which is the main goal of the land reform process,
the RDC in these regions are usually better staffed and have greater institutional capacity
for subproject review and appraisal than the more remote RDCs, such as the ones where
the Community Action Project operates. Nevertheless, if the RDC review committee
decides that there might be some environmental problems, the RDC would request the
Technical Support Unit of the project for technical assistance funds to hire environmental
consultants to inspect the proposal in more detail and make recommendations to the
40



RDC. The Land Reform Support Project will have earmarked funds for the purpose of
strengthening the capacity, both at the RDC and TSU levels, to carry out EIA for those
community subprojects which may have some significant environmental impact. The
Annual Work Plans and Budgets, both for individual RDCs and the TSU, for the project
should reflect these allocations.
Institutional Capacity Needs
Each Rural District Council, which would be the entity responsible for reviewing and
approving individual community subprojects, has a Natural Resource Officer on behalf of
(and trained by) the Ministry of Mines, Environment and Tourism whose primary
responsibility is to ensure that the government's environmental impact assessment policy
is carried out in the District properly. In addition, the CAP has a Poverty Alleviation
Action Plan (PAAP) Officer in 26 RDCs and whose primary responsibility will be to
assist the RDC in the review, evaluation, and approval process of CAP-sponsored
projects. CAP provides training to these PAAP officers on all the relevant aspects of the
subproject approval cycle. Also, CAP provides additional training to Natural Resource
Officers for them to assist the RDC and communities in the design and implementation of
natural resource management projects.
The four initial RDCs, which will participate in the LRSP (that is Kadoma, Mutare,
Makoni and Chipinge) each have a Natural Resources Officer and two Natural Resources
Assistants. All these officers and their assistants have been working in the field of
environment and natural resources management for more than ten years. The Officers
have been trained in Environmental Impact Assessment through a training programme
designed by the Department of Natural Resources' EIA Unit to support the
implementation of the EIA Policy. Besides that the Natural Resources Officers receive
support from the EIA unit whenever they request for it. There are currently 45 companies
that provide Environmental Impact Assessment services in Zimbabwe. These companies
will be provide support services to RDCs whenever need arises. Some of the EIA that
41



have been carried out these companies include: Sagubu (Shashe) New Irrigation Scheme,
Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare's Community Action project and Nyamandlovu
Aquifer Pipeline Project.
In addition, the Land Reform Support Project will provide resources for training and
technical assistance, both at the Technical Support Unit and Rural District Council levels,
in the form of individual short-term consultancies and training programs in those areas
where enhanced capacity for EIA is required. In situations where communities do not
have the capacity to produce project proposals with prospectuses, training will also be
provided. In addition, the TSU will stand ready to provide funding some technical
studies that may be needed to develop technical manuals on the design and
implementation of community subprojects, which have not been evaluated by the EA for
CAP.
VII. Environmental Performance Monitoring
The EA for the Community Action Project also includes a section on proposed
environmental monitoring indicators and environmental management plans (EMP). In
particular, this section includes detailed guidelines on monitoring for the following:
(i)    water protection, soil conservation, and water pollution;
(ii)  soil protection; and
(iii)  conservation of biodiversity (with a brief discussion on the importance of
community incentives).
Tables 11 to 13 show the detailed guidelines
42



Table 11       Environmental Monitoring for Water Protection, Soil Conservation
and Water Pollution
Monitoring Goals            Environmental Monitoring Guidelines
a Water Protection          . Indicators: discharge measurements,  river bank markings
Avoiding    a    significant    showing low levels of water flow
reduction of river          Possible standards: gauge levels where these are available, or
communal farmers experiences
Monitoring: gauge level readings/recordings per unit time daily,
total volume per unit time weekly or monthly
Mitigation: Reduction of total water abstraction, reduction of water
requirements through change of rotation, crop or reduction of
irrigated area, reduction of domestic water consumption
through water rationing
. Avoiding critical rise in  a Indicators: depth of groundwater, groundwater salinity, and
groundwater table           groundwater level fluctuations.
Possible standards: soil wetness classes, groundwater classes
Monitoring: Monthly or seasonal recording in piezometers or
wells,
Mitigation: irrigation scheduling, water requirement: crop selection
and crop rotation, drainage system.
. Indicators: total salinity (mS/cm) in surface water.
* Minimising surface water  Possible standards: threshold levels of water salinity (eg. see
pollution  (by  excessive   Appendix 2), depending on use of water such as domestic,
leaching)                   irrigation (type), livestock.
Monitoring: Monthly records of water salinity at selected sites like
drainage channels, river within a catchment
Mitigation: irrigation scheduling, change of agricultural practices
in catchment area, blending of water from different rivers within
catchment.
. Indicators: ecological toxicity of specific pesticide in use, seek
. Minimising           soil    specialist  advice  from  extension  and  research  staff,
contamination and Water    manufacturers
pollution by agrochemicals  Possible standards: use of pesticides with low activity etc.
such as pesticides       Consult specialist, such  as manufacturers, extension  staff,
researchers etc.
43



Table 11      (continued)
Environmental Monitoring for Water Protection, Soil Conservation and Water
Pollution
Monitoring Goals            Environmental Monitoring Guidelines
Minimising soil contamination  Monitoring: compilation of data from manufacturers, agricultural
and  Water  pollution  by  extension  staff and  researchers, records of pests, annual
agrochemicals   such   as  measurements of pesticide residues in drains, wells, rivers and in
pesticides                  soils; registration of pesticides in use, records on storage facilities,
site characteristics, records of disposal, records on indicator
plants, records on pest population and establishment of pest
predators. Pest surveillance systems established by the local
agricultural extension services.
Mitigation: Special restriction on the use of pesticides in sensitive
areas, such as near drinking water sources, reservoirs, wells and
boreholes, important breeding habitat for wildlife and general
adherence to regulations regarding pesticide use, handling,
storage, disposal using guidelines supplied by manufactures,
application of Integrated Pest Management (IPM), mechanical and
biological pest control, practising sound agricultural practices, such
I as crop rotations, etc
44



Table 12      Environmental Monitoring for Soil Protection
Monitoring Goals            Environmental Monitoring Guidelines
Soil Protection
. Reducing/minimising       . Indicators: sheet or rill erosion on fields, erosion in canals
water erosion in canals    (lined or unlined) and irrigation furrows, borders, basins etc
and   fields   (irrigated   Possible standards: visible erosion  damage  based  on
agriculture)               extension or communal farmers' experience downstream
sediment accumulation in fields and canals.
Monitoring regular inspection of dryland fields, depending on
season, area and local experiences and more frequent
inspection of irrigation canals and fields.
Mitigation: Good agronomic practices, soil management and
mechanical methods to reduce erosion such as conservation
tillage, mulching, crop management, terracing, waterways and
structures like sediment retention basins, vegetative filters,
good irrigation management practices eg avoiding runoff and
use of high impact raindrops under sprinkler irrigation, minimise
overtopping of irrigation canal, etc
* Minimising soil salinisation  * Indicators: total salinity based on electrical conductivity of 1 m
(irrigated agriculture)    soil depth or root zone or as recommended by Department of
Research and Specialist Services (DR&SS)
Possible standards: Crop specific EC threshold limits -
DR&SS and international literature
Monitoring:Seasonal  testing of soil-water extracts and
irrigation and drainage water for compliance with standards
Mitigation and management options: addition of leaching
requirements during each irrigation, improvement and
maintenance of field drainage system, selection of appropriate
irrigation method and good water management practices,
proper selection of crops (salt tolerant), varieties and rotations,
appropriate soil management practices such as tillage for
improved soil structure, use of soil ameliorates e.g. gypsum,
good planting techniques, use of manure etc.
* Maintaining soil Fertility
. Indicators: reduction in humus content, resulting in greater
need for fertilisers to sustain crop yields.
Possible standards: nutrient balance of specific field ie
humus, pH, plant available nutrients such as N,P,K in top soil
etc
Monitoring: Annual/bi-annual or DR&SS recommended soil
sampling and determination .of soil nutrients. Micronutrients,
Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu, Mo and B also to be determined. Experience of
communal farmers
Mitigation: Improved nutrient management combining the use
of inorganic and organic fertilisers, raising soil fertility through
prevention of soil erosion and leaching, timing and methods of
fertiliser application, improved tillage techniques etc.
45



Table 13      Environmental Monitoring for Conservation of Biodiversity
Monitoring Goals            Environmental Monitoring Guidelines
Protection    of    nature
(biodiversity)
* Reducing/minimising loss  * Indicators: total area of non-arable land such as woodlots,
of    biodiversity    in    hedgerows, networks of habitats to allow migration of fauna
heterogeneous               and flora.
landscapes                  Possible standards: at least 10%  (depending on what
standard is agreed on locally) of an area should be left
permanently in a semi-natural state so as to be used as
wetlands and habitats for wildlife and birds (potential predators
for agricultural pests.
Monitoring: Annual inventory of land use pattems, land use
intensities, fallow area on % of total area, inventories of fauna
and flora (where possible).
Mitigation: Integrated land use plans that promote semi-arid
habitats.
Public Health              * Indicators:
* Minimising       human      Possible standards: Vector population, disease prevalence
diseases                    and incidence, disease controls in the domestic environment:
vector-borne, water-washed, water-related and vector-borne,
water-based diseases, eg. malaria, schistosomiasis, lymphatic
filariasis, onchocerciasis, African elephantiasis
Monitoring:Consult experts eg Blair Research
Mitigation and management options: (see section under
Public Health)
I
46






Annex I
Screening guidelines
Once a prospectus has been received and reviewed by the District Natural
Resources Officer the project will be exempted from further environmental
assessment if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
1)   The acivity will not substantially use a natural resource in a way that pre-
empts the use, or potential use, of that resource for any other purpose.
2)    Potential residual impacts on the environment are likely to be minor, of
little significance, easily mitigated.
3)   The type of activity, it's environmental impacts, and measures for
managing them are well understood in Zimbabwe.
4)    Reliable means exist for ensuring that impact management measures can
and will be adequately planned and implemented.
5)   The activity will not displace significant numbers of people. Families or
communities.
6)   The activity is not located in, and will not affect any environmentally
sensitive areas such as:
* The national Parks Estate
* Wetlands, dambos and vleis
*  Productive agricultural land
*  National monuments and important archeological and cultural
sites
*  Areas protected under legislation (e.g. Natural Resources Act,
The National Monuments Act)
. Areas containing rare or endangered flora or fauna
* Areas containing unique or outstanding scenery
7)   The activity will not cause the emission of any or create by products
47



residual or waste materials which require handling and disposal in a
manner that is not regulated by existing authorities.
8)   The activity will not cause significant public concern because of potential
environmental changes.
9)   The activity will not necessitate further development activity, which is
likely to have significant impact on the environment.
48



Screening Guidelines for Sub-Projects
The purpose of these screening guidelines is to ascertain whether or not a separate
environmental impact assessment (EIA) is required for sub-projects. If 50% or more of
the potential environmental impacts are rated to be high, an EA will be conducted.
Otherwise, the mitigation measures proposed in the EA will be applied to mitigate
potential environmental impacts of sub-projects.
1. Impacts on soils                        High        Low          None
2. Impacts on surface water                High         Low         None
3. Impacts on ground water                 High        Low          None
4. Impacts on public health                High         Low         None
5. Impacts on biodiversity                 High         Low         None
6. Impacts on air quality                  High         Low         None
7. Impacts on cultural heritage sites      High        Low          None
8. Impacts on current land use patterns    High        Low          None
9. Impacts on protected areas              High        Low          None
10. Impacts on forests                     High        Low          None
49



