Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 19618-ZW
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT
N THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION (US&5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
THE REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
FOR
LAND REFORM SUPPORT PROJECT
July 16, 1999
Rural Development Operations I
Eastem and Southem Africa
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of July 15, 1999)
Currency Unit = Zimbabwe Dollar (Z$)
Z$ 1.00 = US$ 0.0262
US$ 1.00 = Z$ 38. 10
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AOPB          =      Annual Operating Plan and Budget
ASMP          =      Agricultural Services Management Project
CAP                  Community Action Project
CFU           =      Commercial Farmers Union
CIMAA         =      Community-Iitiated, Market-Assisted Approach
DRC           =       District Review Committee
EIA           =      Environmental Impact Assessment
ESAP          =      Economic Structural Adjustment Programme
GOZ                   Govermnent of Zimbabwe
IDA           =      International Development Association
IMCRD         =      Inter-Ministerial Committee on Resettlement and Rural Development
LACI          =      Loan Administration Change Initiative
LRRP-II       =      Land Reform and Resettlement Progranune - Phase II
MF            =      Ministry of Finance
MMET          =       Ministry of Mines, the Environment and Tourism
MIS           =      Management Information System
MPSLSW               Ministry of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare
NECF          =      National Economic Consultative Forum
NGO           =      Non Government Organization
OPC           =       Office of the President and Cabinet
PAAP                 Poverty Alleviation Action Plan
PFI                  Project Financial Institution
POM           =      Project Operational Manual
RDC           =      Rural District Council
RDCPCDP       =       Rural District Council Pilot Capital Development Project
SDF           =       Social Development Fund
SOE           =      Statement of Expenditure
TSU                  Technical Support Unit
UPSC                 Uniform Public Support Ceiling
ZFU           =      Zimbabwe Farmers Union
Vice President:       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:      Sushma Ganguly
Task Team Leader:   Jorge A. Mufioz



Zimbabwe
Land Reform Support Project
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective ................................................................                                                                 2..
1. Project development objective ................................................................                                                  2.
2. Key  performance  indicators ................................................................                                                   2..
B  Strategic Context ................................................................                                                                             2...
1. Sector-related Countiy Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........2
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy ...............................................................  3.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................4
C  Project Description Summary ................................................................. S
1. Project components ...............................................................                                                              5...
2. Key  policy  and  institutional reforms  supported  by  the  project .......................................6
3. Benefits and  target population ...............................................................                                                  7..
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ..............................................................7
D  Project Rationale ...............................................................                                                                            12.
1. Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection ............................................. 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....... 12
3. Lessons learned  and  reflected  in  the project design ..................................................... 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership ................................................... 13
5. Value  added  of Bank  support in this project ...............................................................1 .4
E  Summary Project Analysis ...............................................................                                                                    14
1. Economic ...............................................................                                                                      14.
2. Financial ...............................................................                                                                      14.
3. Technical ...............................................................                                                                      15.
4. Institutional ...............................................................                                                                  15.
5. Social ...............................................................                                                                         16.
6. Environmental assessment ...............................................................                                                       17
7. Participatory  approach ...............................................................                                                        17
F Sustainability and Risks ...............................................................                                                                      IS
1. Sustainability ...............................................................                                                                18.
2. Critical Risks ................................................................                                                                  s.
3. Possible  Controversial Aspects ...............................................................                                                19



G Main Credit Conditions ........................                                           l9.
1. Effectiveness Conditions ........................                                19
2. Other ......................... 20.
H  Readiness for Implementation ........................                                    2D
I Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                    20
Annexes
Annex 1.       Project Design Summary
Annex 2.       Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.       Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.       Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.       Financial Summary
Annex 6.       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.       Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.       Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7.       Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.       Documents in Project File
Annex 9.        Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.       Country at a Glance
Map



Zimbabwe
Land Reform Support Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
AFC03
Date: July 16, 1999                                Team Leader: Jorge A. Mufioz
Country Manager/Director: Barbara Kafka            Sector Manager/Director: Sushma Ganguly
Project ID: ZW-PE-63096                            Sector: Agriculture and Rural Development
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Credit, LIC  Theme(s): Land Reform, Agriculture
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [ 3 No
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit       I Grant      [] Guarantee      [  Other [Specify]
For LoanstCredits/Others:
Amount: US S 5.0 million/SDR 3.7 million
Proposed terms:   [] To be defined     [XI Multicurrency      [] Single currency
[] Standard Variable   [  Fixed            [] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):         10 years
Years to maturity:            35
Commitment fee:               0-0.5%
Service charge:               0.75%
Government                                               1.25                               1.25
IDA                                                     4.80              0.20             5.00
Beneficiary Contribution                                 0.75                              0.75
Total:                                                   6.80             0.20              7.00
Borrower: Republic of Zimbabwe
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency (ies): Office of the President and Cabinet
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual       1.5          3.0         0.5
Cumulative       1.5         4.5          5.0
Project implementation period: 2 years
Expected effectiveness date: October 1st, 1999      Expected closing date: September 30, 2001
Implementing agency: Office of the President and Cabinet
Contact person: Frederick T. Chunga
Address: Old Reserve Bank Building, Samora Machel Avenue, Private Bag 7700, Causeway, Harare
Tel: (263-4) 790-727         Fax: (263-4) 790-727          E-mail: ftchungaWgta.gov.zw



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
i1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to initiate on a pilot basis a couple of land reform approaches that
show promise to reduce rural poverty and increase agricultural productivity in the participating farms. The project
would directly benefit an estimated 1,000 poor rumal families from congested communal areas through improved
access to land (on at least 30,000 hectares) and direct paTicipation in complementary commmuity investment
subprojects. The project will be an integral part of the Inception Phase of the Land Reform Progrannme to be carried
out by the Government of Zimbabwe. Also, the project will contribute to the consolidation of the historical
momentum and critical understanding that has emerged recently between government, stakeholders and donors for
implementing a viable land reform program in Zimbabwe. An evaluation of the results of the Inception Phase of the
Land Reform Programme would determine which land reform approaches work best-in terms of speed, cost-
effectiveness, and sustainability-and would recommend whether a larger Bank operation during the Expansion
Phase of the Land Reform Programme is warranted.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The project's key performance indicators are: (i) purchase of land by beneficiary communities with
financing from the Land Acqtusitions Fund (with government counterpart funds) of at least 15,000 hectares and
benefiting approximately 500 poor rural households; (ii) approval of subproject investment proposals and the
commencement of subprojects on those farms for the benefit of the same 500 poor rural households; (iii) approval of
subproject investment proposals and the commencement of the subprojects on an additional 15,000 hectares of land
for the benefit of at least 500 more poor rural households on fanns already acquired by government, or by a third-
party, and transferred to beneficiary communities; and (iv) speed and cost-effectiveness of the different land reform
approaches financed by the project.
1B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16541 - ZIM                       Date of latest CAS discussion: May 22, 1997
The project is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy, both in terms of content and process.
The project directly addresses the challenge of reducing rural poverty, one of the four key elements of the CAS,
through a combination of redistrbuting assets in favor of the poor, strengthening the participation of smallholder
i:armers, building insdituonal capacity at various levels of government and civil society, and fostering increased
dialogue and consuhation among stakeholders on key policy areas.
Moreover, several of the key features recommended by the assistance strategy are an integral part of the
project Fit it is a pilot operation from which important lessons will be learned. The project will also be
instrumental in deciding whether to expand Bank support to the land reformprogram. Second, the project supports
government's efforts to formulate an integrated sector wide strategy for land reform And third, the project will be
implemented in close coordination and synergy with another Bank operation, the Community Action Project (CAP).
(a)    The Community Action Project
The CAP, which became effective in October 1998, is a US$73 million project over five years (US$60
minlion IDA contribution) that has two main objectives. The first is to strengthen the capacity of poor communities
to plan, organize, manage funds, and implement projects responsive to community-diagnosed problems. The second
objective is to strengthen poverty monitoring and analysis through cost-effective means. The project wil operate in
26 poor Rural District Councils (RDC) and will be implemented by the Social Development Fund (SDF) and by the
Department of Labour Research and Statistics, both at the Mnistry of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare
(MPSLSW).
The target groups for CAP are self-identified legitimate local communities or community groups in 26
participating rmal districts which have been selected based on a set of district-level poverty indicators. Priority will



Page 3
be given to communal and land reform settlement areas. Communities will prepare and present project proposals to
their RDC. Priority will be given to sub-project proposals for the rehabilitation of essential community-based social
and economic infrastructure, for natural resource management, training, capacity building, and social mobilization.
A Poverty Alleviation Action Plan (PAAP) Officer at each participating RDC, financed by CAP, will review the
proposal and make his or her recommendation to the District Review Committee (DRC). Sub-project proposals
below US$ 50,000 will be considered for approval at the RDC level, whereas those for more than US$50,000 will be
considered by a national Grants Allocation Committee, a sub-committee of the SDF Advisory Board.
Since the institutional and implementation arrangements-including the financial management, accounting,
procurement, and disbursement arrangements-and the environmental assessment of the CAP have already been
analyzed and agreed upon by the Government of Zimbabwe and the Bank, the Land Reform Support Project will
follow identical or very similar arrangements to those of CAP (see Section C).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Land reform is one of the most important development challenges that Zimbabwe faces today. The
enormous inequality in access to land threatens the social, economic, and political stability of the country. Some
4,500 farms in the large scale commercial farming sector own 11.2 million hectares of generally high quality land,
while around one million communal households (over five million people) live on 16.4 million ha of generally poor
quality land. At the same time, the intensity of land use in large farms is lower than in communal areas, suggesting
that some efficiency gains can be attained by land redistribution.
There is widespread agreement in Zimbabwe that land reform is essential for the country's long-term
development prospects. In November 1997, government announced a list of 1,471 farms that were to be
compulsorily acquired and redistributed. This, combined with sporadic land invasions that have taken place
recently, created a climate of uncertainty in the farming community. The release of a detailed Land Reform and
Resettlement Programme - II proposal in June 1998 sent a clear signal to civil society and the donor community of
the government's intention to move ahead with land reform.
This project emerged as a result of the agreements reached at the September 1998 Donors' Conference
which was organized by the Zimbabwe Government to mobilize support for the second phase of the Land Reform
and Resettlement Programme. The conference agreed to support the second phase of the Programme through a 24-
month Inception Phase. The Inception Phase, through which various donors, including the Bank, may make
contributions to the Programme, seeks to redistribute one million hectares of land to some 118,800 families through
existing and improved government models and complementary and alternative models.
At the September 1998 Donors' Conference, Government also agreed to enrich its program by:
(i)    Integrating it into broader national land and poverty alleviation policies, which include
the introduction of a land tax, streamlining of land subdivision regulations, and
improving land tenure arrangements.
(ii)    Continuous consultations with stakeholders and cooperating partners, as well as learnig
from international experiences.
(iii)   Selecting beneficiaries from among the poor, those in congested communal areas, and
those with farming experience.
(iv)    Addressing gender issues more adequately.
(v)    Taking appropriate steps to ensure greater transparency, fairness, and sustainability.
(vi)   Providing opportunities to test alternative market-assisted and community-initiated
approaches.
(vii)   Continuous monitoring during the Inception Phase and by a thorough evaluation at the
end of it.
In November 1998, govermment issued notices for compulsory acquisition to 841 farns (out of the original
1,471 listed a year earlier) and de-listed the rest. Government received 85 official "no objections" from farners, so
these are classified as "uncontested farms". By the deadline for filing applications, January 4, 1999, Government
filed only 321 cases (out of the 841 which were served notices). On February 8, 1999, the Administrative Court
ruled that it had no constitutional right to extend the deadline for the remaining 520 farms that were filed late. Even



Page 4
the 321 cases that were filed on time did not always follow the required procudures and other legal requirements, so
these cases have not proceeded either. In effect, between September 1998 and the end of March 1999, government
had acquired only 27 farms at fair market value, paid for them in cash, at a cost of some Z$79 million. No title for
contested farms have been transferred. Thus, the Inception Phase will start only with those farms acquired by
government from the uncontested list and fully paid for.
Government remains committed to a multi-faceted land reform that allows complementary approaches to
be tested. Also, government has taken decisive action in controlling the recent wave of illegal farm invasions which
shows its determination to follow due process in the distribution of land.
In April 1999, an Inception Phase Framework Plan was approved by the Government which explicitly
acknowledges the multi-approach nature of the Inception Phase. Consequently, the project will be an integral part of
the Government's policy framework on Land Reform and Resettlement. Waivers will be provided when and
whenever necessary to allow for the implementation of new alternative and complementary approaches. This will
allow Government and its cooperating partners to learn from the process. As such, the project has the potential to
deliver results in the field quickly and gradually remove some of the prevailing uncertainty over the future of the
land reform process in Zimbabwe.
At the end of the Inception Phase, a full evaluation will be made of the speed, cost-effectiveness, and
sustainability of the various approaches tried. This evaluation will constitute the basis for the design of the
Expansion Phase of the Land Reform Programme. The results of this evaluation would also determine whether and
which kind of continued Bank support to land reform in Zimbabwe, through a larger operation, is warranted.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(a)    The imperative to move ahead now and quickly
The challenge of implementing a successful land reform in any country is enormous, even under the most
favorable circumstances. So, why is it imperative to move ahead now, when the country is facing another round of
fiscal adjustments and the details of the Inception Phase are still to be worked out? There are at least six reasons for
providing decisive support to the land reform efforts in Zimbabwe now.
First, in the last few months, enormous momentum has been built and a unique window of opportunity for
attempting meaningful land distribution has opened up that must be seized. The history of land reform around the
world and in this country teaches us that an alignment of social and political forces for action on land reform is a
rare and ephemeral event, arising may be once every generation. With lack of action it can easily fizzle out.
Second, Govemment recognizes the need to implement a successful land reform and is.prepared to learn
from the experiences of others. Consequently, it is willing to consider and test alternative approaches to land reform
that are more decentralized, participatory, transparent, and with private sector involvement, including options based
on direct purchase of land by communities with the aim of increasing opportunities for more people to be settled.
Third, government, civil society, and the international donor community are all aware that a successful land
reform is a sine-qua-non condition for the future social, economic, and political stability of Zimbabwe. Less visibly
perhaps, there is also a recognition that failure to seize this opportunity now can have very high economic and
human costs that will entail severe hardships in the near future for the majority of Zimbabweans, especially the
poorest.
Fourth, the commercial farming community is willing and eager to assist in the implementation of a more
transparent and market-assisted land redistribution effort.
Fifth, while the current high interest rates are painful to everyone, they also provide an opportunity, since
they tend to depress the price of land and increase its offer on the market.
Finally, there is a highly qualified and experienced technical advisory team capable of influencing the
decision-making process and supporting the design, implementation, and evaluation of the entire Land Reform
Programme.



Page 5
In sum, there is a definite opportunity for having a significant impact in shaping the course of land reform
in Zimbabwe. The payoff of a successful land reform is very large indeed. At this juncture, our assessment is that
the potential costs of inaction are considerably higher than the likely losses of an unsuccessful attempt. A small
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) during the Inception Phase is the appropriate instrument for initial Bank
support to the land reform process in Zimbabwe. At the end of the Inception Phase, a thorough evaluation of the
results of the various land reform approaches will be made which will determine the scale and scope of continued
Bank support, if any, to the land reform program.
(b)    The need to provide resources for investments on farms already acquired by government while
allowing alternative approaches to be tested
During the Inception Phase, the project will provide funds directly to beneficiary communities, with the
approval of the respective Rural District Council, that are willing to settle on farms already acquired by government
or a third-party. Proiect resources will be used to cover settlement costs (such as start-up grants to beneficiary
communities to purchase farm implements and other basic necessities for their first agricultural year) and to fnance
sub-projects of social and economic infrastructure. The criteria, procedures, and institutional arrangements for sub-
project review and approval will be very similar to those already agreed upon for the Community Action Project.
At the same time, the project would provide resources for the direct involvement of beneficiary
communities in the identification, negotiation, and purchase of farms under a "community-initiated, market-assisted
approach" (CIMAA). A community of beneficiaries would identify and negotiate the purchase of a farm (or portion
thereof) directly with the owner and present their proposal to the respective Rural District Council. The resources
for land purchase would come from a Land Acquisition Fund funded by government counterpart funds. Settlement
costs and investment projects would be financed following similar procedures to that already agreed upon for the
CAP (see the Project Description Summary below).
(c)    Support for the decentralization process and the implementation capacity of Rural District Councils
and beneficiary communities
The project will complement to the efforts of the CAP in strengthening the capacity of Rural District
Councils to plan, organize, and manage funds, as well as social mobilization of beneficiaries and the capacity of
communitiess to diagnose their own problems, prepare proposals to solve their problems, and implement investment
sub-projects.
(d)    Access to investment funds and initial working capital
The project would allow beneficiary communities to have immediate access to financing for investments to
make their newly acquired farms productive. Matching grants, based on a per beneficiary household ceiling and
requiring in-kind contributions by communities, would be available for infrastructure and productive investments
subprojects (see detailed description in Annex 2).
(e)    Getting results on the ground immediately, piloting, and comprehensive evaluation
The project will allow government to get results on the ground quickly by providing resources to
beneficiary communities who are ready to settle either farms already acquired by government (or through the
assistance of some agent, such as a NGO) or farms which they themselves identify and negotiate. These pilots will
be closely monitored during implementation and thoroughly evaluated at the end of the Inception Phase. The results
of this evaluation would constitute the basis for the design of the Expansion Phase of the land reform program.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Total project cost is US$7.0 million equivalent, of which the Bank (the International Development
Association, IDA) would finance US$5.0 million (71.4%). Government would finance US$1.25 million (for the
land acquisition fund) of total project costs (17.9%) and beneficiary communities would contribute the remaining
US$0.75 million, mostlv in-kind and labor (10.7%). The project would finance two types of settlement approaches:
(i) a communitv-initiated, market-assisted approach and (ii) improved government models or other complementary



Page 6
approaches, where communities get assistance from an agent (e.g., the land has already been acquired by
government or a third-party, such as a NGO). The first component (Land Acquisition Fund for the community-
initiated, market-assisted approach) would be financed with government counterpart funds. These resources would
finance community-initiated land purchases benefiting some 500 poor rural households. The second component
(infrastructure investments for the community-initiated, market-assisted approach) would provide matching grant
funds for technical assistance, settlement costs and on-land investments on farms purchased directly by
communities. The third component would provide matching grants also for settlement costs, technical assistance,
and community investment subprojects of improved goveniment models (i.e.,farms already acquired by
government) or other complementary approaches (i.e., farm has been acquired with the participation of an
independent agent), benefiting an additional 500 poor rural families. Finally, the fourth component would provide
funds for building institutional capacity for the Inception Phase of the program; strengthening the Technical Support
Unit, Rural District Councils and beneficiary communities; providing technical assistance and training; and for
financing project administration, and monitoring and evaluation.
The table below shows the distribution of prqject resources among different project components. The
actual expenditure breakdown by components 2 and 3 will depend on the relative speed of implementation of the
different approaches, provided the key performance indicators noted in Annex 1 are met.
Land Acquisition Fund for the      Physica             1.25       17.8°       O .00      O .0%/
community-initiated, market-       (Land)
assisted approach
Infrastructure Investments for the    Civil works,     2.50       35.70/      2.125     85.0%
community-initiated, market-       goods and
assisted approach                  materials,
services
Infrastructure Investments for     Civil works,        2.50       3570/       2.125     85.0%
improved government models and    goods and
other complementary approaches    materials,
services
Technical Assistance, Institutional   Project          0.75       10.80/      0.75     100.0%
Support, Beneficiary Assessments,   Mgmt,
Project Administration, and        Services,
Monitoring and Evaluation          Other
Total Project Costs                      7.00      100%        5.00       71.4%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will be instrumental in supporting the efforts by government to launch the Inception Phase of
the Land Reform Programme, broaden the range of approaches for implementing a successful land reform, enrich
the ongoing consultative process of land policy formulation, and thoroughly evaluate the results of the program.
Since land redistribution is one of the key policy reforms that government is committed to as part of the
structural adjustment process, the project will facilitate the government's ability to deliver results on this critical
issue. The project will allow govermment to accelerate the land reform process through increased emphasis on
settlement approaches with direct community participation, and by continued consultation with stakeholders on the
broader land policy reform agenda.



Page 7
Similarly, the project will support the government's efforts to strengthen capacity at the Rural District
Council level, improve targeting of resources, and empower rural communities.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits:
An estimated 1,000 poor rural families from congested communal areas would benefit from sustained
increases in income and standard of living. Under the community-initiated, market-assisted approach, between 15
and 20 farns (or portions thereof) would be purchased by some 500 beneficiary households, covering between
15,000 and 20,000 hectares. Social and economic investments would also be supported by the project, allowing
communities to start producing immediately the next season or within one year of settlement in their new farms.
Under improved government models and other complementary approaches, an additional 15 to 20 farms (or portions
thereof), covering between 15,000 and 20,000 hectares, would be distributed to some 500 poor rural households.
Infrastructure investments directly initiated by beneficiary communities would also be financed on these farms.
In addition to these direct poverty alleviation effects, the project would generate economic benefits in the
form of increased agricultural production on previously underutilized lands within the existing agricultural frontier
("efficiency" gains). The project would also contribute to reduced social tension in rural areas and increased
stakeholder credibility in the land reform process, as beneficiary families have quick access to land, and as resou-ces
for infrastructure investments become readily available to them.
Target population:
The project will target poor families from the estimated one million households who live in the congested
communal areas of the country. Beneficiaries will be poor families from over crowded communal areas (either self-
selected or prepared in terms of the current policies and procedures), special groups such as women, ex-combatants,
agricultural graduates and others with proven ability to farm. Under the community-initiated, market-assisted
approach, self-selected beneficiaries will be approved by the respective Rural District Council, following broad
guidelines of eligibihity (to be detailed in the Project Operational Manual, POM). Random audits will be carried out
to ensure that project beneficiaries meet the key eligibility criteria.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: Two years
Executing Agencies:
As a pilot operation, the proposed project will have flexible implementation arrangements to allow for
adjustments to be made in the course of project execution. Government has approved the creation a Technical
Support Unit (TSU) in the Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC) which will be a Secretariat to the Inter-
Ministerial Committee on Resettlement and Rural Development (IMCRD). The IMCRD is composed of
representatives of the OPC (who chairs the Committee); Lands and Agriculture; Local Government and National
Housing; Rural Resources and Water Management; National Affairs, Employment and Cooperatives; Finance;
Mines, Tourism and Environment; Transport and Energy; and the National Economic Planning Commission. The
TSU, through the IMCRD, will be responsible for: (i) the overall management and supervision of the project,
including the approval of the annual operating plans for the project and the respective resource allocations to eacl
RDC, field supervisions, and the installation and operation of a management and information system; (ii) the
carrying out of public information campaigns to disseminate information about the project; (iii) commissioning of
technical studies; (iv) evaluation of the overall impact of the project; and (v) dissemination of experiences gathered
from the project.
At the local level, the project will be imnplemented by beneficiary communities themselves and
coordinated through Rural District Councils (RDC), as provided in the Project Operational Manual (POM).



Page 8
A self-selected rural-based beneficiary community seeking to acquire land with financing from the Land
Acquisitions Fund (government counterpart funds) will: (i) identify the land which it proposes to acquire and (ii)
directly negotiate the acquisition of the land. The beneficiary community will then present its proposal for financing
1.o the RDC in which the land is located for the RDC's approval together with a provisional agreement of sale of
land. The procedures for the approval by the RDC of the agreement of sale of land will be specified in the Project
Operational Manual. Beneficiary communities may seek assistance from a partner (private, NGO or public) in
preparing their proposal, and such assistance will be considered for project financing through the RDC.
The Rural District Council will be responsible for reviewing and approving community proposals for land
acquisition and will confinn that (i) the title to the land is clean, (ii) no other condition threatens the effectiveness of
ihe land acquisition, and (iii) the negotiated price is consistent with market conditions. The RDC may seek the
assistance of the TSU or other specialized assistance to complete this review, if needed, and such assistance could
be considered for financing by the TSU. The specific review and approval procedures will be detailed in the Project
Operational Manual.
Once the land acquisition proposal is approved, beneficiary communities will be granted title to or legal
possesion of the land acquired under the project and will thereafter decide among its members how the land is to be
farmed or subdivided among the individual households of the beneficiary community. In cases where the land has
already been acquired by government (or by a third-party), beneficiary communities will also be granted title to or
legal possession of the land and decide among themselves how to operate or subdivide the farm.
After the transfer of the land has taken place (either through direct purchase by communities or transferred
from government or a third party), beneficiary communities will become eligible to receive funding for social and
economic investment subprojects (on a matching-grant basis), a one-time cash start-up grant, and technical
assistance to establish the land settlement and improve the productivity of the land. Community contributions in
cash, labor or in-kind will constitute the counterpart contribution for these investment subprojects.
The project will finance land reform settlements, up to a total cost of approximately US$ 6,000 per
beneficiary household. There will be three sources of funds for each land reform settlement: government counter-
part funds, proceeds of this IDA credit, and contributions from beneficiary communities. All settlements
considered for financing under the project will be subject to a "Uniform Public Support Ceiling" (UPS C) equivalent
to the sum of government and IDA funds. The details of how the UPSC is determined will be specified in the
Project Operational Manual (see Figure 1).
Figure 1) Sources of Funds for a Land Reform Settlement
(approximate contribution shares)
A   ~~~~~~~~~MGovemment (33%)
* IDA (59%)
O Community Contrib.
V n      _     1 11|1                           (in-kind, labor or cash
=8%)
m K  



Page 9
To qualify for this support, beneficiary communities will be asked to make a contribution (on a matching
grant basis), in-kind, labor, or cash, towards the cost of any infrastructure subprojects financed by the project. The
actual proportion of communal counterpart contribution for different types of investment subprojects will be
specified in the POM. It is estimated that communities will roughly contribute between 12 and 18% of total
subproject costs, which amounts to roughly 8 to 10% of total settlement costs.
The actual distribution of resources among different settlement components (land, technical assistance,
cash start-up grant and infrastructure investments) will vary from settlement to settlement. Figure 2) shows an
example of how project resources could be distributed among different components of a particular settlement. First,
the cost of land will probably represent about one third of total cost of the settlement (some US$2,000 per
household).
Second, it is proposed that communities spend no more than 8% of total settlement costs (about US$480
per household) in technical assistance. Third, immediately upon settlement, beneficiary communities will receive a
one-time cash start-up grant (of approximately US$520 per beneficiary household) to assist them during their first
vear on the farm. Thev will be free to decide how to use these resources (e.g., farm implements, housing, basic
necessities, small infrastructure investments). And fourth, communities will present an application to the Rural
District Council for funds to carry-out one or several infrastructure investment subprojects which, depending on
how much is spent on the other three categories (especiallv in acquiring the land), will be roughly equivalent to half
of the total cost of the settlement, or some US$3,000 per beneficiary household.
The size of the start-up grant will be fixed for all settlements (to be specified in the Project Operational
Manual). The share of technical assistance will vary depending on how much of it communities request (up to a
limit of some 8% of total costs). The greatest trade-off will occur between the value of the land (estimated to be
between US$40 and US$60 per hectarel and the amount spent on infrastructure investments. So, the use of the
uniform public support ceiling will necessarily mean that for farms that are fairly expensive (as a result of high per
hectare cost, with good infrastructure, and/or the farm to be settled is big), fewer resources would be available for
additional infrastructure investments. And vice-versa, for relatively inexpensive farms, more funds would be
available for on-land investments.
Figure 2) Uses of Funds in a Land Reform Settlement
(approximate shares)
M Land (33%)
U Technical Assistance
~~~              0~~1 Start-up Grant (9%)
0 Infrastructure
Investment
Subprojects (50%)
' Land prices in Zimbabwe are falling, so during project implementation the actual costs of land refonn settlements
may be lower and the number of beneficiaries higher.



Page 10
Each participating RDC will sign a RDC Participation Agreement that (i) provides for the terms and
conditions governing the disbursement of funds under the project to beneficiary communities: (ii) sets out the
eligibility criteria for the RDC to receive the Administration Grant.
Similarly, the RDC will sign with each beneficiary community a Subproject Agreement for the
implementation of every subproject proposal presented. This latter agreement will spell out the conditions for
receiving investment grants (e.g., disbursement schedule) and the responsibilities of the community in implementing
the subproject (e.g., counterpart contributions). Samples of these agreements will be included in the Project
Operational Manual.
Rural District Councils will approve subproject proposals (up to US$50,000) based on standardized
technical, economic, environmental, and institutional parameters which will be detailed in the Project Operational
Manual. Community investment subprojects above US$50,000 will be approved by the IMCRD, based on the
recommendations of the TSU. Once the land purchase and complementary investment subproject proposals have
been approved, the RDC would instruct the Project Financial Institution (PFI) to disburse funds.
The fmancial institution would draw funds from aProject Account (100% financed with proceeds of the
IDA Credit) to disburse the cash start-up grants (in one lump-sum) directly to the beneficiary community account.
Once in the beneficiary community account, the start-up grant will allow the community, either through subsequent
individual allocations to its members, communal expenses or a combination thereof, to purchase the necessary farm
implements and inputs to start working on the land immediately after settlement, cover some of the initial costs of
getting settled, contract out technical assistance, and/or initiate infrastructure investments.
Also under the instruction of the RDC (for subprojects up to US$50,000), the financial institution would
draw funds from the Project Account to disburse (in tranches) directly to the beneficiary community account the
grants for infrastructure investment subprojects, according to the terms outlined in the Subproject Agreement.
Communities would then utilize these funds for directly procuring materials, seeking technical assistance, and
contracting out private or public agents for the implementation of infrastructure investments. The procedures on
how funds will be transferred to communities and how subprojects will be implemented are detailed in the Project
Operational Manual.
The PFI will be a local commercial bank with a network of branches throughout the country and will be
responsible for managing the project resources and for providing management information. The Office of the
President and Cabinet (Minister without Portfolio) will enter into a Management Agreement with the PFI. (The
detailed financial management arrangements are contained in the Project Operational Manual).
Project Coordination:
The overall management and supervision of project components will be the responsibility of the Technical
Support Unit, through the IMCRD. For these functions, a project manager, a financial analyst, and other staff (e.g.,
procurement specialist, monitoring and evaluation specialist) will be recruited by the TSU to manage this project.
At the district level, a subcommittee of the RDC will appraise and approve community land acquisitions
and community investment subprojects. In the case of RDCs where the Community Action Project operates, this
subcommittee will be the District Review Committee (DRC) and will be supported by the Poverty Alleviation
Action Plan (PAAP) Officer and the Natural Resource Officer. In other districts, a similar subcommittee and
technical officer would be created following the same criteria of the CAP. To ensure effective participation of
women in the settlement process, the Project Operational Manual will specify how many women will be members of
these subproject review committees.
RDCs will also be responsible for the fonnulation of strategies to extend community mobilization to
communities lacking in organization and not initially in a position to benefit from the project, and for making
requests to the TSU for the funding and support of such extension strategies.



Page I 1
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements:
As a condition of Credit effectiveness, Govermment, assisted by the PFI, will have established financial
management and accounting systems (including a management and information system, MIS) satisfactory to the
Bank. In designing the systems, the PFI will provide for enhancement needed to comply with IDA's Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI) after the first year of project implementation.
To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures, the government will open a Special Account in a
commercial bank to cover part of IDA's share of eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by the TSU.
Authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$500,000 equivalent. The government will maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources, and expenditures of the project. The project's records and accounts, including those of the
Special Account, will be audited annually according to International Standards of Auditing by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. Cerfified copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors' reports would be sent to IDA within
three months of the end of each period audited. The audit reports would include the auditor's opinion and comment
as necessary on the methodology employed in the compilation of the Statements of Expenses (SOEs), their
accuracy, the relevance of the supporting documents, eligibility for financing terms of the project's legal agreements
and standards of record keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. With respect to the withdrawals on
the basis of SOEs, such audits would contain a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs, together with the
procedures involved in their preparation, support the related withdrawals.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Prior to Credit effectiveness, a Management and Information System (MIS) will be established to track the
physical and financial progress of project activities. The MIS data base will be organized in three modules: (i) a
subproject informnation module, which will contain pertinent physical and fmancial information for each subproject,
(ii) a financial management module, from which Statements of Expenditure will be generated; and (iii) a project
management module, from which all project reports will be generated. Initially, the PFI will be responsible for
operating the MIS and would report and transfer the information to the TSU. During the first 12 months of the
project, RDCs would be gradually trained in operating district-level MIS, from which infornation would be reported
to the PFI and TSU.
With infonrnation from the MIS, combined with field visits and inputs from project supervision reports,
project contracted studies and audits, the TSU will monitor project characteristics and trends, identify
implementation problems and accomplishments, and undertake or promote appropriate actions to improve project
implementation. An independent subcontractor, hired by the TSU, would undertake comprehensive impact
evaluation of the project, drawing comparisons between the different land reform approaches being piloted in the
country during the Inception Phase of the Land Reform Programme.
The key criteria for evaluating the relative success of different approaches at the end of the project (two
years) will be speed of settlement and cost-effectiveness of the approach. Another important indicator of the relative
success of different settlement approaches will be how much the total value of the settlement (i.e., the size of the
"pie" in Figures 1 and 2) on a per household basis grows over time and how it gets financed. In particular, it will be
important to evaluate the share of beneficiary contribution to "pie" growth in Figure 1). Increases in the value of the
settlement will essentially come as a result of: (i) infrastructure investments, (iu) beneficiary contributions
(essentially in local materials, labor, and repayment of the loan), and (iii) higher land valuation as a result of
successful farming. The use of case studies will be a preferred methodology for evaluating the results of different
land reform approaches.
Overall progress of the project will be measured against a list of key indicators or tentative targets, which
are included in the Project Design Summary (Annex 1) and the Project Operational Manual. The monitoring and
evaluation of some of those indicators will be conducted through specific surveys and beneficiary assessments.



Page 12
Reporting:
Government will prepare semi-annual progress and financial reports as the main tools for monitoring the
progress of the project. The essential components of the reports will be: (i) progress with reference to the Annual
Operating Plan and Budget; (ii) summary of progress of subprojects under preparation since the previous report; (iii)
summary of subprojects under implementation (physical and financial indicators); (iv) summary of subprojects
completed; and (v) financial and administration reports. At the end of the first year, government and the Bank will
carry out a joint mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the project. The review will cover, among
other things, (i) progress made in meeting the project's objectives and (ii) the performancce of the project's
execution agencies in their respective obligations under the project.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
There are two relevant alternatives to this project: (a) to prepare a larger land reform supportproject, or
(b) to operate within the existing land reform institutional framework (or wait until govemment overhauls it
entirely).
(a)    Over the last few months several political and economic circumstances (political momentum and national
consensus, willingness of large commercial farmers to actively participate, economic conditions that are keeping
land prices low, etc.) have created a window of opportunity for implementing a more transparent, beneficiary-led,
and expedient land reform process. However, if the opportunity is not seized now, the favorable conditions may
quickly disappear. The primary objective of a Learning and Innovation Loan is to get some pilots started, support
government efforts to improve its own models, and, based on the lessons learned during the two-year Inception
Phase, prepare a larger Bank operation to be implemented during the Expansion Phase.
(b)    The current institutional framework for land reform, originally created to redistribute land following a
compulsory acquisition modality is very cumbersome and slow. In this respect, it is advisable to immediately
implement some pilots (with considerably simplified institutional and implementation arrangements) that show
results on the ground, continue to support the ongoing process of consultations for institutional and implementation
reform, and rigorously evaluate the results of the Inception Phase in order to prepare a larger operation for the
future,
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed:
Community empowerment                 Community Action         S (effective in     S (effective in
Project (CAP)           October, 1998)      October, 1998)
Local government strengthening        Rural District Council           S                  S
Pilot Capital Develop.
Project (RDCPCDP)
Agricultural Services
Agriculture and rural development     and Management           S (effective in     S (effective in
Project (ASMP)          December, 1998)   December, 1998)
1P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory) HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The international experience on unsuccessful land reform programs is quite large. Some of the important
lessons leamed from these experiences include:
* Land reform is a highly political issue. Therefore, the govemment's willingness and commitment to
the process is a fundamental condition for success.
*  Central govemment identification of targeted lands, as well as expropriation and land acquisition
directly by government, tend to create legal disputes, delays, high administrative costs, and they often
breed corruption.
* It is much better to involve beneficiaries from the outset in a process of voluntary transactions with
landowners.
* Centralized administrative designation of program beneficiaries is not very effective. Direct
corrmunity participation in the selection of beneficiaries is to be preferred.
The evaluations and ongoing supervision of the Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project in
Brazil (4147-BR) have yielded the following lessons so far:
* A market-assisted approach to land distribution is considerably more expedient and less costly than the
traditional administratively-led process. For example, in that project the process of land acquisition, from
identification of lands to purchase, typically has taken less than 90 days. On average, the actual total cost of
land redistribution (including the land acquisition price, litigation, administrative, and other costs) of the
traditional approach is close to three and half times that of a market-assisted approach.
- So far, communities have consistently chosen good quality land at costs that represent savings of 40% or more
relative to traditional land reform and without upward pressure on land prices.
- Self-selection of project participation has proven effective in pinpointing the landless rural poor; the vast
majority of beneficiaries have household incomes and characteristics consistent with the target population.
*  Streamlined approval of complementary investment subprojects, such that funds are immediately deposited with
the beneficiary community and disbursed once a subproject proposal is presented and approved, eliminates
unnecessary delays.
The institutional and implementation arrangements, monitoring and evaluation, financial reporting, and
auditing arrangements for this project will rely significantly on the agreements already reached between the
Government of Zimbabwe and IDA for the Community Action Project (CAP).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
* At the International Donors' Conference in September 1998, government agreed with donors that the land
reform program would start with an Inception Phase which would allow several different approaches to be
tested.
* During November and December, 1998 government took decisive actions to control a recent wave of illegal
farm invasions, thus reassuring donors of its commitment to an orderly land reform process.
* In December 1998, Government also increased its budgetary allocation for land reform for 1999 to Zim$425
million (approximately US$11 million).
*  In early February 1999, Government issued a statement reaffirming its commitment to the letter and spirit of the
agreements reached at the International Donors' Conference and informed stakeholders that Cabinet had
approved the creation of the Technical Support Unit to facilitate the implementation of the Inception Phase of
the Land Reform program.
* Finally, in April 1999, Government approved the Inception Phase Framework Plan that constitutes the official
Govemment Land Reform and Resettlement Programme and explicitly acknowledges the role of the land
reform approaches supported by this project. This, the project is an integral part of the Inception Phase of the
Land Reform Programme.



Page 14
:5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
With this project, the Bank would be the first donor to directly support land reform settlements during the
'inception Phase of the Land Reform Program in Zimbabwe. The Bank's early participation in this process would
make available valuable international experience of past and ongoing programs on land reform, and would ensure
the highest international quality standards of monitoring and impact evaluation of the Inception Phase of the
program. The Bank is also very activelv involved in strengthening the decentralization process in Zimbabwe,
promoting community-based land and natural resources management and supporting the commercialization of
agricultural services provision.
E: Summary Project Analysis:
t. Economic: (see Annex 4)
[N/A] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV =N/A; ERR= N/A
[N/A3 Cost Effectiveness Analysis
Given the pilot nature of the proposed project and the fact that we cannot know ex-ante which types of
-farming models will be supported by the project, a detailed economic analysis is not feasible at this stage. Instead,
as part of project monitoring, farm-level data will be collected and analyzed. One of the key criteria for evaluating
success of different settlement approaches will be the economic return of the farming activities initiated by
beneficiaries. For this purpose, household surveys will be carried out at the beginning, during, and after the project.
Nevertheless, the settlement models proposed by the government team that prepared the Land Reform and
.Resettlement Progranmne-Phase II project document in September 1998, estimated that the Internal Rates of Retum
JRR) of four different settlement models ranged from 22% to 50%, with an overall IRR for the proposed
programme of 40%. Since the total settlement costs of the proposed project are estimated to be between 31% and
44% lower than the government models (see next section) and they are likely to be implemented more expediently,
it is expected that the economic returns of the proposed project will be higher.
Different farm models for a similar community-initiated land reform process, albeit under considerably
different economic and agronomic circumstances, in Brazil yielded internal economic rates of return ranging from
26% to 75%. One key feature that yields higher net economic benefits of the proposed approach, compared to the
traditional government models, is the speed of settlement and delivery of social and economic infrastructure which,
in turn, induces beneficiaries to start producing on the land considerably sooner than under centralized approaches.
Similarly, given the wide range of probable community subprojects, it is difficult to quantify the net
'benefits of the proposed project. Nevertheless, the project is expected to yield the following economic benefits:
*  Increased household incomes of participating households arising from increased agricultural production
I Improved standards of living in beneficiary areas as a result of investments in social and economic
infrastructure
Enhanced community organizational capacity to undertake future commrunity-prioritized projects
Increased institutional capacity of Rural District Councils to review and evaluate social and economic
infrastructure projects, apply environmental screening procedures, and carry out procurement of contracts
* Increased sustainability of communal assets, as beneficiaries will directly participate in the design and
implementation of investment subprojects.
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)
Communities will be required to contribute a share of individual subproject costs (equivalent to between 10
and 15% of total subproject costs). When appropriate, as a condition for subproject approval, beneficiary
communities will also submit a simple plan for maintenance of the completed asset. The plan would show



Page 1 5
responsibilities and also any financial or in-kind contributions to be made by participating members or users. As
such, it is expected that: (i) the productive life of the commnunal asset financed by the project would be longer than
in a non-participatory approach; (ii) the recurrent cost burden on govemment (local or central) would be lower than
in the non-participatory case; and (iii) in combination with the uniform subsidy ceiling tied to a partial loan
obligation (to be administered by the financial institution), this approach would encourage communities to plan
carefully the productive assets that would ensure the financial viability of their investments and the individual
contributions that each participating household would need to make.
Fiscal impact:
The project would require govemment to alocate US$1.25 million equivalent to a Land Acquisition Fund
for land purchases directly by beneficiary communities under the project.
It is not expected that there will be any significant incremental recurrent cost burden on govemment. The
functioning of the Technical Support Unit is expected to be financed by four bilateral donors. The latest cost
estimates for settlement models implemented by govermnent range between US$10,144 and US$12,680 per
beneficiary household, out of which some 36% is supposed to be financed by government, 61% is requested from
donors, and 3% is supposed to be contributed by beneficiaries. The proposed project is expected to reduce the total
per-beneficiary cost by between 31% and 45%. If the project were to benefit 1,000 families (as proposed), the
expected budgetary savings would be between US$1.9 million and US$4.4 million over two years. Actual savings
may be higher if the speed of service and infrastructure delivery under the project's approaches is higher than under
the government's traditional approach. Physical and financial performance indicators will be used to evaluate the
speed and cost-effectiveness of different land reform approaches and to decide how the Expansion Phase of the Land
Reform Programme should be implemented.
3. Technical:
Most of the technical features of the proposed project have been adapted from the Community Action
Project (CAP) in Zimbabwe, and are therefore considered technically sound. The project's technical design is based
on the use of simple, appropriate, and enviromnentally sound technologies, corresponding to the needs and
capabilities (for construction, as well as operation and maintenance) of the population. The design and standards of
community subprojects, to be detailed in the Project Operational Manual, will be based on the norms and standards
of the appropriate technical ministries and consistent with the new Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) policy
of Zimbabwe.
Labor intensive work will be preferred whenever proven as technically and economically efficient and
insofar as it generates employment opportunities. Innovations in technical designs of subprojects will be
encouraged during the learning and innovation period of the land reform process. Investment costs for subproj ects
will be based on prevailing market unit costs, with appropriate allowance for inflation, and, whenever applicable, a
reasonable level of physical contingencies.
Communities may choose to allocate up to 8% of total settlement cost for technical assistance (as part of
the overall uniform public support ceiling) in the preparation and implementation of investment subprojects,
including community development training, organization and social capital formation, management of natural
resources, and farming practices.
4. Institutional:
(a) Executing agencies:
A specialized Technical Support Unit, as a technical Secretariat to the Inter-Ministerial Committee on
Resettlement and Rural Development, will be created to facilitate the implementation of the Inception Phase of the
Land Reform Program. The TSU, through the IMCRD, will be responsible for the overall management and
supervision of the project, including the approval of the annual operating plans for the project and the respective
resource allocations to participating RDCs, field supervisions, and the installation and operation of a management
and information system. It will also carry out public information campaigns about the project, commission technical
studies, and disseminate the evaluation and results of the project.



Page 16
Conimunity subprojects will be coordinated at the district level via the Rural District Councils and, as such.
the project will be fully compatible with the implementation of the Community Action Project and with the
Govemment's decentralization policy. The proposed project will provide some resources to strengthen the
institutional capacity of participating RDCs, in the areas of financial management, environmental screening and
impact assessment, procurement, and subproject monitoring. Every RDC has a Natural Resources Officer trained by
the Ministry of Mines, the Environment, and Tourism (MMET) who would be responsible for carrying out the
environmental impact assessment of individual community subprojects. In addition, the 26 RDC that participate in
the Community Action Project will have a Poverty Alleviation Plan (PAAP) Officer who will organize workshops at
the district level to promote community organization and lay out procedures for participating in CAP activities.
They will receive training in various aspects of community subproject preparation, appraisal, and beneficiary
assessment. Whenever applicable, they could operate as the main liaison for land reform activities in the district.
(b) Project management:
The Technical Support Unit would be responsible for monitoring the replenishments to the Special
Account, transfering project resources to beneficiary communities and participating RDCs, and consolidating the
financial and physical indicators of project performance through a Management Infonnation System (MIS). A
project manager, a financial specialist, and other staff (e.g., procurement specialist and monitoring and evaluation
specialist) would be recruited by the TSU. The project would also provide resources for contracting out training,
dissemination activities, various monitoring functions of the project, and its impact evaluation. Additional resources
would be available for contracting out specialized technical assistance (e.g., certain environmental impact
assessments, subproject technical and/or economic appraisal, baseline household surveys and studies, procurement
training), both at the TSU and RDC levels, as well as for specific land-related studies of relevance for the overall
Inception Phase of the land reform program.
The establishment of a financial management and accounting systems, including a Management
Information System, acceptable to IDA, is a condition of credit effectiveness.
5. Social:
The pro.ject will target poor families from the estimated one million households who live in the congested
communal areas of the country. Beneficiaries will be poor families from over crowded communal areas (either self-
selected or prepared in terms of the current policies and procedures), special groups such as women, ex-combatants,
agricultural graduates and others with proven ability to farm. Under the community-initiated, market-assisted
approach, self-selected beneficiaries will be approved by the respective Rural District Council, following broad
guidelines of eligibility (to be detailed in the Project Operational Manual, POM). Random audits will be carried out
to ensure that project beneficiaries meet the key eligibility criteria agreed to at the donors conference (i.e., poor
landless or land-scarce families with proven aptitude for farming). Furthermore, through a decentralized and
transparent process of subproject approval, Rural District Councils and other local organizations would have full
access to information about the project's impact in a particular region. While subproject approval would initially be
on a first-come first-served basis (both between and within RDCs), a more systematic selection process would be
put in place after the first year, by either the TSU or the respective RDC, if demand exceeds available resources.
Project supervision missions would pay particular attention to this kind of innovations.
It is expected that most beneficiaries would settle on lands that are located close to the communal area
where they come from. In addition, since beneficiaries either will be selected by their communal leaders or self-
select themselves, they are likely to retain the cohesive social community structure that is so prevalent in rural
Zimbabwe.
The full participation of women in the land reform process generally, and in project activities in particular,
is essential to achieve the poverty-alleviation objectives of the project. At the national level, the project will provide
resources for increased policy dialogue that addresses gender issues. At the RDC level, it is proposed that a
minimum number of women are active participants in the district review committees. At the community level, the
project will support subprojects which foster maternal/child health and day care facilities, will provide resources for
technical assistance for women's subproject proposals and implementation, and will monitor women's participation
in the project and its benefits. One important indicator in the evaluation of different land reform approaches at the
end of the Inception Phase will be the effective participation of women at different stages of the settlement process.



Page 17
Gender-related lessons learned during the Inception Phase would be an integral part of the design of the larger
operation for the Expansion Phase.
6. Environmental assessment:          Environmental Category   [ ] A    [X] B    [ ] C
The implementation of the project is not expected to result in major adverse environmental impacts.
Instead, the project is likely to improve environmental conditions as communities move from congested areas to
better commercial farming areas. Because of the small-scale and simplicity of design of the majority of community
subprojects, except perhaps for irrigation, they would not have a significant effect on the environment.
Nevertheless, the project would ensure proper environmental screening, review and enforcement measures to
prevent certain types of productive or infrastructure subprojects from producing negative environmental effects.
Prior to effectiveness, the Ministry of Mines, the Environment and Tourism will approve an Environmental
Analysis (EA), satisfactory to IDA, based on a comprehensive environmental analysis already carried out for the
Community Action Project. The EA will identify and assess potential environmental impacts, institutional capacity
needs, legal framework, and environmental performance indicators.
The Project Operational Manual, also to be approved by IDA as a condition of project effectiveness, would
explicitly exclude the purchase or settlement of protected lands or areas with primary forest. All land purchases or
settlements would be approved by the respective Rural District Council, which would declare ineligible for
financing under the project any proposals that contain such lands.
The Project Operational Manual would also clearly specifv key environmental screening and enforcement
procedures to be followed (based on simple "checklists"). Proper environmental screening at the subproject
approval stage will be the responsibility of Rural District Councils (RDC) which will review the standard
documentation on environmental aspects submitted by each subproject proposal. The specific environmental
criteria for different subproject types will be incorporated in the Project Operational Manual.
7. Participatory approach:
In addition to advancing the Bank's work in the areas of community participation and collaboration with
NGOs and civil society organizations in Zimbabwe, the project's decision-making processes are expected to
contribute towards strengthening the capacity of existing structures within local govemment and the traditional
village system to serve as effective mechanisms for active participation by marginalized groups (women, landless,
youth).
Identification/Preparation    Implementation  Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups - land purchase       COL                   COL              COL
and complementary investment subprojects will
be identified and carried out by communities.
Intermediarv NGOs - may provide technical        IS, CON,COL           IS, CON, COL    IS, CON, COL
assistance, and/or facilitate information
dissemination about the project to beneficiary
communities
Local government - will directly participate in the  IS, CON, COL      IS, CON, COL    IS, CON, COL
planning of project activities, technical assistance
and review of communitv subproject
implementation
[information sharing (IS); consultation (CON); and collaboration(COL)]



Page 18
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of the LIL's community subprojects is ensured by:
*  high degree of community participation in identification, preparation, contracting, implementing, and
supervising subprojects;
*  ownership by beneficiaries as evidenced by cash or in-kind contributions;
*  a menu of technical design prototypes appropriate to local conditions which would be made available to
participating communities, particularly for roads and rural water supply subprojects;
*  appraisal criteria which would require presentation of an operation and maintenance plan;
*  training provided to local communities on how to operate and maintain facilities;
*  involvement of local NGOs and other stakeholders; and
*  incentives for self-selection of suitable beneficiaries include the requirement to assume a loan for part of the
benefits they receive.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Project Outputs to Objective
Deterioration of macroeconomic situation      High            Government is engaged in dialogue
with the IMF on a stand-by facility and
the World Bank on balance of
payments support, both contingent on
progress on the land reform process
Government has also established a
dialogue with civil society, labor
groups and employers, through the
National Economic Consultative
Forum, on various aspects of economic
and social policy
Escalating rural violence and inability or    Modest          Government has recently taken decisive
unwillingness of government to control it                     action to control illegal invasion of
fanns and it recognizes that such
measures are essential for the success of
the land reform process (and continued
donor support)
Pressure for government to acquire farms with  Low            The Commercial Farners Union
promises to pay in the future                                  (CFU), which represents those most
likely to be adversely affected by land
reformn, recently issued a statement that
expresses their optimism about the
government's commitment to an
orderly and law-abiding land reform
process. They also called on
international donors to support the
Inception Phase of the process.



Page 19
From Components to Outputs
Failure of demand or implementation capacity   Modest       The project provides resources for
by communities                                              public information dissemination
campaigns
The benefits package under a uniform
public support ceiling is very attractive
to target communities
Beneficiary-initiated approaches
provide greater assurances to
communities that resources for
investment subprojects would be
readily available
Availability of technical assistance for
land purchase negotiations and design
and implementation of community
subprojects
Limited implementation capacity by Rural     Modest          Many of the participating RDCs would
District Councils                                            also benefit from the implementation of
the CAP, which provides resources for
capacity building at the local level
The project would provide similar
training and resources for RDCs not
included in the CAP
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Given the voluntary nature of the proposed approaches, the project is not expected to engender resistance
from either large-scale commercial fanners or potential beneficiaries. Govemment is commited to implementation
of a wide range of land reform approaches, as reflected in the recently approved Inception Phase Framework Plan.
Other donors are also supportive of the approaches to be financed by the project. Several bilateral donors have
already agreed to provide funding, under the auspices of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for
the Technical Support Unit, and others have already sent appraisal missions to the country and define their level of
support.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
a) Establishment of the land acquisition fund by government and initial deposit US$750,000 equivalent
in the appropriate account at a financial institution acceptable to IDA;
b) Establishment by government of the TSU with financial management and accounting systems,
including a Management and Information System (MIS), acceptable to IDA.
c) Opening of the PFI Account;
d) RDC Participation Agreements have been duly executed by the government with at least three RDCs;
e) The Project Operational Manual, acceptable to IDA, has been formally approved by government;
f) The Ministry of Mines, the Environment and Tourism has approved an Environmental Analysis of the
project acceptable to IDA.



Page 20
2. Other: (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
None.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[ -1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[X] 1. b) Not applicable.
[ J 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] 3. A draft Environmental Analysis, largely based on the one already approved for the Community
Action Project, was prepared prior to negotiations and is being reviewed by the Ministry of Mines, the
Environment and Tourism.
[X] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under credit conditions (Section G):
e The Project Operational Manual is being prepared by government with the assistance of a Bank team.
*  RDC Participation Agreements and sample Subproject Implementation Agreements are being
prepared as part of the Project Operational Manual.
e  The Environmental Analysis for the project is being finalized by the Ministry of Mines, the
Environment and Tourism.
-  The invitations to fill the key positions at the Technical Support Unit have already been issued since
their financing has already been confirmed.
-: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: Jorge A. Munoz
Sector Manager: Sushma Ganguly
Country Director: Barbara Kakfa



Annex 1:
Zimbabwe: Land Reform Support Project
Project Design Summary
~Herrc                           n~irIca        iAoftoin  nd'Evaluation  C.'ritia *5sumjtions
Sector-related CAS Goal:
To launch a viable land   Reduction of social tension   Comparison of number of    Macroeconomic stability is
reform program aimed at    in rural areas as a result of   settlements and beneficiaTr  preserved
alleviating rural poverty and  increased credibility of land  households before and after
empowering local          reform process            the project                Land Reform Programme
communities                                                                    proceeds without m.ajor
Increased incomes of      Comparison of household    disruptions. farm invasions
participating land reform  survey data on rural poverty, or rural violence
beneficiary households    linked to CAP poverty
monitoring efforts        CAP poverty monitoring
Reduced congestion in                                indicators are collected for
communal areas                                       participating communal
areas
A number of different land
reform pilots started



Project Development Objective:
1. Increase in incomes of    I. (i) Incomes of      Project monitoring        Technical Support Unit
rural poor through improved  participating rural    contracted out by Technical  becomes an effective agency
access to land and direct  households compared with   Support Unit            for coordinating and
participation in communal   pre-project income levels                         evaluating Inception Phase
investment projects       and control groups        Baseline studies and      of Land Reform Programme
(ii) Effective participation    beneficiary assessments
by women in different     carried out at appropriate    An effective project
stages of settlement process  times                 launching workshop is
carried out that informs all
2. Increase in agricultural    2. (i) Intensity of land use,   A full evaluation of  key stakeholders about the
productivity on participating  crop yields, and net  Inception Phase (to be   features of the project
farms                     economic benefits compared  subcontracted by the TSU)
with congested communal   would determine which land  Govemment enables
areas and pre-reform      reform approaches are the    beneficiary communities to
commercial farms          most expedient, cost-     directly identify, procure,
(ii) Community investment  effective, and sustainable    and implement community
subprojects meet          (economic, social, and    infrastructure investments
environmental screening   environmentally), and
criteria                  would recommend how       Government provides
(iii) Start-up grants are  these should constitute the   sufficient resources for land
effective in getting farrning   basis of the Expansion  acquisition under the
activities started        Phase of the Land Reform    community-initiated,
immediately after settlement Programme              market-assisted approach
3. Initiate land reform pilots  3. and 4. Speed of                            Continued Government
with direct community     community-initiated,                                support for piloting
participation in the land  market-assisted approach                           complementary approaches
acquisition process       compared with other
("community-initiated,    approaches, including those                         Continued willingness of
market-assisted approach")  where land has already been                       commercial fanning sector
acquired by govemment                               to cooperate with land
reform efforts
4. Expedite the settlement   3. and 4. Cost-effectiveness
process on farms already  of community-initiated,                             Reasonable implementation
acquirecl by Govemment    market-assisted approach                            capacity by RDC to review
and other complementary    compared with other                                and approve community-
approaches (e.g., sponsored  approaches, including those                      initiated subproject
by a NGO)                 where land has already been                         proposals (technical,
acquired by govemment                               environmental, procurement
and monitoring)



Output from each component:
1. Land Acquisition Fund    1. Between 15 and 20 farms  Project Monitoring and  l(i) Availability of farms
for community-initiated,  (or portions thereof)      Evaluation to be          for sale in the market
market-assisted approach    purchased, totaling between  subcontracted by Technical  (ii) Sufficient interest by
15,000 and 20,000 hectares,  Support Unit within context  beneficiary communities to
for the benefit of some 500   of full evaluation of the  engage in direct
poor rural households from   Inception Phase of Land  identification, negotiation.
congested communal areas   Reform Programme          and purchase of farms
(iii) Effective functioning of
Management Information    project implementation
System in place at TSU    mechanisms, especially at
the Rural District Council
RDCs are gradually        level
incorporated into the
computerized MIS
Lessons learned are       2. and 3. (i) Sufficient
2. Infrastructure Investments 2. Infrastructure investments systematically used to make  interest by beneficiary
for community-initiated,  are approved and initiated    adjustments in project  communities to identify,
market-assisted approach    on between 15 and 20     implementation            procure, and implement
farms, totaling between                              community infrastructure
15,000 and 20,000 hectares,  Lessons learned constitute   investments
for the benefit of some 500  the basis for Impact    (ii) Effective functioning of
poor rural households from    Evaluation and for the  project implementation
congested communal areas   design of the follow-on   mechanisms, especially at
larger Bank operation     the Rural District Council
3. Infrastructure Investments 3. Infrastructure investments                    level
for other approaches,     are approved and initiated
including farms already   on between 15 and 20
acquired by govemment     farms, totaling between
15,000 and 20,000 hectares,
for the benefit of some 500
poor rural households from
congested communal areas
4. Baseline studies and
4. Technical Assistance,  4. Baseline studies and                              beneficiary assessments
Institutional Strengthening,  beneficiary assessments                          carried out on time
Project Administration,   contracted out on time
Monitoring and Evaluation                                                      Impact evaluation effort
Impact evaluation                                    launched early on
contracted out on time
Implementation of study
Contracting and delivery of                          recommendations and
agreed technical assistance                         technical assistance
and studies



Annex 2:
Zimbabwe: Land Reform Support Project
Detailed Project Description
Project Component 1: Land Acquisition Fund for a Community-initiated, Market-Assisted Approach -
US$1.25 million (total cost plus contingencies)
As a pilot operation, the proposed project will have flexible implementation arrangements to allow for
adjustments to be made in the course of project execution. Government has approved the creation a Technical
Support Unit (TSU) in the Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC) which will be a Secretariat to the Inter-
Ministerial Committee on Resettlement and Rural Development (IMCRD). The TSU, through the IMCRD.
will be responsible for: (i) the overall management and supervision of the project, including the approval of the
annual operating plans for the project and the respective resource allocations to each RDC, field supervisions, and
the installation and operation of a management and information system; (ii) the carrying out of public information
campaigns to disseminate information about the project; (iii) commissioning of technical studies; (iv) evaluation
of the overall impact of the project; and (v) dissemination of experiences gathered from the project.
At the local level, the project will be implemented by beneficiary communities themselves and
coordinated through Rural District Councils (RDC), as provided in the Project Operational Manual (POM).
Under this component, self-identified communities or community groups of poor rural households
("beneficiaries") would purchase farms (or a portion of a farm) with resources from a land acquisition fund
(financed by the Government of Zimbabwe), which constitutes counterpart funding for the other IDA-financed
project components. The total cost of this component is estimated at US$1.25 million which would the purchase
of between 15,000 and 20,000 hectares of farmland (costing between US$40 and US$60 per hectare), benefiting
some 500 households. The component would be implemented as follows:
Rural-based community groups, either from the existing lists of land reform beneficiaries from congested
communal areas or any other group of rural households which meets the basic eligibility criteria (poor land-scarce
households with proven farming experience), seeking to acquire land with financing from the Land Acquisitions
Fund (government counterpart funds) will: (i) identify the land which it proposes to acquire and (ii) directly
negotiate the acquisition of the land. The beneficiary community will then present its proposal for financing to
the RDC in which the land is located for the RDC's approval together with a provisional agreement of sale of
land. The procedures for the approval by the RDC of the agreement of sale of land will be specified in the Project
Operational Manual. Beneficiary communities may seek assistance from a partner (private, NGO or public) in
preparing their proposal, and such assistance will be considered for project financing through the RDC.
The Rural District Council will be responsible for reviewing and approving community proposals for land
acquisition and will confirm that (i) the title to the land is clean, (ii) no other condition threatens the effectiveness
of the land acquisition, and (iii) the negotiated price is consistent with market conditions. The RDC may seek the
assistance of the TSU or other specialized assistance to complete this review, if needed, and such assistance
could be considered for financing by the TSU. The specific review and approval procedures will be detailed in
the Project Operational Manual.
Once the land acquisition proposal is approved, beneficiary communities will granted title to or legal
possesion of the land acquired under the project and will thereafter decide among its members how the land is to
be farmed or subdivided among the individual households of the beneficiary community. The will then prepare
infrastructure investment proposals to be financed under Component 2.
In cases where the land has already been acquired by government (or by a third-party), beneficiary
communities will also be granted title to or legal possession of the land and decide among themselves how to
operate or subdivide the farm. The will also then prepare infrastructure investment proposals to be financed under
Component 3.



Project Component 2: Infrastructure Investments for a Community-Initiated, Market-Assisted Approach -
US$2.5 million (total cost plus contingencies)
Project Component 3: Infrastructure Investments for Improved Government Models and Other
Approaches - US$2.5 million (total cost plus contingencies)
After the transfer of the land has taken place, either through direct purchase by communities (Component
2) or transferred from government or a third party (Component 3), beneficiary communities will become eligible
to receive funding for social and economic investment subprojects (on a matching-grant basis), a one-time cash
start-up grant, and technical assistance to establish the land settlement and improve the productivity of the land.
Community contributions in cash, labor or in-kind will constitute the counterpart contribution for the these
investment subprojects.
The project will finance land reform settlements, up to a total cost of approximately US$ 6,000 per
beneficiary household. There will be three sources of funds for each land reform settlement: government
counter-part funds, proceeds of this IDA credit, and contributions from beneficiary communities. All
settlements considered for financing under the project will be subject to a "Uniform Public Support Ceiling"
(UPSC) equivalent to the sum of government and IDA funds. The details of how the UPSC is determined will be
specified in the Project Operational Manual (see Figure 1)'.
Figure 1) Sources of Funds for a Land Reform Settlement
(approximate contribution shares)
iE Govemment (33%)
* IDA (59%)
*O Community Contrib.
(in-kind, labor or cash
= 8%)
To qualify for this support, beneficiary communities will be asked to make a contribution (on a matching
grant basis), in-kind, labor, or cash, towards the cost of any infrastructure subprojects financed by the project.
The actual proportion of communal counterpart contribution for different types of investment subprojects will be
specified in the POM. It is estimated that communities will roughly contribute between 12 and 18% of toital
subproject costs, which amounts to roughly 8 to 10% of total settlement costs.
At negotiations, the Zimbabwe Delegation pointed out that land prices are falling in the country, so during project implementation
the actual costs of land reform settlements may be lower and the number of beneficiaries higher.



The actual distribution of resources arnong different settlement components (land, technical assistance,
cash start-up grant; and infrastructure investmentO will vary from settlement to settlement. Figure 2) shows
an example of how project resources could be distributed among different components of a particular settlement.
First, the cost of land will probably represent about one third of total cost of the settlement (some US$2,000 per
household). Second, it is proposed that communities spend no more than 8% of total settlement costs (about
US$480 per household) in technical assistance Third, immediately upon settlement, beneficiary communities
will receive a one-time cash start-up grant (of approximately US$520 per beneficiary household) to assist them
during their first year on the farm. They will be free to decide how to use these resources (e.g., farm implements.
housing, basic necessities, small infrastructure investments). And fourth, communities will present an application
to the Rural District Council for funds to carry-out one or several infrastructure investment subprojects which.
depending on how much is spent on the other three categories (especially in acquiring the land), will be roughly
equivalent to half of the total cost of the settlement, or some US$3,000 per beneficiary household.
The size of the start-up grant will be fixed for all settlements (to be specified in the Project Operational
Manual). The share of technical assistance will vary depending on how much of it communities request (up to a
limit of some 8% of total costs). The greatest trade-off will occur between the value of the land (estimated to be
between US$40 and US$60 per hectare) and the amount spent on infrastructure investments. So, the use of the
uniform public support ceiling will necessarily mean that for farms that are fairly expensive (as a result of high
per hectare cost, with good infrastructure, and/or the farn to be settled is big), fewer resources would be available
for additional infrastructure investments. And vice-versa, for relatively inexpensive farms, more funds would be
available for on-land investments.
Each participating RDC will sign a RDC Participation Agreement that (i) provides for the terms and
conditions goveming requests by the RDCs for disbursement of funds under the project to beneficiary
communities; (ii) delegates to the RDCs the authority to operate an account with the the Project Financial
Institution (PFI); and (iii) sets out the relevant guidelines of the Project Operational Manual applicable to
disbursement of grants to beneficiary communities.
Figure 2) Uses of Funds in a Land Reform Settlement
(approximate shares)
0 Land (33%)
* Technical Assistance
(8%)
i     Start-up Grant (9%)
AC Infrastructure
Investment
Subprojects (50%)
2Refer to previous note on land prices and overall land reform settlement costs.



Similarly, the RDC will sign with each beneficiary community a Subproject Agreement for the
implementation of every subproject proposal presented. This latter agreement will spell out the conditions for
receiving investment grants (e.g., disbursement schedule) and the responsibilities of the community in
implementing the subproject (e.g., counterpart contributions). Samples of these agreements will be included in
the Project Operational Manual.
Rural District Councils will approve subproject proposals (up to US$50,000) based on standardized
technical, economic, environmental, and institutional parameters which will be detailed in the Project Operational
Manual. Community investment subprojects above US$50,000 will be approved by the IMCRD, based on the
recommendations of the TSU. Once the land purchase and complementary investment subproject proposals have
been approved, the RDC would instruct the Project Financial Institution (PFI) to disburse funds. First, upon the
instruction from the respective RDC, the financial institution would draw funds from the Land Acquisition Fund
(financed with govemment counterpart funds) and disburse the full amount of the sale price to the owner of the
farm to complete the land purchase.
Second, the financial institution would draw funds from a PFI Account (100% financed with proceeds of
the IDA Credit) to disburse the cash start-up grants (in one lump-sum) directly to the beneficiary community
account. Once in the beneficiary community account, the start-up grant will allow the community, either through
subsequent individual allocations to its members, communal expenses or a combination thereof, to purc:hase the
necessary farm implements and inputs to start working on the land immediately after settlement, cover some of
the initial costs of getting settled, contract out technical assistance, and/or initiate infrastructure investments.
And third, also under the instruction of the RDC (for subprojects up to US$50,000), the financial
institution would draw funds from the PFI Account to disburse (in tranches) directly to the beneficiary community
account the grants for infrastructure investment subprojects, according to the terms outlined in the Subproject
Agreement. Communities would then utilize these funds for directly procuring materials, seeking technical
assistance, and contracting out private or public agents for the implementation of infrastructure investments. The
procedures on how funds will be transferred to communities and how subprojects will be implemented are
detailed in the Project Operational Manual.
Project Component 4: Technical Assistance, Institutional Support, Project Administration, and Monitoring
and Evaluation - US$ 0.75 million (total cost plus contingencies)
This component would provide support to several complementary activities of the Inception Phase of the
Land Reform Programme. The following areas could be considered for financing under the project:
*  Mobilization assistance for beneficiary communities and Rural District Councils. RDCs would
formulate and request funds to support strategies to extend community mobilization to those
communities lacking in organization and not initially in a position to benefit from the projec,t. Such
assistance would include community workshops to determine priority needs, training to community
groups in organization skills and technical assistance related to subproject preparation.
*  Specialized skills training. RDCs and community groups would request practical, "on-the-job"
training in areas such as monitoring techniques, financial administration, environmental screening,
procurement, as well as specific technical topics related to investment subprojects.
  Publicity campaigns for the Inception Phase generally and the project specifically. The cornponent
would also finance information-dissemination campaigns (including printing materials, radio
programs, workshops, etc.).
*  Certain types of technical assistance and specialized studies at the central govemment, NECF, RDC,
and communal levels. Given the small size of the project, a limited number of proposals could be
considered for specialized technical assistance, such as policy issues (e.g., land taxation, Sub-division
Act), decentralization issues, or agricultural extension services.



* Project Administration, Supervision, and Monitoring. The component would finance field
supervision and monitoring, as well as the incremental costs of the implementing agencies (TSU and
RDCs) for overall coordination of project activities.
Project Evaluation and Dissemination. The component would provide resources to the TSU to carry
out (through subcontracting with an independent entity) the evaluation of the project, assemble
information, and disseminate the experiences and lessons leamed. This component would provide the
basis for judging ex-post the impact of the different land reform approaches tried. This includes
carrving out the necessary baseline studies at the community and household level.



Annex 3:
Zimbabwe: Land Reform Support Project
Estimated Project Costs
zg,0    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ oal                    oreiginTta
Land Acquisition Fund for Community-Initiated, Market-  1.25           -             1.25
Assisted Approach
Community Subprojects for Community-Initiated, Market-  2.00          0.05          2.05
Assisted Approach
Community Subprojects for improved government models    2.00          0.05           2.05
and other complementary approaches
Technical Assistance, Institutional Strengthening, Project  0.45      0.10           0.55
Administration, Studies, and Monitoring and Evaluation
Total Baseline Cost                                     5.70          0.20          5.90
Physical Contingencies                          0.20           -             0.20
Price Contingencies                             0.90           -             0.90
Total Project Costs                 6.80          0.20           7.00
wject Coit'b. Cteg                        ... ...$ OMit- rv
Land                                                    1.25           -             1.25
Community Subprojects                                   4.55          0.10          4.65
(investments, technical assistance,
start-up grants)
Consultant Services and Training                        0.40          0.05           0.45
Other (operating costs)                                 0.10          0.05           0.15
Total Project Costs                 6.80          0.20           7.00



Annex 4:
Zimbabwe: Land Reform Support Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Given the pilot nature of the proposed project and the fact that we cannot know ex-ante which types of
farning models will be supported by the project, a detailed economic analysis is not feasible at this stage.
Instead, as part of project monitor, farm-level data will be collected and analyzed. One of the key criteria for
evaluating success of different settlement approaches will be the economic retum of the farming activities
initiated by beneficiaries. For this purpose, household baseline studies will be carried out at the beginning of the
project.
Nevertheless, the settlement models proposed by the government team that prepared the Land Reform and
Resettlement Programme-Phase II project document in September 1998, estimated that the Internal Rates of
Retum (IRR) of four different settlement models ranged from 22% to 50%, with an overall IRR for the proposed
programme of 40%. Since the total settlement costs of the proposed project are estimated to be between 31% and
44% lower than the govemment models (see next section) and they are likely to be implemented more
expediently, it is expected that the economic returns of the proposed project will be higher.
Different farm models for a similar community-initiated land reform process, albeit under considerably
different economic and agronomic circumstances, in Brazil yielded internal economic rates of return ranging from
26% to 75%. One key feature that yields higher net economic benefits of the proposed approach, compared to the
traditional government models, is the speed of settlement and delivery of social and economic infrastructure
which, in turn, induces beneficiaries to start producing on the land considerably sooner than under centralized
approaches.
Similarly, given the wide range of probable community subprojects, it is difficult to quantify the net
benefits of the proposed project. Nevertheless, the proposed project is expected to yield the following economic
benefits:
-  Increased household incomes of participating households arising from increased agricultural
production
  Improved standards of living in beneficiary areas as a result of investments in social and economic
infrastructure
*  Enhanced community organizational capacity to undertake future community-prioritized projects
*  Increased institutional capacity of Rural District Councils to review and evaluate social and economic
infrastructure projects, apply environmental screening procedures, and carry out procurement of
contracts
*  Increased sustainability of communal assets, as beneficiaries will directly participate in the design and
implementation of investment subprojects.
Main Assumptions:
Preliminary analysis based on existing govemment estimates for the Land Reform and Resettlement
Programme-Il (September 1998), the Brazil Land Reform and Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (April 1997), and
the Community Action Project for Zimbabwe (April 1998).



Annex 5:
Zimbabwe: Land Reform Support Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending: December 31
(in US$ million equivalent)
1  1999       2000   |  2001   | TOTAL
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            1.00       3.35       2.00       6.35
Recurrent Costs             0.10       0.35       0.20       0.65
Total                           1.10       3.70      2.20       7.00
Financing Sources
(% of total project costs)
IDA                        11.4%      37.2%      22.8%      71.4%
Government                  2.6%      10.1%       5.2%      17.9%
Beneficiaries               1.7%       5.6%       3.4%      10.7%
Total                      15.7%      52.9%      31.4%     100.0%



Annex 6:
Zimbabwe: Land Reform Support Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement for Project Preparation. The preparation work for the project was carried out in its
entirety using the country budget. Only one consultant was contracted.
Procurement under the Project. Given the demand-driven characteristics of this project (and the
adaptable nature of a LIL), it is difficult to know ex-ante the exact composition of procurement contracts, in terms
of small works, goods and materials, consulting assignments, or technical assistance contracts. Therefore, the
following are only best estimates.
Total value of consulting assignments is estimated at US$300,000 equivalent. These assignments mainly
comprise specific land policy studies and project monitoring and evaluation. Consultants would be hired in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997). Only one or
two consulting assignments exceeding US$100,000 are expected under this project. These would be procured
under procedures acceptable to IDA and subject to prior review. Consultant selection would be addressed mostly
through competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will be based on Quality-and-Cost-
Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be
provided. Contracts for consulting assignments of less than US$100,000 each may be awarded by direct
contracting on a sole source basis subject to adequate justification and prior review by IDA. In addition, an
estimated US$350,000 equivalent will be spent on technical assistance, mainly in the form of hiring of individual
short term consultants. Training (total value estimated at US$350,000 equivalent) will comprise hiring of
individual short-term consultants and support for training programs. Contracts for technical assistance or training
of less than US$100,000 may be awarded by direct contracting on a sole source basis subject to adequate
justification and prior review by IDA.
Small-value works contracts (individual value between US$100,000 and US$250,000 equivalent) will be
awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for an aggregate value of up to US$250,000 (only
one or two contracts are envisioned under the project). Contracts between US$50,000 and US$100,000
equivalent will be awarded on the basis of National Shopping (NS), for an aggregate value of up to US$300,000.
Individual community subprojects (costing less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract and up to an amount to
not exceed US$3.3 million equivalent) will be procured, according to procedures acceptable to IDA, under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of price quotations.
Small value goods procurement contracts (individual value between US$50,000 and US$100,000
equivalent; of which only one or two are envisioned under the project) will be awarded on the basis of NS, for an
aggregate value of up to US$350,000. Small value goods (individual value less than US$50,000 per contract), up
to an aggregate amount of US$550,000 equivalent, will be procured directly by communities, according to
procedures acceptable to IDA, under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of price quotations.
ICB is not anticipated for any goods or civil works under this project.
Implementation Arrangements. The procurement for all goods and works contracts on the basis of
NCB or NS, as well as for all the consulting assignments and studies, will be carried out by the Technical Support
Unit (TSU) following the procedures to be detailed in the Project Operational Manual. It is recognized that the
procurement capacity of the proposed TSU, the participating RDCs, and beneficiary communities would be
limited at the beginning of the project. Thus, the project would provide resources for the hiring of a procurement
officer at the TSU, for assessment of the procurement capacity of participating RDCs, for training, and for annual
procurement audits. The TSU will provide procurement support to Rural District Councils, monitor procurement



done by RDCs, and be responsible for arranging the necessary procurement training programs for those RDCs
and beneficiary communities that do not have demonstrated procurement capacity. Procurement monitoring
would provide information on the number and amount of contracts awarded to each type of implementing agency.
procurement methods, amount and nature of contracts procured through each method, and number and amnount of
contracts subject to prior review by IDA. Annual procurement audits will be carried out as part of field -
supervision missions. They will be an important mechanism for assessing the main procurement bottlenecks in
project implementation and for recommending the necessary adjustments to project implementation. The main
lessons derived from these audits will be incorporated in the design of the follow-on Bank operation.
The procurement for community subprojects, for either civil works or goods, costing less than US$50,000
equivalent and procured by the beneficiary communities would be carried out mainly through local shopping and
direct contracting. Simplified procurement arrangements and documentation will be specified in the subproject
agreement signed between the Rural District Council and the beneficiary community. A consultant would be
hired to prepare the appropriate simplified procurement forms to be implemented by RDCs and beneficiary
communities. This procurement procedure is appropriate because most subprojects: (i) would be small and/or
implemented in scattered or remote areas and therefore it will be difficult to obtain competitive proposals; (ii) can
be managed directly by rural communities which will contribute to the work through the donation of unskilled
labor and local materials; (iii) will be selected on the basis of willingness of the beneficiary communities to
contribute to and physically supervise their execution; and (iv) would provide a vehicle for communities to play
an active role in the local development process. There may be cases when the community lacks the capacity to
make the necessary purchases of equipment and materials. In such cases, or when subproject materials are not
available locally, and upon request from the beneficiary community, the RDC will support the process, packaging
the procurement for several subprojects whenever possible, and/or by providing technical assistance.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
TIhe prior review thresholds for the proposed project have been adapted from the Community Action
Project. They will be reviewed during the annual procurement audits and the necessary adjustments to procedures
and thresholds will be made accordingly. All procurement for works and goods through NCB and NS will require
prior review by IDA. The Bank will review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the
borrower for those consultancy contracts to be awarded to firms; contracts worth US$100,000 and above will be
subject to IDA prior review; for individual consultants the prior review threshold will be US$50,000. However.
the exception to IDA prior review will not apply to the Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of value,
to single-source hiring, or assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA or to amendments of contracts
raising the contact value above the prior review thresholds. Also, the first three contracts for small works in each
district will be subject to prior review by IDA. In addition, an audit of procurement by community contracting
would be carried out during the first year of the project, under terms of reference agreed prior to effectiveness,
and determine whether the arrangements on procurement methods have been followed. Cost comparisons of
similar community subprojects would be conducted using the project Management Information System (MIS) in
order to detect possible procurement problems and determine whether prices paid under community procurement
were reasonable. The project's annual physical performance evaluation would verify the physical implementation
of subprojects and analyze procurement issues. And, finally, during Bank supervision, additional random reviews
would be conducted of subprojects, including field visits and review of subproject documentation.
Disbursement
The proposed project would be disbursed in two years. The project is expected to be completed by April
30, 2001, and the project's closing date is October 31, 2001. The proposed allocation of the proceeds of the IDA
credit is shown in Table C.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully documented, except for (a)
expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of US$ 100,000 each or less for civil works and consulting



firms; (b) US$50,000 or less for goods and individual consultants; and (c) all training, community subprojects and
operating costs, which may be claimed on the basis of certified statements of expenditures (SOEs). Disbursement
and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook. All disbursements are
subject to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the disbursement
letter.
Disbursement arrangements for community subprojects would be detailed in the Project Operational
Manual. Advance payments up to 20% of the total subproject cost would be permitted in the case of self-help and
civil works contracts below US$50,000 equivalent in order to encourage the development of a grassroots
contracting industry. All subsequent disbursements would be made on the verification of work having been
satisfactorily performed and funds disbursed having been adequately accounted for. The schedule of subsequent
disbursements would be detailed in the Project Operational Manual.
The communities' contributions to subproject investments would be defined in the agreement signed
between the Rural District Council and the community's designated representatives. This contribution would be
computed as part of counterpart finance of the project. Simple, standard records, whose format would be included
in the Project Operational Manual, would be completed by a designated community representative. They would
be used to record cash contributions, materials and labor inputs, and would be subject to project audit procedures.
Special Account:
To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for works, goods and services, the Govemment will
open a Special Account in a commercial bank to cover part of IDA's share of eligible expenditures to be managed
and administered by TSU. Authorized allocation of the Special Account would be $500,000, covering an
estimated four months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. TSU will be responsible for submitting monthly
replenishment applications with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. To the extent possible, all of
IDA's share of expenditures should be paid through the Special Account.
PFI Account:
It is proposed that the TSU open an account (PFI Account) at a financial institution to be used exclusively
by the RDCs and the TSU for transferring the grants to beneficiary communities. The TSU would periodically
request the Ministry of Finance to authorize the commercial bank where the Special Account is established to
transfer funds from the Special Account to the PFI Account. To insure against currency depreciation, these
requests would be limited to meet eligible expenditures for a period of 30 days or less.



Annex 6, Table A:
Zimbabwe: Land Reform Support Project
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements!
(in US$ million equivalent)
1. Land                      -         -            -             -         1.25        1.25
2. Small Civil Works'        0.25      0.30        3.30           -                     3.85
(0.20)    (0.25)      (2.75)       (-)        (-)          (3.20)
3. Goods and Materias        -         0.35        0.55           -                     0.90
(-)       (0.30)      (0.55)        (-)       (-)          (0.85)
4. Consulting Services,           -                 -            1.00                   1.00
Studies, and Project
Administration
(-)      (-)          (-)           (1.00)    (-)          (1.00)
Total                     0.25      0.65         3.85          1.00      1.25        7.00
(0.20)    (0.55)      (3.30)        (1.00)       (-)      (5.00)
(Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (covers land purchases with resources from a Land Acquisition Fund
entirely financed by govemment)
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) applies to community sub-projects which may need to be
packaged together, leading to a contract value between US$100,000 and US$250,000 (up to an
aggregate of IDA US$250,000), in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of
the 'Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits.
National Shopping (NS) applies to small civil works, goods and materials (up to an aggregate of
IDA US$550,000), in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
'Guidelines," with total contract value between US$50,000 and US$100,000. No single contract
for goods and materials is expected to exceed US$1 00,000.
Direct Contracting applies to community subprojects (involving small civil works, goods aind
materials) each costing less than US$50,000 (up to an aggregate of IDA US$3.3 million).
Other includes procurement methods acceptable to IDA, detailed in the Project Operational
Manual, for consultancy services, training, technical assistance, and small supplies (up to an
aggregate of IDA US$1.0 million).
Totals include taxes and contingencies.
2 Community subprojects
Community subprojects anid start-up grants



Annex 6, Table B:
Zimbabwe: Land Reform Support Project
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
E~~pewUt~~~~0. .ll  0tVi~        ~      rmm        ~    onr9  u~ to
E   tw' ~ThWt~ .thV                                               0"evww
US $ thousands                             US $ millions
1. Small Works       US$ 100,000 -        National Competitive   All National
300,000              Bidding            Competitive Bidding
US$ 50,000 - 100,000   National Shopping  All National Shopping
< US$ 50,000         Local Shopping       First 3 contracts in
each district
2. Goods             US$ 50,000 - 100,000   National Shopping   All National Shopping
< US$ 50,000         Local Shopping       First 3 contracts in
each district
3. Consulting        US$ 100,000 and up    Quality-and-Cost-    Firms, > US$100,000
Services, Studies,                        Based Selection      Individuals,
Training                                                              > US$ 50,000
<US$ 100,000         Consultant           All sole source
Qualifications       All TOR
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    Approx. US$ 1.5 mill.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
HMigh 
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six month(s) (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)



Annex 6, Table C:
Zimbabwe: Land Reform Support Project
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Consultant Services and             0.45                      100%
T raining_                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
2. Grants for Community                3.25             100%* of amounts of
Subprojects (investments.                               community grants disbursed.
technical assistance, and start-                        approximately 85% of actual
up grants)                                                      costs
3. Goods and Materials                0.75                       100%
4. Operating Costs                    0.30                       100%
4. Unallocated                        0.25
Total                                  5.00                       71.4%
* Communities are expected to contribute approximately 15% of the total cost of approved subprojects.



Annex 7:
Zimbabwe: Land Reform Support Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         4                    6
Project Concept Document review mtg.           11/10/1998           11/10/1998
First Bank mission (identification/pre-appr.)  11/11/1998           11/11/1998
Decision to complete appraisal / negotiate     1/31/1999            2/18/1999
Negotiations                                   2/05/1999            5/07/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  2/28/1999            7/01/1999
Prepared by: Members of several ministries, including Lands and Agriculture, Rural Resources and Water
Development, Local Govemment and Housing, local consultants, and coordinated by the Office of the Minister without
Portfolio at the Office of the President and Cabinet.
Preparation assistance: Country Bank Budget
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Jorge A. Munoz                                   Agricultural Economist, Team Leader, AFTRI
Luis Coirolo                                     Principal Operations Officer, LCSES
Kanagasabai Loganathan                           Senior Financial Analyst, AFTRI
Rogier van den Brink                             Deputy Resident Representative, AFMZW
Caesar Chidawanvika                              Senior Program Officer, AFMZW
Vince Ashworth                                   Consultant, AFTR1
Tulio Barbosa                                    Consultant. LCSRE
Peer Reviewers:
Joachin von Amsberg                              Senior Economist, LCC5F
Klaus Deininger                                  Economist, DECRG
Martien van Nieuwkoop                            Natural Resources Economist, LCSES



Annex 8:
Zimbabwe: Land Reform Support Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Outline of Project Operational Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Project Concept Document (October 26, 1998)
Minutes of PCD Review Meeting (November 10, 1998)
Aide Memoire of Pre-appraisal Mission (November 20, 1998)
Minutes of Decision Meeting (February 18, 1999)
Negotiated Draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and
Minutes of Negotiations, including agreed Performance Indicators (May 7, 1999)
Draft Environmental Analysis (based on Community Action Project Environmental Analysis)
C. Other
Government of Zimbabwe. Land Reform and Resettlement Programme-Phase II (Policy Framework and Project
Document), September 1998
Communique from International Donors' Conference on Land Reform, September 1998
Government of Zimbabwe: Land Reform and Resettlement Programme - Phase II
Inception Phase Framekwork Plan (approved April 15, 1999)
40 Draft Terms of Reference for proposed Technical Support Unit (TSU)
*Including electronic files.



SLC ScheduleD (MOP)                          ANNEX  9:                                  Page 1 of 2
~~   ThORN04
Integrated Controllers Systems
Providing World Bank tIformaton to the World      _
Country Information I HolIs Financial Valuation Rates I Financial Partners I Statement of Pool Units
Loan/Credit Account List I Countr Lending Siiimn    I Net Flows I Comments I Estimated Debt Service
Loan Status I Category Recap  Contracts  Special Accounts I Paid Withdrawal Applications
Rejected Withdrawal Applications I Aplication Pipeline I Special Commitnents I Cancellations
ZIMBABWE
Statement of Loans/Credits
Schedule D (MOP) as of July 31, 1999
(in Millions of US Dollars)
Amount in US$ million (ess
cancellations)
Fiscallsn
L.oan/Credit   Year   Borrower         Purpose        Bank    IDA   Undisbursed  C
Year                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Date
Credits
7 Credit(s)                                                  350.73
closed4
25160        1993              STI                           64.50 ' "       30212/31/00
28510        1996             `ENTERPRISE                    70.00          37.18, 12/31/02
.DEVELOPM
N  190       1997              LOCAL GOVT                    12.25          11.57 06/30/00
.:DEV. PROJ
30800        1998              AGRSRVC&                       8.80     ,     8.55,07/31/01
.MGMT
30830        198PRRH                             .6.50:                     6.56: 09/30/05
CONSERV
-   30720    :  1998   .      giCOMMUNITY                    60.00,         59.07: 12/31/03
ACTION PRJ
Total Number of Credits = 6                                     278.05         179.96
Loans                                                  678.34'..............     1.57:
17 Loans(s)
closed
30790        1989              URBANI 8I.00                                 14.45 12/31/99
; 36960        1994  -           POWERI               90.00                    0 208 1/19
Total Number of Loans= 2                                170.00;                 34.73 
Total***                                 848.34  628.78;
.. ...,,..........,,,,,,,.... ............ . . ..    ............  ...........,, ....    ,, ...........................  .......;..  .........     .. ............. ...  - -- ---- - ----- ------------------  .......
of which repaid                        ; 347.87;   4.85-
Total held by Bank & IDA                 500.47, 623.93
Amount          0.00
sold



SLC Schedule D (MOP)                                                                     Page 2 of 2
Of which        0.00
-repaid
'Total Undisbursed                                               216.26
Export Data to Excel
Disclaimer. The information provided is for your convenience and does not replace the World Bank official reports and
statements.



ANNEX 10:
Zimbabwe at a glance                                                               10/1/98
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Zimbabwe      Africa   Income      Development dibmond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                     11.5       614     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   750       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     8.6       309       722
Average annual groWth, 199147                                                                      T
Population (I%)                                      2.3        2.7      2.1
Labor force (%)                                      2.3        2.6      2.3      GNP                            Gross
per    .                      primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199147)                              capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% otpopulation below national poverty line)  26
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                31        32        28
LiFe expectancy at birth (years)                      58        52        59                       1
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              55        90        78
Child malnutrition (% ofchildren under 5)             16         ..       61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopulaton)                  36        44        71
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                   15        43        47
Gross primary enrollment (%otschool-agepopulation)   119        75        91              -    lmbabwe
Male                                               123        82       100                  Low-incore group
Female                                             114        67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Econonic ratios
G 3P (US$ billions)                         3.5      6.2        8.5       8.9
Gross domestic investment/GDP              17.9     18.0       23.2      18.7                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP          28.5     24.0       36.5     36.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 21.8     20.6       23.4      11.9
Gross national savings/GDP                 17.6     18.2       22.7      10.0
Current account balancelGDP                   ..    -0.8       -2.1      -9.3     Domestic      A
Interest payments/GDP                       0.1      2.1        2.4       2.2       Stin                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                              4.1     42.2       51.4      47.9     Savings
Total debt service/exports                  0.7     30.9       17.5      18.2
Present value of debt/GDP                              .       49.6
Present value of debtexports                           ..    134.9
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                5.6      2.6      7.3        3.2       5.6                  Zlmbabwe
GNP per capita                     2.4    -0.2       6.0        0.1       3.5                  Low-incom  group
Exports of goods and services      3.7      8.7      2.6        2.6       5.7   I
S1 RUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997     Growth rats of output and investment (%)
(X of GDP)
Acgriculture                               17.0      17.8      22.2      18.6    20
Industry                                   37.6     31.3       24.9      25.2    10
Manufacturing                             23.3     21.4      17.7      17.7      0
Services                                   45.4     50.9       52.9      56.2                      94
Private consumption                        63.5    58.8        59.5      71.9    -20 -
General govemment consumption              14.7     20.6       17.1      16.1                    Ga       O  GDP
Imports of goods and services              24.6     21.5       36.3      43.0                              G
1976-86  1987-87      1998      1997     Gromwh cf s of expots and imports (%)
(a/esrage annual growth)
Agriculture                                 3.2      3.0       21.0      -1.8    30
Industry                                    2.3      -0.1       3.8       1.8    20
Manufacturing                              4.9     -0.2       4.6       2.5    10
Services                                    8.2      3.7        4.8       3.3 
Prvate consumption                          6.8      2.7        2.3      16.8
General govemment consumption              14.9      3.5       21.4      14.4    1
Gross domestic investment                  -4.1      42         8.5    -16.8   -20
Imports of qoods and services               1.9      11.2      -4.6      22.8            -E orts   - -mports
Gross national product                      5.8       2.3       8.1       2.1            _
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
T^he diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Zimbabwe
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1976    1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
(% chanie)                                                                       so
Consumer prices                              ..    14.3       21.4      19.0
Impiicit GDP deflator                       7.9     11.6      27.9      21.0     2__
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, lncludes cuffent grants)
Current revenue                               .     25.9       25.7     27.7            92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                              -5.1       -4.7     -3.9                   GDPdeflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                             -9.7       -9.1      -8.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1976    1966       1996      1997      Export and inmport levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   1,325     2.496     2,424     3 ooo
Tobacco                                      .     253        702       608
Gold                                         .     248       297       265
Manufactures                                       308         46      893      ,000
Total imports (cif)                                1,165     2,247     2,660
Food                                                17        119        71
Fuel and energy                                    131       275       312
Capital goods                                      414        930     1,130 o
Export price index (1995s100)                ..       78       102       106           51  52  93  94   5   96  57
Import price index (1995=100)                         68       100       100               * Exports    M Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100J                     .      115       102       106
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio(%)
Exports of qoods and services               978    1,531     3,108     3.083      o
Imports of goods and services               850    1,371     3,118     3,627
Resource balance                            128      160       -10      -544
Net income                                  -73    -184       -319      -409      -5
Net current transfers                                -26       149       126
Current account balance                              -50      -180      -827
Financing items (net)                         .      158       137        76
Changes in net reserves                      22     -108        43       751
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      112      216       903       587
Conversion rate (DEC, locaU/USS)            0.6      1.7        9.9      11.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(USS nmifions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS mrillions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        144    2,626     4,389     4,263
IBRO                                       15      280       513       473
IDA                                         0       47       335       399                           A: 473
Total debt service                            7      476       551       568            G 977                   399
IBRO                                        5       27        87        82
IDA                                         0        0         3         3
Composition of net resource flows                                                                               C: 340
Official grants                             0       96         F.             |   : 385
Official creditors                         -5      117       187
Private creditors                          O      -103      -177
Foreign direct investment                  0         8         .°533
Portfolio equity                            0        0                                     1,156
World Bank program
Commitments                                 o       10        70        12     A - IBRO                    a - Bilateral
Disbursements                               o       41        49       132   | - IDA    D - Other multiateral   F - Prhate
Principal repayments                       4         2        46        46     C-IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                  -4       39         3        86   1                                        1
Interest payments                           1       25        44        39
Net transfers                              -5       14       -41        47
World Bank                                                                                                       1011198



MAP SECTION



MAIAW1                     29r                                                 t }
ZAMBIA                                                T, To                            j
g  5  S\/'t°/  _ ZAMBIA                c<Chiru( Mobeka                  *'-  *_*          tMOZAMBIQUE
<  '°* ) >%                      ZSBIS                     <   k,          / <   .;A,<^KNAtAMBIA  P
Kariba   Ma~~~kuti                       NA P
NAMIBIA  aZIMBABWE                           jTKriba                                                                         R R1jy,_
NOCEAN                                                           Guruve CenteRr
KILOMETERS 0  50  100EA  15                                                                                   nyjdgetontenea
BOTSWANAtUTH t<      1                        5 ( y           S            XMhangurrz   oB          /MtDrJrtS   ig-t oa         rs
U   AFRIPo                                                                        SOH  AFRONACA                                   Blbunares.
NAMIBIA  T. M.icbei                   ,  dCHINHOIBne    77                                                   X,                tkon
\<     >   g To~~~~TCho..       gRBinga                                        Trelt   a rw>
t sEty8 f to                                         MIDLANDS                                         AM ,RRE   
- Ir' <4   Falise  ;           ;t              °    Aadonn~~~~~~~~~~ ~~                           ~ ~~~~~~~~a z  ron2r  erc  ~iasclale
i\,A,Xe  <,<<)aPeC.)- j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
*   \    )\MATABAlL-EAND A                o            ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~Chivhu t\ )
< X a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NORTH  Nka                  Redcliff       Mvm                             MtI>C-A EA T. B5&i-
\ (i1\XS > > ~~~~~~~GWERU  Gt \O | 
-t  \  \       \   g    \    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Chatsoi  0                / 
.    NAT R. Tsqnholotsh             dhlo                  Shurt_\9  '
ZIMBABWE    -.                                     \                _ \   va MA' INGG Nyiko
~~~~>   A Y O g,    8   A        t         _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bikita     i
MAJOR STATE ROADS       ) Plum         treee               Zv isaishslGcs                                  {Jpig_8
RAILROADS                'Figtree                                                           M tASVINO                   jr,7 To 8eira
>   ~MAJOR RIVERS           F.To   i\ L                                          1             Jerera        } 
NATIONAL CAPITAL          Frniion!J/ )                                                                      1 !
*INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT                M AATABAi ELA N\DC                                         n  o
OTHER AIRPORTS                    '      SOlJTH  Xwna                                                 a   t>N ndi\t
PROVINCE CAPITALS \\ ;Mee 
- PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                            i         _         <*   -  ,
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                        l cn  y/h ound,
'   ~~~n5 \  <          X )\;     / ~~~~~ on this; map do not
22-                                                                                                                            d B  /\;   The uamnka Ghroruap, 2
a   ILOMETERS 0     50     100    IS                                              OBibide15/0*oopt    ttsa  dn ertr,                         j
'O      ~~~~MILES O       5'0         1~002                      /          T.                          ;a               bunaist



