Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3286-ZIM
Development Credit Agreement
(Land Reform Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  November 15, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3286-ZIM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 15, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS (B) the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Land Acquisition Fund” means the fund referred to in Part A of the 
Project; 
(b)
“Project Operational Manual” means the Operational Manual referred to in 
Part D.1 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement; 
(c)
“RDC” means a Rural District Council established and operating under the 
Borrower’s Rural District Councils Act of 1988; 
(d)
“PFI” means the financial institution referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement; 
(e)
“PFI Account” means the account to be opened pursuant to Part B.1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(f)
“IMCRD” means the Borrower's Inter-Ministerial Committee on Resettlement 
and Rural Development; 
(g)
“Project Executing Agencies” means the Beneficiary Communities, the RDCs, 
the PFI, IMCRD and the Technical Support Unit; 
(h)
“Beneficiary Community” means a rural-based community or community group 
which, having met the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Operational Manual, 
is eligible to receive a Grant;
(i)
“Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, to a Beneficiary 
Community out of the proceeds of the Credit to finance a Subproject; 
(j)
“RDC Participation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and an RDC pursuant to Part B.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(k)
“Subproject” means a specific investment activity financed, or proposed 
to be financed, under the Project through a Grant, being an activity which meets the 
criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual; 
(l)
“Subproject Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between an 
RDC and a Beneficiary Community or, as the case may be, the Borrower and a Beneficiary 
Community pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(m)
“Technical Support Unit” means the Technical Support Unit to be 
established pursuant to Part A.1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(n)
“Land Reform Programme” means the Borrower's Land Reform and Resettlement 
Programme (Phase II) adopted in September 1998; 
(o)
“Inception Phase” means the Borrower’s Inception Phase Framework Plan 
adopted on April 15, 1999; and
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
Page  3
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree to be paid) by the Borrower on 
account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary Community to meet the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for a Subproject in respect of 
which withdrawals from the Credit Account are requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1, commencing November 1, 2009 and ending May 1, 2034. Each 
installment to, and including the installment payable on, May 1, 2019 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1¼%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2½%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
Page  4
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall, through 
the Project Executing Agencies, carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental 
and land reform practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
Page  5
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitations upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to 
the Association for the strengthening of its financial system for the Project in order 
to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports acceptable to 
the Association. Each such report shall: 
(i)
set forth actual sources and application of funds for the Project, 
both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources 
and application of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and 
show separately expenditures financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said 
report; 
(ii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and explain 
variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
Page  6
(a)
the Borrower has established the Land Acquisition Fund and deposited 
therein an initial amount of $750,000 equivalent; 
(b)
the Borrower has established the Technical Support Unit with financial 
management and accounting systems (including a management and information system) 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(c)
the PFI Account has been opened; 
(d)
the RDC Participation Agreements have been duly executed by the Borrower 
and at least three RDCs; 
(e)
the Project Operational Manual has been formally approved by the 
Borrower; and 
(f)
the Borrower's Ministry of Mines, the Environment and Tourism has 
approved the Environmental Analysis prepared for the Project. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Senior Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Private Bag 7705
Causeway
Harare, Zimbabwe
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN
22141 ZW
Harare
Zimbabwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
Page  7
By /s/ Simbi Mubako 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants
   2,950,000
100% of amounts
disbursed
(2)
Consultants' services,
     330,000
100%
studies and training
(3)
Operating costs
     220,000
100%
(4)
Unallocated
     200,000
   _________
TOTAL
   3,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" means incremental 
expenditures incurred by the Project Executing Agencies in carrying out their 
respective activities under the Project, such as land title verification, 
environmental analyses of Subprojects and the cost of office equipment, but excluding 
the salaries and emoluments of the Borrower's civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 150,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (3) on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1999; and 
(b)
payments under Category (1) above unless the respective Subproject 
Agreement shall have been entered into between the RDC or, as the case may be, the 
Borrower and the Beneficiary Community for which the Grant has been approved. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for (a) all 
works and goods; (b) services of consulting firms costing less than the equivalent 
$100,000; and (c) services of individual consultants costing less than the equivalent 
of $50,000, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Page  8
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in (i) carrying out the 
Inception Phase of the Land Reform Programme; (ii) reducing rural poverty in the 
territory of the Borrower; and (iii) increasing agricultural productivity in the said 
territory.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Land Acquisition Fund
Establishment of a land acquisition fund to be funded by the Borrower and 
utilized to finance land acquisition by the Beneficiary Communities.
Part B:
Community Subprojects 
1.
Provision of Grants to Beneficiary Communities to finance settlement costs and 
on-land investments on farms acquired directly by the Beneficiary Communities. 
2.
Provision of Grants to Beneficiary Communities to finance settlement costs and 
community Subprojects on farms acquired by the Borrower, nongovernmental organizations 
or other private sector entities and transferred to the Beneficiary Communities. 
3.
The provision of technical advisory services to support the activities required 
under this Part of the Project.
Part C: 
Building Institutional Capacity
1.
Building institutional capacity for the Inception Phase of the Land Reform 
Programme, including:  
(a)
the strengthening of the Technical Support Unit, the RDCs and 
associations of the Beneficiary Communities; 
(b)
the provision to Beneficiary Communities and RDCs of mobilization 
assistance, including (i) workshops to determine priority needs of the Beneficiary 
Communities, (ii) training of community groups in organization skills, and (iii) the 
provision of technical advisory services, including assistance in the preparation of 
community Subproject proposals; 
(c)
the provision of specialized skills training in areas such as monitoring 
techniques, financial administration, and specific technical topics relating to 
community Subprojects; 
(d)
publicity campaigns, including the printing of materials, radio programs, 
and workshops; and 
(e)
the provision of technical advisory services for the Technical Support 
Unit, the RDCs, and the Beneficiary Communities. 
2.
Administration, supervision, and monitoring of Project activities, including 
field supervision and monitoring and overall coordination of Project activities by the 
Technical Support Unit and the RDCs.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  9
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines), subject to (a) the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Community Participation 
Goods and works included in a Subproject estimated to cost not more than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,400,000 
equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works or goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for small works and goods required for 
Subprojects and costing $50,000 equivalent or more, the following procedures shall 
apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any 
contract under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
Page  10
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to (a) the modifications thereto set forth 
in paragraph 2 of this Part A, (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The shortlist of consultants to provide services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for technical advisory services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Community Participation
Services required to assist Beneficiary Communities in carrying out Subprojects 
may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Borrower and the 
Association specified in the Project Operational Manual. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical advisory services estimated to cost less than $50,000, 
being services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
Page  11
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
Part A: 
Appraisal and Approval of Land Acquisition and Subprojects 
1.
The Borrower shall (a) establish a Technical Support Unit in a form and with 
functions satisfactory to the Association; and (b) assign to the Technical Support 
Unit staff, acceptable to the Association, including (i) a Project manager, (ii) a 
financial analyst, and (iii) such other staff as shall be listed in the Project 
Operational Manual. 
2.
The Technical Support Unit through IMCRD shall be responsible for (a) the 
overall management and supervision of the Project, including (i) the approval of the 
annual operating plans for the Project and the respective resource allocations to each 
RDC, (ii) field supervisions, and (iii) the installation and operation of a management 
information system; (b) the carrying out of public information campaigns to 
disseminate information about the Project; (c) commissioning of technical studies; (d) 
evaluation of the overall impact of the Project; and (e) dissemination of experiences 
gathered from the Project.
3.
A Beneficiary Community seeking to acquire land with financing from the Land 
Acquisition Fund shall (a) identify the land which it proposes to acquire; and (b) 
directly negotiate the acquisition of the land. 
4.
The Beneficiary Community shall present its proposals for financing to the RDC 
in which the land is located for the RDC's approval, together with a provisional 
agreement of sale of land to the Beneficiary Community. The procedures for the 
approval by the RDC of the agreement of sale of land shall be set out in the Project 
Operational Manual. 
5.
(a)
An RDC shall be responsible for the appraisal, approval, and overseeing 
of Subproject proposals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent as set out in 
the Project Operational Manual, and to that end shall seek the assistance of the 
Technical Support Unit as and when required. 
(b)
The RDCs shall each exercise its appraisal and approval functions through 
a subcommittee established by the RDC for that purpose.
(c)
The Technical Support Unit shall be responsible for the appraisal and 
approval of Subproject proposals estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more. 
Said appraisal and approval shall be carried out in accordance with the guidelines and 
Page  12
criteria set out in the Project Operational Manual and the provisions of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
After the approval of a Subproject proposal, an RDC shall promptly notify 
the Technical Support Unit of the RDC's approval of the proposal, and the Technical 
Support Unit or the RDC (if the Project Operational Manual so allows) shall instruct 
the PFI to disburse the necessary funds directly to the Beneficiary Community 
concerned with respect to any Subprojects approved by either the RDC or the Technical 
Support Unit. 
6.
(a)
The Beneficiary Community shall require the approval of the RDC or, as 
the case may be, the Technical Support Unit to conclude the acquisition of any land to 
be financed from proceeds of the Land Acquisition Fund.
(b)
The Technical Support Unit shall, during the execution of the Project, 
once every year carry out a random audit to determine whether the Beneficiary 
Communities continue to meet the eligibility criteria set out in the Project 
Operational Manual. 
7.
(a)
A Beneficiary Community granted title to, or legal possession of, land 
acquired under the Project shall thereafter decide among its members how the land is 
to be farmed or subdivided among the individual households of the Beneficiary 
Community.
(b)
The price of land acquired and to be funded from the proceeds of the Land 
Acquisition Fund shall (i) after the approval by the RDC of the financing proposal for 
such land, (ii) at the request of the RDC to the Technical Support Unit, and (iii) on 
the instructions of the Technical Support Unit, be paid by the PFI directly to the 
seller of the land in accordance with the procedures set out or referred to in the 
Project Operational Manual and the provisions of this Agreement.
(c)
Each RDC and the Technical Support Unit shall utilize standardized 
technical, environmental, and institutional parameters set out in the Project 
Operational Manual in the evaluation and approval of such financing proposals.
Part B:
PFI Account, Participation Agreements and Subproject Agreements 
1.
The Technical Support Unit shall open an account (the PFI Account) at a 
financial institution (the PFI) acceptable to the Association to be used exclusively 
by the RDCs and the Technical Support Unit for the making of Grants to Beneficiary 
Communities.
2.
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement (an RDC Participation Agreement) 
satisfactory to the Association with each RDC participating in the Project. The RDC 
Participation Agreement shall, inter alia: 
(i)
provide for the terms and conditions governing requests by the 
RDCs for 
disbursement of funds under the Project to the 
Beneficiary Communities; 
(ii)
delegate to the RDC the Borrower's authority to operate the PFI 
Account; and 
(iii)
set out the pertinent guidelines of the Project Operational Manual 
applicable 
to disbursement of Grants to Beneficiary Communities.
3.
For the purposes of each Grant: (i) an RDC with respect to a Subproject proposal 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent approved by the RDC, and (ii) the 
Borrower with respect to a Subproject proposal estimated to cost $50,000 or more 
equivalent approved by IMCRD, shall each enter into an agreement (the Subproject 
Agreement) satisfactory to the Association with the Beneficiary Community concerned in 
the form of the model provided in the Project Operational Manual, setting forth the 
respective obligations of the parties thereunder, including details of disbursement 
schedules and procurement procedures, the amount of the Beneficiary Community's 
contribution to the cost of the Subproject, and the right of the RDC or, as the case 
may be, IMCRD to: 
Page  13
(i)
require the Beneficiary Community (A) to carry out the Subproject 
with due 
diligence and efficiency, in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, 
environmental, and technical practices, and to 
maintain 
adequate records; and (B) upon completion of the Subproject, to make 
provision for the maintenance of the productive assets resulting therefrom;
(ii)
obtain all such information as the Association or the Borrower 
shall 
reasonably request relating to the implementation of the 
Subproject and the 
performance of the Beneficiary Community thereunder; 
and 
(iii)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary Community to the 
use of the 
proceeds of a Grant upon failure by such Beneficiary 
Community to perform its 
obligations under such agreement.
Part C:
Entitlements and Counterpart Contributions
1.
The following facilities shall be made available to a Beneficiary Community with 
respect to an approved Subproject, namely: (i) a one-time cash start-up grant, and 
(ii) funding for implementing the approved Subprojects (including funding for 
technical advisory services for the design or implementation of Subprojects). Such 
grants and funding shall not exceed the limits set out in the Project Operational 
Manual. 
2.
A Beneficiary Community shall be required to make counterpart contributions to 
the costs of a Subproject approved for financing under the Project in the form of 
labor, cash and/or local materials in accordance with the procedures established in 
the Project Operational Manual. Contributions by the Beneficiary Community in cash, 
labor or in kind shall be taken into account in determining the amount of the 
Beneficiary Community's counterpart contributions to the said costs.
Part D:
Project Operational Manual 
1.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, prepare and furnish to the 
Association a Project Operational Manual in a form and substance satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Association. The Borrower shall obtain the consent of the Association 
before making any material changes in the Project Operational Manual and shall not 
make any such changes in the Project Operational Manual that are, in the opinion of 
the Association, likely to affect materially or adversely the carrying out of the 
Project or the achievement of the objectives of the Project. 
2.
The Project Operational Manual shall set out details of (i) the criteria for 
Grant eligibility; (ii) the procedures to be used in calculating the amount of 
eligible funding to be made available to a Beneficiary Community; and (iii) 
standardized technical, environmental, and institutional requirements for the Project.
Part E:
Information, Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting 
1.
The information-dissemination campaigns included in the Project shall be carried 
out by IMCRD with the support of the Technical Support Unit. 
2.
The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 2001 (through a subcontract with 
an independent entity acceptable to the Association), carry out an evaluation of the 
Project, assembling of information relating to the Project, and the dissemination of 
the experiences and lessons derived from the Project, and promptly thereafter furnish 
the results of said evaluation to the Association for its review and comments. 
3.
RDCs shall be responsible for (i) the formulation of strategies to extend 
community mobilization to communities lacking in organization and not initially in a 
position to benefit from the Project; and (ii) making requests to the Technical 
Support Unit for the funding and support of said extension strategies.
4.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Page  14
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, including the submission to the Association of semiannual reports on such 
monitoring and evaluation;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 31, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed, pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by February 28, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter. 
5.
(a)
The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, no later than 
12 months after the Effective Date, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying 
out the Project. The said midterm review shall cover, among other things, (i) progress 
made in meeting the Project's objectives; and (ii) the performance by the Borrower and 
the Project Execution Agencies of their respective obligations under the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out, no later than one month after the 
completion of the report of the midterm review referred to in subparagraph (a) above, 
the recommendations of said review as agreed with the Association and set out in an 
action plan satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  15
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
Page  16
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
