                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25547

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (CPL-39710 SCL-3971A SCPD-3971S)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$115.5 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                        FOR A DECENTRALIZATION AND IMPROVEMENT
                                    OF SECONDARY EDUCATION
                     AND POLIMODAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                  (AR-SECONDARY EDUCATION 2)




                                            October 12, 2004




Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbena Regional Office

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective October 12, 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Argentina pesos
                                        AR$1 = US$ AR$0.33
                                        US$ 1 = AR$2.96

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1    December 1

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGN             National General Accounting Office (Auditoría General de la Nación)
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
DINIECE         National Direction of Information and Learning Assessment (Dirección Nacional
                de Información y Evaluación de la Calidad Educativa)
EGB             Basic (nine grades) General Education (Educación General Básica)
EGB1            First Three Grades of EGB
EGB2            Second Three Grades of EGB
EGB3            Third Three Grades of EGB
LA              Loan Agreement
MECyT           National Ministry of Education, Science and Technology
                (Ministerio de Educación Ciencia y Tecnología)
MIS             Management Information System
NPCU            National Project Coordination Unit
PME             Provincial Ministry of Education
POLIMODAL       Three-year Upper Secondary Education
PPCU            Provincial Project Coordination Unit
PREGASE         Program to Strengthen Provincial Education Management (Programa de Reforma
                de la Gestión Administrativa de los Sistemas Educativos Provinciales)
PRODYMES I      Decentralization and Improvement of Secondary Education (Primer Programa de
                Descentralización y Mejoramiento de la Educación Secundaria)
PRODYMES II     Decentralization and Improvement of Secondary Education and Polimodal
                Education Development Project (Programa de Descentralización y
                Mejoramiento de la Educación Secundaria y Desarrollo de la Educación
                Polimodal)
QAG             Quality Assurance Group
REDFIE          National Statistical Information (Red Federal de Información Educativa)
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SINEC           National Learning Assessment System (Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de la
                Calidad Educativa)

                             Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                          Country Director:       Axel van Trotsenburg
                   Director/Sector Manager        Ana-Maria Arriagada/Eduardo Velez Bustillo
            Sector Leader/Task Team Leader        Jesko S. Hentschel/Juan Prawda

                                        ARGENTINA
                     DECENTRALIZATION AND IMPROVEMENT
                              OF SECONDARY EDUCATION
             AND POLIMODAL EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                            (AR-SECONDARY EDUCATION 2)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               25
9. Partner Comments                                                              26
10. Additional Information                                                       27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            41

Project ID: P006057                                                  Project Name: AR-SECONDARY ED. 2
Team Leader: Juan Prawda                                             TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 12, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: AR-SECONDARY ED. 2                                       L/C/TF Number: CPL-39710; SCL-3971A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3971S
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (25%); Secondary education
                            (65%); Tertiary education (10%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (S);
                            Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/26/1994                                     Effective: 01/31/1996                03/12/1997
     Appraisal: 04/05/1995                                         MTR: 09/03/1999                  09/03/1999
      Approval: 12/21/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 04/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:                 Eduardo Velez Bustillo                         Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:             Juan Prawda                                    Guiomar N. de Mello
ICR Primary Author:             Juan Prawda


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Decentralization and Improvement of Secondary Education and Polimodal Education Development
Project (known in Argentina as Programa de Descentralización y Mejoramiento de la Educación
Secundaria y Desarrollo de la Educación Polimodal - PRODYMES II) aimed at: (a) strengthening the
institutional capacity in the Provincial Ministries of Education (PMEs) of the Provinces of Buenos Aires,
Chaco, Corrientes, Entre Rios, Salta, Santa Cruz and Tucuman and the Municipality of the City of Buenos
Aires under a decentralized framework; (b) increasing the quality and efficiency of secondary education in
grades 7 to 9 (known as EGB3) and 10 to 12 (known as polimodal); and (c) increasing and improving
physical capacity of the school's facilities to serve the secondary school-aged population more effectively.

PRODYMES II was conceived in the framework of the Educational Reform emerging from the
Decentralization Law 24.049 (1992) and the Federal Education Law 24.195 (April 14, 1993). It was also
designed as a follow up investment to the Bank-financed project for the Decentralization and Improvement
of Secondary Education - PRODYMES I (Ln.3794­AR), that closed on June 30, 2001, expanding to eight
new jurisdictions in the country. The Decentralization Law transferred the responsibility of implementing
public education to the Provinces for preschool to upper secondary (grade 12). The Federal Law of
Education modified the educational structure and established the basis for a curricular change.
Accordingly, the provinces mentioned above adopted this new structure which provided one grade of
preschool, a six-year primary cycle (divided into two cycles of three years each labeled EGB1 and EGB2)
and a three-year cycle of lower secondary (EGB3). These educational cycles constitute the mandatory
Basic General Education (Educación General Básica - EGB) intended for all children and youth in the
corresponding age-cohort for the entire country. In addition, the Educational Reform also intended to offer,
in a non-compulsory fashion, the opportunity for a three-year upper secondary known as polimodal
education. Before the introduction of the education reform and its obligatory nine grades plus preschool,
only seven grades of basic education were mandatory in the above-mentioned provinces. PRODYMES I
supported the administrative reform in the education sector of six provinces (Buenos Aires, Mendoza,
Misiones, Neuquen, Rio Negro and Santa Fe).

3.2 Revised Objective:

At the request of the Borrower, on January 13, 1997, the Board approved the first change in the project's
original objectives and design, and the Government countersigned in March 3, 1997. Accordingly, the new
objectives were restated solely as contributing to the transformation of the education system within the
framework of the Borrower's Federal Education Law, by assisting participating schools (630) in the
development and implementation of EGB3 and Polimodal Education. The original objective concerning the
institutional strengthening capacity of the PMEs was deleted in this revision.

The above request was mainly a consequence of a significant delay in having Article VI, Section 6.01(a) to
the Loan Agreement (LA) complied with by the participating jurisdictions and thus seriously hindering
Loan effectiveness. There was reluctance on the part of seven (out of eight) participating Jurisdictional
Legislatures to approve the Subsidiary Provincial Loan Agreements that would commit the provinces to
absorbing part of the project costs as well as the financial burden of the Subsidiary Loan. This situation
was further underscored by the deterioration of the economic situation in the jurisdictions at the end of
1995, as a consequence mainly of the economic crisis in Mexico of December 2004, which widespread to
the rest of the region (Tequila effect). This issue was not present during the preparation process in 1994



                                                       - 2 -

and early 1995, where the participating jurisdictions fully supported the notion that they would partially
absorb the cost of PRODYMES II. Given the impasse, the National Ministry of Education (MECyT)
decided to change the project objectives and design. This re-engineering transformed the original Loan
design to a national Loan further stressing the pedagogical aspects of the EGB3 and the polimodal levels
proposed by the Federal Law of Education instead of the administrative dimension conceived in
PRODYMES I that PRODYMES II was originally supposed to follow up.

The second modification of the project's objectives took place in 2002. To address the ever deteriorating
economic and financial situation in Argentina since mid-1999, the Borrower requested and the Board
approved on October 22, 2002, to reallocate part of the Loan proceeds to permit the financing to acquire
basic durable learning supplies for high-risk students attending targeted preschools and the first six years of
mandatory education (EGB1 and EGB2). The Borrower countersigned this amendment on January 7,
2003.

3.3 Original Components:

The original LA included the following four components: (A) institutional strengthening activities in the
PMEs of the participating jurisdictions; (B) increasing the quality of public secondary education in the
participating jurisdictions; (C) construction, expansion and rehabilitation of secondary education
schools in the participating jurisdictions; and (D) strengthening the capacity of the national project
coordination unit (NPCU) to coordinate and monitor project execution and provide technical assistance
to the participating jurisdictions.

Component A included: (i) the improvement of the educational administration of the participating PMEs
comprised of strengthening their capacity in the strategic planning, budgeting and monitoring of the
secondary school system, modernization of key central units and establishing a regulatory framework
attuned to the decentralization process in progress; (ii) development of management information systems,
integrating modules for education statistics, financial information, physical inventory, human resources
management and educational research; (iii) development of a quality evaluation system in coordination with
the learning assessment system financed by PRODYMES I (Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de la
Calidad Educativa - SINEC); (iv) training of staff; and (v) in the particular case of the Province of Buenos
Aires, three diagnostic studies concerning the management of the secondary education subsystem and its
adaptation to the polimodal curricular model, especially the planning, structure and functions of an
educational supervision system.

Component B included the: (i) acquisition and utilization of education resources such as textbooks, school
libraries, basic science laboratories, learning modules in biology, physics and multimedia information,
teacher guides, maps, charts, dictionaries and multimedia equipment such as televisions, video-recorders
and cassettes; (ii) provision of in-service training to teachers in the use of education materials and new
technologies such as computers and to prepare them for the new curriculum changes; (iii) provision of
in-service training to school principals and supervisors in the areas of school management and pedagogical
monitoring and supervision; (iv) planning and development of the polimodal education curriculum; (v)
design and implementation of school-based institutional development and innovation projects; and (vi) in
the particular case of the Province of Buenos Aires, diagnostic studies and action plans on polimodal
education curriculum development, improvement of the internal and external efficiency of secondary
education, and the educational innovations linked with the labor market.

Component C included the construction, expansion and rehabilitation of secondary education schools
required for the envisaged increase in EGB3 and polimodal student enrollment in the participating



                                                    - 3 -

jurisdictions.

Component D included activities to strengthen the capacity of the: (i) national project coordination unit
(NPCU) to coordinate and monitor project execution following Bank procedures and to provide technical
assistance to the participating jurisdictions; and (ii) PMEs to execute project activities.

The following three cost and financial tables, as estimated at appraisal, provide the: (i) financing plan by
category of expenditure and source of financing; (ii) estimated total counterpart funding from the
participatory jurisdictions during the implementation period (1996-2000); and (iii) total project cost by
component and source of funding:

     Category of expenditure                Appraisal estimate total cost         Percentage of Financing
                                                   and financing
                                                   (US$ million)

                                       Total           IBRD          Provinces      IBRD        Provinces



 Civil works                           49.3             32.0            17.3        65.0           35.0

 Land                                    0.4            0.0              0.4         0.0          100.0

 Informatics, communication,           38.9             31.1             7.8        80.0           20.0
 equipment, vehicles,
 furniture, training, teaching
 materials and services

 Consultant services (studies,         37.3             33.5             3.8        90.0           10.0
 training, technical assistance)

 Scholarships                            2.1            2.1              0.0        100.0          0.0

 Grants                                  2.5            2.5              0.0        100.0          0.0

 Incremental recurrent                 13.0             6.5              6.5        50.0           50.0
 expenditures

 Project implementation costs            8.7            7.8              0.9        90.0           10.0

 Taxes                                 12.3             0.0             12.3         0.0          100.0

 Total                                 164.5           115.5            49.0        70.2           29.8
 Source: Table 4.2 Financing Plan. Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
 The World Bank, Report 14559-AR, page 25, December 1, 1995




                                                       - 4 -

           Jurisdiction            Appraisal estimate of the total
                                  counterpart funds by Jurisdiction
                                           (US$ million)

 Buenos Aires                                   1.6
 Chaco                                          6.0
 Corrientes                                     6.5
 Entre Ríos                                     6.3
 Municipality of Buenos Aires                   14.7
 Salta                                          5.7
 Santa Cruz                                     3.4
 Tucumán                                        4.5
 NPCU                                           0.3

 Total                                          49.0

 Source: Table 4.3. Estimated Counterpart Funding by Jurisdiction, SAR.
 The World Bank, Report 14559-AR, page 26, December 1, 1995

           Component                      Appraisal estimate total cost          Bank        Counterpart
                                          by component and by source           Percentage     Percentage
                                                 (US$ million)                  of Total       of Total

                                      Total          Bank          Counterpart


 Institutional Strengthening          32.4            27.2             5.2       84.2            15.8

 Educational quality
 improvement                          56.4            41.0            15.4       72.7            27.3

 Infrastructure improvement           67.0            38.9            28.1       58.1            41.9

 Project coordination unit             8.7            8.4              0.3       96.6            3.4

 Total                                164.5          115.5            49.0       70.2            29.8
 Totals include contingencies.

3.4 Revised Components:

The Board approved the Loan of US$115.5 million for this project on December 21, 1995. The LA was
signed on August 7, 1996, and became effective on March 12, 1997. After Board approval, the LA
underwent six amendments. The first one modified the original project objectives and design (as stated in
section 3.2 above). The fourth amendment of October 2002 allowed for the reallocation of part of the Loan
proceeds to be used to acquire durable learning supplies for the high-risk students in preschool education,
EGB1 and EGB2 schools, thus modifying for the second time the project's objectives.              These two
amendments had to be approved by the Board. None of the other four amendments affected or modified
project objectives.   The dates of each amendment appear in Annex 7 of this report.           The types of
amendments included: (i) a total re-engineering of the original design; (ii) changes of closing dates; (iii)
modifications in the loan allocations in Schedule I of the Loan Agreement; (iv) increases in the percentages
of expenditures to be financed by the Loan in Schedule I of the Loan Agreement; (v) increases in some of
the procurement ceilings in Schedule IV of the Loan Agreement; and (vi) inclusion of new eligible
expenditures.




                                                     - 5 -

The first amendment to the LA modified the original components into the following ones: (A) improvement
of educational resources of participating schools; (B) improvement of school infrastructure of
participating schools; (C) strengthening of institutional and teaching capacity at participating schools;
and (D) project coordination and execution.

Modified component A included the provision of: (i) multimedia centers including school libraries, books,
documents, maps, educational CD-ROMs, educational videos, videocassette, television and projector; (ii)
computer laboratories with 8 state-of-the-art computers, one server and six printers per laboratory; and (iii)
natural science and technology laboratories.

Modified component B included the construction and rehabilitation of classrooms to: (i) accommodate the
educational resources acquired by the project under component A; and (ii) appropriately implement the
EGB3 and polimodal levels.

Modified component C included: (i) the training of teachers, school principals and supervisors of
participating schools in the appropriate utilization of the educational resources acquired by the project
under component A; and (ii) the promotion for the design and implementation of school-based quality
innovative projects by school teachers and principals of participating schools.

Modified component D included the strengthening of the capacity of the NPCU and the 24 provincial
project coordination units (PPCU).

The first amendment to the LA included four very important conceptual changes. First, it modified the
ethos of the investment from a purely managerial emphasis in the original design to a pedagogical one,
where improvement of the quality of education and the implementation of the new educational structure and
curriculum envisaged by the Federal Law of Education, were put at the top of the educational policy
agenda. Second, the scope of the modified design was extended to cover the entire 24 jurisdictions of the
country instead of the original eight jurisdictions in the original design. Third, the thrust of this investment
was targeted to 630 high-risk EGB3 (lower secondary) and polimodal schools in the entire country selected
on the basis of their educational and social vulnerability (i.e., located in poor urban and rural areas, and
having high repetition and dropout rates, low learning achievements and a minimum of 250 students per
school). Finally, instead of having eight provincial loans as envisaged in the original design, the
modification included one Loan to the National Government with allocation of Loan proceeds to
participating schools in the totality of jurisdictions in the country (24).

The two cost and financial tables below indicate: (i) the modified financing plan by category of expenditure
and source of financing; and (ii) total project cost by component and source of funding.




                                                        - 6 -

     Category of expenditure                Modified estimate total cost               Percentage of Financing
                                                   and financing
                                                  (US$ million)

                                       Total           IBRD          Counterpart        IBRD         Counterpart



 Civil works                            64.8            42.1             22.7             65              35

 Goods                                  65.4            48.2             17.2             80              20

 Consultant services                    21.7            13.4              8.3             90              10

 School Grants for school-              4.3              4.3               0             100              0
 based innovative projects

 Implementation costs                   8.3              7.5              0.8             90              10

 Total                                 164.5           115.5             49.0            70.0            30.0
 The unallocated of Schedule I to the modified LA has been allocated to different expenditure categories.



To respond to the extreme financial and economic difficulties faced by Argentina since mid-1999, the Bank
and the Borrower agreed on an emergency plan whereby part of the Loan proceeds were allocated for the
purchase of a packet of needed durable basic school materials and supplies (costing about US$10 per
packet) for approximately 986,500 students of 4,763 targeted high-risk EGB3 and polimodal schools in the
entire country. The targeting of these EGB3 and polimodal schools was based on their risk factor and was
calculated as a composite function of repetition and drop out rates, percentage of over-aged school
population and school location with respect to unsatisfied basic needs indicators. The acquisition of these
goods, estimated to cost less than US$10,000 equivalent per contract (school), was carried out by the
school's cooperative through local shopping acceptable to the Bank (at least three independent price
quotations). This agreement was included in the third amendment to the LA approved by Bank on April
30, 2002, and countersigned by the Borrower in June 3, 2002.

           Component                        Modified estimate total cost                 Bank        Counterpart
                                            by component and by source               Percentage       Percentage
                                                  (US$ million)                        of Total        of Total

                                       Total           Bank          Counterpart


 Provision of educational               55.5            40.3             15.2            72.6            27.4
 resources

 Infrastructure improvement             76.1            51.3             24.8            67.4            32.6

 Strengthening institutional            24.3            16.7              7.6            68.7            31.3
 and teaching capacity

 National and provincial                8.6              7.2              1.4            83.7            16.3
 project execution

 Total                                 164.5           115.5             49.0            70.0            30.0
 Totals include contingencies. Totals, both horizontally as well as vertically, may not add due to rounding.



                                                       - 7 -

As the economic crisis deepened in Argentina, the Borrower and the Bank came to a new agreement
whereby the above-mentioned emergency plan was extended for the acquisition of approximately 2.1
million additional packets of needed durable basic school materials and supplies for an equal amount of
high-risk students in about 14,652 targeted preschools, EGB1 and EGB2 schools across the entire country.
This new agreement was included in the fourth amendment to the LA approved by the Board on October
22, 2002, and countersigned by the Borrower on January 7, 2003.

Finally, as the difficulties of the financial and economic situation affected the Government's ability to
allocate the required counterpart project resources in a timely manner, the Bank agreed, at the request of
the Borrower, to extend the original Loan closing date of June 30, 2001, four times: (i) to June 30, 2002, in
the second amendment approved by the Bank on September 19, 2000 and countersigned by the Borrower in
January 12, 2001; (ii) to February 28, 2003, in the third amendment approved by the Bank in April 30,
2002, and countersigned by the Borrower on June 3, 2002; (iii) to June 30, 2003, in the fourth amendment
approved by the Bank on October 22, 2002, and countersigned by the Borrower on January 7, 2003; and
(iv) finally, to April 30, 2004 in the fifth amendment approved unilaterally by the Bank on May 6, 2003.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Even though no formal Quality at Entry Criteria was required at the time this project was prepared and
appraised in 1994-1995, for purposes of evaluating quality at entry according to current Bank Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) standards, this ICR follows the QAG requirements in evaluating the project
below. Firstly, the project was consistent with the Argentina Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) available
at that time (Report No. 14278-AR of April 10, 1995) which emphasized as main goals poverty reduction
and human resource development (paras. 69-72). Accordingly, the CAS highlighted the need to improve
the efficiency and the quality of the education system, and assist the Government in its efforts to
decentralize the basic and secondary education system to the 23 provinces of the country and the
Municipality of the City of Buenos Aires (para. 72, page 24).

Secondly, the project was prepared by a qualified technical team, which included representatives of both
the National and Jurisdictional educational authorities of the eight participating jurisdictions. The
preparation process had the political support at the national level as well as in the eight participating
Jurisdictional Governments.      During the preparation phase, these jurisdictions fully understood and
supported that the proposed Loan was going to entail Subsidiary Provincial Loans (following the model of
the preceding Loan - PRODYMES I, Loan 3794-AR). After Board approval of the LA on December 12,
1995, and the signing of the Loan Agreement on August 6, 1996, however, this proved not to be the case.
When it came time for the Jurisdictional Legislative bodies to approve the Provincial Loan, they would not.
This unwillingness on the part of the participating jurisdictions stalled the Loan effectiveness process, to
the point that the National Government decided to request a drastic amendment to the Loan Agreement. It
is the view of the ICR mission that jurisdictional ownership needed to be better assessed by the Bank and
the Borrower teams during the preparation phase. This oversight was one of the main causes for the
15-month delay between Board approval of the original Loan Agreeement and the effective date of the
amended LA on March 12, 1997.

Thirdly, the Borrower included in the original project design a set of project impact and monitoring
indicators and their baseline data (Annex J of the SAR). A thorough review of these indicators reveals that,
in essence, they are mostly input and process and, in some cases, output indicators, but they certainly do
not measure impact. Even the revised project design emerging from the first LA amendment is mostly an



                                                    - 8 -

input-oriented one. Nowadays, the Bank emphasizes results and impact-oriented projects, which are
thoroughly reviewed at the Quality Enhancement Process prior to appraisal. The Borrower also prepared a
Project Implementation Manual, which was later modified and aligned with the several amendments
experienced by the LA during the project's implementation cycle. Annex E of the SAR included estimated
benefits of the project, including, among others, salary differentials between workers with incomplete and
complete secondary schooling in selected metropolitan labor market areas of the country.

Overall, a careful review of the project preparation files reveals a few shortcomings when viewed by the
current quality at entrance criteria. Despite including a very detailed project implementation schedule in
Annex G of the SAR, and a distribution of responsibilities among all the project stakeholders in Annex H
of the SAR, the preparation team (Borrower and Bank) failed to undertake a thorough implementation
readiness assessment in some of the participating jurisdictions to verify project ownership. The project
design that was appraised in April 5, 1995, did not include a first-year procurement plan, nor detailed terms
of reference of the technical assistance and studies required during the implementation cycle. Finally, no
social assessment, such as surveys to students, parents, teachers and employers, was made during the
preparation and appraisal phases concerning: (i) the demand for EGB3 and upper secondary (polimodal)
education; (ii) acceptability of the new educational structure proposed by the Federal Law of Education
among teachers, school principals and other jurisdictional educational authorities; and (iii) employers' view
on the competencies and skills required by graduates of the EGB3 and polimodal levels.

Given that, in the view of the ICR team, the shortcoming manifested during the preparation process
(especially the fact that the project's objectives had to be redefined and approved one more time by the
Board) largely outweigh the strengths outlined above, the ICR mission ranks the Quality at Entry of this
project as unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

According to OED Implementation Completion Report Evaluation Guidelines (dated June 30, 1999), if
an approved project was restructured because of faulty project design or poor implementation so that its
original objectives could not be achieved, like is the case of PRODYMES II, the assessment of outcomes
should be related to the original objectives. Under this directive, the ICR team ranks the achievement of the
original objectives of PRODYMES II as unsatisfactory, and this ranking is the one reflected in Section 2 of
the ICR. Having said the above, the following paragraphs include the ICR team assessment of the
achievement of the revised project objectives.

The revised project's objectives aimed at the transformation of the education system within the framework
of the Borrower's Federal Education Law, by assisting 630 participating schools in the development and
implementation of the EGB3 and Polimodal levels. The reformulated PRODYMES II includes in its
Operational Manual the impact variables agreed upon with the Bank to be measured during project
implementation. Agreement was also reached with the Bank at the outset of project implementation not to
create a parallel management information system to measure these variables, but instead to rely on the
Ministry of Education's two official management information systems (MISs). These MISs consisted of
the National Statistical Information Network (Red Federal de Información Educativa - REDFIE) and the
National Learning Assessment System (Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de la Calidad de la Educación -
SINEC), which were both strengthened by the previous Bank-financed investment PRODYMES I.

The ICR mission was not able to rigorously assess the impact of the project's achievement of its objectives



                                                     - 9 -

for the following reasons. The latest information made available to the ICR mission by the National
Direction of Information and Learning Assessment (Dirección Nacional de Información y Evaluación de
la Calidad Educativa - DINIECE) of MECyT, formerly SINEC and REDFIE, covers, for most of the
agreed impact variables, information up to the year 2001, and for one variable (school enrollment), up to
the year 2002. The bulk of the project's quality-oriented interventions were implemented in the period 2001
to 2003. In the particular case of the learning assessment findings, there are four census measurements
carried out during the life of the project corresponding to the period 1997 to 2000, and two samples for the
years 2002 and 2003. However, DINIECE had not yet processed the results of the most recent learning
assessment measurements at the time of the ICR writing. In addition, the 2002 sample does not necessarily
include the totality of the 630 project schools, thus hindering the analytical comparison (whenever this will
take place).   The project's impact assessment will be partially possible once the 2003 findings are made
available.   The non-uniform implementation progress of the education reform in the country has
implications for the statistical information on the 7th grade, specifically whether it is part of the new EGB3
structure, or part of the old last grade of primary education, and thus highly distorts the analysis carried out
by the ICR mission.

In addition, the reformulated project emerging from the first amendment approved in 1997 did not include
an experimental design to measure the agreed project impact indicators comprising two comparable groups
of EGB3 and polimodal schools (the control group and the 630 project schools). In early 2001, an
agreement was reached between the Bank and the Borrower to select a control group comprised of 460
comparable EGB3 and polimodal schools from the entire country with the treatment group of 630 project
schools. This control group was selected with the same selection criteria utilized for the 630 project
schools. However, no statistical matching procedure was ever carried by the Borrower nor requested by
the Bank. Notwithstanding these methodological shortcomings, the ICR mission gathered information that
allows some preliminary assessments to be made on the achievement of project objectives.                  These
assessments are further backed by visits to about 10 percent of the universe of project schools to make
observations during the nine supervision missions carried out since 2000.

Enrollment in the polimodal project schools increased by 30 percent in the period 1997-2002 (from
176,911 to 230,004 students), as compared with an average 26 percent increase at the national level (from
1,130,096 to 1,424,248 students) and a 23.2 percent increase in the control group (from 154,457 to
190,271 students). Significant enrollment increases were registered in the States of Catamarca, Chubut,
Formosa, La Pampa and Neuquén.

Average repetition rates in project schools in the three grades comprising the EGB3 level had the greatest
decrease, from 16.7 in 1997 to 11.8 percent in 2001, while in the three grades of the polimodal level this
reduction was from 8.2 to 6.7 percent in the same period. For the control group, the average repetition
rates in the 1997-2001 period went from 12.4 to 11.3 percent in EGB3 schools and from 6.7 to 5.2 percent
at the polimodal level, while at the national level the rates decreased from 9.7 to 8.5 percent in EGB3 and
from 6.4 to five percent at the polimodal level.

Average promotion rates in the three grades comprising the EGB3 level in project schools increased from
62.2 to 70.5 percent between 1997 to 2001, while in the three grades of the polimodal level there was a
slight decrease from 76.6 to 76.2 percent. For the control group there was a decrease in the average
promotion rate in the 1997-2001 period from 89.4 to 78.8 percent in EGB3 schools and an increase from
79.6 to 80.1 percent at the polimodal level. At the national level, for the same period, the average
promotion rate in EGB3 schools increased from 75 to 78.9 percent in EGB3 schools and from 77.7 to 78.5
percent at the polimodal level.




                                                     - 10 -

Average dropout rates in the three grades comprising the EGB3 level in project schools decreased from
11.9 in 1997 to 9.7 percent in 2001, while in the three grades of the polimodal level the rates increased
from 4.4 to 5.1 percent. For the control group the reduction in the 1997-2001 period went from 8.4 to 5.4
percent in EGB3 schools and from 4.3 to four percent at the polimodal level. At the national level the
decrease was from 9.5 to 7.4 percent in EGB3 schools but there was an increase from 6.4 to 8.6 percent in
the polimodal level in the 1997-2001 period.

Learning achievement in language in project schools decreased from 56 to 51.5 percent, while those of
mathematics increased from 52 to 53.7 percent in the 1997-2000 period.              Learning achievement in
language in the control group decreased from 59.5 to 51.5 percent, while those of mathematics increased
from 55.4 to 57.6 percent in the 1997-2000 period. Learning achievement in language at the national level
decreased from 65.2 to 59.1 percent, while those of mathematics also decreased from 62.3 to 61.3 percent
in the 1997-2000 period. The ICR team lacked more updated learning assessment findings to make any
conjectures with respect to the project's impact on improving learning outcomes in participating schools.

Finally, as a consequence of increased enrollment in the polimodal level, especially in poor areas where the
project and control group of schools are located, the number of students per teacher in project schools
slightly increased from 10 to 12 in the 1997-1999 period, while in the control group the increase was even
higher, from 11 to 13.        At the national level, this indicator decreased from nine to eight in the
above-mentioned period.

The visit to more than 60 EGB3 and polimodal project schools during the last nine Bank supervision
missions carried out since 2000 provided the ICR team with the following four sets of valuable qualitative
information concerning apparent improvement in the learning and teaching processes. First, the learning
inputs provided by the project have enriched the learning and teaching processes, making them less abstract
and more concrete in the laboratories (science and informatics, as well as in the multimedia center). These
learning inputs have allowed students and teachers to: (i) engage in different scientific experiments; (ii)
conduct a more thorough inquiry process; and (iii) create with their imaginations. Second, there is an
evident interdisciplinary effort displayed by participating teachers in using these learning inputs to address
the existing curriculum from different and complementary angles. Thirdly, there is a school behavioral
climate conducive to fostering teamwork among teachers from different disciplines and the carrying out of
school-based quality improvement projects. Finally, there is an encouraging sense of ownership on the part
of students, school principals and the school community with respect to the maintenance and safeguarding
of the learning materials and durable supplies provided by the project. A pending task would be to
correlate all of these qualitative observations with the 2003 learning findings to ascertain the degree, if any,
of improvement in learning outcomes related to the provision of these learning inputs.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The assessment that follows concerns the achievement of the revised project components, namely: (A)
improvement of educational resources of participating schools; (B) improvement of school infrastructure of
participating schools; (C) strengthening of institutional and teaching capacity at participating schools; and
(D) project coordination and execution.

Improvement of educational resources of participating schools (satisfactory). The project achieved all
but one of the agreed targets. Accordingly, the project provided: (i) 630 multimedia learning centers (one
to each project school), including 137,340 books, 12,450 sets of educational videos, CDs, maps,
magazines, 214,930 sets of assorted pedagogical materials, one PC, one TV and one projector; (ii) 630
computer laboratories including 6 PCs, one server, peripheral equipment, intranet devices, totaling 5,040



                                                     - 11 -

computers; and (iii) 630 science laboratories including appropriate materials to carry out experiments in
optics, electricity, biology, physics and chemistry. All these learning inputs were aligned with the existing
curriculum envisaged by the Education Reform in Argentina.

PRODYMES II financed (as mentioned in section 3.4) the acquisition and distribution of about 986,500
sets of basic durable school supplies which benefited an equal amount of students at 4,763 high-risk EGB3
and polimodal schools across the entire country, and another 2,088,387 students in 14,652 high-risk
preschool, EGB1 and EGB2 schools each received a set. The provision of these learning supplies was very
well-received by school stakeholders, especially parents, given that this measure helped mitigate the cost
impact of the economic crisis. The set of durable learning goods included maps, rulers, geometry sets,
basic pocket calculators, pencil sharpeners, notebooks and paper binders.

The Borrower carried out several impact evaluation studies concerning the utilization of these learning
materials provided by the project. A document synthesizing the findings of these evaluations was submitted
to the Bank and is listed in the supporting documents in Annex 7. These findings coincide with the positive
observations made by the different Bank supervision missions since 2000, registered in the corresponding
PSRs and detailed below.

One shortcoming of this project is the fact that the National Government through MECyT was unable to
complete a satisfactory negotiation with the telephone companies in Argentina to ensure connectivity to
internet at accessible prices for the 630 computer laboratories installed by PRODYMES II.                  This
unfortunate situation significantly constrained, and continues to constrain, the potential use of these
laboratories by the beneficiary school stakeholders.

Another shortcoming of the project was that Argentina's financial crisis since mid-1999 impeded the
release of project funds, especially those of counterpart nature. Therefore, the following two project
activities were suspended: (i) the second purchase of books for the multimedia centers; and (ii) the
provision of 630 technology laboratories. The physical spaces provided by the project to host these
technological laboratories were, in most of the cases, utilized as additional classrooms. The canceling of
these two project activities did not have a major overall impact on the rest of the components, albeit the
project schools could have benefited from these additional learning inputs.

Improvement of school infrastructure of participating schools (satisfactory). The ICR mission was
informed that out of a potential work program of 630 construction sites, only 561 project schools required
infrastructure investment. From the 561 projected works, 552 (98.4 percent of the total program) were
completed at the time of the Loan closing and are in full use. The civil works program was satisfactorily
completed in all but one of the participating jurisdictions (amounting to a total of 23 jurisdictions). The
nine works under construction in the province of Entre Rios at the time of the Loan closing will be
completed with fiscal provincial and national resources outside the project. The province of San Luis (the
24th jurisdiction) declined to participate in this project component. As for school furniture, 577 schools
received the furniture intended for the spaces built to accommodate the learning inputs, while another 20
schools slotted to receive it did not, and this furniture will be financed with fiscal resources. A total of 41
project schools did not require additional school furniture to be provided by the project.

Strengthening of institutional and teaching capacity at participating schools (satisfactory). The project
financed an assortment of training courses related to the learning inputs provided by PRODYMES II to the
630 project schools benefiting about 33,000 teachers from project and non-project schools. The training
activities included: (i) pedagogical animation (for 3,764 teachers); (ii) creative utilization of the multimedia
learning centers (for 2,400 teachers); (iii) pedagogical utilization of the computer laboratories (for 22,000


                                                      - 12 -

teachers, including many from non-project schools); and (iv) utilization of the science laboratories (for
4,700 teachers). The different supervision missions carried out since 2000, when the learning inputs
started arriving to the project schools, attested that in the schools visited where the in-service teacher
training had been carried out by the project for the utilization of the above-mentioned learning inputs,
training has been effective. Teachers and school principals interviewed by the ICR mission were of the
opinion that these in-service teacher-training activities have been relevant and very useful for their work.
These training activities offered several pedagogical ways to teach the new curriculum envisaged by the
Education Reform. The assessment made by the ICR mission coincides with the perceptions acquired in
previous supervision missions since 2000 and registered in the corresponding Aide-Memoires,
Back-to-Office Reports and Project Supervision Reports, all filed in IRIS.                Teachers were very
appreciative of the continuous presence and support of the pedagogical technical teams of the national as
well as the provincial Project Coordination Units.

This project component also included the development and implementation of school-based innovative
projects aimed for school stakeholders to identify and address their relevant school-related issues. This
component financed, on a competitive basis, a total of 499 school-based innovative projects in two tranches
- 338 in the first tranche and 161 in the second. School grants oscillated between AR$3,000 (US$1,000
equivalent) to AR$7,000 (US$2,330 equivalent). All these projects were rigorously selected based on a
thorough review made by qualified third parties from a universe of 850 proposals submitted by 562 project
schools. The selected projects covered an assortment of pedagogical dimensions, like, inter-alia: (i) in-situ
in-service teacher training; (ii) school management; (iii) curricular implementation; (iv) classroom
pedagogical practices (like interactive radio and television); (v) school-based micro productive activities
(like food production); and (vi) community related activities (like school newspaper). The supervision
missions carried out during 2003 and 2004 attested to the effective and creative utilization of these
school-based innovative projects by participating schools. Notwithstanding these positive observations, no
hard data on the learning impact of this project activity could be gathered by the ICR mission.

Finally, this project component also included financial support to strengthen provincial education
management through the Programa de Reforma de la Gestión Administrativa de los Sistemas Educativos
Provinciales (PREGASE) originally financed by PRODYMES I. Once the PRODYMES I Loan closed on
June 2001, PREGASE continued to receive some financial support from PRODYMES II. Accordingly,
PRODYMES II supported PREGASE's national coordination team while MECyT's fiscal resources
financed the operation in the 24 jurisdictions of the country. At the time of the ICR mission, the provinces
of Catamarca, Córdoba, Chubut, La Pampa, Neuquén, Río Negro, Salta, San Luis and Santa Fe had
achieved all the targets set for them by PREGASE, including: (i) readiness of a teacher roster used for
monthly payroll; (ii) approval of the functional organic layout (planta orgánica funcional) for each school
in the province including its guidelines; and (iii) the re-engineering of the information system in order to
update in real time information on teachers concerning transfers within the Province, hiring and termination
of employment. Save the city of Buenos Aires and the provinces of Chaco and Santiago del Estero, which
never agreed to implement PREGASE in their jurisdictions, and the provinces of Buenos Aires, Corrientes,
Formosa and La Rioja, that recently initiated the PREGASE process in their provinces, the remaining
provinces are expected to complete this process during the second semester of 2004.

Project coordination and execution (satisfactory). This component financed all the activities required for
the National and Provincial Coordination of PRODYMES II. The ICR mission acknowledges the effective
coordination undertaken by the national and provincial teams that ensured, despite not receiving the
project's authorized resources on time due to delays on the part of the Ministry of Economy in releasing it
during the 2000 to 2003 period: (i) achievement of all, but one, of the agreed targets for the 630 project
schools; and (ii) a satisfactory implementation of the project (as fully detailed in Section 7.6 of the ICR).


                                                     - 13 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The main institutional development impact of the project is most significant in terms of the 630 EGB3 and
polimodal schools in the country, located in poor high-risk neighborhoods. Since the total number of
project schools represents about 10 percent of the universe of EGB3 and polimodal schools in the country,
the ICR mission is of the view that the institutional development impact of the project is modest.

Due to the project's intervention, the schools are currently capable of utilizing the learning inputs provided
by PRODYMES II, as well as their trained cadre of teachers and school principals to: (i) create new
pedagogical activities in their classrooms to foster a more active, interactive, innovative and
interdisciplinary teaching and learning process among students and teachers; and (ii) design and implement
school-based innovative projects aimed at improving the quality of learning outcomes as well as the
efficiency and effectiveness of school-related activities.

Another institutional impact concerns the services provided by these improved 630 schools to other
non-project schools and to the surrounding community through the lending (at no cost) of the acquired
learning inputs.

The project has also been responsible for ensuring, through PREGASE, a more orderly, effective, efficient
and transparent provincial school management in nine provinces as well as strengthened pedagogical teams
in all of the 24 jurisdictions, capable of extending the innovative use of the learning inputs acquired by the
project to the rest of the EGB3 and polimodal schools in the province.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

None to the awareness of the ICR mission.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The severe economic and financial crisis faced by Argentina since mid-1999 was the main hindrance to
effective project implementation. This crisis was, in the opinion of the ICR mission, largely within
Government control. The budgetary restrictions imposed by the Ministry of Economy resulted in a lack of
available resources previously earmarked for the project, both from the Loan as well as counterpart
funding.    As mentioned elsewhere in this report, this lack of resources and the untimely release of
authorized project budgets caused significant delays in the construction activities and the acquisition of
learning inputs, and ultimately, in the cancellation of two project activities (purchase of additional sets of
books for the multimedia centers and the provision of the technological laboratories).

The following are some effects of the severe crisis: (i) GDP decreased by 3.4 percent in 1999, 0.8 percent



                                                     - 14 -

in 2000, 4.5 percent in 2001 and 10.9 percent during 2002; (ii) unemployment rose to 21.5 percent in
2002; (iii) about 53 percent of the population was at the poverty level while almost 25 percent was at the
indigence level (defined as those whose daily income is not sufficient to acquire food); (iv) consumer prices
rose by 41 percent during 2002 (though the year-on-year increase was 26 percent); (v) net international
capital flows to Argentina was a negative US$4.6 billion 2001 and US$11.4 billion in 2002; (vi)
international reserves declined to US$10.5 billion; (vii) the Argentinean Government stopped making
payments on most of its huge debt; (viii) depositors saw their savings accounts frozen and limitations
placed on the amounts they could withdraw from their checking accounts while their dollar deposits were
forcibly converted to pesos at an unfavorable exchange rate; and (ix) many businesses faced bankruptcy.

The ICR mission identified six factors subject to government (national and provincial) control that hindered
more effective project implementation. The first factor was the reluctance on the part of seven (out of
eight) participating Jurisdictional Legislatures to take on the approval of the Subsidiary Provincial Loan
Agreements.      The second concerns the Ministry of Economy, as stated above, and its budgetary
restrictions, and the third is related to the Ministry's untimely release of the authorized project resources,
both from the Loan as well as from counterpart funding.            The fourth concerns the default by the
Argentinean Government on its international debt, including the one with the World Bank that lasted three
months (from December 2002 to February 2003), and led to a temporary suspension on the Bank
disbursements of Loan proceeds. The fifth concerns the untimely delivery of the yearly project Audit
Reports by the National General Accounting Office (Auditoría General de la Nación - AGN) hindering the
possibility to take opportune and appropriate corrective and/or preventive measures concerning possible
noncompliance with the Loan Agreement. Finally, the absence over 16 months of guidelines addressing the
issue of inflation and agreements with the Bank on an appropriate formula to adjust prices concerning
works and services already contracted practically stopped the construction program until April 2003, when
the situation was favorably resolved.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The ICR mission identified three factors subject to the control of the National Ministry of Education and
the Jurisdictional Ministries of Education (the 23 Provinces and the City of Buenos Aires) that affected
project implementation. First, there were significant delays in having the MECyT release the authorized
resources to initiate some project activities, like the school-based innovative projects (whose
implementation was delayed for about one year from its expected initial date), some in-service teacher
training activities in using learning inputs provided by the project, and the replacement of some supplies for
the computer and science laboratories as well as the multimedia centers. Notwithstanding these delays, the
National Coordination Unit as well as the Provincial Coordination Units were capable of catching up and
complying with the expected targets, and in some cases, like the school-based innovative projects, even
surpassed the original agreed targets.

Second, the changes in administration during the democratic elections of Governors in the provinces
generated changes in the Provincial Project Coordination teams.            These changes, in turn, required
additional training of the new staff with the obvious delays in project implementation in the corresponding
jurisdictions.   Third, the mobility of teachers and school principals between project and non-project
schools, and viceversa, also required additional training of the new incoming staff with the obvious delays
in project implementation in the respective cases.

While these last two factors affected the implementing agency, there was only one relevant factor truly
subject to the control of the National as well as the Jurisdictional Project Coordination Units identified by
the mission that hindered effectiveness of project implementation. The heterogeneous time response by all



                                                     - 15 -

these units with respect to the activities required from them in the civil works component, namely, the
revision of draft construction proposals, the approval of construction projects and the required construction
oversight and supervision had the effect of delaying this project component in several provinces. At the
time of the ICR mission, about 5 weeks before the closing of the Loan, 73 construction works were still in
progress, out of which 64 were satisfactorily completed by April 30, 2004 (Loan closing date), and nine
(all in the Province of Entre Rios) are still in the process of being completed, though financed entirely by
provincial and national fiscal non-project funds.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost was estimated at appraisal in US$164.5 million equivalent, of which US$115.5
million were from the Bank Loan (70.2 percent of the total) and US$49 million from national counterpart
funding (29.8 percent of the total). The total Loan disbursements at the closing of this Loan amounted to
US$102.37 million (88.6 percent of the total Loan). A total of US$13.127 million was cancelled by the
Borrower on September 14, 2004. In addition, total counterpart disbursements amounted to a total of
US$29 million equivalent, for a total project cost of about US$131.37 million equivalent (79.9 percent of
the total cost estimated at appraisal).

According to the latest cost figures made available to the ICR mission and included in the third and fourth
tables of Annex 2, the financial progress by component (including the Bank loan and the counterpart
resources) as compared to the appraised estimates was the following: (i) improvement of educational
resources of participating schools 52.8 percent; (ii) improvement of school infrastructure 118.3 percent; (ii)
strengthening institutional and teaching capacity 27.2 percent; and (iv) national and provincial project
execution 127.9 percent. The underspending in the components concerning the improvement of educational
resources and the strengthening of institutional and teaching capacity is mainly explained by the
cancellation of the acquisition of technology laboratories (which are expensive) and the second purchase of
texts and other learning material for the multimedia centers and the teacher training associated with these
learning goods. Some of the resources originally designated for these learning inputs were allocated to civil
works, thus explaining why the final expenditure was larger than the original allocation. When analyzing
by some sub-components, the ICR mission observes that in some cases, like the school-based innovative
projects, the financial target fell short by 64 percent of the expected target (US$2.5 million), yet the
physical target exceeded the original set at appraisal by 66 percent. One reason for this is that the costs at
appraisal were estimated at a parity of one Argentina peso to one US dollar, while at the time these
innovative projects were implemented in 2002 and 2003, the parity was about three Argentinean pesos for
one US dollar. Another explanation is that after the successful launching of the first cycle (project design
had only one cycle) that financed 338 school-based innovative projects, a second tranche was undertaken
resulting in 161 new projects. In short, more was done with fewer resources for this particular project
sub-component.

The undisbursed Loan amount of about US$13.127 million can be explained, in addition to the change of
parity between the US dollar and the Argentinean peso, by the following facts (as mentioned previously): (i)
the technology laboratories were not acquired; (ii) a second round of textbook acquisition was not carried
out; and (iii) the real unit costs of the learning goods were smaller than the ones estimated at appraisal.

Despite the following obstacles faced by PRODYMES II, the ICR mission considers that the overall
financial performance of this project (79.9 percent of the total costs estimated at appraisal) is satisfactory.
Since Loan approval on December 12, 1995, the following six factors (some mentioned before, but
explained here in more detail) have affected financial performance:




                                                      - 16 -

(a)     There was a delay of about 15 months since Board approval (December 21, 1995) until Loan
        effectiveness (March 12, 1997) caused by the need to redefine the project.         As stated before,
        PRODYMES II was originally conceived as an extension of PRODYMES I to eight new
        provinces. The difficulty these provinces experienced in assuming the debt to the Bank and in
        providing the required counterpart resources, especially in 1996 when the Mexican Tequila effect
        started negatively affecting their economies and fiscal health, motivated in part the redefinition of
        the project;

(b)     From March 1997 to mid-1999, project implementation was highly satisfactory, as reported in the
        corresponding PSRs. Starting mid-1999, the severe economic and financial crisis in Argentina
        significantly delayed the financial and physical implementation progress of the project. The years
        2000 and 2001 required great inventiveness on the part of the Bank and the National Project
        Coordination Unit to address the timely release of authorized Loan and counterpart funds by the
        Ministry of Economy;

(c)     At the beginning of 2002, a Presidential decree converted dollars into pesos and closed all
        dollar-denominated bank accounts, including the project's Special Account. As a consequence of
        this measure, no withdrawals were made until the Decree was amended for bank accounts of
        projects financed by multilateral organizations like the World Bank. The Ministry of Economy
        amended this Resolution 52/02 at the end of the first quarter of 2002, and the project's Special
        Account reopened. Yet, it took another three months to regulate the operation of the Special
        Account in US dollars. In sum, during the first semester of 2002, project implementation almost
        came to a complete halt;

(d)     The Argentinean Government defaulted on its debt payments, including those with the World Bank
        in December 2002.      As a consequence, the Bank suspended all disbursements to Argentina,
        including those for PRODYMES II. The Bank lifted the default by the end of February 2003, and
        Loan disbursements proceeded;

(e)     As mentioned before, there were delays by MECyT in releasing authorized resources for the
        project, especially those related to counterpart funding; and

(f)     Finally, also mentioned before, in the 16 months lapsing from December 2001 when the parity of
        the Argentinean peso radically changed with respect to the US dollar (from one to one to a three to
        one parity) until April 2003, there was a lack of a normative framework to address the issue of
        inflation and of agreement with the Bank on an appropriate formula to adjust prices concerning
        works and services already contracted for the project. This issue was satisfactorily resolved with
        the enactment of the appropriate guidelines, as published in the Official Gazette under number
        30.135 of April 23, 2003. During these 16 months, the implementation speed of some project
        components, especially the civil works, was considerably reduced.

Audit Reports. The National General Accounting Office (Auditoría General de la Nación - AGN)
consistently submitted the project's Audit Reports for each fiscal year to the Bank outside the agreed time
framework in the Loan Agreement. For example, the Bank just recently received the Audit Report for
CY02, which was due on June 30, 2003, a delay of about 13 months. Although all of the Audit Reports
were unqualified (clean) with the possible exception of the one for CY02 (still under further clarification by
the Borrower), the ICR mission ranks the performance of the AGN as highly unsatisfactory since it was
consistently in non-compliance with Article 4, Section 4.01(ii) to the Loan Agreement. Pending are also the
Audit Reports for CY03, due on June 30, 2004 (which have not yet been started by AGN), as well as


                                                    - 17 -

another one for the first four months of CY04 due on June 30, 2005.

The ICR mission was informed that in order to address the consistent delays in the AGN performance, a
decision was taken and agreed with the Bank to select a qualified private firm to undertake the preparation
of the project's audit report of CY01. The results were far from satisfactory. First, the report was
delivered to the Bank 5 months after the date established by the Legal Agreement. Second, the accounting
firm that was selected had serious problems in internalizing the project's operational logic and some of the
Bank's norms, which explain in part the delay in submitting their final report. For the following year, a
decision was taken to request that AGN undertake again the responsibility of carrying out the project's
auditing activities.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Notwithstanding that MECyT has allocated in its CY04 budget about AR$350,000 (about US$125,000
equivalent) to repair and provide some maintenance to the laboratories provided by the project, as well as
to selectively replace some durable and non-durable supplies associated to these learning inputs, the ICR
mission is of the view that technical, financial and institutional sustainability of project activities is
unlikely. At the time of the ICR mission, five weeks before the Loan closing date, there was not sufficient
clarity in policies and strategies at national and provincial levels to ensure the envisioned sustainability to
project activities in the 630 EGB3 and polimodal project schools. It was clear to the ICR mission that: (i)
there are no additional resources allocated by any of the 24 jurisdictions in the country to complement the
insufficient resources already allocated by MECyT to ensure sustainability; nor, (ii) a political interest in
having the issue of sustainability be included in the agenda for discussion by the provincial educational
authorities.

The ICR mission noted that it is in the best interest of the school stakeholders of the majority of the 630
project schools to keep the learning resources assigned by the project at an appropriate level of operation
and utilization by students and teachers. Accordingly, it seems that it is the school stakeholders, and not
the provincial nor the national educational authorities, who will be the ones to ensure some degree of
operational sustainability of the learning resources acquired by the project. Notwithstanding this
commendable reality, the ICR mission rationale in assigning the unlikely sustainability rating to the project
is mainly based on the fact that relying almost exclusively on the educational communities to ensure that
the equipment and facilities will be properly maintained is extremely optimistic, particularly given the time
and the serious organizational effort in enabling the communities to play this role.

Regrettably, if the current school community enthusiasm for ensuring sustainability falls short of
expectations and fails, it is very likely that the capability and effectiveness of these laboratories will
consequently diminish rapidly due to a lack of: (i) replacing equipment that becomes obsolete (like the
computers) or wears out once its expected life comes to an end, like books and other materials in the
multimedia centers; (ii) replenishing of degradable learning supplies utilized in the different experiments
required to be carried out by the current curriculum; (iii) enriching of the set of texts, maps and videos in
the multimedia center; (iv) providing appropriate in-service training for incoming staff who replace those
leaving or retiring from the educational service; and (v) maintaining the physical facilities housing the
laboratories provided by the project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:




                                                     - 18 -

The fact that the project (redesigned as of January 13, 1997) narrowed its focus to 630 schools on which to
concentrate its learning improvement activities ensured an appropriate transition strategy to regular
mainstream operations from the outset of project implementation. At the national or provincial levels,
however, the ICR mission could not find sufficient evidence of a stated policy or strategy for retaining the
teams, or incorporating them into mainstream institutions. As a consequence, most of the teams built
during the life of the project, have disbanded, since Loan closing. Some technical staff returned to their
respective PME or schools, while others have either left the education sector altogether or have joined
implementation teams of newly approved internationally financed education sector investments, in
particular, the large US$600 million Inter-American Development Bank supported secondary education
project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank team assisting in the preparation of PRODYMES II was largely the same that participated in the
formulation and early implementation of the previous sector investment (PRODYMES I). This Bank team
was highly experienced and included the right skill-mixed required for the original formulation. The Bank
team ensured the highest professional technical assistance during the preparation phase and, as a
consequence, the original formulation was technically sound. With the exception of the identification
mission, the project preparation cycle until Board presentation was under the leadership of one Bank task
team leader.

As mentioned in section 3.5, the original project formulation was attuned to the existing CAS. The Bank
team ensured the inclusion of: (i) estimates of benefits arising from the project, among others, salary
differentials between workers with incomplete and complete secondary schooling in selected metropolitan
labor market areas of the country; (ii) a Project Implementation Manual; and (iii) project monitoring
indicators.

On the downside, the ICR mission noted several shortcomings, such as in the original design the project
monitoring indicators were not impact but rather input, process and output indicators. Likewise, the Bank
team failed to include a control group of statistically (through matching techniques) comparable EGB3 and
polimodal schools (in the experimental design) against which to measure the impact of project
implementation.

Another significant shortcoming of the Bank preparation team mentioned above was that it did not
undertake a thorough implementation readiness assessment in all of the participating jurisdictions to assess
project ownership, the willingness to assume a Loan and the availability of provincial counterpart funding.
Had such an assessment been undertaken, it would have probably detected the unwillingness of the
Jurisdictional Legislative bodies to borrow from the Bank at the time the Loan Agreement was approved by
the Board on December 12, 1995 and signed by the National Government on August 6, 1996 (and the
Mexican 2004 Tequila economic and financial effect were felt in these provinces).

Also, the project design that was appraised on April 5, 1995, did not include a first-year procurement plan,
nor detailed terms of reference of the technical assistance and studies required during the implementation
cycle. Finally, no social assessment, including surveys to students, parents, teachers and employers were
made during the preparation and appraisal phases concerning: (i) the demand for EGB3 and upper
secondary (polimodal) education; (ii) acceptability of the new educational structure proposed by the



                                                     - 19 -

Federal Law of Education among teachers, school principals and other jurisdictional educational
authorities; and (iii) employers' view on the competencies and skills required by graduates of the EGB3 and
polimodal levels.

In sum, many of the shortcomings outlined above reflect the project preparation team's response to the
institutional paradigm existing in the Bank at the time, which, by and large, emphasized input indicators
and investment operations processes in the education sector in the region rather than output oriented ones.
The institutional environment of the project team designing the project lacked the institutional environment
associated with the current QAG criteria.

Given that in the view of the ICR team, the one significant shortcoming demonstrated during the
preparation process more than overshadowed the mentioned strengths, causing a redefinition of project
objectives and delaying Loan effectiveness by 15 months after Board approval, the ICR mission ranks the
Banks performance at the lending stage as unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank carried out a total of 18 supervision missions until project closure, including a mid-term review
on September 3, 1999, and an ICR mission on March 22, 2004. A supervision mission was carried out
once every six months. Prior to each of these supervision missions, the NPCU prepared and delivered to
the Bank in a timely manner well-documented project implementation progress reports that resulted in
valuable documentation to accomplish the mission's objectives. Only two Bank task managers were in
charge of the entire lending operation and supervision missions, thus the Bank teams largely achieved the
necessary supervision continuity. The first task manager took over project implementation responsibility in
early 1996 (immediately after Board presentation) until December 1999, and the second task manager from
early 2000 until Loan closure. The supervision teams were composed of a rather stable mix of appropriate
Bank staff and qualified external consultants. Bank supervision missions were instrumental in identifying
feasible solutions to address relevant project implementation issues such as: (i) assisting the NPCU in
setting a quasi-experimental design at the end of 2000 to measure some output (not impact) indicators with
respect to a comparable control group and insisting on the constant updating of the agreed indicators; (ii)
addressing the lack of financial liquidity of the National Government which interfered with the timely
allocation of the required counterpart funding and ensuring disbursements of the Loan proceeds; (iii)
launching an emergency program for the provision of basic learning supplies to high-risk targeted
preschool, primary and secondary education students; (iv) increasing the pari-passu in some categories of
expenditures to respond to the severe financial situation; and (v) requesting solid justification for project
amendments and the extensions of the Loan closing date. The Bank team demonstrated flexibility and
innovative responsiveness to the Borrower's needs, especially given the difficult economic and financial
context in which the project found itself since mid-1999.

Each supervision mission ended with a well-documented Aide Memoire (AM) including progress made,
issues to be addressed, recommendations and agreed solutions. Each AM, thoroughly discussed and
signed, was subsequently used for monitoring and following up. Consistently, findings were summarized
and communicated to the Borrower through a management letter.

Given all of the above, the ICR rates the Bank supervision as satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Once the project objectives were redefined, the Bank assumed a proactive attitude in effectively supporting



                                                    - 20 -

project implementation, despite the financial and economic crises experienced by Argentina since
mid-1999. Accordingly, the ICR mission rates the overall Bank performance as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

PRODYMES II was the Bank's second sector operation in Argentina. The previous experience acquired in
the preparation and implementation of PRODYMES I became a rich source of lessons learned for the
Borrower that were effectively included in the preparation and implementation of PRODYMES II, and
subsequent projects, PRODYMES III and III-A in the province of Buenos Aires. The approximately 11
months that elapsed between the identification and the appraisal mission for PRODYMES II was about one
half the time of that for PRODYMES I. This significant improvement resulted from greater clarity and
operational definition regarding the content and strategy of the education reform. This clarity of roles and
early stakeholder involvement at all levels of project preparation significantly reduced resistance to the
introduction of the education reform, particularly the polimodal level.

Two PHRD Grants financed project preparation activities. The majority of the first grant, TF2302-8 AR
of 69,100,000 Yen (approximately US$652,000), was authorized for the preparation of PRODYMES I,
and for early preparation activities of PRODYMES II. The second one, TF029190-AR of 26,500,000 Yen
(approximately US$250,000) was to complete the preparation of PRODYMES II.

The preparation process also benefited from the leadership of a very well-organized, highly qualified and
fully staffed technical counterpart in MECyT and, to a certain extent, from some of the participating
Provinces. The senior layer of technical personnel of the PRODYMES II preparation team was, by and
large, the same that had participated in the preparation and implementation of PRODYMES I. Thus, there
was ample familiarity with Bank operations, procedures and expectations. The technical continuity of the
teams and their leadership provided an environment conducive to learning that eased and supported the
fine-tuning of project design as the preparation progressed. The process also benefited from a cost-benefit
and cost-effectiveness study.

On the downside, and as mentioned elsewhere in this report, by the Borrower's lack of accurately assessing
the political willingness of participating provinces to assume part of Bank's Loan, greatly reduced the
effectiveness of preparation. Reluctance by these Provinces to allocate counterpart funding resulted in a
significant delay of Loan effectiveness and the request by the National authorities to redesign the original
objectives and convert the operation from a Provincial- financed investment to a nationally-financed one.

Notwithstanding the strengths shown by the Borrower during the lending cycle, given the significant
shortcoming in assessing political willingness of participating provinces in assuming part of the Bank's
role, and the negative impact it had in the subsequent implementation cycle, the ICR team ranks Borrower
performance at the lending stage as unsatisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The ICR mission is of the view that while there was full support from the provincial governments to
proceed with project preparation activities that assumed that part of the Loan was to be absorbed by the
provincial governments, at the time of implementation, all of these provincial authorities were reluctant to
assume part of the Loan and to allocate the required resources.         Under this situation, the National
Government, through its Ministries of Economy and Education, fully supported the redesign of the original
formulation into a more pedagogical-oriented operation and entirely assumed the Loan.



                                                    - 21 -

The period from effectiveness (March 12, 1997) to mid-1999 is characterized by a satisfactory financial
and physical performance by the Borrower. During this period, the Government released the authorized
Loan and counterpart funds approved in the budget in a timely manner.

As mentioned in section 5 of this report, the ICR mission identified the following four factors subject to
government control that hindered implementation process from being more effective during the economic
and financial crisis from mid-1999 until the end of 2003. First, the budgetary restrictions imposed by the
Ministry of Economy since mid-1999 to respond to the severe financial and economic crisis of Argentina.
Second, the untimely release of authorized project resources by the Ministry of Economy, both from the
Loan as well as from counterpart funding. Third, the default by the Argentinean Government on its
international debt, including the one with the World Bank, lasting three months (from December 2002 to
February 2003), resulted in a temporary suspension on the Bank disbursements of Loan proceeds. Finally,
the absence during 16 months of a normative framework to address the issue of inflation and lack of an
agreement with the Bank on an appropriate formula to adjust prices concerning works and services already
contracted practically stopped the construction program until April 2003, when that situation was
favorably resolved.

In addition, and as mentioned in section 5.4 of this report, the National General Accounting Office
(Auditoría General de la Nación - AGN) displayed a highly unsatisfactory performance as it consistently
submitted the yearly Audit Report outside the agreed time framework established by the Loan Agreement.

For all of the above-mentioned reasons, the ICR mission ranks the government implementation performance
as unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

As shown in Annex 4, all of the 18 supervision missions rated the implementation progress and
achievement of the revised developmental objectives as satisfactory, even during the economic and financial
crisis when the project continued to display physical and financial progress, albeit at a much lower pace
than the progress registered from 1997 to mid-1999 and then again from mid-2003 to the closing of the
Loan.

Despite having had four different NPCU coordinators, the NPCU maintained a core team of qualified
technical personnel in charge of managing and coordinating all the different project components and
support activities (financial management, procurement, legal), throughout the entire implementation cycle.
This fortunate situation ensured needed continuity in the management and operation of this project as well
as effective provision of technical support to the PCUs and fluid coordination with the Bank. The
leadership and effectiveness displayed by the different NPCU coordinators, especially the second and the
last one, the high professional standards of their deputies on the project's management team, the appropriate
skill-mix of the entire NPCU cadre including support staff, and its effective operational linkage with the
mainstream bureaus of MECyT and the PMEs were key in ensuring a successful project implementation.

The project was subject to five in-depth random post procurement reviews in April 1998, July 2000, May
2002, June 2003 and March 2004. Reports for all in-depth reviews are filed in IRIS. The one carried out
in June 2003 was an independent procurement review commissioned by LCOPR, which found no
substantive deviations in the sample of Bank's procedures reviewed. The independent review included 47
contracts amounting to US$12.9 million over a total contracted of US$111.2 million (a sample of 11.6
percent). The findings of this review include 12 observations of Grade II (minor deviants from Bank



                                                     - 22 -

procedures), 11 of Grade I (recommendations for improved procurement performance), none of Grade III
(indicating serious non-compliance with Bank procedures) and three of a purely informative nature. Of the
29 comments, 26 were directed to the NPCU and three to the Bank team.

The ICR mission noted that there was no procurement execution under the original LA, since the project
was redesigned shortly thereafter to include all the provinces in the country, to which execution
responsibilities were delegated, and subsequently, operational procedures shifted to being decentralized.
This change was reflected not by modifying the loan disbursement categories or the procurement methods
contained in the LA, but mainly by allowing a more intensive use of decentralized procurement
arrangements, which meant (given the non-aggregation at national level of project's requirements) the
application of less formal procurement methodologies. A case in point is that of the civil works, where
original procurement arrangements provided for US$40.3 million to be contracted through NCB and
US$12.9 million through comparison of quotations. Final figures of aggregate use of procurement methods
indicate that, after the successive amendments and reallocation of funds, no NCB was carried out for civil
works and a total of US$76.5 million were awarded on the basis of price quotations. Tables 7.1 and 7.2
below indicate the successive modifications of loan allocation among disbursement categories and the
evolution of the ceilings for the use of non-ICB procurement methods until Loan closing.

This project was a follow-up of PRODYMES I (Ln.3794-AR) and thus benefited from the expertise and
implementation capacity built up at both national and provincial levels with the first project. Procurement
management was highly satisfactory at national level both for processes implemented nationally and in the
supervision of provincial-executed procurement. The application of less formal procurement procedures as
a result of the decentralization of procurement responsibilities to the provinces also increased the number of
individual processes, which were efficiently managed by the national unit with a system of no objections
from the NPCU and visits to the provincial units to monitor and control, thus replicating the Bank's
supervision mechanisms.




                                                    - 23 -

            Table 7.1. Evolution of amounts allocated to disbursements categories (in US$ millions)
 Disbursement Category Original         LA         1st.      2nd.      3rd.       4th        5th     At Loan
                             PAD                Amendm. Amendm. Amendm. Amendm. Amendm. closing
                                                01/15/97 08/19/00 04/30/02 10/22/02 12/15/03 04/31/04
1. Civil Works               53.2
                             32.0       30.0      38.2       67.0      63.0       55.0       55.0       57
2. Goods                     46.0
                             31.1       30.0      43.8       28.0      32.0       43.0       42.5       40
3. Consultant's services     38.3
                             33.5       26.0      12.1       12.0      12.0       11.5       12.0     12.9
4. Grants & Scholarships      4.6
                              4.6       4.0        3.6        1.5      1.5        1.5        1.5       1.5
5. Incremental recurrent     13.1
exp.
                              6.5       5.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
6. Project Implementation     8.8
                              7.8       6.8        6.8        4.0      4.0        4.0        4.0       4.1
7. Unallocated                0.0
                              0.0       13.7      11.0        3.0      3.0        0.5        0.0       0.0
TOTAL Project cost          164.0
TOTAL Bank financing        115.5      115.5      115.5     115.5     115.5      115.5      115.5     115.5



             Table 7.2 Evolution of aggregate limits for non-ICB procurement methods
                                         (in US$ millions)
          Disbursement Category               LIB                NCB            OTHER


     1. Civil Works (Original)                                                     12.9
     1st. Amendment                                                                64.8
     2nd. Amendment                                                                90.5


     2. Goods (Original)                       7.5               17.2               8.8
     1st. Amendment                           12.0               24.5              10.5
     2nd. Amendment                                                                14.0
     3rd. Amendment                                                                24.0
     OTHER includes National Shopping for Goods


On the downside, the ICR mission found two issues concerning the implementing agency. First, the timing
of teacher training delivery in the use of the learning inputs provided by the project (multimedia centers,
computer and science laboratories) was, by and large, out of alignment with the completion of the physical
spaces required to host the equipment provided. Thus a significant number of initial training activities were
undertaken while this learning equipment was still unpacked because the physical spaces were not yet
available. This situation was corrected with subsequent training utilizing the learning materials already
functioning in the physical spaces provided by the project. To correct this situation, subsequent training
utilized the learning materials that were already functioning in the spaces provided. Second, the only texts
for the multimedia centers were centrally selected, thus not necessarily relevant to the learning needs of the




                                                    - 24 -

end-users. As a result, some books in the multimedia centers of the 630 project schools had a very low
utilization rate by students and teachers during the life of the project.

On balance, as the NCPU demonstrated how it became an effective learning organization ensuring the
satisfactory completion of almost all physical and all the financial targets, especially during a financial and
economic crisis that lasted almost four years, the ICR ranked the NPCU and the PPUs performance as
satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The ICR mission is of the view that despite the severe external non-conducive project implementation
environment generated by the daunting economic and financial crisis, PRODYMES II displayed, as fully
explained in sections 4.1, 4.2 and 5.4 of this report, a satisfactory physical and financial performance. For
this reason, the ICR mission ranks the Borrower's overall performance as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


         During the preparation phase:

(a)      Previous related investments are a good source of project preparation learning.                  The
         difficulties in formulating the technical description of the previous sector investment -
         PRODYMES I - and its implementation provided key insights and contributed to shortening the
         formulation of PRODYMES II by about half the time it took to prepare PRODYMES I;

(b)      Stakeholder needs assessment is required to have a robust and consistent project.                 The
         availability of a more comprehensive school diagnosis and needs assessment of project schools
         would have resulted in a more appropriate project design, especially at the time of redefining the
         original project objectives. This additional information would have likely provided criteria for a
         more flexible and appropriate resource allocation to the project schools based on the school
         characteristics.  Lacking this relevant information, PRODYMES II followed a more uniform
         resource allocation of learning resources to project schools. The centralized selection of books for
         the 630 multi-media learning resource centers was somewhat criticized by the recipients. Some of
         the selected books had a very low rate of utilization by students and teachers. A more appropriate
         strategy would have been for the recipient schools to have participated in the book selection
         decision process;

(c)      Strengthening the consulting mechanisms between the Nation and the Provinces would result
         in a more appropriate assessment of their political willingness and financial health to assume part
         of the Bank Loans in case of an investment requiring a Provincial Loan.

(d)      Experimental designs are required to measure developmental impact. PRODYMES II lacked
         an experimental design to measure project impact in its original and redesigned formulations. It is
         required from the onset of project implementation to: (i) state the expected developmental
         objectives; (ii) agree with the Borrower on a set of impact indicators; (iii) select a treatment and a
         comparable control group; (iv) establish the baseline data; (v) agree on an algorithm to periodically
         update the impact indicators information; (vi) agree on the periodicity of updating the information;
         and (vii) agree on a dissemination of impact findings.




                                                     - 25 -

         During the implementation phase:

(e)     Ensure stakeholder participation and ownership. The degree of sustainability of the project
        activities at the participating school at the closing of the project is a function of the ownership that
        these school actors displayed with respect to all the learning resources allocated to their schools by
        the project;

(f)     Technical capacity building and permanent on-site monitoring. The success of this project is
        largely based on the technical capacity that was built at the national and provincial levels to ensure
        on-site monitoring and provision of technical assistance to the participating project schools with
        respect to the appropriate utilization of the learning resources provided by PRODYMES II;

(g)     Dissemination of good practices. This strategy allowed the benefits of the project to be extended
        to other non-project schools in the area of influence as well as to the school larger community (like
        the use of computers). In addition, the dissemination of good practices facilitated the launching of
        the second cycle of school-innovative projects to more reluctant schools that ended up preparing
        good-quality and pertinent projects;

(h)     Need to align the timing of project interventions. A more thorough impact would have been
        achieved if the delivery of training activities had been better aligned with the provision of learning
        materials and physical spaces; and

(i)     Decentralized selection of learning goods. Ensuring appropriate stakeholder participation in the
        selection process of learning goods increases the appropriateness of the selection and thus the
        likelihood for a more effective utilization of these learning goods by beneficiaries.

        At the closing phase:

(j)     Sustainability policy. The small allocation of national resources at MECyT to provide some
        financial support to project activities at the closing of the Loan is the result of a continuous
        dialogue and awareness campaign with the authorities about one year prior to the closing date.
        The fact that this strategy was not necessarily followed at the jurisdictional level explains in part
        the lack of a financial, technical and institutional sustainability of project activities at the
        jurisdictional level.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower has provided to the Bank their own Implementation Report which has been filed in IRIS3.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                      - 26 -

10. Additional Information

ICR Team:

Juan Prawda (Task Team Leader)
Natalia Moncada (Language Program Assistant)
Gabriela Falconi (Language Program Assistant)
Karalee Rocker (Consultant)

Comments received from:

Jesko Hentschel, Country Sector Leader (LCSHD)
Eduardo Velez Bustillo, Sector Manager, Education (LCSHD)
Suzana Campos Augusto, Lead Operations Officer, (LCSHD)
Felipe Saez, Lead Country Officer (LCC7C)




                                                - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Enrollment growth in polimodal               176,911 in project schools in 1997;       230,004 in project schools in 2002 (30%);
                                              154,457 in control schools in 1997; and   190,271 in control schools in 2002 (23%);
                                             1,130,096 at national level in 1997.      1,424,248 at national level in 2002 (26%).

Average repetition rates in the three grades 16.7% in project schools in 1997;         11.8% in project schools in 2001 (-29.3%);
comprising EGB3                               12.4% in control schools in 1997; and     11.3% in control schools in 2001 (-8.9%);
                                               9.7% at national level in 1997.           8.5% at national level in 2001 (-12.4%).

Average repetition rates in the three grades 8.2% in project schools in 1997;          6.7% in project schools in 2001 (-18.3%);
comprising polimodal                          6.7% in control schools in 1997; and      5.2% in control schools in 2001 (-22.4);
                                              6.4% at national level in 1997.           5.0% at national level in 2001 (-21.9%).

Average promotion rates in the three grades  62.2 in project schools in 1997;          70.5% in project schools in 2001 (13.3%);
comprising EGB3                               89.4% in control schools in 1997; and     78.8% in control schools in 2001 (-11.9%);
                                              75.0% at national level in 1997.          78.9% at national level in 2001 (5.2%).

Average promotion rates in the three grades  76.6% in project schools in 1997;         76.2% in project schools in 2001 (0.5%);
comprising the polimodal level                79.6% in control schools in 1997; and     80.1% in control schools in 2001 (0.6%);
                                              77.7% at national level in 1997.          78.5% at national level in 2001 (1%).

Average dropout rates in the three grades of 11.9% in project schools in 1997;         9.7% in project schools in 2001 (-18.5%);
EGB3                                          8.4% in control schools in 1997; and      5.4% in control schools in 2001 (-35.7%);
                                              9.5% at national level in 1997.           7.4% at national level in 2001 (-22.1%).

Average dropout rates in the three grades of 4.4% in project schools in 1997;          5.1% in project schools in 2001 (15.9%);
the polimodal level                           4.3% in control schools in 1997; and      4.0% in control schools in 2001 (-7.0%);
                                              6.4% at national level in 1997.           8.6% at national level in 2001 (34.5%).

Learning achievement in language             56% in project schools in 1997;           51.5% in project schools in 2000 (-8.9%);
                                              59.5% in control schools in 1997; and     51.5% in control schools in 2000 (-13.4%);
                                              65.2% at national level in 1997.          59.1% at national level in 2000 (-9.4%).

Learning achievement in math                 52% in project schools in 1997;           53.7% in project schools in 2000 (3.3%);
                                              55.4% in control schools in 1997; and     57.6% in control schools in 2000 (4%);
                                              62.3% at national level in 1997.          61.3% at national level in 2000 (-1.6%).

Students per teacher in polimodal level      10 in project schools in 1997;            12 in project schools in 1999 (20%);
                                              11 in control schools in 1997; and        13 in control schools in 1999 (18.2%);
                                              9 at national level in 1997.               8 at national level in 1999 (-11.1%).




                                                               - 28 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
              Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Multimedia centers                       630                                       630 (including 137,340 books, 12,450 sets of
                                                                                   educational videos, 214,930 sets of assorted
                                                                                   pedagogical materials)


Computer laboratories                    630                                       630 (including six computers, one server,
                                                                                   peripheral equipment and intranet devices for
                                                                                   each laboratory for a total of 5,040
                                                                                   computers)


Science laboratories                     630                                       630 (including appropriate materials to carry
                                                                                   out experiments in optics, electricity, biology,
                                                                                   physics and chemistry)


Technological laboratories               630                                       None


Infrastructure                           561 school projects                       552 school projects


School furniture                         School furniture for 589 schools          School furniture for 577 schools


Schhol-based innovative projects funded  338                                       499
Basic durable learning goods             None projected at appraisal               986,499 sets for 4,763 high-risk EGB3 and
                                                                                   polimodal schools; and
                                                                                   2,088,387 sets for 14,652 high-risk
                                                                                   preschool, EGB1 and EGB2 schools



PREGASE interventions to strengthen      To be implemented in the 8 Provinces      PREGASE activities completed in nine
provincial education management          included in the original project design   provinces (not necessarily the ones
                                                                                   envisaged at appraisal)

1End of project




                                                            - 29 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal       Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                              Estimate           Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                            US$ million       US$ million
Provision of educational resources                              50.50               29.30            58.02

Infrastructure improvement                                      64.10               85.10          132.76

Strengthening institutional and teaching capacity               22.50                6.60            29.33

National and provincial project execution                        8.00                9.70          121.25


Total Baseline Cost                                            145.10              130.70
 Physical Contingencies                                         10.40
 Price Contingencies                                             9.00
                          Total Project Costs                  164.50              130.70
                   Total Financing Required                    164.50              130.70
The comparisson is done with respect to the modified PAD resulting from the first amendment approved by
the Board on January 13, 1997, as the components radically changed as compared to the original PAD
appraised in April 5, 1995.




                                                  - 30 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00             76.70             0.00             76.70
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (56.70)            (0.00)           (56.70)
   2. Goods                                16.70              0.50             17.50             0.00             34.70
                                          (13.20)            (0.40)           (14.00)            (0.00)           (27.60)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00             14.30             0.00             14.30
   Technical support                      (0.00)             (0.00)           (12.80)            (0.00)           (12.80)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
   Fellowships                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.90             0.00              0.90
   Innovative projects                    (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.90)            (0.00)           (0.90)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              4.20             0.00              4.20
   Implementation costs,                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.70)            (0.00)           (3.70)
   recurrent costs and land
   acquisition
       Total                               16.70              0.50            113.60             0.00             130.80
                                          (13.20)            (0.40)           (88.10)            (0.00)          (101.70)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Provision of educational      40.30        15.20                    23.50         5.80                  58.3      38.2
resources

Infrastructure                51.30        24.80                    63.50         21.60                 123.8     87.1
improvement

Strengthening institutional   16.70         7.60                     6.00         0.60                  35.9      7.9
and teaching capacity

National and provincial        7.20         1.40                     8.70         1.00                  120.8     71.4
project execution

Total                         115.50       49.00                    101.70        29.00                 88.1      59.2




                                                          - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


The project benefits may be estimated as a function of the: (i) increased enrollment in EGB3 and polimodal
levels; (ii) improved completion rates at these educational levels; (iii) decreased repetition and dropout rates
in EGB3 and polimodal; (iv) enhanced learning achievements in these two levels of education; and (v)
increase efficiency in the allocation of human resources. As described in Section 4 and Annex 1 of this
report, there were mixed results of these project performance indicators in the 630 project schools with
respect to the selected control group of 430 schools (of similar socio-economic characteristics like the
project schools) and the national averages. Since project schools were selected according to criteria based
on poverty level, the benefits impacted high-risk, low-income students.

The construction of physical spaces in 552 project schools to install the 630 sets of learning inputs
provided by the project (each set consisting of a multimedia learning center, a computer and a science
laboratory) made it possible for the polimodal enrollment in the 630 project schools in the 24 jurisdictions
of the country to increase by 30 percent during the period 1997-2002, as compared with 23 percent in the
control group and 26 percent at the national level (see Annex 1). In the EGB3 the results are mixed. The
EGB3 enrollment increased only negligibly in project schools during the same period (0.2 percent) as
compared with a 6.9 percent increase at the national level and a 6.5 percent decrease in the control group.
One possible explanation for the EGB3 enrollment increase at the national level may be a reflection of
statistical information distortion caused by the timing it took different provinces to adopt the education
reform and the way students from 7th grade were counted in the statistics. Those provinces that in 1997
had not yet adopted the reform considered students in 7th grade as belonging to the old primary school,
while in 2002, after having adopted the reform, the 7th graders were considered part of EGB3 (lower
secondary), thus increasing the enrollment.

With respect to the average completion or promotion rates in the three grades of EGB3, project schools
registered a 13.3 percent increase in the period 1997-2001 as compared to a 5.2 percent at the national
level and a decrease of almost 12 percent in the control group. Likewise, average repetition and dropout
rates in the three grades of EGB3 in project schools in the same period of observation decreased by 29.3
percent and 18.5 percent, respectively, as compared to 8.9 and 35.7 percent in the control group and 12.4
and 22.1 percent at the national level (Annex 1). Notwithstanding that the trend of these variables behaves
in the same direction in project schools, control group and at the national level, distortion in the way the
baseline information was collected as a consequence of the different rate at which provinces were
implementing the educational reform (especially with respect to grade 7), and the lack of reliability of the
information collected (quality control on the education statistics was suspended during the financial and
economic crisis due to lack of sufficient resources), makes it very difficult to interpret the findings.

With respect to the average completion or promotion, repetition and dropout rates in the three grades of the
polimodal level, the distortion in available information is even more acute than at the EGB3 level. Annex 1
shows that average promotion rates in project schools as well as in the control group in the 1997-2001
period were almost negligible (0.5 and 0.6 percent respectively), while at the national level it was one
percent. Repetition rates decreased 18.3 percent in project schools, 22.4 percent in the control group and
almost 22 percent at the national level.

Dropout rates behaved erratically, increasing almost 16 percent in project schools, decreasing seven
percent in the control group and increasing by 34.5 percent at the national level. One possible explanation
of these mixed results lies with the limited success of the education reform in establishing the polimodal
level in all the jurisdictions in the country. Few provinces (the Buenos Aires province being one of them)



                                                    - 32 -

had started the process for the establishment of the new polimodal structure by 2001. The rest of the
provinces in the country are either struggling, or have abandoned the idea of this new structure altogether.

In terms of learning outcomes, there is very little that one can say, as the information available only covers
the 1997-2000 period, while the thrust of project pedagogical-related interventions took place from 2001
onwards.     Nevertheless, the information in Annex 1 shows that learning achievement in Spanish
consistently decreased in the project and control schools as well as at the national level in the
above-mentioned period of observation (by 8.9, 13.4 and 9.4 percent respectively), while in math it slightly
increased in project schools (3.3 percent) and the control group (four percent) and decreased at the national
level (1.6 percent).

In terms of efficiency concerning the allocation of human resources, measured by the ratio of students per
teacher positions, there was an improvement in the period 1997-1999 for project schools (20 percent) and
the control group (18.2 percent), but an increase in inefficiency of 11.1 percent at the national level.
Again, the information is dated and not very useful to draw conclusions. Another regrettable effect of the
severe financial and economic crisis in Argentina is that MECyT and the PMEs have not been able, by and
large, to update this kind of statistical information.

It has been documented elsewhere in Argentina, especially in the Income by Educational Level and by Age
Range section included in the Household Surveys (Encuesta Nacional de Hogares, October 2002) that
salaries increased as a function of the number of years of schooling. Accordingly, the average salary for an
individual in the 19-24 age group that completed the polimodal level (equivalent to 12 grades) is about 62
percent more than an individual with incomplete secondary education (more than the equivalent of six
grades but less than 12). Recent calculations done by the World Bank estimating the returns on education
in Argentina in the period 1992­2002 (Ariel Fiszbein, Paula Giovagnoli and Harry Anthony Patrinos,
World Bank, March 27, 2003) indicate that the rates of return of completed secondary education (12
grades) as compared to completed primary education (six grades) increased from 8.2 percent in 1992 to 9.2
percent in 2002. These rates of return findings need to be carefully considered since they refer to the whole
working age population rather than to those currently in secondary school (for which no analysis was
done).

There are other externalities associated with the positive effects of having a larger population with
completed EGB3 and polimodal in terms of enhanced participation in civil society and democratic
processes as well as decreased delinquency, benefits which are difficult to estimate in quantitative terms. In
addition, OECD countries have proven (Literacy in the Information Age, OECD 2000 for IALS Scores.
Hall and Jones, 1997) that the productive output per worker increases as a function of education level and
rate of learning achievement.

In terms of cost-effectiveness analysis, the project averaged a unit construction cost of about US$300.8 per
square meter after the devaluation (it went from a one to one ratio to a three AR$ for one US$ ratio in
December 2001), which is about 45 percent lower to the US$550 per square meter estimated at appraisal
for rehabilitation purposes. The project unit cost compares very favorable to the US$600 per square meter
displayed by the Government-financed Plan Social Educativo and the Inter-American Development
Bank-financed PRISE project targeted to EGB1 and EGB2 schools (estimates before the devaluation of the
Argentinean peso).

As shown in Annex 1, the construction investments under the project contributed to enrollment in polimodal
project schools by increasing it by 30 percent during the period 1997-2002, that is, about 53,100 students.
As mentioned above, recent calculations done by the World Bank estimating the returns to education in


                                                      - 33 -

Argentina in the period 1992­2002 indicate that the rates of return of completed secondary education (12
grades) as compared to completed primary education (six grades) increased from 8.2 percent in 1992 to 9.2
percent in 2002.

The project financed the construction and/or rehabilitation of 251,549 square meters. Assuming a ratio of
seven square meters per EGB3 and/or polimodal student, the project provided additional physical space for
about 36,000 EGB3 and polimodal students per shift, or 72,000 in two shifts (about 53,100 of these
students were enrolled in the polimodal level, and the rest, about 19,000 in EGB3).




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/16/1994                1    Pre-identification led by an
                                             education specialist.

              06/27/1994                4    Identification led by an education
                                             specialist, and including one
                                             principal operations officer, one
                                             human resource economist and
                                             one cost and procurement
                                             specialist.

              08/08/1994                1    Preparation of the economic
                                             studies led by an education
                                             economist

              08/29/1994                8    Preparation led by an education
                                             specialist, and including one
                                             principal operations officer, one
                                             educator, one human resource
                                             economist one cost and
                                             procurement specialist, one
                                             school architect, one education
                                             economist and one economist.

              12/05/1994                9    Pre-appraisal led by an education
                                             specialist, and including two
                                             principal operations officers, one
                                             educator, one human resource
                                             economist, one cost and
                                             procurement specialist, one
                                             school architect, one economist
                                             and one operations assistant.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/05/1995              10     Appraisal led by an
                                             education specialist, and
                                             including one principal
                                             operations officer, one
                                             educator, three human
                                             resource economists, one cost
                                             and procurement specialist,
                                             one school architect, one
                                             economist and one
                                             operations assistant.

              10/20/1995                5    Negotiations led by the lawyer
                                             and the task team leader



                                              - 35 -

                           (educator), one procurement
                           specialist, one disbursement
                           specialist and one human
                           resource economist.


Supervision
           06/24/1996    2 Task team leader (human             S    S
                           resource economist), one
                           education specialist

           08/26/1996    1 Task team leader (human             S    S
                           resource economist)

           11/15/1996    4 Task team leader (human             S    S
                           resource economist), one
                           education specialist, one
                           procurement specialist and one
                           operations assistant.

           03/03/1997    2 Task team leader (human             S    S
                           resource economist) and one
                           education specialist.

           11/07/1997    3 Task team leader (human             S    S
                           resource economist), one
                           education specialist and one
                           education economist.

           04/30/1998    5 Task team leader (human             S    S
                           resource economist), one social
                           sector specialist, one
                           procurement specialist, one
                           education economist and one
                           education specialist.

           11/06/1998    7 Task team leader (human             S    S
                           resource economist), three
                           learning resources specialists,
                           one education specialist, one
                           social specialist, and a project
                           assistant.

           03/26/1999    4 Task team leader (human             S    S
                           resource economist), one senior
                           education specialist, one
                           education consultant, and one
                           team assistant.

           09/03/1999    3 Task team leader (human             S    S
                           resource economist) and two
                           consultants.




                           - 36 -

      01/24/2000    2 Task team leader (human               S    S
                      resource economist) and one
                      principal education specialist

      05/19/2000    5 Task team leader (human               S    S
                      resource economist), the LCC7C
                      social sector leader, one principal
                      education specialist, one social
                      development specialist and one
                      operations assistant.

      07/31/2000    6 A task team leader (principal         S    S
                      education specialist), one project
                      implementation specialist, one
                      social development specialist,
                      one education specialist, one
                      procurement specialist and one
                      operations assistant.

      04/27/2001    1 Task team leader (principal           S    S
                      education specialist)

      12/11/2001    1 Task team leader (principal           S    S
                      education specialist)

      05/27/2002    5 Task team leader (principal           S    S
                      education specialist), one project
                      implementation specialist, one
                      social development, one
                      education specialist and one
                      procurement specialist.

      12/06/2002    1 One task team leader (lead            S    S
                      education specialist)

      08/24/2003    1 One task team leader (lead            S    S
                      education specialist)


ICR
      03/22/2004    6  A task team leader (lead             S    S
                       education specialist), one
                       education specialist, one
                       human resource economist,
                       one school architect, one
                       procurement specialist and
                       one financial management
                       specialist.




                      - 37 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            84.1                        294.40
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 21.3                         74.60
  Supervision                           96.0                        336.00
  ICR                                   12.5                           47.3
  Total                                213.9                         752.3




                                            - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bank preparation documents

Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), Report No 14278-AR. The World Bank, April 10, 1995.

Pre-identification Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, Back-to-Office Report. The World
Bank, May 16, 1994.

Identification Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, Back-to-Office Report. The World Bank,
June 27, 1994.

Project Concept Document. The World Bank, July 26, 1994.

Preparation Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
Bank, August, 28, 1994.

Pre-appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
Bank, December 5, 1994.

Appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World Bank,
April 5, 1995.

Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Report No.14559-AR. The World Bank, December 1, 1995.

Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. The World Bank, October 20, 1995.

Bank project implementation documents

Loan Agreement 3971-AR. The World Bank, August 7, 1996.

Amendments to the Loan Agreements including Memorandum to the Country Director. First
amendment of January 13, 1997. Second amendment of September 19, 2000. Third amendment of
April 30, 2002. Fourth amendment of October 22, 2002. Fifth amendment of May 6, 2003. Sixth
amendment of December 15, 2003.

Statement of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Management Letters and
Project Status Reports of all the Supervision Missions including the ICR Mission. The World Bank,
October 1996-March 2004.

Borrower project implementation documents

Informes de Avance del PRODYMES II. National Project Coordination Unit. October 1998-December
2002.

Informe de Terminación del Programa de Descentralización y Mejoramiento de la Educación
Secundaria y Desarrollo de la Educación Polimodal (PRODYMES II). National Project Coordination
Unit. March 2004.




                                                 - 41 -

Proyectos Innovadores. Recuperando Experiencias. PRODYMES II. Ministerio de Educación,
Ciencia y Tecnología de la Nación, 2004.

Itinerarios de Gestión en el Uso y Generación de la Información. PRODYMES II. Ministerio de
Educación, Ciencia y Tecnología de la Nación, 2004.

Programa de Reforma de la Gestión Administrativa de los Sistemas Educativos Provinciales
(PREGASE), Ministerio de Educación, Ciencia y Tecnología de la Nación, 2003.

Reglamento Operativo del PRODYMES II, Ministerio de Cultura y Educación, 1997.

Other documents

Fiszbein, Ariel, Giovagnoli, Paula, and Patrinos, Harry, A, "Estimating the Returns to Education in
Argentina: 1992-2002," The World Bank, March, 2003.

Hall, Robert and Jones Charles, "Why do some countries produce so much more output per worker
than others?", Quarterly Journal of Economics, 1999.




                                                 - 42 -

- 43 -

