OFFICIAUj
LOAN NUMBER 3971-AR
Loan Agreement
(Decentralization and Improvement of Secondary
Education and Polymodal Education Development Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated u -st '7      ,1996


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT 3971-AR
AGREEMENT, dated     A u 9 u    1          , 1996, between ARGENTINE
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced,
in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment
or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of
the United Nations."
(c)    In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (1) and a
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:


﻿-2-
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)    "Action Plan" means any of the plans of actions of a Beneficiary,
satisfactory to the Bank, required to implement the recommendations of the corresponding
Sector Management Productivity Study;
(b)    "Beneficiary" means a Participating Entity, a Replacement Participating
Entity or a Third Group Province, which is carrying out a Subproject or a Third Group
Subproject, as the case may be;
(c)    "NMCE" means Ministerio Nacional de Cultura y Educaci6n, the
Borrower's Ministry of Culture and Education;
(d)    "NPCU" means the existing unit, within NMCE, established to coordinate
the execution of the Decentralization and Improvement of Secondary Education Project
financed by Loan 3794-AR, under the Prior Loan Agreement;
(e)    "Participating Entity" means any of the Provinces of Buenos Aires, Chaco,
Corrientes, Entre Rios, Salta, Santa Cruz and Tucumin, or the Municipality of Buenos
Aires, provided it has not been replaced by a Replacement Participating Entity or a Third
Group Province, as set forth in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(f)    "PME" means any of the Ministries of Education of a Beneficiary;
(g)    "Polymodal Education" means the last three years of high school
education, corresponding to grades 10 through 12;
(h)    "PPCU" means any of the units referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule
6 to this Agreement;
(i)    "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement, dated March 24,
1995, between the Borrower and the Bank for Loan 3794-AR, as amended;
(j)    "Project Consultative Council" means the council referred to in Section
3.06 of this Agreement;


﻿-3-
(k)    "Project Implementation Targets" means the targets set forth in Annex A to
the letter of even date with this Agreement from the Borrower to the Bank;
(1)    "Project Impact Indicators" means the impact indicators set forth in Annex
B to the letter of even date with this Agreement from the Borrower to the Bank;
(m)    "Replacement Participating Entity" means any province of the Borrower,
acceptable to the Bank, which is selected by the Borrower to replace any of the
Participating Entities referred to in (e) above, if any of the events referred to in Section 3.04
(b) of this Agreement shall occur;
(n)    "Sector Management Productivity Study" means any of the studies,
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank, in respect of each Beneficiary which: (i) identifies
inefficiencies in the use of human and physical resources in the corresponding PME; (ii)
recommends corrective actions for such inefficiencies; and (iii) proposes alternative designs
to decentralize secondary education management and improve its internal efficiency;
(o)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement;
(p)    "Subproject" means any of the projects to be carried out by a Participating
Entity or, if applicable, a Replacement Participating Entity, consisting of some or all of the
activities described in Part A of the Project;
(q)    "Subloan" means a loan to be made under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
a Third Group Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(r)    "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(s) "Third Group Province" means a province of the Borrower, other than a
Participating Entity, a Replacement Participating Entity or a Participating Province (as such
term is defined in Section 1.02 (c) of the Prior Loan Agreement), which is eligible, in the
opinion of the Bank, to enter into Third Group Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(t)    "Third Group Subproject" means any of the projects, consisting of some or
all of the activities described in Part A of the Project, to be carried out by the Borrower on
behalf of a Third Group Province, if any of the events referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this
Agreement shall occur; and
(u)    "Third Group Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of one hundred and fifteen million and five hundred
thousand dollars ($115,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan,
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan
not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal
to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
(b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)    For the purposes of this Section:


﻿-5-
(i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum,
of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June
30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the
Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
(a) of this Section.
(iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six monthsof
a calendar year.
(d)    On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as
follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respei of the preceding Quarter, plus
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, April 1,
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 2.08. The Secretary of the Treasury of the Borrower's Ministry of
Economy, Public Works and Services and any person designated by such Secretary are
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE M
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(a)    shall, through the NMCE, carry out Part B of the Project, and, if
applicable, the Third Group Subprojects on behalf of the Third Group Provinces, all with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
environmental and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required therefor; and
(b)    through the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, shall cause the Participating
Entities and, if applicable, the Replacement Participating Entities to carry out their
respective Subprojects with due diligence and efficiency an in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, environmental and educational practices, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources
necessary or appropriate to enable the carrying out of the Subprojects, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the
Subprojects.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods,
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisins of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by each Participating Entity or
Replacement Participating Entity, if applicable, in respect of such Participating Entity's or
Replacement Participating Entity's Subproject, as the case may be.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with each
Participating Entity and, subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, each Replacement
Participating Entity (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement), whereby the Borrower shall relend to


﻿-7-
such Participating Entity or, if applicable, Replacement Participating Entity, the proceeds of
the Loan allocated to finance the Subproject to be carried out by such Participating Entity or
Replacement Participating Entity, as the case may be, such Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
have, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including those set forth or referred to in Section I of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(b)    If: (i) a Participating Entity shall not enter into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement within eight months from the Effective Date; (ii) a Participating Entity shall
enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement providing, with the agreement of the Bank, for a
Subloan in an amount lower than the corresponding amount set forth in paragraph 1 of
Section I of Schedule 6 to this Agreement; or (iii) after 30 months from the date of the
signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, an amount equivalent to more than 80% of the
Subloan amount shall remain unwithdrawn by the Participating Entity, the Borrower may
propose to the Bank a reallocation of the corresponding amount of the Loan that would
have been used to finance: (A) the Subloan under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred
to in (i) above; (B) the remaining portion of the Subloan referred to in (ii) above; or (C) the
unwithdrawn amount of the Subloan referred to in (iii) above, as the case may be, either for
purposes of financing Third Group Subprojects or Subprojects, acceptable to the Bank, to
be carried out by Replacement Participating Entities. If approved by the Bank, the
Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with each Replacement
Participating Entity or into an agreement with each Third Group Province (the Third Group
Subsidiary Loan Agreement) whereby the Borrower shall relend to such Third Group
Province the proceeds of the Loan reallocated to finance the corresponding Third Group
Subproject, such Third Group Subsidiary Loan Agreement to have terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, those set forth
or referred to in Section II of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and, if applicable, the Third Group Subsidiary Loan
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or fail to enforce any of such agreements or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project:
(a)    cause the NPCU to be maintained with staff, responsibilities and functions
satisfactory to the Bank, and to be responsible for the overall coordination of the execution
of the Project; and
(b)    provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required by the NPCU to carry out its functions and responsibilities in a timely
manner.


﻿-8-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project, maintain a
consultative council (the Project Consultative Council) composed by the Borrower's
Minister of Culture and Education, the NMCE's Secretary of Educational Programming and
Evaluation and the Ministers of Education of the Beneficiaries for the purposes of
providing policy and strategy guidance with respect to the Project, monitoring the
compliance with the Project Implementation Targets and, if applicable, the implementation
targets referred to in paragraphs 3 (b) (v) and 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and
resolving any implementation or organization problems that may threaten the efficient
execution of the Project.
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower, through the NPCU, shall, not later than May 31 of each year
during Project execution, furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request: (a) on the progress in the Project execution during the
immediately preceding calendar year; (b) containing an analysis of the compliance with the
Project Implementation Targets and the Project Impact Indicators (and, if applicable, the
implementation targets and impact indicators referred to in paragraphs 3 (b) (v) and 3 (c) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement) during such year; and (c) containing an action plan for the
execution of the Project during the year of presentation of such report.
Section 3.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) of the General
Conditions, the Bp.-ower, jointly with the Beneficiaries, shall:
(a)    during the month of June in each year during Project execution, undertake
a review with the Bank of: (i) the progress in the execution of the Project during the next
preceding year; (ii) the proposed work plan and budget for the Project during the year of
such review; and (iii) the adjustments to be made to the Project implementation schedule
during the year.of such review; and
(b)    during the thirtieth month after the Effective Date, undertake a review with
the Bank of the progress in the execution of the Project and the attainment of its objectives,
with special emphasis on the compliance with the Project Implementation Targets and the
Project Impact Indicators (and, if applicable, the implementation targets and impact
indicators referred to in paragraphs 3 (b) (v) and 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement). As
part of such review, the Bank may require that the Borrower prepare an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in Project implementation. In the event that
the Bank requires the preparation of such action plan, the Borrower shall furnish it to the
Bank not later than 90 days after the conclusion of such review, and shall carry out, or
cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance with the terms thereof.
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:


﻿(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation
of the Project; and
(b)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and separate accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures of NMCE in respect of Part B of the Project, and, if applicable, the Third
Group Subprojects.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordmce with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts
reflecting such expenditures;


﻿-10-
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Bank!s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause each Participating Entity and, if
applicable, each Replacement Participating Entity to maintain records and separate accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures of such Participating Entity and, if applicable, such Replacement
Participating Entity, in respect of their Subproject.
(b)    The Borrower shall cause each Participating Entity and, if applicable, each
Replacement Participating Entity to:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shal from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿-11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified:
(a)    Any of the Beneficiaries shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement or a Third Group Subsidiary Loan Agreement, as the
case may be.
(b)    As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement,
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that a
Beneficiary will be able to perform its obligations under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement or a
Third Group Subsidiary Loan Agreement, as the case may be.
It is understood that, if any of the events referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) above
shall occur, the Bank may limit the suspension of the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures incurred by the Beneficiary in
question.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following
additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph(a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
(a)    at least one Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and a
Participating Entity has become effective;
(b)    the PPCU in the Participating Entity referred to in paragraph (a) above has
been established;


﻿-12 -
(c)    all action, satisfactory to the Bank, has been taken by the Participating
Entity referred to in paragraph (a) above in order to permit the procurement of goods,
works and consultants' services to be financed under the Loan to be undertaken in
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement;
(d)    the Action Plan of the Participating Entity referred to in paragraph (a)
above has been furnished to the Bank; and
(e)    the Project Consultative Council has been established by a Resolution of
the Borrower's Minister of Culture and Education.
Section 6.02. The date NojowA/  ex  5      , 1996 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-13 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Obras
y Servicios PiTblicos
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Telex:
(390) 21-952
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INTBAFRAD                    248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.              64145 (MCI)


﻿-14-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By Isl F~~ evn&(\'&e-z
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   '     (:: Ob'vicY-T4  NoawLvv1A-VA
Al c Aq Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-15-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                   30,000,000               65%
(2)   Goods                         30,000,000               80%
(3)   Consultant's                  26,000,000               90%
services
(4)   Grants for school-             4,000,000               100%
based institutional
innovations projects
under Part A.2 (e)
of the Project and
scholarships
(5)   Incremental recurrent          5,000,000               50%
expenditures
(6)   Project implementation         6,800,000               90%
costs
(7)   Unallocated                    13,700,000
TOTAL                         115,500,000


﻿-16-
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term  "incremental recurrent expenditures" means expenditures
incurred, as a result of the execution of the Project, for salaries, building and equipment
maintenance costs, insurance, rentals, utilities costs, publications and office materials; and
(b)    the term  "Project implementation costs" means expenditures required
during Project execution for travel and per diems for training and Project coordination and
monitoring activities, office materials, office rentals, publications, bidding and other similar
expenditures related to the execution of the Project.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:
(a)    payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000,
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after July
15, 1995;
(b)    expenditures by any     Participating Entity or, if applicable, any
Replacement Participating Entity, except the Participating Entity or Entities, referred to in
Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, unless the Bank shall have received evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that: (i) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and
such Participating Entity or Replacement Participating Entity has become effective; (ii) the
PPCU in such Participating Entity or Replacement Participating Entity has been established;
(iii) all action, satisfactory to the Bank, has been taken by such Participating Entity or
Replacement Participating Entity, in order to permit the procurement of goods, works and
consultants' services to be financed under the Loan to be undertaken in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement; (iv) the Action Plan for such
Participating Entity or Replacement Participating Entity has been prepared; and (v) in the
case of a Replacement Participating Entity, implementation targets for the Subproject of
such Replacement Participating Entity and indicators of impact of the Subproject on the
secondary education system of such Replacement Participating Entity have been approved
by the Bank; and
(c)    expenditures under a Third Group Subproject, unless the Bank shall have
received evidence satisfactory to the Bank that: (i) the corresponding Third Group
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Third Group Province has
become effective; (ii) a plan, acceptable to the Bank, to improve the efficiency of the
education sector of such Third Group Province has been prepared; and (iii) implementation
targets for such Third Group Subproject and indicators of impact of the Third Group


﻿-17-
Subproject on the secondary education system of such Third Group Province have been
approved by the Bank.
4.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under:
(a)    contracts for vehicles, informatics goods and communications equipment
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each;
(b)    contracts for other goods costing $250,000 equivalent or less each (other
than the first contract to be awarded under each Subproject or Third Group Subproject, in
each of the first three years of execution of the Project, pursuant to Part C.2 of Section I of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement);
(c)    contracts for works costing $1,000,000 equivalent or less each (other than
the first contract costing $1,000,000 equivalent or less to be awarded under each Subproject
or Third Group Subproject, in each of the first three years of execution of the Project,
pursuant to Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement);
(d)    contracts for consulting firms' services costing less than $50,000
equivalent each;
(e)    contracts for individual consultants' services costing less than $20,000
equivalent each; and
(f)    Categories (5) and (6) of the table in paragraph 1 hereof, all under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿-18-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen institutional capacity in the
PMEs under a decentralized framework; (b) increase the quality and efficiency of
secondary education in the Beneficiaries; and (c) increase and improve physical capacity of
the Beneficiaries' school facilities to serve the secondary school-aged population more
effectively.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
1.     Institutional strengthening activities in the Beneficiaries consisting of:
(a)    improvement of the educational administration in the PMEs pursiant to the
corresponding Action Plan (in the case of a Participating Entity or a Replacement
Participating Entity) or the corresponding plan referred to in paragraph 3 (c) (ii) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (in the case of a Third Group Province), through: (i)
strengthening of their capacity in the strategic planning and monitoring of the secondary
education school system; (ii) modernization of key central units, in particular those
responsible for planning, budgeting and monitoring, and decentralization of some
administrative units; and (iii) establishment of the regulatory framework under which the
new decentralized structures will function;
(b)    development of a management information system, integrating modules
for education statistics, financial information, physical inventory, human resources
management, and educational research;
(c)    development of an education quality evaluation system in coordination
with the Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n de la Calidad de la Educaci6n.
(d)    training of staff as required for the implementation of the activities under
(a), (b) and (c) above; and
(e) , in the case of the Province of Buenos Aires, carrying out of three
diagnostic studies, including action plans for the implementation of the recommendations
thereof, on: (i) management of the secondary education subsystem and its adaptation to the
multimodal curricular model; (ii) education planning; and (iii) structures and functions of
the education supervision system.


﻿-19-
2.     Activities to increase the quality of public secondary education in the Participating
Entities, consisting of:
(a)    acquisition and utilization of education resources such as textbooks,
libraries, basic science laboratories, learning modules in basic areas such as biology,
physics and multimedia information, teacher guides, maps, charts, dictionaries, and
multimedia equipment such as televisions and videorecorders and cassettes;
(b)    provision, under the coordination of the Red Federal de Formaci6n
Docente Continua, of training to: (i) teachers to upgrade their skills in basic subject
disciplines, and in the use of education materials and new technologies such as computers,
and to prepare them for the curriculum changes already underway; and (ii) school principals
and supervisors in the areas of school management and pedagogical monitoring and
supervision;
(c)    planning and development of Polymodal Education curriculum;
(d)    design and implementation of school-based institutional development
projects, especially with respect to organizational and pedagogical changes;
(e)    provision of incentives to school-based institutional innovations projects;
and
(f)   in the case of the Province of Buenos Aires, carrying out of diagnostic
studies, including action plans for the implementation of the recommendations thereof, on:
(i) Polymodal Education curriculum development; (ii) improvement of the internal and
external efficiency of secondary education; and (iii) education innovations linked with the
labor market.
3.     Construction, expansion and rehabilitation of Beneficiaries' secondary education
schools.
Part B:
Strengthening of the capacity of the NPCU to coordinate and monitor Project
execution, and to provide technical assistance to the Beneficiaries.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿-20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and September 15
beginning May 15, 2001
through November 15, 2010                        5,775,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿-21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on the
principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified
for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   0.20
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                   0.40
More than six years but
not more than 11 years
before maturity                                   0.73
More than 11 years but not
more than 13 years
before maturity                                   0.87
More than 13 years before
maturity                                          1.00


﻿-22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this
Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.        Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.        The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a) Two-stage bidding procedure
The bidding procedure for textbooks shall be carried out in two stages in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.
(b) Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.        Limited International Bidding
Vehicles, informatics goods (computers, peripheral equipment and computer
software) and communications equipment (fax and photocopying machines) estimated to
cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract, and $7,500,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.


﻿-23 -
2.        National Competitive Bidding
(a) Goods (other than those referred to in paragraph 1 of this Part C) and
works estimated to cost $250,000 and $5,000,000 equivalent or less per contract,
respectively, and $17,200,000 and $40,300,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate,
respectively, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b) Procurement of goods and works under this Part C.2 shall be undertaken
on the basis of standard bidding documents approved by the Bank.
3.        National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and
$8,800,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.        Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per contract, and
$12,900,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under lumpsum, fixed
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the
contract.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.        Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval,
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.


﻿-24 -
2.        Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of
Part B or Part C.1 hereof; (b) each contract for works estimated to cost more than
$1,000,000 equivalent; and (c) the first contract for works costing $1,000,000 or less and
the first contract for goods to be awarded under each Subproject and each Third Group
Subproject, in each of the first three years of execution of the Project, pursuant to the
provisions of Part C.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.        Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.        Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable
to the Bank shall be used.
2.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall
not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $20,000
equivalent or above.


﻿-25-
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$20,000,000.
2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.        After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or
amounts determined by the Bank to be required to pay for eligible expenditures during the
four months following the date of each such request, which amount shall not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in
the Special Account such amounto r amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b) (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.


﻿-26-
(ii)     Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdravals
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Ar.cle V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
(c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.


﻿-27-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.        (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿-28-
SCHEDULE 6
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
and Third Group Subsidiary Loan Agreements
Section I - Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the following terms and
conditions:
1.        Subloans shall be made under the same terms and conditions of the Loan with
respect to repayment period, interest rate, commitment charge and currency provisions, and,
subject to the provisions of Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement, the respective amounts of
the Subloans to the Participating Entities, shall be as follows:
Province of Buenos Aires:                        $4,900,000
Province of Chaco:                              $14,000,000
Province of Corrientes:                         $13,800,000
Province of Entre Rios:                         $13,600,000
Municipality of Buenos Aires:                   $36,400,000
Province of Salta:                              $13,200,000
Province of Santa Cruz:                          $7,300,000
Province of Tucuman:                            $10,000,000
2.        The Participating Entity and, if applicable, the Replacement Participating Entity
shall:
(a) comply with the provisions of Sections 3.01 (b), 3.02, 3.03 and 4.02 of the
Loan Agreement in respect of its Subproject;
(b) during the execution of its Subproject, maintain a unit, within PME, in
charge of the coordination of the execution of the Subproject (the PPCU), with staff,
responsibilities, budget and functions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank;
(c) substantially comply, on a progressive basis acceptable to the Bank, with
the Project Impact Indicators in respect of such Participating Entity, or, in the case of a
Replacement Participating Entity, with the impact indicators referred to in paragraph 3 (b)
(v) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d) substantially achieve, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, the components
of the Project Implementation Targets applicable to such Participating Entity, or, in the


﻿-29-
case of a Replacement Participating Entity, the implementation targets referred to in
paragraph 3 (b) (v) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e) provide all the assistance required by the Borrower for the purposes of
compliance with Sections 3.07 and 3.09 of the Loan Agreement; and
(f) participate, jointly with the Borower, in the reviews referred to in Section
3.08 of the Loan Agreement.
3.        Each Participating Entity or Replacement Participating Entity shAll make
available, promptly as needed in each year during the execution of its Subproject, the
counterpart funds required for the efficient execution of its Subproject.
Section II - Third Group Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The Third Group Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the following
terms and conditions:
1.        Subloans shall be made under the same terms and conditions of the Loan with
respect to repayment period, interest rate, commitment charge and currency provisions.
2.        The Third Group Province shall take all action on its part necessary to enable
the Borrower to carry out, on behalf of the Third Group Province, the Third Group
Subproject.
3.        The Third Group Province shall substantially comply, on a progressive basis
acceptable to the Bank, with the impact indicators referred to in paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
4.        The Borrower shall substantially achieve, in a manner acceptable to the Bank,
the implementation targets referred to in paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECR TARY


