Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB679 
Project Name 
Santiago Urban Transport 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General transportation sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P082412 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF CHILE 
Implementing Agencies 
Ministry of Finance, Teatinos 120, Santiago-Chile, 56 2 696-1368 
Transantiago, Nueva York 9, piso 10, Santiago-Chile, 56 2 428-7900
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [x ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
February 9, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 17, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 27, 2004 
 
 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The Government of Chile has requested a US$100 million Sector Adjustment Loan, focusing on 
urban public transport in its capital city, Santiago de Chile. Santiago has embarked on an 
ambitious program to increase the quality of life of its residents, and the efficiency, equity and 
environmental friendliness with which its various systems serve the urban economy. In the 
aggregate, the efforts undertaken within this program are to make Santiago not only better for its 
residents, but also make it into a more appealing cosmopolitan center, expected to attract both 
investment and visitors.  Because some 70 percent of public bus riders are from low income 
households, the improvements to the system will have a particularly positive impact on the poor.   
The essence of the urban transport problem in Santiago is a fierce struggle for the limited street 
space between the automobiles and public transport vehicles. Motorization is driven by growth, 
and car users tend to be in the forefront of the growth wave. The majority of the people in 
Santiago are public transport passengers, however. The majority of these are captives of this 
mode, but some have access to a private car, or aspire to be in that situation. The captives belong 
to lower income strata. They are especially sensitive to fare levels, but with an eye also on travel 
time, comfort and safety. 
The policy challenge is how to balance the demands of these diverse groups. The drive for 
quality suggests the development of off-street systems, i.e. limited-access roads for motor 
vehicles and rapid transit modes for public transport passengers. Such an approach being capital-
intensive and having hard environmental constraints, it becomes imperative that the road space 
be allocated and managed so as to maximize social gain. 
This proposal provides an unusual opportunity for the World Bank to become a partner in 
balancing three major development objectives: (a) accelerating economic growth, which is linked 
to city efficiency and attractiveness; (b) reducing inequality, tied to access and mobility of low-
income population; and (c) ameliorating air quality. 
Page  2
 
 
 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
The main  development objectives of the proposed Sector Adjustment Loan for Santiago will be 
to improve the level of transport services to the residents (particularly low income residents) and 
businesses, reduce resource costs, and increase environmental quality. The specific objectives are 
to: 
(i) 
improve the competitive mechanism in public transport services in the 
direction of for-the-market competition; 
(ii) 
introduce a unified and integrated pricing system for public transport services 
making access more equitable; 
(iii) 
concession public transport services, part of the required infrastructure 
(mainly busways and bus terminals) and revenue collection function to the 
private sector, with accompanying risk-sharing arrangements; 
(iv) 
re-allocate the street space away from general traffic to exclusive use of (bus) 
public transport vehicles; 
(v) 
set up some form of a permanent special purpose metropolitan transport 
planning organization. 
(vi) 
facilitate coordination between urban transport policies and land-use policies. 
(vii) 
dramatically reduce public transport-related emissions of air contaminants. 
 
 
3.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
Although there is no commitment to directly funding any infrastructure in the proposed SECAL 
and DDO, it is considered important that the longer term development of the segregated busway 
system should be consistent with sound  environmental and social safeguard policies. The 
Chilean environmental framework for handling investments is very strong, and adequate 
provisions exist for environmental management, resettlement issues, and promotion of public 
participation. Depending on the potential environmental or social impact of the investments, 
projects are required to enter into the National System for Environmental Impact Assessment 
(SEIA), which not only allows for cross-sectoral evaluation but also enforces public disclosure.  
 
In any case, it is proposed that the accompanying Technical Assistance Loan will help ensuring 
that environmental and social policies and procedures for any upcoming works related to the 
upgrade of Santiago’s current road network, including the construction of segregated busways, 
underpasses, and transfer stations, are in agreement with sound safeguard policies.
. 
 
4. Project Benefits 
 
a. Resource savings due to the removal of the revenue risk from operators, 
transferring the bus flows in major corridors to an exclusive space, the reduction 
Page  3
 
 
of bus vehicle-km on the street system, and the rationalization of the route 
network; 
b.  Environmental improvements (higher air quality and lower noise) due to better-
quality buses and fewer bus-km; 
c. 
Increased quality of service for passengers who live in the catchment areas of the 
metro extensions and the new metro line; 
d. 
Increased comfort, safety and reliability for passengers on the bus network. 
e.  Increased coverage of feeder routes particularly in poor neighborhoods. This all 
will help to address problems of social exclusion for the poor. 
f. 
Savings stemming from the unified fare system, i.e. passengers not having to pay 
when transferring among bus and metro lines; 
g. Reduced use of ‘road space’ by car drivers contributing to a reduction in 
congestion and more equitable distribution of road space.   
h.  Efficiency improvements which will contribute to the city economy and hence 
economic growth.   
 
5. Project Risks 
The risks of this program are deemed modest. Nevertheless, some issues deserve special 
attention. They include: 
(i) 
That some users may sustain increases in waiting and access times which offset the 
benefits that they obtain in improved trunk travel times.  
(ii) 
That some delays in the introduction of the segregated bus ways and other uncertainty 
factors entice concessionaires to make conservative proposals asking for higher-than-
expected payments, with the effect that the initial system could be in financial balance 
only with higher fares than those currently intended. 
(iii) 
That some of concession tenders for bus services end up unsuccessful.  
 
 
6. 
IBRD Loan Amount : US$ 100 million (US$ 75 million DDO + US$ 25 million SECAL) 
 
7. Contact point 
Contact: Pierre Graftieaux 
Title: Urban Transport. Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-8664 
Fax:  
Email: pgraftieaux@worldbank.org 
 
wb202467 
L:\Santiago préstamo\Doc Off\PIDs\PID SECAL-DDO Santiago UT.doc 
February 11, 2004 2:27 PM 
 
