                                  Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                           Report No: ICR0000631


          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-73150)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF 30.16 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF CHILE

                                     FOR A

                       SANTIAGO URBAN TRANSPORT

               PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                                 August 11, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective 06/18/2009)

                           Currency Unit =
                        1.00 CLP = US$ 0.0018
                        US$ 1.00 = 551.25 CPL

                            FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 ­ December 31


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFT            Financial Administrator of Transantiago
BRT            Bus Rapid Transit
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBD            Central Business District
Committee of   Committee of Ministers for Urban Transport in Metropolitan
Ministers      Santiago (established through Presidential Decree no. 001 of
               March 2002)
CONAMA         National Commission for the Environment
CONAMA-RM      Metropolitan Region CONAMA
CLP            Chilean Peso
CMU            Country Management Unit
DICTUC         Department for Engineering of the Catholic University of Chile
DPL            Development Policy Loan
FDI            Foreign Direct Investment
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GEF            Global Environment Facility
GHG            Greenhouse Gases
GoCH           Government of Chile
GPS            Global Positioning System
IADB           Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IFC            International Finance Corporation
IMF            International Monetary Fund
L&D            Libertad y Desarrollo, a think tank
MBN            Ministry of Public Goods
MOP            Ministry of Public Works
MIDEPLAN       Ministry of Planning
MINVU          Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
MODEM          Model to Calculate Vehicle Emission developed by SECTRA
MOPTT          Ministry of Public Works and Transport and Telecommunications
MTT            Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
O-D               Origin-Destination Survey
PD                Project Document
PDO               Project Development Objective
PM                Particulate Matter
PUC               Catholic University (Pontifica Universidad Católica)
SEA               Strategic Environmental Assessment
SECTRA            Chile's Inter-Ministerial Transport Agency under MIDEPLAN for
                  Strategic Transport Modeling and Planning
SEREMITT          Regional Ministerial Secretariat for Transport and
                  Telecommunications
SERVIU            Regional Service for Housing and Urban Development of MINVU
SIAUT             User Information and Customer Service Provider for Transantiago
SIL               Sector Investment Loan
TAL               Technical Assistance Loan
Transantiago      Public Transport Component of the Santiago Urban
                  Transport Plan 2000-2010
Transantiago-SE   Executive Secretary in charge of the Implementation of
                  Transantiago




                         Vice President: Pamela Cox
                       Country Director: Pedro Alba
                        Sector Manager: Aurelio Menendez
                      Task Team Leader: Jorge Rebelo
                      ICR Team Leader: Jorge Rebelo
                    ICR Primary Author: Elisabeth Goller
                               Republic of Chile
                         SANTIAGO URBAN TRANSPORT
                   PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                                                    CONTENTS




   Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring

 1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 3 
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 11 
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 23 
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 29 
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 31 
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 38 
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 42 
 Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 43 
 Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 45 
 Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 45 
 Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 46 
 Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 51 
 Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 52 
 Annex 7. Project Development Objectives, Monitoring Indicators and Achievement of
 Expected Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 54 
 Annex 8. Milestones Of Project Implementation And The Future Outlook ................. 66 
 Annex 9. Policy Areas and Building Blocks of Transantiago ...................................... 71 
 MAPS


This ICR was prepared by a World Bank team composed of: Elisabeth Goller, Jorge
Rebelo, Sivan Tamir, Emmanuel James, and Lucia Mejia. Comments were received
from: Laura Tuck, Jose Luis Irigoyen, Pierre Graftieaux, Sam Zimmerman, Arturo
Ardilla, Felipe Saez, Franz Drees-Gross, and Pedro Alba.
A. Basic Information
                                                                          CL -Santiago Urban
Country:                Chile                   Program Name:
                                                                          Transport Adj
Program ID:             P082412                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-73150
ICR Date:               08/13/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          CHILE
Original Total
                        USD 30.2M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 30.2M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 30.2M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/02/2003     Effectiveness:                              11/03/2005
Appraisal:            03/18/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             07/05/2005     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                12/31/2006          12/31/2006

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
                             Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                           Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                               None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                  None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General transportation sector                                         100              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                   29                  29
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                 14                  14
Other urban development                                                29                  29
Participation and civic engagement                                     14                  14
Pollution management and environmental health                          14                  14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Pedro Alba                           Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:            Aurelio Menendez                     Jose Luis Irigoyen
Program Team Leader:       Jorge M. Rebelo                      Jorge M. Rebelo
ICR Team Leader:           Jorge M. Rebelo
ICR Primary Author:        Elisabeth Goller


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 The main development objectives of this DPL for Santiago will be to contribute to its
transformation into a highly competitive world city, improve its quality of life through
upgrading the level of transport services to the residents (particularly low income
residents) and businesses, reduce resource costs, and increase environmental quality. The
specific objectives are to:


                                               ii
  1) Reduce transport costs in their financial, travel time and environmental dimensions
and increase transport efficiency;
  2) Improve the coordination of public sector activities in land use, transport planning,
infrastructure investment, traffic management, and bus franchising;
  3) Address urban poverty through improving access to jobs and economic
opportunities; and
  4) Enhance social inclusion through improved access to schools, health facilities, and
wider social interaction.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target        Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval            Target         Completion or
                                                documents)           Values         Target Years
                   Due to space limitations in this table, the indicators are presented in detail in
Indicator 1 :
                   annex 7 of the ICR.
Value
(quantitative or   n.a                      n.a                                  n.a
Qualitative)
Date achieved      07/05/2005               12/31/2006                           06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                               Values (from                          Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                           Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                documents)                          Target Years
                   Due to space limitations in this table, the indicators are presented in detail in
Indicator 1 :
                   annex 7 of the ICR.
Value
(quantitative or   n.a                      n.a                                  n.a
Qualitative)
Date achieved      07/05/2005               12/31/2006                           06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                  iii
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                          IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1    01/20/2006        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   30.16
  2    05/31/2006        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   30.16
  3    12/05/2006        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   30.16
                                                    Moderately
  4    06/14/2007   Moderately Satisfactory                                       30.16
                                                  Unsatisfactory
  5    12/12/2007   Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory            30.16


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                          iv
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

                                Framework for evaluation

1) On 5 July, 2005, the World Bank's Board approved a US$30.16 million
Programmatic Development Policy Loan (DPL) in support of the Santiago public
transport reform (known as Transantiago). This programmatic DPL provided for Bank
support for a total amount of US$100.16 million to be implemented during the period
2005-07. The proposed Bank intervention consisted of two sequenced single tranche
operations designed to underpin the policy and institutional reforms envisaged to bring
Transantiago into full operation. In addition, a technical assistance loan in the amount of
US$4.8 million was made to assist in the implementation of the reform arrangements.
Only DPL1 was finally approved since the Government of Chile (GoCH) did not seek the
approval of the second DPL. The GoCH did, however, follow through with the
implementation of the totality of the Transantiago reform, albeit with some initial severe
difficulties. Consistent with Bank guidelines in the evaluation of programmatic DPLs,
this Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) evaluates the degree to which
the program achieved its development objectives as set out in the Program Document
(PD), including a separate assessment of the contribution made by the sole loan, DPL1,
that the Bank made in support of Transantiago.

1.0 Introduction
2) In the late 1990s, as part of its plans to mark the pending 200th anniversary of Chile's
independence, the GoCH formulated an ambitious nation-wide urban transport program.
The key objectives of the GoCH were to improve the quality of life in Chilean cities, and
to address poverty and inequality problems. In the case of Santiago, probably the most
significant tool to attain those objectives was the proposed decade long (2000-2010)
Santiago Urban Transport Plan, of which the public transport part is known simply as
Transantiago. The latter was conceived as a plan of unprecedented scope and complexity
for a Latin American city since it applied to the whole city and affected all public
transport modes. Unlike Bogota with its well-regarded TransMilenio Bus Rapid Transit
(BRT) corridors performing just over 20% of public transport trips while operating side-
by-side with a chaotic mix of traditional informal sector buses that carry the bulk of the
passenger traffic, Transantiago called for a complete transformation of the public
transport system from a generally informal service provision to an integrated city- and
system-wide network more typical of an advanced OECD country. Even the passenger
payment and transfer systems were to become integrated via a SmartCard system. Once
preparatory activities had been completed, this transformation was to take place during a
very short period that had been described in the popular press as 'the big bang'.

3) Hence, Transantiago had a very complex and comprehensive transport systems
rationalization agenda, and the scope of its investments in the metro and bus system was
vast. Just the bus system modernization alone was expected to cost upwards of US$900
million as it included bus infrastructure (US$330 million), fare collection equipment and
user information system (US$100 million), and rolling stock (US$460 million). Another


                                             3
major investment included the doubling of the extension of the subway system compared
to the 2000 level. In addition to the bus transport investments already mentioned, there
was a further long term objective of building a total of 300 km of busways by 2026,
which is very important not only for growing transport needs but also for the City's Air
Quality and Climate Change Mitigation agenda. It is worth mentioning that the
development of the proposed transport system would enable Santiago to be competitive
on a global basis.

4) In order to help increase the chances for a smooth transition, the launch window for
the 'big bang' had three optimal prerequisites (i) strong political support, (ii) launch at a
time of the year in which ridership was low, usually the school summer break period1,
and (iii) managerial and technical readiness in the sense that the system building blocks,
which ranged from ticketing systems to segregated busways, needed to be fully prepared
and substantially in place. At the time of launch on February 10, 2007, as detailed in the
ICR, many of the building blocks that comprised item (iii) were not fully in place but the
GoCH decided to go ahead since the conditions were appropriate in terms of items (i) and
(ii), and a postponement implied a delay of a year or more and substantial contractual and
reputational costs. Unfortunately, the launch of Transantiago unveiled some severe start
up problems derived from shortcomings in the network and financial sustainability design
assumptions and because the various building blocks, considered critical for a successful
launch of the system, were not in place. While Santiago's public transport system has
now stabilized and Transantiago should meet its 2010 goals as planned, operationally it
became associated with many shortcomings including public discontent, major political
problems, and a negative image.

5) On the positive side, the GoCH immediately reacted to address the start up problems
and today the new public transport system is considered one of the best in Latin America.
The transformation laid the blueprint for seamless, citywide, public transport system
coverage due to the installation of an extensive, widely dispersed hub and spoke bus
route structure together with its integration, via Smartcard, with the metro. The majority
of buses are modern, air conditioned, Euro3 standard (environmentally cleaner), with
uniformed drivers who have been trained to provide a high level of service to riders.
Today, poor residents can take multi-leg trips from often distant neighborhoods to the
central business district while paying only once. At the other end of the passenger
spectrum, the managers of Transantiago may now be in a position to think about
formulating programs to attract people away from their dependence on the automobile for
daily commuting purposes. Both of these developments would not have been possible
before the reforms. However, on the other hand, even in the medium term there is some
lingering public resentment because the current system implies a substantial increase in
the need to use transfers (around 50% of trips) in the daily commute. This factor is in line,
however, with the trip experience on similar systems in advanced countries. The current
main challenge is the system's operating deficit.



1
  Summer vacation in Chile is February. This prerequisite was not originally considered but became apparent after the
first postponement of the launch from August 2006 to February 2007.


                                                          4
6) For the implementation of Transantiago, the GoCH requested Bank assistance to
support the system modernization and rationalization agenda placing special emphasis on
the policy and institutional reforms required to bring Transantiago into operation. No
Bank support was envisaged on the infrastructure components of the program. The GoCH
expected to develop concession schemes with the private sector to provide most of the
infrastructure investments. Hence, in July 2005, the Bank approved a programmatic DPL
consisting of DPL1 for the amount of US$ 30.162 million that was disbursed in January
2006 after the triggers/prior actions ­ related to policy and institutional initiatives - had
been complied with. The Bank's PD had been dimensioned on the basis of a
programmatic DPL with two separate loans (DPL1 & DPL2) for a total of $100.16
million. In the end, due to its strong fiscal position, the GoCH did not follow through
with the second DPL. It should be noted also that this programmatic DPL was
accompanied by the Santiago Urban Transport Technical Assistance Loan (TAL ­
P086689), that has faced significant implementation difficulties derived from the start up
difficulties faced by Transantiago. This project is being reformulated so that it can play a
more direct supporting role in achieving an efficient and sustainable urban transport
system.

7) The contribution of DPL1, although important, must be viewed in terms of having
provided the key policy and institutional basis for the initiation of the activities that were
to conclude in the big bang launch of the system. The role of the Bank in this initial stage
was envisaged mostly as that of an external actor that would ensure institutional
continuity in the follow up of a program that encompassed a change in administration.
The DPL2 focus would be in ensuring that the actual launch of the system would indeed
take place. The TAL's role was envisaged mostly for the post launch stages of program
implementation to address some medium and longer term issues related to the
implementation of the new transport system..

8) Given the breadth and the pioneering nature of the public transport reform that took
place in Santiago, the project team considered it necessary to feature a more detailed
discussion than usual in this ICR in order to provide a full accounting of the operation
and the critical information needed to understand the reform's initial shortcomings and
subsequent adjustments. The assessment also benefited from two independent reviews
commissioned by the Bank (see annex 6 List of Supporting Documents).

1.1 Context at Appraisal
9) When this project was appraised between 2004 and 2005, Chile had a sustained and
solid macroeconomic and fiscal performance and had been carrying out an ambitious
structural reform program3. This program had to a large extent protected the country from
regional crises and had allowed for continued growth. The GoCH had also been
supporting its growth foundations by promoting an impressive reform agenda to tackle
the domestic obstacles to rapid growth and to place itself in a stronger position to reap the
benefits of the global upturn. In the case of Santiago, probably the most important reform


2
    The amount of US$160,000 was the estimated front end fee for this loan.
3
    As recognized in the IMF's Annual Article N Process (Article N Review of August 2004).


                                                          5
tool was the 2000-2010 Santiago Urban Transport Plan, which is composed mostly of
Transantiago.

10) The main problems of Santiago's urban transport sector were the following:
 explosive increase in car trips, which more than tripled between 1991 and 2001, while
    the population of the metropolitan area increased by only 28%;
 steady and steep decrease of public transport modal share, which had been going
    down from 83.4% and 70.5% in 1977 and 1991, respectively, to 51.9% in 2001;
 high levels of traffic congestion on city streets;
 increasing road accidents that disproportionately involved buses (almost 25% of
    deaths on urban roads occurred in accidents involving a bus);
 relatively low passenger satisfaction with the public bus system;
 limited affordability for the poor, especially those who had to use more than one
    public transport vehicle per trip and consequently paid more than one fare;
 economically inefficient overlapping and concentration of bus routes along the main
    roads of the city center, which generated local oversupply and congestion;
 tortuous bus itineraries elsewhere, whereby buses weaved in and out of main arteries
    to cater for relatively minor pockets of demand (average route length of 63 km); and
 neglect of non-motorized transport and unpleasant walking and cycling conditions.

11) Additionally, air quality in the metropolitan region was very poor. There was a very
high fraction of fine particulates, which was of particular concern since the annual
average values in Santiago were nearly twice the norms existing in Europe and the U.S. It
was caused in part by high bus frequencies with low levels of occupancy in off-peak
periods.

12) This context triggered the design of the 2000-2010 Santiago Urban Transport Plan as
a means to reverse the previously mentioned trends and improve the urban environment.
This Plan was comprised of 13 programs, of which the public transport reform
(Transantiago) was the most important and ambitious one because it was designed to
effect profound changes in the way residents moved within Santiago.

13) The key reforms of the 2000-2010 Santiago Urban Transport Plan were:
    1) Allocating and managing road space to maximize social gains through traffic
    management schemes that give priority to public transport. This included
    establishing: peak time exclusive public transport lanes that could be gradually turned
    into full time physically segregated bus lanes, limitation of the number of taxis, and
    parking restrictions;
    2) Replacing the previous approach to bus service contracting, from one with several
    thousand mostly informal owner-operators to one based on gross-cost contracting4 of
    15 relatively large operators, each with 200 to 500 vehicles;
    3) Providing incentives to operators to acquire high-standard buses (easy-to board,
    low-floor "city" buses meeting at least Euro3 emission standards);


4
    Gross cost contracting means that revenue risk is borne partially by the authority.


                                                              6
    4) Redesigning the route network into a trunk and feeder system (hub-and-spoke)
    with trunk services provided by the subway and main bus lines. In the long run, it was
    expected that all trunk bus lines would operate on segregated busways. It was also
    expected that initially this new system would increase the proportion of trips
    requiring a transfer from 17.3% to 80% (including the metro) and require 4,500
    buses5;
    5) Introducing a unified fare system, with fares set to achieve financial breakeven for
    the system as a whole even without increasing the original average fare level;
    6) Separating fare collection as a competitively awarded concession and
    commissioning a public transport management/information center to control the bus
    flow;
    7) Setting up coordinated transport and infrastructure planning mechanisms at the
    metropolitan level;
    8) Providing training, certification, and other transition assistance for displaced
    transit workers;
    9) Coordinating land use and urban transport policies;
    10) Improving conditions for cyclists and pedestrians;
    11) Rationalizing freight-related traffic and reducing its environmental footprint; and
    12) Promoting a culture of rational car use so that trip makers perceive the real cost of
    car travel, possibly through a congestion pricing scheme.

14) The urban transport reforms were expected to be complemented by a comprehensive
infrastructure program, including: (a) the doubling of the extension of the subway system
compared to the 2000 level, (b) the construction of urban toll roads on the basis of public-
private partnerships, and (c) the construction of 20 km of segregated busways to be ready
for the complete implementation of the new public transport system (the long term
objective to be achieved by 2026 was 300 km), and bus stops, interchange stations,
terminals, and underpasses.

15) Prior to appraisal, the implementation of Transantiago was envisaged as occurring all
at once. This decision was reconsidered because of the complexity of the changes
involved and at appraisal it was decided to include a preparation period prior to the actual
launch. Because of the status of readiness of the main bidding processes and the
expectation that the program be initiated by the incumbent administration, this
preparation was set to begin on August 27, 2005 with the new bus concessionaires
starting to operate under a `cohabiting arrangement' i.e. use of a portion of the new bus
fleet on bus routes that remained unchanged. In addition, new subway lines were to be
opened, and on-board payment in the new buses using a contactless smart card was to be
introduced. This cohabiting was expected to last about 1 year, until August 26, 2006, and
would culminate in: the introduction of a new citywide trunk and feeder network, the use
of the smart card as the main means of payment, and fare integration between buses and
the subway system. In addition, it would also encompass the replacement of an additional
part of the bus fleet, the provision of public transport service only through corporations,


5
 The original design envisaged 4,500 buses. 5,100 was envisaged for the launch of Transantiago in February 2007. It
was later increased to 6,400 as part of the correction of the startup problems.


                                                         7
and a strong information campaign. As seen in paragraph 28), the actual implementation
of Transantiago experienced some delays.

16) While the total bus related investment to support the complete implementation of
Transantiago was quite large (US$ 330 million, for details see paragraph 3), the public
portion was expected to be small (US$103 million). The remainder was expected to come
from the private sector through concession schemes. The operation was designed to be
financially self-sustainable under a given set of assumptions. The approach to bus
infrastructure financing was different from Bogota's TransMilenio, where the basic bus
infrastructure was financed by the public sector. The difference is explained by the strong
confidence in the private sector that existed in Chile because of the successful
implementation of a large road concession program in the 1990s/beginning of 2000 and
the fact that in an environment of strict fiscal discipline, the subway extension would
have absorbed most of the public resources6.

Bank Assistance
17) The Bank's support to the implementation of Transantiago was expected to mainly
consist of promoting the development of the institutional background for the continuity
and sustainability of Transantiago, fostering more integrated coordination among
transport, land-use, and environmental issues, and supporting the difficult process of
reallocating scarce street space to the exclusive use of non-motorized and public transport.
It was also expected to ensure the incorporation of safeguard, pro-poor and citizens'
participation considerations, among others. Finally, the Bank was expected to provide
professional advice, facilitate coordination among actors, and ensure adequate program
monitoring.

18) This operation was consistent with the goals and strategic approach set out in the
2002 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Transantiago was expected to (a) enhance
sustained economic growth and social progress; (b) foster the inclusion of the most
vulnerable groups through improved access at affordable prices and reasonable travel
times, hence contributing to socially inclusive growth; (c) improve environmental
conditions; (d) promote public-private partnerships through a renovated concession
mechanism for public transport services and infrastructure; and (e) modernize the State
and build its technical capacity.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)
19) The broad development objectives of the full reform program and as part of it, the
DPL1, were: to contribute to the transformation of Santiago into a highly competitive
world city, improve its quality of life by upgrading the level of transport services to the
residents (particularly low income residents) and businesses, reduce resource costs, and
increase environmental quality. The specific objectives were to:


6
 A Critical Look at Major Bus Improvements in Latin America and Asia: Case Studies of Hitches, Hic-Ups and Areas
for Improvements; Synthesis of Lessons Learned and Case Study Transantiago, Diaro Hidalgo, PhD, Transport
Consultant, Paolo Custodio, Transport Consultant, Pierre Graftieaux, Senior Transportation Specialist, April 2007.


                                                        8
   1) Reduce transport costs in their financial, travel time and environmental
   dimensions and increase transport efficiency;
   2) Improve the coordination of public sector activities in land use, transport planning,
   infrastructure investment, traffic management, and bus franchising;
   3) Address urban poverty through improving access to jobs and economic
   opportunities; and
   4) Enhance social inclusion through improved access to schools, health facilities,
   and wider social interaction.

20) The Policy Matrix in the PD indicated prior actions and triggers together, which are
the following for DPL1:
 Concessions for 14 main packages of bus services awarded
 Concession of the Financial Administrator of the system fare box revenues awarded
 Maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, consistent with reform
    program objectives, including domestic and external debt sustainability

21) The expected benefits of the operation were:
    5) Efficiency improvements which will contribute to the city's economy and hence
    to economic growth;
    6) Resource savings from transferring the bus flows in major corridors to an
    exclusive space, the reduction of bus vehicle-km on the street system, the
    rationalization of the route network, and the reduction of revenue risks of operators;
    7) Environmental improvements (higher air quality and less noise) due to better
    quality buses and fewer bus-km;
    8) Increased quality of service for passengers who live in the catchment areas of the
    metro extensions and the new metro line;
    9) Increased comfort, safety and reliability for passengers on the bus network;
    10) Comprehensive coverage of bus feeder routes particularly in poor neighborhoods.
    This was expected to help address problems of social exclusion for the poor;
    11) Savings stemming from the implementation of a unified fare system, i.e.
    passengers not having to pay when transferring among bus and metro lines; and
    12) Reduced use of `road space' by cars contributing to a reduction in congestion and
    more equitable distribution of road space.

22) It was decided to keep the triggers/prior actions in the PD to a minimum. Therefore,
most of the triggers/prior actions originally proposed were transformed into monitoring
indicators. The monitoring indicators listed below are found in the PD Policy Matrix
(annex 2) and included in the more extensive supervision guidelines in the PD section
VI.B:
 Adoption of the Santiago Urban Transport Plan as the transport policy for the
    Metropolitan Area of Santiago through approval by the Committee of Ministers;
 Adoption of a policy to control the number of taxis in Santiago;
 Inclusion of reduced mobility provisions in the functional requirements of buses;
 Inclusion of citizens' participation in Transantiago design, including:
          - Closing seminar with the 34 municipalities of the metropolitan area
          - Workshops with local NGO's;


                                            9
   Segregated public transport lanes on at least 19 km of the bus trunk routes network;
   Reduction in the number of bus-km by 30% in relation to the case before the
   implementation of Transantiago;
   Implementation of specific measures in public transport facilities and vehicles for
   people with reduced mobility, including at least:
         - Signaling for blind people
         - Ramps to access stations, and
         - Reserved seats in buses;
   Design of an integrated public transport network through which at least 90% of the
   households in each of the 10 service areas will be located at less than 800 m from a
   stop served at least by 5 buses per hour and/or a metro line (from 6am to 10pm); and
   Application of a program to promote formal companies and offer training for current
   public transportation drivers that request it, so as to facilitate their reinsertion into the
   labor market.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification
23) The PDOs and the monitoring indicators were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)
24) The Program and this operation supported the implementation of the Santiago public
transport reform. The main public transport-specific policy areas of the 2000-2010
Santiago Urban Transport Plan included:
 Public transport priority treatment;
 Gross-cost contracting of relatively large bus operators;
 Public transport fleet renewal;
 Route network redesign;
 Fare collection system concessioning and fare system unification;
 Bus fleet management/control concessioning;
 Concessioning of Transantiago's information system and user information;
 Training, certification, and other transition assistance for displaced transit workers;
    and
 Land use and urban transport policy coordination.

25) Each of these policy areas contained a set of building blocks without which the
reform program might not proceed optimally and are essential to the proper functioning
of the new public transport system. In addition, they are interdependent. For instance,
public transport fare unification required access to smart cards, which in turn need the
installation and proper functioning of ticket validators and the proper software. Section
2.1 and annex 9 provide details on these building blocks and their planned and actual
implementation. The annex also outlines the dates by which the building blocks were to
be implemented, and demonstrates the delay (or only partial achievement) of virtually all
of these building blocks by the agreed launch date.




                                              10
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

Compliance with Triggers/Prior Actions
26) Due to the design of DPL1, the prior actions were fully complied with before loan
signature (see table below) and the Bank disbursed the US$30.16 million. It is important
to highlight that the trunk route concessions (under the first trigger) were bid through
international competitive bidding without preference for existing operators, which is rare,
at least in the Latin America and Caribbean region7. This led to the award of two
concessions to foreign operators (for about 30% of the total bus services). Furthermore,
the GoCH honored a large number of the monitoring indicators agreed at appraisal (see
annex 7).

DPL1 Description                  Amount                     Expected Release Date: (As of      Status : Released
     Single-tranche loan          US$ 30,160,000             approval) 02/28/2006               on 01/10/2006
Conditions Description                                                                                     Status
Trigger 1       Concessions for 14 main packages of bus services awarded                            Met
Trigger 2       Concession of the Financial Administrator of the system fare box revenues awarded Met
Trigger 3       Maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, consistent with reform       Met
                program objectives, including domestic and external debt sustainability


27) The GoCH also met the triggers for the second DPL (see table below), even though
technically they were not required since they did not request this second Bank loan as
originally planned.

DPL2           Description                                                      Amount             Status : Not
               Single-tranche loan                                              70,000,000USD      requested
Number of triggers:
Trigger        Description                                                                        Status
Trigger 1      Start of the operation of the rationalized bus routes network                      Met on 02/10/2007
Trigger 2      Implementation of fare integration between the bus system and the subway           Met on 02/10/2007
Trigger 3      Maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, consistent with reform      Met, but not
               program objectives, including domestic and external debt sustainability            formally assessed


Implementation of Transantiago
28) The Government of Chile (GoCH) implemented the full planned program to reform
the public transport situation in Santiago, despite the absence of the second DPL. Indeed,
the GoCH went ahead with the preparations in 2005 and the complete launch of the
reform in February 2007. This timing was as a result of the requirement to launch the
system when the 3 factors, the political, technical and seasonal windows of opportunities
were aligned (paragraph 4). The reform transformed the existing system at a citywide
level; a transformation, which until then, was unprecedented in the developing world


7
    The bidding of the feeder area services did not require the use of new buses.


                                                             11
(only Seoul, Korea, had tried something similar). Such a widespread transformation was
expected to have start-up problems. However, the initial chaos in Santiago was much
worse than expected due to the fact that some network and financial sustainability design
assumptions did not materialize and because the GoCH had not completed the crucial
building blocks of the new public transport system in a timely manner. Indeed, during the
first months, the public transport situation in Santiago was confusing during morning and
evening peak commutes. Users felt deceived because the government had promised a far
better system than the old one. The start-up problems had dire political consequences (the
Transport Minister and the Coordinator of Transantiago-SE had to resign, the approval
rating of the President declined, and a parliamentary investigation commission pinned the
political responsibility on a large number of actors involved in the design and the
implementation of Transantiago) as well as large financial costs (the adjustments to the
planned system have been costly, the government is currently funding the operating
deficit of the system, and some concessionaires incurred huge fines), and strong negative
impacts on the image of the system.

29) The preparation of the implementation of Transantiago was expected to allow the
incumbent operators to start organizing themselves as commercial companies (as opposed
to owner-operators) and to provide an opportunity to test the smart card on the ground.
Unfortunately, the incumbent operators who had won concessions for nearly half of the
network continued to operate as usual and the testing and implementing of the new fare
collection system was delayed. Additionally, drivers continued to race to compete for
passengers causing the new buses to deteriorate quickly and the users did not perceive
any real benefits in the changes. Also, since the bus routes had not changed yet at this
stage, some of the existing infrastructure was unsuitable for large buses and required
costly adjustments. Other shortcomings that occurred included the falsification of paper
tickets and the violation of busways by private vehicles, both signs of weak enforcement
capacity by the authorities.

30) The advantages of the preparation towards the launch were limited. The retirement of
part of the old bus fleet and its replacement with new buses had positive environmental
impacts and reduced noise levels. Nevertheless, in hindsight, the operation of the new bus
concessions on the old routes and under the old remuneration rules did not provide a
smooth transition from the old to the new system. Instead, it hurt the image of the new
system before it really began, and caused some of the new operators to lose money. The
latter was one of the factors against any additional postponement of the launch until all of
the building blocks were in place.

31) The launch of Transantiago or `the big bang' largely meant the introduction of a new
trunk and feeder network and full fare integration8 between buses and with the subway.
Additionally, the new system meant the formalization and regulation of the sector, i.e. a
switch from an unregulated market situation in which each operator provided public
transport services with a minimum of regulation and control to a situation in which the


8
 Trunk and feeder network necessarily means more transfers. Fare integration stops users from being penalized by
paying separate fares for each transfer.


                                                        12
authority established and controlled the level of services to be provided by the
concessionaires. However, the essential building blocks to support this new system were
not in place in time for the system launch. The lagging building blocks are explained
below and mainly relate to: fare integration and operator remuneration, government
enforcement, user information and education, busway support infrastructure, and service
coverage. The reasons that generated the initial shortcomings and problems are found in
section 2.2.

32) Regarding fare integration, the installation of on-bus Smart Card reading equipment
was not completed nor did many of the card reading equipment work correctly, and there
were limited places to acquire and charge Smart Cards. This created great confusion and
the GoCH was obligated to allow users to ride for free during the initial days.

33) Furthermore, the payment software as developed by a Chilean firm did not allow
distinct charging for separate trip segments, as originally planned. Consequently, the
GoCH was obligated to use a flat fare9. Additionally, this flat rate had to be relatively low
to not penalize passengers who made short trips in only one transport mode. Later,
mainly due to the annoyance caused to users by the severe initial start-up problems, it
was no longer politically feasible to apply the automatic fare increase mechanism in the
concession contracts. The resultant fare-freeze was the main factor that led to the
operating deficit.

34) Also, a guarantee fund, called Reserva Técnica Operativa, designed as a temporary
buffer against fare increases, did not function as originally envisioned. This guarantee
fund was designed to be fed by initial contributions from operators expected to total
approximately US$ 184 million, and eventually by any operating surpluses. However,
part of the initial operators' contributions was delayed because of contract renegotiations,
and no operating surpluses materialized because fares were fixed at a low rate. The
resources in this fund were exhausted to cover the deficit in the initial months of
operation of Transantiago.

35) Furthermore, remuneration of operators took place according to the reference demand
indicated in the bidding documents rather than on actual number of passengers since the
clearing software10 was not ready. This change in the basis for remuneration meant that
operators had a lower incentive to: (a) provide the contractual number of buses, (b)
respect frequencies, and (c) assist in deterring fare evasion (which initially reached more
than 20%) since they were not paid by actual passenger counts.

36) In terms of government control and enforcement, the GoCH did not have the
necessary tools and human resources to carry out an effective control of the service: GPS-
based fleet control system did not work and contractual fines were inadequate.
Additionally, the fleet management system was not ready. This system would have


9
  The original fare structure had changed to one of a flat fare for trunk and feeder services and no charge for return trips
within the time window of validity of the ticket (120 minutes).
10
   The function of the clearing software is to distribute fare revenue among operators based on the passenger count.


                                                            13
allowed: (a) decreasing waiting times by avoiding bunching11 of buses at stops and
ensuring better integration between services, and (b) reducing the number of buses or
increasing service frequencies by managing the use of the existing fleet more efficiently.

37) It was obvious that a total transformation of the public transport system required good
information and adequate user education. However, the information campaign for
Transantiago only started in the second half of 2006 due to procurement problems (the
first bid was voided and had to be re-bid). Moreover, the information campaign was
strong in marketing style but less effective in educating users about the new system.
Consequently, most inhabitants of Santiago were faced with confusing information about
the new bus routes and stops, which added to the chaos, especially in the subway, and
caused disappointment and resentment.

38) The new system was also launched with an insufficient amount of support
infrastructure, a crucial building block related to the technical preparedness of the reform.
Due to construction delays12, an important part of the segregated busways scheduled for
the launch was not ready. The provision of enclosed pre-payment areas for off-board fare
collection was not considered. Both types of infrastructures contribute to an increase in
commercial speeds of buses, the first by increasing travel speeds and the second by
speeding-up boarding/alighting. This, in turn, helps to alleviate the burden of transfers,
decrease waiting times and reduce the number of buses required to operate the system or
improve service quality. Enclosed pre-payment areas are also a very efficient way to
reduce fare evasion in buses.

39) Finally, the coverage of the bus network and the frequencies were inadequate,
especially in peripheral areas. Some initial mismatch between demand and supply is
normal and the contracts with the operators provided for a three month-period to adjust
the network coverage and frequencies. However, in this case, the problem was
exacerbated by the fact that (a) the commercial speed of buses was lower than expected
because of the limited amount of available segregated busways, (b) transfer burdens were
higher than originally envisaged, and (c) the operators did not operate the contractual
number of buses and respect the frequencies agreed in their contracts13.

40) The inadequate coverage forced certain passengers to walk long distances and
increased waiting times. It led to the formation of long queues at stops and contributed to


11
   Bunching means that buses do not arrive at regular intervals at stops but in groups of two or more and this increases
the waiting times between these groups. Bunching is mainly due to traffic conditions but may be exacerbated by bad
dispatching. However, in the case of Santiago bunching was initially mainly due to bad dispatching since bunching
occurred all day, not only during peak hours. Since the authorities have started monitoring and penalizing bad
dispatching, there has been a marked increase in the regularity of dispatching. The compliance with the regularity index
for the system went up from around 75% in August 2008 to close to 90% in May 2009 for morning peak hours. Some
operators have now regularity in dispatching of over 90%.
12
   In many cases, these delays were caused by legal problems outside the GoCH's control.
13
   During the supervision missions in 2006, before the implementation of Transantiago, the Bank project team pointed
out that the incumbent operators, who won about 40% of the concessions, operated as unorganized groupings of
individual bus owners and not as real companies and that there was a danger that they would not be ready to comply
with their contractual obligations. This problem was solved in 2008 when the concession of the main incumbent
operator was sold. The Bank also indicated that there were too many delays in completing the segregated busways.


                                                          14
severe overcrowding, especially in the subway system because users flocked to it since it
was the most reliable means of transport. In this context it is important to highlight that a
sharp increase in subway demand was an expected and desirable outcome of the
integration with the bus system, and measures had been taken to prepare for it. The
overcrowding, however, brought the system several times close to the point of collapse
and created great inconvenience to users.

Correction of the Start-up Problems
41) The GoCH took the start-up difficulties seriously and the President stood fully behind
the reform and promised to fix the problems14. Since February 2007, many actions have
been taken to adjust some of the network design problems that became apparent and to
complete the building blocks agreed at appraisal to attain the stability of the system.
These include: (a) resolving the main issues with the fare collection and clearing systems;
(b) increasing the number of buses to compensate for lower operating speeds and
increased coverage; (c) renegotiating the concession contracts with the operators, mainly
to introduce flexibility to change routes and frequencies and to create incentives to ensure
the availability of buses and the compliance with operational programs; (d) renegotiating
the contract with the Financial Administrator of Santiago (AFT) to ensure the delivery of
the technical systems; (e) correcting network design shortcomings, especially in
peripheral areas; (f) installing GPS in buses and operationalizing the fleet control system;
(g) implementing a provisional fleet management system (final system to be ready by
2010); (h) implementing measures to increase subway productivity and decrease
overcrowding; (i) building the missing bus stop/shelters and provisional enclosed areas
for prepayment and completing the segregated busways and stations; (j) accelerating the
construction program of the most important remaining busways; (k) dedicating 30 km of
main thoroughfares for bus operations during peak hours and 77 km permanently to
public transport; (l) improving busway lane enforcement; (m) starting an aggressive
campaign against fare evasion; and (n) ensuring the availability of sufficient resources to
finance the operating deficit.

Main Outcomes of the Reform
42) At the time of the preparation of this ICR, Transantiago was operating almost as
expected. The system was in a fine-tuning phase which included, among others, (a)
network optimization; (b) improvements in information provision; (c) fare evasion
control; (d) contract renegotiation with operators and strict enforcement; and (e) the
completion of the necessary support infrastructure, such as final pre-paid off-board fare
collection areas and the extension of the segregated busway network and their
enforcement to avoid the invasion by private cars. With the start up problems under
control, it is perceived that the system is one of the best in the major Latin American
cities. Furthermore, the outlook for the medium to long run is very promising and the
achievement of the final results expected from the system is likely15.




14
     Speech of the President to the Nation, March 2007.
15
     Sam Zimmerman, World Bank Urban Transport Advisor, Observation of Transantiago, November 2008.


                                                       15
43) Some of the achievements of the GoCH in the public transport sector in Santiago
were considerable. From a system perspective, the changes and reforms that took place
were profound and substantial. The most important accomplishment consisted of
discontinuing the dual practice of offering erratic and disorganized bus services alongside
the formal services through the structural transformation of delivering a citywide public
transport under an integrated approach16. While the achievements in Bogota and Quito,
largely considered as best practices, were significant and highly praised, they did not
fully address the dual practice of the formal and informal service provision and thus, did
not resolve the public transport problem at a citywide level (for more detail, see
paragraph 126). Other achievements included:
a) the creation of an institution responsible for public transport in Santiago17;
b) the regulation of the sector;
c) the elimination of competition in-the-market, for which there is evidence that it does
    not adequately work in the public transport market18;
d) the introduction of international competitive bidding to concession bus routes;
e) the dismantling of the powerful bus lobby and formalization and professionalization
    of the sector;
f) the rationalization of bus routes and services;
g) priority for public transport and the redistribution of road space between modes;
h) (h) a slight increase in the commercial speed of buses during peak hours from 18
    km/hour to 19 km/hour;
i) the extension of the subway system at a relatively low cost and within a short
    timeframe19 and the full utilization of this transport mode with a significant increase
    of low-income riders; and
j) the use of fleet management systems and other technologies that once fully functional
    will provide better control over operational data, improve planning, enable
    adjustments to make the system more efficient, and provide the users with reliable
    information on public transport services.

44) From the users' perspective, the achievements are mixed. On the one hand, the new
system means (a) integrated and lower fares, which also permit people from poorer
households to use the (high quality) subway system; (b) the elimination of bus operators'
discriminatory behavior of not collecting those who pay reduced fares (since now
operators receive the same remuneration for all passengers); (c) the use of a smart card


16
   Dario Hidalgo, one of the Independent Reviewers for this ICR, e-mail of April 28, 2008.
17
   The Committee of Ministers and Transantiago-SE as its executive secretariat to implement the reform were created.
Additionally, following an international conference on metropolitan transport authorities organized through the TAL, a
draft law was submitted to Congress in May 2007 to create such authority for Santiago. According to this draft, the
authority defines the rules and conditions for the operation of public transport services, establishes the condition for the
use and operation of the road space needed for the operation of public transport services, carries out and evaluates the
bids for the provision of public transport services, signs, manages and supervises the concession contracts, defines the
public transport network and determines the restriction or limitation in the use of road space for certain transport modes,
decides on traffic management measures, coordinates and fosters the definition of lines for rail-based services and other
investment in public transport infrastructure, authorizes the establishment of stops and terminals, and provides input to
road capacity studies, transport studies and urban planning instruments.
18
   A. Gómez-Lobo (2007), `Why Competition Does Not Work in Urban Bus Markets: Some New Wheels for Some Old
Ideas', Journal of Transport Economics and Policy, Volume 41, Number 2, May 2007, pp. 283-308 (26).
19
   Between 2000-2006 building of 45 km of new subway at an average cost of 36.45 million/km, www.metrosantiago.cl.


                                                           16
which also has the potential to provide targeted subsidies or credit; (d) improved
accessibility for elderly people and people with reduced mobility; (e) reduced overall
travel and in-vehicle times, especially for passengers who benefit from the new busways
or for new subway users; (f) reduced waiting times, (g) extended operating hours of the
subway and the introduction of skip-stop operation in two lines which decreases travel
times; (h) new bus stops, most of them with shelters; (i) improved physical integration
between public transport modes through new transfer infrastructure terminals like the La
Cisterna interchange station; and (j) greater in-vehicle safety because of improved
driving behavior20.

45) On the other hand, the new system (a) includes more transfers21, and there are
insufficient data to conclude whether the additional inconvenience arising from transfers
may be compensated by the reduction in overall travel time; (b) has more crowding
mainly in the subway system during peak times despite important productivity increases
and a slight reduction in demand; and (c) may still experience slightly longer walking
times for buses despite the impressive improvements made since the launch (no
conclusive data exist)22. Moreover, some people are not yet satisfied with the services
provided by the new system and the image of Transantiago suffered so much that it will
take time to eventually restore it and to regain the confidence of the users. Nevertheless,
as shown in annex 8, public transport services in Santiago are equal or better when
compared to other large Latin American cities and it is likely that the full benefits of the
new system will be achieved in the medium and long run23 and recognized by its
inhabitants.

46) Public transport workers gained from the new system because of (a) the regularization
of their working hours and conditions, including training; (b) a breakaway from the
informal nature of the sector allowing access to social security benefits and credit, among
others; (c) no need for drivers to handle cash, thereby decreasing on board theft and
assaults and ensuring safer driving; (d) a large demand for drivers and other public
transport workers created by the new system; and (e) a relatively positive transformation
of bus drivers' image.

47) From the point of view of the society as a whole, the new system means (a) a
reduction in bus-related noise and atmospheric pollution due to a reduction in vehicle-km,
continuous bus fleet renovation and a focus on cleaner technologies; (b) significantly
fewer accidents involving buses because of an end to fierce racing to compete for
passengers; and (c) a reduction in bus-related congestion. However, the capital cost of the
public transport system is significantly higher mainly due to (a) some unforeseen


20
   For details see Annex 7 (a).
21
   Transfers are a typical feature of a trunk and feeder network and so they necessarily increased under the new system.
While it was originally estimated that the trips with transfers would increase from 17.3% to 80%, in mid-2008 only
about 50% of trips implied transfers. This figure probably overestimates the percentage of trips implying transfers for
two reasons: (1) because of the ongoing route changes and extensions and (b) due to the fact that non-paying trips due
to fare evasion are likely to imply less transfers than average paying trips. Additionally, since 61% of all trips with
transfers use the subway for at least one transfer, the overall travel time may be lower.
22
   For details see again Annex 7 (a).
23
   See Dario Hidalgo (one of the independent project reviewers), "Open Assessment of Transantiago", page 17.


                                                          17
additional investments in the subway; (b) the absorption by the public sector of the
payments to bus infrastructure concessionaires originally expected to be paid with system
revenues; and (c) the shortened construction period of the segregated bus infrastructure24,
which was key to the proposed Transantiago concept. Also, as previously mentioned, the
operation of the system runs a deficit, and it is likely that permanent public funds will be
required.

48) A full assessment of PDO achievements is found in section 3.2 and annex 7, and a
description of the milestones of project implementation and the future outlook is given in
annex 8.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Enabling Factors and Causes of Problems
49) The main factors that enabled these wide-ranging reforms included, among others, (a)
the long-term vision at the highest political level and the strong commitment by two
consecutive administrations; (b) the extensive Chilean experience in private participation
in the provision of infrastructure and utilities as well as previous experience with public
transport service concessioning (bidding of routes that crossed the city center in the
1990s and the Metrobus services in 2002); (c) an ongoing regulatory and institutional
process in the sector and more than a decade of studies on public transport reform; (d)
government commitment demonstrated through strict law enforcement to deal with the
violent opposition of incumbent bus operators (2002, 2005); (e) open competitive bidding
to award the concession for bus routes; (f) a positive economic situation that ensured the
availability of funds and provided the necessary conditions for foreign direct investment
and long term concessions; and (g) the large scope of the project that was attractive for
bus manufacturers, who offered financing at attractive terms to concessionaires.

50) The immediate causes for the start-up problems can be derived from both network
design shortcomings and primarily from the partial advance of the building blocks,
corresponding mainly to (a) the unpreparedness of the technical support systems (the
AFT systems' contractor decided to design the support systems instead of relying on
existing and proven technologies available in other countries); (b) the non-compliance of
the bus operators25 in providing the contractual number of buses and frequencies. This
unwanted development was facilitated to a large extent by the fact that the control
technologies to monitor the compliance were not ready; (c) excessive reliance during the
network design process on theoretical models and underestimation of certain variables,
such as the time of transfers, and insufficient validation of the new network on the ground
with the participation of the main stakeholders (e.g. municipalities, users); (d) too few
segregated busways to ensure the envisioned bus speeds that would impact the required
fleet; (e) poor user information and education; and (f) changes in the original concession




24
     The completion date for most of the segregated corridor program was anticipated from 2026 to 2014.
25
     Mainly, but not exclusively, the incumbent operators who had not managed to establish themselves as real companies.


                                                           18
contracts to compensate the bus concessionaires for the delays in the implementation of
the system26.

51) Many of these immediate causes were byproducts of other deeper issues, mostly of an
institutional nature. One such issue was the weak coordination and contract supervision
within Transantiago-SE, aggravated by constant leadership and key technical staff
changes, particularly after approval of DPL1. Due to the nature of Transantiago-SE's
structure as a technical coordination unit, it also lacked decision making authority and
autonomy.

52) A second issue was that during the preparation there was insufficient attention paid to
the incumbent operators who had major problems in complying with their contractual
obligations as they were not ready to function as structured bus companies. Other issues
were the weak enforcement capacity (limited human resources because the system was
heavily dependent on technology), the inadequate contractual27 and legal28 frameworks
for enforcement, and the relatively short implementation period, especially considering
the problems and consequent delays in the bidding processes of the different system's
components.

53) The implementation of this reform was also negatively affected by the government's
original position that the system had to be financially self-sustainable insofar as it limited
the service design options (e.g. number of buses, bus occupancy standards, etc.). In
addition, in the opinion of some observers29, fiscal restrictions generated limitations on
the overall reform design, such as arranging the construction of the support infrastructure,
mainly segregated busways, over a long time frame and the exclusion of enclosed pre-




26
   The bus service concessions focused on attracting sufficient competition and the incentives to carry more passengers
(by putting the correct number of buses on the street, complying with frequencies and improving service quality) were
insufficient. This was partially corrected in the course of the different contract renegotiations that took place after the
launch of Transantiago. A main shortcoming in the AFT bidding document was not to require (a) experience in dealing
with the number of transactions similar to those expected for Transantiago (according to the Conclusions of the
Investigation Committee of the Concertación, 7 million transactions a day compared with 750,000 daily transactions of
the financial system in Chile) and (b) the use of proven fleet control and management technologies.
27
   The bus concession contracts allowed for little flexibility, especially to change routes. Moreover, for severe non-
compliances, they envisaged the possibility of cancelation; however, re-bidding would have taken time and in the
meantime the city would have remained without transport. Notwithstanding, in 2008 one concession was canceled and
successfully re-tendered. Additionally, in May 2007 a law was approved that in case of cancellation of a concession
contract, the GoCH had the right to nominate an administrator to temporarily manage the company until a new
concession for the same service was awarded.
28
   Inspectors are authorized to pass fines, but only the police have the legal authority to require identification documents
from individuals. Therefore, inspections must be carried out with the assistance of the police. In other countries, staff of
transport companies or authorities do not need the assistance of the police to control fare evasion, and monetary fines
are generally relatively high to constitute real deterrents.
29
   See footnote 6. In the opinion of the authors, funding for the bus component was limited because of the priority given
to the subway investment agenda.


                                                            19
payment areas30. Others argue that construction capacity limitations rather than financial
constraints were the cause of these shortcomings31.

54) In hindsight it is clear that due to the technical, institutional, and policy factors
described above, the launch of the system should have been delayed. However, at that
moment, there were equally good reasons for not postponing the launch: (a) the operators
were losing money; (b) there were big contractual fines for the GoCH (US$ 1 million for
each day of delay); and (c) about 1,400 buses had reached their legal service life and had
to be taken out of the system (the new system was projected to work with about 2,000
fewer buses). Additionally, it was clear that the launch of the new system could optimally
take place during the summer vacation period (Jan/Feb), implying a one year delay from
Feb 2007, which at that point seemed unacceptable to the decision-makers.

55) Although the political window of opportunity existed, the technological elements and
the necessary building blocks were simply not in place. As a result of the divergence
between the political desire, appropriate time of the year, and technical readiness, a great
deal of problems ensued, some of which turned out to be financially and politically costly.

Relevance of identified risks at appraisal and effectiveness of mitigation measures
56) As shown in the table below, most of the risks included in the risk matrix of the PD
were very relevant, and most mitigation measures were at least partially effective.

Risks included in the PD (page 38)             Relevance and effectiveness of mitigation measures
It is therefore important that the new         This risk was extremely relevant. The proposed mitigation measures focused on the
contracts are well enforced, particularly in   new technologies that Transantiago was expected to implement. Therefore, since the
respect to the coverage and levels of feeder   system was launched without these technologies, the enforcement problems could not
service in the lower income municipalities     be avoided.
(PD para 112)
To gain public acceptance for the trunk        This risk was very relevant, but some of the mitigation measures were general in nature,
and feeder system it thus becomes more         and hence they were not sufficiently effective.
critical than ever to ensure that all of the
elements of the plan are combined to yield
benefits, and to avoid costs, from the
outset (PD para 114)
Low income residents of poorer areas,          This risk was very relevant, and the proposed mitigation measures (to impose minimum
even in the event of full and immediate        service density and frequency conditions on bus operators and to carry out a study to
implementation of all elements of the          assess the impact of the new system on poor households and design of mitigation
program, may sustain increase in waiting       measures, if necessary) would have been appropriate had there not been other problems,
and access times which offset the benefits     such as the inability of some operators to comply with the operational programs. At the
that they obtain in improved trunk travel      date of ICR preparation, the system required some fine-tuning and the impact
times, particularly for non-work journeys      assessment study of the new system on poor households has yet to commence.
off peak
De-linking introduction of the segregated      This risk was extremely relevant, but the amount of infrastructure considered necessary
busways from the route restructuring may       for the success of the reform was insufficient and there were delays in the provision of
accent any adverse effect on the poorer        the infrastructure considered necessary.
peripheral areas. Three busways (Pajaritos,
Alameda, Santa Rosa) and two road
connections (Blanco-Arica and Suiza-
Departamental) were considered essential
to the first phase success



30
   The Bank team discussed these shortcomings with the GoCH during the preparation of this operation, but only after
the launch of the system did the GoCH recognize their importance.
31
   According to the Report of the Investigation Commission, Alianza por Chile, 2007, page 34, capacity constraints
rather than fiscal restrictions were the reasons for the limited initial infrastructure and for spreading the segregated
busway construction program over a very long time period.


                                                                  20
Risks included in the PD (page 38)            Relevance and effectiveness of mitigation measures
The initial system may only be in financial   This risk was also very relevant, and the proposed mitigation measures would have
balance with higher fares than those          been effective had the fares not been set at a lower level than originally planned and
currently intended                            temporarily frozen.
Existing transit workers and operators may    This risk was already evaluated as relatively low at appraisal since more than half of the
become opposed to a change in the status      concession contracts were awarded to local operators and because the new system
quo and will oppose resistance to the         absorbed a large part (if not all) of the existing transit workers. This evaluation proved
proposed public transport reforms             accurate since the reform provoked relatively little protest or opposition from these
                                              stakeholders (although there were some short strikes of workers to increase their salary
                                              levels and rumors that the incumbent operators initially did not put the buses into the
                                              street to boycott the system). There is insufficient information available to assess if the
                                              social mitigation plan for transit workers (suggested as a mitigation measure) was
                                              effective or if the problem was relatively minor.
The informal sector, particularly shared      This risk was relevant, and the proposed mitigation measure of developing a strategy
taxis, may expand services to replace         for shared taxis and controlling the number of licenses as well as designing local and
longer distance direct services lost in the   short taxi routes as feeders to the bus network proved largely successful. Nevertheless,
route restructuring                           some incidents of informal taxi service provision, especially after the launch of
                                              Transantiago, were reported in the press.
Location of interchange stations is delayed   This risk was relevant and the proposed preventive measure to have pro-active
by local opposition                           consultation with the municipalities proved efficient. No opposition to the location of
                                              bus stops and interchange stations took place. However, some bus operators
                                              encountered problems placing their bus depots in the optimum place to minimize empty
                                              bus-km.
Bus service concessionaires cannot fulfill    This risk was extremely relevant, but the proposed mitigation measure (applying fines
the commitments taken through the             for non compliance with concession contract requirements, passing the contract to the
concession contracts                          second bidder or cancelling the concession and starting a new bidding) was not
                                              completely sufficient.
The transition period between May 2005        This risk was not very relevant because the preparatory period did not imply major
and August 2006 will entail substantial       changes that could have caused difficulties for users to adapt. However, users had high
changes that users may find difficult to      expectation of the preparation and were disappointed because they did not perceive any
adapt to                                      visible improvements (except for the new buses, which were considered uncomfortable
                                              due to the high number of passengers) which damaged the image of Transantiago. The
                                              communication and dissemination campaign, suggested as a mitigation measure, was
                                              not effective to overcome the negative perceptions during the preparatory period.
Commitment of the next administration of      The risk was very relevant since a change in government always constitutes a risk for
Transantiago                                  the implementation of reforms started by a previous government. No concrete measure
                                              to mitigate this risk was suggested. However, the new government continued with the
                                              reform efforts.


57) Moreover, the Bank identified additional risks in an earlier comprehensive risk list32,
which included, among others: (a) technical failures and delays in ticketing equipment
installation; (b) high fare evasion in buses; (c) potential public disappointment regarding
system improvements; (d) higher generalized cost of travel; (e) institutional setting
difficulties and cross-sectoral collaboration requirement; (f) loose arrangements between
incumbent operators; and (g) conflicts between old and new buses in the street during the
preparation. However, since Chile is one of the most sophisticated Latin American
countries with a demonstrated record of successful implementation, the Bank team in
discussion with Transantiago-SE considered the additional risks as too pessimistic or not
sufficiently relevant and did not include them in the final risk matrix of the PD.
Consequently, both the GoCH and the Bank team underestimated the challenges the
launch entailed and overestimated the government's implementation capacity.

58) In summary, despite knowing the magnitude of the reform, the depth of the proposed
changes, and the novelty of a citywide approach to public transport reform, the overall
risk of this operation was underestimated. This occurred probably because of Chile's
excellent track record in economic management, program implementation and


32
     See e-mail of November 19, 2004 in IRIS.


                                                                 21
transparency, as recognized in the PD, and/or underestimation of some of the
abovementioned project risks.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:
59) The operation had many PDOs which were broad in scope mainly due to the fact that
the project supported very large reform efforts. Furthermore, the PDOs were not
differentiated with respect to the scope of the two proposed DPLs versus the supported
program as a whole.

60) Given the chaotic nature of the system prior to the reform, information for preparing
adequate monitoring indicators and baselines for system performance and costs was
virtually non-existent. Furthermore, many of the indicators were originally triggers/prior
actions in the Policy Matrix and later were transformed into monitoring indicators. As a
result of these issues, some baseline values were absent and the monitoring indicators
often represented requirements for actions rather than measurable outcomes/outputs and
were not directly linked with the PDOs.

61) Nevertheless, the monitoring indicators did provide a comprehensive coverage of the
reform effort, including areas such as institutional coordination, urban improvement,
citizens' participation, and inclusion of vulnerable groups (see PD pages 31-35). Each
indicator also included a detailed description of the expected outcomes (although
sometimes the direct causal relationship between the indicators' associated actions and
the described intended outcomes was unrealistic).Target values were realistically set
when values were available.

62) During supervision, the indicators were useful in examining the implementation
progress of Transantiago and the completion of critical complementary measures. They
also constituted the basis for the dialogue between the Borrower and the Bank. In
addition, some critical indicators were designated to specifically monitor the progress
toward complying with the triggers of DPL1 and DPL2 (see PD annex 2 Policy Matrix,
pg. 48-50).

63) Data collection for the PDOs achievement assessment was challenging because of (a)
the inexistence of good data on the performance of the old system due to its informal
nature; and (b) the confidential nature of certain information. Consequently, it was
sometimes necessary to rely on second hand information, non-official sources, and
informed estimates or assumptions when information was missing. As a result, the
assessment was mainly qualitative.

64) The policy matrix triggers captured some of the key building blocks of Transantiago
and ensured that some crucial pillars of this reform were set. In retrospect, given the
extent of the reform, the number of triggers/prior actions appears too small and possibly
too easy to adequately address the required building blocks necessary for the launch.




                                            22
2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):
65) As already mentioned, the GoCH did not request the second DPL. However, the Bank
continued its engagement with the GoCH through the TAL. The TAL's implementation
progress was marginal in the past but since 2008 the GoCH has shown great interest in
the Bank's assistance and the TAL is currently being restructured so that it can meet the
changed technical assistance needs. The TAL is expected to provide the Bank with the
opportunity to further monitor the reform's performance and draw lessons that are
important for urban transport operations in the region and elsewhere.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
66) The PDOs, the design, and the implementation of Transantiago are fully consistent
with the current development priorities of the GoCH. As previously mentioned, the
GoCH made considerable efforts to correct the shortcoming and provided necessary
financing to stabilize the system, including the operating deficit. According to the
Government Program of President Bachelet33, transforming Santiago into a highly
competitive world city and to improve its quality of life by upgrading the level of
transport services to residents (particularly low income residents) and businesses,
reducing resource costs, and increasing environmental quality, are considered essential to
achieving a more equal, competitive and livable Chile. The Program also considers a
modern, efficient, and less polluting public transport system as fundamental to creating
the government's vision and desired development leap. It not only envisages the
completion of the urban transport reform in Santiago, but also explicitly refers to the
importance of coordination among land use planning, housing and transport, user
participation in public transport, and the creation of a metropolitan transport authority.
Additionally, the improvement of the quality of public transport systems is among the
strategic objectives of the Transport Ministry34.

67) Finally, the PDOs remained in line with the current Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS)35 since they aim at competitiveness/growth, equality of opportunity, improved
quality of life, and poverty reduction. The project also meets the current principles for
Bank engagement in Chile, which are based on development needs (mainly to alleviate
poverty and reduce inequalities), client demand, flexible and innovative responses to
client requests, and sharing valuable lessons with Bank member countries and the
international community. Based on the above, the relevance is rated as high.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
68) The PDOs referred to the full programmatic DPL and as shown in the assessment
below, they were achieved with moderate shortcomings. DPL1, which was finally the
only Bank loan in this programmatic initiative, made the expected contribution towards


33
     Estoy Contigo, Programa de Gobierno Michelle Bachelet, 2006-2010, October 18, 2005.
34
     Ficha de Identificación Año 2007, Definiciones Estratégicas, Ministerio de Transporte y Telecomunicaciones.
35
     IBRD and IFC Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Chile for the Period 2007-2010, April 24, 2007.


                                                          23
the implementation of the program by focusing on two critical steps in the launch of
Transantiago, namely the competitive bidding of the bus service concessions and the
system's financial administration. It was expected that as part of the preparations of
DPL2, aimed at supporting the launch of the new system, the Bank would have
thoroughly reviewed the preparations for this launch. The absence of DPL2 ­ albeit
related to financial considerations ­ limited the level of involvement that the Bank would
have otherwise had in the run up towards making the system fully operational. However,
this absence does not exempt the Bank from the requirement under the ICR guidelines to
assess compliance of Transantiago's PDOs.

69) The objectives in the PDO of transforming Santiago into a highly competitive world
city and improving its quality of life were considered as higher level objectives of the
program, which were beyond the scope of the Bank's intervention. Yet the substantial
achievement of the specific objectives, and success in having one of the best transport
systems in Latin America, may be considered as important factors in realizing these
higher level objectives. In order to assess the remaining objectives of the PDO and
ensure that they address relevant aspects of the operation, they were grouped into the
following four main objectives36: (a) upgrade transport service levels; (b) increase
environmental quality; (c) reduce transport costs and increase transport efficiency; and
(d) improve the coordination of public sector activities. The objectives of "enhancing
social inclusion through improved access to schools, health facilities, and wider social
interaction" and "addressing urban poverty through improved access to jobs and
economic opportunities" did not include specific measures in the PD and were not
considered separately. However, they were assessed within the first objective since they
all share a common dimension of accessibility/availability of transport services to reach
employment, health facilities, schools, etc.

70) The PDOs' achievement was assessed in relation to the monitoring indicators,
intended outcomes from compliance with the monitoring indicators, expected benefits of
this operation, or the expected outcomes of the reform in general (see PD Summary,
Section VI.B, and Annex 2). The assessment evaluated the achievements and the
situation in Santiago on the basis of the latest data available. If the indicators had target
values (only a few of them did), the assessment verified whether the target values were
achieved. If no target values were given, the assessment compared the pre-Transantiago
situation with the current system if pre-Transantiago information was available.
Otherwise the assessment was qualitative (for full details of the assessment including
current status and expected future achievements, see annex 7).

71) (a) Upgrade transport service levels. The PD did not define public transport service
level/quality, which entails many dimensions. Generally, at a minimum, it includes
accessibility, affordability, safety/security, travel convenience, and availability, among
others. In the absence of a definition and a broad set of indicators, the assessment of


36
   In evaluating the achievement of the PDOs using the monitoring indicators, the guidelines for ICR preparation
indicate that should PDOs be so broad as to preclude meaningful evaluation, intended objectives inferred from outcome
targets may be used.


                                                        24
improved service quality was limited to the quality dimensions mentioned in the PD.
They included: coverage and frequency, reliability, comfort, travel/waiting/access time,
safety, system integration, accessibility, especially inclusion of people with reduced
mobility, vehicle quality, affordability and image.

72) As shown in detail in annex 7 (a), there is evidence that under the new system,
service is provided consistently on a citywide level and quality improved in most of the
above-mentioned dimensions. Coverage improved compared to the old system. For
frequencies there is no ex-ante data, but the current frequencies meet the target value of
the respective indicator and further frequency improvements are still likely with contract
renegotiations and strict enforcement. There is very limited hard evidence to compare
reliability and comfort of the old and the new system, but it seems reasonable to conclude
the reliability improved under most aspects and that comfort at least reached the level that
was expected from the reform. Overall travel, waiting and in-vehicle times went
considerably down compared to the ex-ante situation. Safety levels improved, among
others, because buses are not anymore racing to pick up passengers, drivers have
regulated and shorter working hours, and buses are in better safety conditions. Fare
integration was a success and the indicator on physical integration was complied with,
therefore system integration was achieved. The target in terms of accessibility for people
with reduced mobility was complied with and this contributed to the objective of
reaching a more inclusive public transport system, accessible for seniors and people with
disabilities. Vehicle quality improved with about 60% of the fleet being new and 500
buses still to be replaced in 2009. The affordability of the public transport system
significantly increased.

73) There are no conclusive data on walking times: according to the available
interview/perception-based data, walking times increased slightly37. These data seem in
contradiction with the data that show coverage increases under the new system and a
current average walking distance of 2.7 blocks, corresponding to approximately 300 m.
The number of passengers that have to transfer increased significantly. It is important to
note that: (a) walking time is still declining with the currently ongoing service changes,
(b) overall travel and waiting times would have likely increased without the project
because of more congestion reflected in the increased travel times for private vehicles,
and (c) an increase in walking and the number of transfers were expected outcomes of the
reform (which in hindsight were not adequately communicated to users). In comparison
with other systems in Latin America, service quality in Santiago is equal or better and the
outlook for service quality improvements is promising38.

74) Finally, although there are no data to compare the image of the previous system with
the one of the new system, recent surveys have shown that user satisfaction and the
perception about Transantiago have improved considerably since its launch. Therefore,
given that the old system was considered as very bad in terms of service quality, the



37
     Since coverage improved, this is probably due to the walking necessary to make `additional transfers.
38
     See Dario Hidalgo, independent project reviewer, "Open Assessment of Transantiago", 2008, page 17.


                                                           25
image of the new system may well be better now than the one of the previous system, but
no conclusive evidence exists.

75) (b) Increase environmental quality. The PD included an indicator for emission
reductions and mentioned lower noise as an expected outcome from the reform, both to
be achieved through better quality buses and fewer bus-km.

76) In terms of emission reductions, the expected outcome of meeting the pollution
reduction target from public transport within a safety margin of 20% was achieved. Noise
reductions are only known through anecdotal evidence (in some main avenues, such as
Alameda O'Higgins, one can now easily converse at normal levels while before this was
impossible given the prevailing noise levels) and an ex-ante estimate. Nevertheless, the
fact that the reform reduced bus-km by 22% and that the system now works with close to
60% newer and better quality buses is a strong indication that noise reductions were
achieved. In the medium to long term, further emissions and noise reductions are likely.
For details see annex 7 (b).

77) (c) Reduce transport costs in their financial, travel time and environmental
dimensions and increase transport efficiency. The PD did not define transport costs,
specify indicators or identify expected outcomes in quantitative terms because there were
no base data due to the informal and chaotic nature of the previous system. Furthermore,
there were no cost data for the old system. However, existing fares and level of
government support were known. Therefore, the achievement of the cost reduction
objective was evaluated in qualitative terms from the perspective of the system's main
stakeholder groups: users, government (society) and public transport operators. A number
of monitoring indicators referred to increases in transport efficiency as their expected
outcome and these were used to assess the objective's achievement.

78) In terms of transport cost reduction, insufficient quantitative data are available to
conclude whether transport costs increased or decreased. Indeed, as shown in detail in
annex 7 (c), users enjoyed significant out-of-pocket savings and reduced externality costs,
but the generalized costs of travel may have increased slightly because of a higher value
attributed by users to transfers (no conclusive quantitative data exist to confirm this).

79) The GoCH benefited from increased tax and social security revenues and reduced
costs of externalities. However, in 2008, the system was running an operating deficit. It is
worth noting that from the outset there was no consensus as to the system's financial self
sustainability. Indeed, according to the initial design, the GoCH planned a fund to
compensate for possible initial operating requirements (independent from the Reserva
Técnica Operativa in paragraph 34). This fund was not created, and instead, the GoCH
included in the bus concession contracts a number of mechanisms to ensure their
financial self-sustainability, mainly a monthly maximum fare increase of CLP 20. Had
this mechanism been applied, the user fare would offset the costs of the system but would
have a negative impact on user costs. Thus, the current operating deficit is a result of: the
political decision to freeze fares during two years, the technical difficulties to charge
return trips, high degree of fare evasion especially in the first 12 months, and increased
service coverage.


                                             26
80) Public transport operators probably experienced operating cost savings through
economies of scale (e.g. less costly vehicles and spare parts), but the costs that were
previously not accounted for due to the informal nature of the sector (e.g. taxes, social
security, vehicle amortization, unregulated working hours for drivers) were internalized
and there were additional costs related to professionalization of the sector (e.g.
technology, professional management).

81) In addition, mainly by reducing the number of buses and bus kilometer, exclusively
dedicating road space to public transport and using efficient transport modes, overall
transport efficiency improved.

82) (d) To improve the coordination of public sector activities in land use, transport
planning, infrastructure investment, traffic management, and bus franchising. As it
was known that the institutional responsibility for public transport in Santiago was highly
fragmented, it was anticipated that implementation and management of the public sector
reform would require extensive coordination. Two of the four monitoring indicators
related to this objective were fully achieved: (a) to create an institutional mechanism to
implement Santiago's Urban Transport Plan, which was accomplished through the
creation of the Committee of Ministers for Urban Transport in Santiago and the
submission to Congress of a law to create a Metropolitan Transport Authority39; and (b)
to establish a separate control and technical inspection department for concession
contracts. This was accomplished through the creation of a fleet monitoring center that
monitors the compliance with the concession contracts. Please see details in annex 7 (d).

83) The GoCH set up a technical committee to coordinate infrastructure planning and
construction for Transantiago, made progress in revising land use planning instruments,
and prepared two laws on transport and land use, which may contribute to the expected
outcome of reducing the likelihood of uncoordinated land-use and transport policies. Also
intermodal coordination has increased significantly with the implementation of
Transantiago. However, although substantial, these actions by themselves may not
completely fulfill what the PD intended in terms of coordinated transport and
infrastructure planning mechanisms at the metropolitan level and multi-sector
coordination mechanisms for land-use and transport policies.

84) In summary, (a) although nearly all dimensions of service quality improved in the
new system, and continue to do so every day, some users still believe service quality is
worse in the new system; (b) environmental quality improved and more improvements
are still likely; (c) insufficient quantitative data are available to conclude whether
transport costs increased or decreased, though transport efficiency improved; and (d) in
terms of coordination between public sector transport activities, the achievements were


39
  The Committee of Ministers for Urban Transport in Santiago unites ministries responsible for land use, expropriation,
infrastructure, concessions, planning and traffic management. Transantiago-SE is the executive secretariat of this
Committee. The law to create a Metropolitan Transport Authority is expected to create an authority with a stronger and
more formal role in public sector activities coordination.


                                                         27
partial. Therefore, the rating for the PDO achievement at this stage is moderately
satisfactory. Additionally, it is acknowledged that the public transport system in Santiago
is today one of the best in the large Latin American cities, following the earlier setbacks
that have generally been addressed. Since more service improvements are expected in the
near future, a field visit is recommended in one year to re-assess advances in the
achievement of the objectives. This may be carried out under the ongoing TAL operation.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

85) The moderately satisfactory rating is based on the combined assessment of relevance
(rated as high) and the achievement of the PDOs (rated as moderately satisfactory).

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
86) Although some public transport users are not yet satisfied with the new system, there
are some positive contributions in terms of poverty impacts:
 Lower out-of-pocket costs for public transport (see annex 7 (c)), which benefit
    particularly poorer households from remote suburbs who previously transferred and
    paid two fares (17.3% of users had to pay more than one fare and 60% of them were
    from the lowest income category). A study by the Planning Ministry (Mideplan)
    published in September 200840 showed that transport expenditure as a proportion of
    income is 5.4% for the lowest of the five income groups. This value would increase to
    8.5% if the calculation included inflation and fuel price increases in the fare;
 Access by low-income people to the subway, considered a high quality, rapid and
    reliable service, made possible through fare integration and the current low flat fare,
    which is paid once, independently of the mode used. Transantiago maximized the use
    of the subway increasing patronage from 820,000 at appraisal to 2.2 million on
    working days. A large portion of the new users are low income people41;
 Longer operating hours of the subway and the bus system, which are especially
    important for poor people that live far away, work at night or weekends, and have no
    alternative to public transport;
 Reduction of direct emissions from public transport vehicles; and
 Greater benefits from reduced air pollution in low-income areas since they suffered
    from the highest pollution levels, especially in terms of ultrafine PM (the most
    dangerous pollutant for human health).

87) Other benefits of this reform in terms of social development include:
 Decrease in accidents involving buses;
 Fewer attacks on drivers since they no longer handle cash on board;

40
   "Hasta $14.000 al mes se elevaría gasto en viajes si Transantiago subiera a $600", in La Tercera of September 7,
2008, page 52.
41
    According to the "User Satisfaction Survey", December 2007, Metro de Santiago, Collect GfK, with the introduction
of Transantiago, subway users from the two lowest socio-economic categories (D and E) increased from 10% in 2004
and 2005 and 13% in 2006 to 25% in 2007. See also "2007: El año más difícil en la historia del tren metropolitano", La
Nación, January 24, 2008.


                                                         28
   Ending bus operators' discriminatory behavior of not collecting those who pay
   reduced fares (usually students) since the remuneration to operators does not vary for
   different user groups;
   Inclusive transport, including low-floor vehicles, better accessibility for people with
   reduced mobility, reserved seating and other support equipment for people with
   special needs; and
   Improved working conditions for public transport workers, especially drivers, who
   received training, work under a formal structure with regular working hours, a fixed
   salary and benefits.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
88) The implementation of Transantiago implied important institutional changes. Bus
operators had to merge and form corporations. Concessions for the fare
collection/clearing system, information system, and infrastructure provision were
awarded. Moreover, the Committee of Ministers, with Transantiago-SE as its executive
secretariat, was created, and a draft law to establish the Santiago Metropolitan Transport
Authority was sent to Congress (see annex 7 (d)).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
89) None.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
90) As per ICR guidelines, this is mandatory for Intensive Learning ICRs. As such, no
surveys or workshops were conducted in the framework of this ICR.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
   Rating: Moderate

91) The public transport reform is among the strategic priorities of the current
government, and the President made the correction of the start-up shortcomings and
stabilization of the system two of the priorities. The President declared that all required
measures would be taken and the necessary resources would be made available for this
purpose. After February 2007, the new Transport Minister was given full powers and has
made impressive efforts to correct the shortcomings of the new system, which at ICR
preparation, is nearing full stabilization.

92) While Transantiago-SE continues to be the executive secretariat of a ministerial
committee with limited autonomy, its capacity has been heavily strengthened by doubling
its key staff, restructuring the organization, and training, among others. As already
mentioned, a Metropolitan Transport Authority with real autonomy is planned, into
which Transantiago-SE could eventually be incorporated. Additionally, a major study to
increase Transantiago-SE productivity and efficiency through procedures, systems and
staffing arrangements, is being procured under the ongoing TAL.




                                            29
93) The transformation can be deemed as sustainable in the long term. A return to the
previous system would be very difficult to imagine because Transantiago was completely
implemented, and some deep and wide-ranging changes took place. The bus industry was
transformed and the contracts for most operators will be in force until 2011 for feeder
services and 2016 for trunk services, with the possibility to extend them for an additional
three-year period if they invest in early fleet renewal. The working conditions of transit
workers were formalized and regularized, and bus related pollution and noise was
reduced. The whole public transport system, including the subway, is now integrated.
Hence, even if surveys show that some people are not yet fully satisfied with the new
system, it is acknowledged that a return to the old system would be difficult (if not
impossible).

94) Nevertheless, there are a number of challenges ahead. Transantiago is currently not
financially self-sustainable as originally planned and runs an operating deficit. A law to
create permanent subsidies is pending in Congress. However, additional fare increases
and other measures under discussion, such as a better match between demand and supply
and a change in the incentives for operators, are likely to reduce the size of the operating
deficit. In this context it is interesting to note that during the first months of 2008 many
articles on congestion pricing and the use of at least part of such revenues for public
transport improvements appeared in the Chilean press42. Also, a report prepared by a
bipartisan expert group appointed by the Transport Minister to propose solutions for
Transantiago43 listed congestion pricing as the first measure. However, opinions diverge
in Santiago over congestion pricing44.

95) Despite rumors in the press that operators of Transantiago were losing money (and
this might jeopardize the sustainability of the system), the market appears to remain
profitable45 and rather appealing: various investments and acquisitions have taken place46,
and there was strong interest in the re-bidding of trunk line No. 3. Although the short
term financial viability of the system relies heavily on public funds, the variety of
measures to increase revenue and reduce costs, coinciding with a positive outlook for the
sector, may improve the medium to long-term financial sustainability.

96) The main remaining challenge from a technical standpoint is the implementation of
the definitive fleet management system by the end of 2010. Since all operators and many
experts were involved in the definition of the technical characteristics of this system and


42
   For instance, "La tarificación vial suma apoyo parlamentario", in El Mercurio, April 7, 2008, page 8 and "El MOP
avala la tarificación vial en Santiago", in El Mercurio, April 8, 2008, page 5.
43
    Diagnostico, Análisis y Recomendaciones sobre el Desarrollo del Transporte Publico en Santiago, March 2008.
44
    For instance, "Tarificación vial", in El Mercurio, April 16, 2008, page 2.
45
   According to the financial information sent to the Chilean "Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros", except for one
operator, all companies made operational surpluses in 2007 and 2008. Profits in 2008 were negatively affected by the
currency devaluation that influenced non operational results.
46
   International companies have been keen to buy routes, which they did not win when the contracts were concessioned,
for instance, Veolia, a French operator, bought the company Redbus (feeder service operator). Mr. Miguel Nasur
bought a 33.3% stake in the company Ovalle-Negrete, which owned part of Buses Metropolitana (traditional operator).
There were partial changes in the ownership of the Colombian operators in Transantiago; and the company STP (a
feeder service operator) acquired a majority stake in Buses Gran Santiago and a minority stake in Buses Metropolitana
(both traditional operators).


                                                         30
the bidding documents required that the technology was tested in places similar to
Santiago, no major problems are expected. There are still some other technical
applications missing, such as alarms in buses and the information system, but their
implementation should not cause major difficulties.

97) From an operational standpoint, the remaining challenges are the completion of the
bus network optimization exercise to improve cost-efficiency and continuous updating to
respond to user needs. This process is underway and currently relies heavily on input
from municipalities, operators and user representatives; therefore the risk is considered
moderate. The construction program of a significant part of the segregated busways was
brought forward and the necessary resources were made available.

98) In conclusion, the main risk to the development outcome is the uncertainty of the
long-run financial sustainability of the system, which is considered moderate. Therefore,
the overall risk is also considered moderate. The Bank will continue to support the
consolidation, continuous planning, and improvement of Transantiago through the
ongoing TAL and the GEF Sustainable Transport and Air Quality Project (P073985).
These operations will also provide an opportunity to monitor progress towards the final
stabilization and draw valuable lessons from this unique experience for Bank urban
transport operations elsewhere.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

99) The Bank team spent a considerable amount of time and resources in the preparation
of this operation, which lasted more than two years as it was appraised twice. The first
appraisal resulted in two loans that were withdrawn from Board submission in May 2004
due to GoCH's indication that they would substantially revise the scope and
implementation pace of the urban transport reform.47 On the whole, the preparation
involved bimonthly missions to Chile, and consisted of a highly experienced and
qualified team: the second appraisal was led by a seasoned lead transport specialist and
supported by a highly qualified multidisciplinary team of experts, including the Bank's
urban transport advisor, a number of very senior urban transport specialists, a senior
poverty expert, environmental and social specialists, procurement and financial
management specialists as well as a lawyer. The sector manager also participated in one
of the preparation missions. The outcome of this effort was an active knowledge


47
  A request for a Santiago Urban Transport Deferred Drawdown Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL) and a Santiago
Urban Transport SECAL to support the implementation of Transantiago was originally presented for Board approval in
May 2004 (see PD of April 28, 2004, Report no: 28520-CL), but the GoCH asked to withdraw the loans because they
decided to substantially revise the scope and implementation pace of the urban transport reform. Major changes
included assignment of demand risk to operators and in the last instance to users, elimination of the planned fund for
revenue shortfalls, and inclusion of a preparatory period prior to implementation of the reform.


                                                         31
contribution in the initial formulation of one of the most innovative and complex system-
wide public transport reforms, an accomplishment only matched in South Korea.

100) During these two years, the Bank team conducted reviews, critical evaluations,
discussions and research on many of the operation's aspects, such as: (a) network
analysis and the socio-economic evaluation of the new transport system carried out by
SECTRA as well as the financial analysis; (b) reform design concept, helping identify
building blocks (see paragraph 25) and annex 9), and the different alternatives
considered; (c) pre-project and estimated post-project travel times; (d) trip matrix per
municipality; (e) distribution of trips and transfers according to socio-economic
categories; (f) urban road concessioning program; (g) project alternatives; (h) subway
extension program; (i) bidding program, schedules and documents; (j) impacts on the
labor force and low income users; and (k) macroeconomic and fiscal situation.

101) In terms of analyzing the safeguard aspects, the team reviewed the environmental
analysis carried out through the MODEM model and revised the participation plan. They
also examined the two sets of environmental guidelines of MOP and SERVIU and the
resettlement framework and assisted the Borrower in the improvement of these
documents. Additionally, during project preparation, the team reviewed and provided
input to the terms of reference for the strategic environmental assessment of Transantiago
commissioned under the GEF Sustainable Transport and Air Quality Project. Finally, the
Bank team performed fiduciary assessments and satisfactorily reflected lessons learned
from previous projects in the design.

102) Based on the reviews and evaluations, the Bank team prepared an exhaustive risk
matrix and advised the Borrower on possible mitigation measures. However, in
discussions with the GoCH, some of the risks were considered as too pessimistic and not
sufficiently relevant, and not all risks identified in this risk matrix were included in the
PD (see paragraph 57).

103) In evaluating the appropriate lending instrument, the alternatives were also
discussed at length during preparation, and the programmatic DPL instrument appeared
to be the best option at the time. It was chosen because it addressed: a) the GoCH's
requirement for the Bank's knowledge and follow up capability; b) the GoCH's
expectation that the Bank would not participate in the financing of specific components
of the program, but rather contribute to its overall financing needs; c) the fact that the
program to be supported was ongoing; and d) the focus on reform rather than investment
by supporting the objective to formalize and regulate the public transport sector in
Santiago and introduce international competition.

104) One of the main challenges for the team's evaluation was the scarce amount of data
that could be obtained or that was readily available on the existing public transport
system. The informal bus arrangements and chaotic management of piecemeal operations
made the identification of reliable ex-ante data difficult. In addition, transforming the
original operation of a DPL with two tranches into two separate DPLs (see paragraph
140) without the appropriate M&E modifications made it difficult to establish direct links



                                             32
between the indicators and the PDOs. Although the existing monitoring indicators were
sufficient to examine the implementation progress of Transantiago, at times it was
impractical to quantitatively evaluate their ex-ante and ex-post performance.

105) In evaluating the Bank's program preparation, the steps taken by the team to
analyze the operation, the methods by which they chose to undertake such analyses and
disseminate best practices, due diligence was carried out. In hindsight, however, it would
seem that the project team relied markedly on the high reputation and impressive
technical capabilities of the government counterparts. In addition, the decision by the
GoCH not to pursue the second phase of the programmatic DPL limited the interest of the
authorities to maintain an intensive dialogue with the project team during the period
leading to the full implementation of the program. Finally, the high technological
complexity and the innovative nature of the reform proposal presented the Bank team a
specially challenging situation since there was limited information on Santiago's highly
informal transport system and no comparable international benchmarks against which to
assess the proposed implementation strategy. These factors prevented the Bank team
from having a more in-depth understanding of the weaknesses that became apparent in
the chaotic launching of the system in February 2007. Thus, although it must be
acknowledged that the quality at entry challenges presented by Transantiago were
extraordinary and the dialogue limitations placed the Bank team in a difficult position, it
can be concluded that there was general over optimism by the Bank team regarding the
smooth launch of the new system. In this context, the quality at entry for the work
conducted by the Bank team in the appraisal of the Transantiago reform, including the
preparation of DPL1, is considered moderately unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
   Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

106) Given the absence of the second DPL, the Bank's assistance, though valuable, is
considered as having had a limited role in the outcomes of this operation and should be
evaluated in this context. Therefore, project supervision after the disbursement of the first
DPL was technically related to the associated TAL. This said, after the disbursement of
the first DPL in January 2006, the Bank team maintained regular dialogue with the
Borrower to identify potential problematic issues and shortcomings and offered
assistance to resolve them.

107) During that period, the team strongly recommended the creation of a metropolitan
transport authority supported through the organization of an international conference on
this topic financed by the TAL. This eventually led to the submission to Congress of a
draft law for a metropolitan transport authority. The team also provided technical advice
and international experiences on issues, such as enclosed pre-payment areas and fare
evasion control, enforcement, and fostering passenger loyalty. The team alerted their
Chilean counterparts of the dangers of having a non cohesive group of operators as
concessionaires, and the negative impact of delays in the busway infrastructure.

108) The Bank team carried out regular supervision missions to Santiago and met with
the different actors of the system, including government officials, bus operators, different


                                             33
departments of Transantiago responsible for infrastructure, concession contracts, AFT
contract, SIAUT contract, and bus operations, the team responsible for facilitating the
reinsertion of displaced workers into the labor market, consultants, academics, and
representatives from the Transport and Finance Ministries.

109) The Bank team also used extensively the public transport system to check on its
operations (and for mission visits on a regular basis) and carried out visits to work sites to
identify potential problems and shortcomings in the preparation for the implementation of
Transantiago, assess the causes of the start-up difficulties and suggest solutions (as
documented in the aide memoires). At the end of each mission, the Bank team briefed the
Borrower on its findings, provided advice, and repeatedly and formally offered whatever
additional technical and financial support, through the TAL or any other instrument48.

110) Following the November 2006 mission, the implementation agency indicated they
would not have time to receive another mission prior to the launch of the new system
since they were deployed to meet the target date set for the launch. Nevertheless, on a
daily basis from Washington, the team followed closely the developments in Santiago
through conversations with operators, planners and other key players in the operation of
the system and also through the press. This continued until April 2007, when visits
resumed. After the start-up difficulties occurred, the team provided regular briefings to
Bank management. Finally, the Bank team monitored the macroeconomic situation;
however, given the good economic performance of the GoCH and the fact that the second
DPL was not requested, no formal assessment took place.

111) The supervision environment especially before and after the launch of the system
was challenging, in particular with (a) the Borrower overwhelmed by the challenges of
this reform, (b) a continuous change in the leadership of Transantiago-SE, which made it
very difficult to maintain the strong rapport established during the appraisal of the project,
and (c) a decision by the Borrower not to go ahead with the second DPL and limited
interest in the TAL in the past49. Additionally, in the intense run-up to the launch of the
new system, information sharing between the Bank team and the Borrower was
incomplete. The information made available to the Bank team did not suggest that there
would be major start-up problems, particularly because Transantiago-SE indicated that all
dry-runs of the crucial technical system (GPS, smart card) had been undertaken
successfully, the building blocks were ready and the agreed infrastructure would also be
available. All these factors precluded the team from becoming more deeply involved
with the implementation of Transantiago.




48
   After the launch of Transantiago, during several missions the team was not able to meet with the Transport Minister,
so they offered their support and assistance in writing through the Country Management Unit (CMU), but these letters
remained without response.
49
   The GoCH showed limited interest in the TAL partly because they were extremely busy and partly because a TAL
was not a suitable instrument to quickly respond to the pressing operational needs since the project description was
very detailed and allowed for little flexibility to adapt to the changed technical assistance needs. Also, a TAL is a
Sector Investment Loan (SIL) and hence government cannot really react to fast-breaking events via such a modality,
especially with a hostile and skeptic public.


                                                          34
112) The situation has changed dramatically with the GoCH showing renewed interest in
obtaining Bank advice by requesting information on world class expertise, best practices,
and restructuring the TAL to more fully address challenges that arose during the
Transantiago implementation. The project team has responded positively and expects to
continue with this favorable working relationship throughout the implementation of the
TAL.

113) In conclusion, the Bank team might have underestimated the magnitude of the start
up problems and could not position itself to have a stronger role in the initial correction
efforts. The fact that by then DPL1 had long been disbursed also reduced the team's
leverage. Yet, there was due diligence in project supervision and the eventual reactivation
of fruitful dialogue with the Borrower which once again regarded the Bank as a
repository of knowledge despite the challenging supervision environment. As such, the
Bank's performance during this phase is rated as moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
   Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

114) The Bank's performance was rated as moderately unsatisfactory in ensuring quality
at entry and moderately satisfactory for quality of supervision. Therefore, the Bank's
overall performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
   Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

115) Transantiago was a priority during the past two administrations. The previous
administration which initiated the idea for a new public transport system championed this
comprehensive and pioneering reform. Unlike in many other countries, the reform had a
citywide scope and a strong focus on reducing the negative externalities of urban
transport. The government showed its determination and courage to implement this
massive transformation by exercising its authority to tackle a very powerful bus lobby50
to undertake the proposed reforms.

116) During the planning and preparation period, the GoCH frequently changed the
Transport Minister, the coordinator of Transantiago-SE, and important key technical staff,
which led to modifications in the reform, caused delays and jeopardized its quality. The
GoCH underestimated the infrastructure needs for correct functioning of the system and
may have spread the overall segregated busway construction program too long. They also
overestimated the capacity of the implementation agencies. Moreover, it is recognized
that requiring the system to be financially self sustainable restricted the design options in
order not to negatively impact fares and affordability (high enough fares to support a




                                            35
good quality service), a fact pointed out by the Bank in the extensive risk list (see
paragraph 57).

117) In hindsight, the decision to replace the old buses with the new Transantiago buses
on the old network during the preparatory period, probably motivated by the urgency to
see some tangible changes on the ground, appears unnecessary and counterproductive
because it eventually tarnished the image of the reform and made another postponement
of the system launch more difficult. Failure to postpone this launch despite recognition of
the unpreparedness of the system in February 2007 was probably the largest mistake by
the GoCH. Launching the ill-equipped system provoked chaos in Santiago, caused
inconvenience for many commuters, and had dire political and economic consequences.

118) However, once the severe implementation shortcomings occurred, the GoCH
showed total commitment and a very proactive attitude. The President made the
stabilization of the new system one of the priorities and appointed a Transport Minister
whose credibility and acceptance by all parties was a major asset in bringing back the
system to operational stability. Since then great efforts have been made and many
resources spent to fix the problems, and the system is close to becoming stable. In this
respect, the GoCH did a very good job, even though there is still some room for
improvement.

119) In view that after a chaotic start up, the GoCH (a) has been able to introduce
significant adjustments to the operation of Transantiago to the point that today the PDOs
established for the program have been largely complied with or there is substantial
progress towards their achievement: (b) persisted with the bold decision to go ahead with
such a comprehensive and innovative reform effort despite the substantial investments in
political and financial capital it has required, (c) recognized its mistakes and devoted
itself to correcting the shortcomings and improving the services, and (d) the fact that the
improvements in the system are likely to be sustainable, government performance is rated
as moderately satisfactory. Although normally, the level of achievements of such a
program would have been rated as satisfactory, the distress caused to the users by the
serious launch-related shortcomings during the initial months of operation and the
persistence of some remaining challenges has led to a one step downgrading of the rating.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
   Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

120) During project identification and preparation, Transantiago-SE, the implementation
agency, and other government agencies, such as SECTRA and CONAMA, supported the
Bank team in the appraisal of the reform program and the preparation of the project
documents.

121) With the exception of the period immediately before and after the launch, during
loan supervision, the implementation agency provided the Bank team with the necessary
support. They monitored the compliance with the supervision indicators, provided




                                             36
progress reports, assisted the Bank team in the supervision missions, and on a daily basis
forwarded to the Bank press clippings on Transantiago.

122) In the months immediately before Transantiago's launch and especially the period
following it, the implementation agency was fully absorbed with activities related to
reform preparations and the correction of major shortcomings. In that period the Bank
team limited its information requests to the agency on the status of the reform, but even
the basics were difficult for the implementing agency to provide. It should be noted that,
at this point the DPL had long been disbursed, and there was less incentive for the
implementing agency to continuously communicate with the Bank team. As a result of
the lack of information from the implementing agency on the real problems of the
reform51 and the reasons why it was highly inconvenient to postpone the launch once
more, the Bank team had no viable way to actually know that there were critical issues
underlying the launch.

123) Also, in retrospective it is clear that Transantiago-SE did not have enough staff and
lacked the necessary experience, flexibility and autonomy to implement a reform of such
magnitude, and its decision making process was lengthy and cumbersome. Mistakes were
made in the preparation for the implementation of the reform and in its actual launch and
there were considerable delays in the building blocks. This said, it is necessary to
acknowledge that, once the start-up problems occurred, staff in Transantiago-SE, and
other agencies involved in the reform worked around the clock and made incredible
efforts and (personal) sacrifices to bring Transantiago to where it is today.

124) Were the implementing agency to be assessed exclusively for the period leading up
to system launch, its performance might well be assessed as moderately unsatisfactory.
The outstanding efforts made subsequently to correct initial problems and improve
system performance, would, by themselves, deserve a satisfactory or even highly
satisfactory rating. On balance, weighing both periods, implementing agency
performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

125) Considering the moderately satisfactory ratings of the government's and the
implementation agency's performances, the overall Borrower performance is rated as
moderately satisfactory.




51
  According to the Report of the Investigation Committee only very few people in Chile were informed. Report of the
Investigation Commission, "Conclusiones elaborados por los parlamentarios de la Concertación", 2007.


                                                        37
6. Lessons Learned

REFORM SCOPE, PHASING AND TIMING
126) Ending Dual Networks: A citywide network brings the benefits of organized
operations to all commuters simultaneously (e.g. fare integration, improved service,
safety and security) as well as reductions in congestion, noise and air pollution for users
and non-users. Dual networks represent the coexistence of modern, organized, regulated
corridor services together with traditional, chaotic and often informal services. This
dualism is a serious structural flaw in the urban transport sector in developing countries
and challenges the sustainability of reforms and diminishes the positive impacts of the
efficient corridors even in cities like Bogota (Transmilenio) and Quito
(Trolleybus/Metrobus/Ecovía) that are considered as models. Thus, despite the problems
that occurred, the systemic/citywide approach to public transport modernization deployed
in Santiago is still likely to become the true best practice.

127) Nevertheless, a citywide or systemic network encompasses very large technological,
organizational, and communication challenges and requires considerable amounts of
financing. It also requires that the physical infrastructure (both rail and road based)
planned for the launch be operational. Hence, developing cities should evaluate the
degree to which a full citywide network is possible given the required capacity and
resources, but without neglecting the entrenched conditions, namely the existing systems
around these corridors. Perhaps implementing a citywide reform on a pilot basis in a
smaller city, such as Valparaiso in the case of Chile, would have helped GoCH to better
conceptualize and anticipate the gravity of the problems that occurred in Santiago.

128) Big Bang vs. Phasing of the Implementation of the Reform: Despite the fact that
the implementation of the reform in Santiago had a preparation period, most of the
important changes to the system occurred simultaneously at the moment of its complete
launch in February 2007. Such a one time approach (big bang) adds great complexity and
risks to a project since it requires all the different components of the system to be ready
together. However, it has the advantage of offering the benefits of the new system at once.
On the other hand, the phasing approach leaves open the possibility for amendments (and
more than likely negative aspects), allows for testing, and increases the likelihood that the
necessary inputs, such as infrastructure, technology, route network, payment, etc. are
ready for the reform. Yet it also runs the risk of policy reversal. To ensure the best result,
the objectives to be accomplished by a reform should be in line with the method/timing
of implementation. And of course, the government must be absolutely confident in its
preparedness for either approach.

129) Timing of the Reform: A political window of opportunity is an imperative pre-
requisite. Such a large scale and important project has little chance of success, regardless
of the type of implementation approach, if it does not have political support (preferably
multiparty support). While the window of opportunity is essential, the convergence
between the technical and political timing of a project is also extremely important and
sacrificing the technical readiness to match the political timing may result in very costly
mistakes. Conversely, if there is no political window of opportunity, technical readiness
is a moot point. While political deadlines for a project are perfectly understandable,


                                             38
especially because governments have only a short time window to implement their
programs, it is the task of the technicians to ensure coherence within a project and
determine the order and the minimum requirements for success. Political transition
periods, that in the case of Chilean elections in 2005 took longer than initially expected,
have a major impact on reform agendas as new leadership requires additional time to
resolve the problems from commitments it inherited from a previous administration.

PLANNING AND REFORM DESIGN
130) Trunk and Feeder Network: This type of network has been utilized in various
metropolitan areas because it can offer citywide coverage at least cost and minimizes
congestion and pollution. However, given the likelihood for additional transfers with this
type of network, the number and duration of transfers must be carefully evaluated. The
support infrastructure needs to be ready because higher commercial speeds and good
transfer facilities compensate for the burden of transfers. Additionally, whenever justified
by demand or much lower travel times, a trunk and feeder network should be
complemented by direct/express routes (even if this means an infringement of the
exclusivity of an operator and is more complicated to handle within the contractual
relationship). Of course, the increase in direct routes must be weighed against congestion
and the resulting environmental impacts.

131) Network Design Process: Travel and network models are excellent tools to
evaluate network designs, but over reliance on normative analytical tools that "optimize"
a network subject to a set of assumptions, especially in areas that assume behavioral
changes, should be avoided. The modeling exercise also needs to include "bottom up"
inputs, such as information on the importance in terms of overall weight people give to
transfers, waiting and walking. The Santiago experience showed that it is not advisable to
redesign the public transport network without considering the existing information on
travel demand and origin/destination available through the operators. Additionally,
stakeholders' involvement in the network design process, especially the municipalities
comprising the metropolitan area (transport and planning/land use departments),
operators and users, is essential, and the design concept for the network needs to be
extensively modeled before implementation.

132) Environmental (Climate Change) Agenda vs. Service Quality: Lack of a holistic
approach may result in emphasizing one concern over another, for example, focusing
mainly on environmental/economic considerations may lead to a design with
unnecessarily fewer and larger buses. However, fewer and larger buses reduce comfort
(e.g. more crowding, less seating possibilities) and increase waiting times. Such a
decrease in service quality is a disincentive for public transport use and will, at least in
the long run, go against environmental/economic considerations. Hence, it is important
that a design that includes user participation finds the right balance between
environmental/economic considerations and service quality.

SYSTEM FINANCING
133) Balance between Public and Private Investment: Increased public finance
participation encourages private participation due to perceived reduction of risk. If public



                                             39
investment is too low, other financial incentives and guarantees must be found to attract
private investment, and they may cause undesired results. Though not easy to achieve, a
balance between public and private investment is desirable. In the case of Transantiago,
the contractual incentives and guarantees (for instance, a minimum payment to operators
independent from the number of passengers carried) attracted private investment, but
these mechanisms constituted a disincentive for operators to comply with the provision of
the required number of buses or facilitate the fight against fare evasion. A second lesson
in this respect is that insufficient investment for a project of this magnitude may result in
higher social costs (e.g. excessive travel, walking and waiting times, lack of comfort) and
subsequently additional expenditures. Estimates of the economic viability of the system
should consider potential social costs given different investment phases.

134) Public Transport System Financing: The new public transport system still uses a
financing structure based on cross-subsidies. First, public transport users today, as in the
past, cross-subsidize the reduced student fares52. Second, the flat fare results in cross
subsidies between passengers making short off-peak trips and those making longer peak
period trips. The second point is unsustainable in the long run since with the increase in
wealth and greater car availability, short public transport trips in less congested periods
are the easiest to replace by car. For large scale reforms like Transantiago, analysis of the
financing and its impact on different income groups is imperative; financing structure
should include consideration of congestion pricing, and fare structure analysis should
differentiate between travel time, trip length, trip frequency, and mode.

PUBLIC TRANSPORT INSTITUTIONS
135) Decision Making Autonomy of the Implementation Agency and Institutional
Continuity: It was recognized in Chile that a line ministry could not prepare and
implement a reform of the magnitude of Transantiago's through its regular functions.
Consequently, a special Committee of Ministers and Transantiago-SE, as the reform's
executive secretariat, were created. While Transantiago-SE is a separate entity, its
function as a coordinating unit precluded it from having the necessary financial,
executing and decision making powers and autonomy53. Critical decisions were made by
the members of the Committee of Ministers, who represented different authorities and
had distinct interests. The case of Transantiago demonstrated the necessity of involving a
strong implementation agency with a) greater authority than specific ministers and
municipalities, b) real powers over investments, operation, maintenance and regulation of
the urban transport system, and c) participation in defining urban planning instruments.
Although the Bank recommended the creation of a Metropolitan Transport Authority
early in the process, this recommendation was only accepted after the current President
was and resulted in sending a draft law to create the Urban Transport Authority to
Congress. The case of Transantiago also highlights that institutional continuity is
essential for maintaining political support, leadership and key technical staff.



52
 This will change if the new law on subsidies is approved.
53
  According to the Investigation Committee Report "Conclusiones elaborados por los parlamentarios de la
Concertación, 2007, the second of the eight Coordinators of Transantiago resigned because of "lack of attributions".


                                                          40
136) Supervision and Enforcement: Supervision and enforcement are crucial when
replacing informal and unregulated owner-operators competing over service supply with
a system where competition occurs only through the contract bidding process. It is
essential to include, as part of the preparation, adequate institutional capacity building,
necessary staff and technical resources, and an appropriate legal framework to supervise
and enforce the concession contracts, limit fare evasion, guarantee the exclusive use of
bus lanes and busways, and prevent illegal transport from operating, etc.

CONTRACTING
137) Concessions for Bus Operations: The concession contracts did not include
sufficient incentives for operator compliance or flexibility for service adaptation, and
consequently, had to be renegotiated several times at an increased cost to the system.
Therefore, it is important to establish early the right incentives, for instance, larger
operator participation in the risk, some limited form of competition, and payments
schedule in accordance with operational compliance level. It is also necessary to create
mechanisms that allow for sufficient flexibility, such as modifications to an operator's
exclusivity, when required for service changes.

138) Fare Collection and Operational Control and Management: The fare collection
and operational control/management systems are linked, and thus, joint contracting of
these services may be advisable. Technology acquisition should be sub-contracted
(instead of part of a joint contract) in order to provide flexibility to change the provider in
case of non-compliance. Bidding documents must require the technology provider to
have the necessary experience with successfully proven technologies in similar places.
The operator of the fare collection system must demonstrate experience in handling a
similar number of expected daily transactions. For a service large enough to attract
international competition, award based on a single bid, as occurred in Santiago for the
contract for fare collection and operational control and management, should be absolutely
avoided.

139) Information System: In Santiago the user information system and the information,
education and communication activities were contracted jointly. In hindsight, this was a
mistake because very different experiences and qualifications are required and there is a
risk that one element of the contract will be sacrificed for another. In Santiago
insufficient attention was paid to user education and information activities, which were
limited and delayed54. For a reform like Transantiago, which implies important
behavioral/cultural changes, it is essential to provide frequent and clear public awareness
and information during the entire reform process, which includes both teaching (use) and
awareness (expectations) objectives. Furthermore, good ex-ante and ex-post data on
system performance are very important.




54
  The contract for the provision of user information was only signed in May 2006, seven months after the start of
preparation and only 10 months before the full implementation of the new system (due to bidding problems).


                                                          41
NATURE OF BANK OPERATION
140) Nature of the Operation: A DPL seems an appropriate instrument to support a
public transport reform provided that the triggers/prior actions capture the essential
building blocks that ensure the success and irreversibility of the reform. In the case of
Santiago, DPL1 was disbursed very early in the reform process and consequently the
respective triggers/prior actions, though important, were instrumental mainly at the outset
of the reform. Additionally, while initially the objective was to have one DPL with two
tranches, the client insisted on having two separate DPLs in order to avoid the
commitment fee on the undisbursed amounts. This resulted in a decrease in the Bank's
influence on the implementation of the reform supported since the Borrower was no
longer interested in the second DPL. The Bank's role as partner in this reform was even
further reduced considering that the Borrower had limited interest in the TAL that
accompanied the DPL. The choice of one DPL with two tranches would have been better
because the Bank would continue to have leverage over the implementation of the system
after the first tranche was disbursed. Nevertheless, even in such a case, the conditions to
release the second tranche would have had to capture all the essential building blocks so
as to ensure the irreversible success of the reform. Another lesson from this operation lies
in the recognition that there is a basic mismatch in the timing between a DPL (short term)
and an urban transport reform, which requires a longer period for fine-tuning and
achieving the desired outcome, and as such, the ICR should only be prepared following
the stabilization of the reform in the case of an operation of this magnitude. Finally, this
operation also showed that there are advantages of closely coupling financing with
technical advice, which may better be done through a combination of a SIL and a DPL.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
141) The Borrower had no comments on the ICR. The Borrower's own completion
report is included in Annex 4.

(b) Cofinanciers
142) There were no co financiers.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
143) Not applicable.




                                            42
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Jorge Rebelo              Lead Transport Specialist            LCSTR Transport
Pierre Graftieaux         Sr Transport Specialist              AFTTR Transport
                          Consultant: Transport Economist            Transport
Kenneth Gwilliam
                          and ex Urban Transport Advisor
                          Consultant: Lead Transport                   Transport
Slobodan Mitric
                          Specialist
Judy Baker                Senior Economist                      FEU    Poverty Issues
Zeinab Partow             Senior Country Economist
Andres Pizarro            Senior Transport Specialist          LCSTR Transport
                          Consultant: Lead Transport
Gerhard Menckhoff                                                      Transport
                          Specialist
Jose Ramon Guerrero       Consultant
Elisabeth Goller          Transport Specialist                 LCSTR Transport
                                                                     Financial
Antonio Leonardo Blasco   Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM
                                                                     Management
Ana Maria Grofsmacht      Procurement Analyst                  LCSPT Procurement
                                                                     Environmental
Juan Lopez-Silva          Consultant                           ENVCF
                                                                     Issues
Andres Mac Gaul           Sr. Procurement Specialist           LCSPT Procurement
Luz Meza-Bartrina         Senior Counsel                             Legal Issues
                          Senior Social Development                  Social and
Elena Correa                                                    SDV
                          Specialist                                 Safeguard Issues
Margarita de Castro       Consultant                                  Safeguard Issues
Supervision
Jorge Rebelo              Lead Transport Specialist            LCSTR Transport
Elisabeth Goller          Transport. Spec.                     LCSTR Transport
Pierre Graftieaux         Sr. Transport. Spec.                 AFTTR Transport

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
               Stage                                          USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                           8                        65.45
  FY04                                          36                       186.49
  FY05                                          13                        62.40
  FY06                                                                     2.57
  FY07                                                                     0.00
  FY08                                                                     0.00


                                           43
                  Total:        57      316.91
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                           6       36.65
  FY07                           7       48.11
  FY08                           8       54.77
 FY09                            5.98    28.40
                  Total:        26.98   167.93




                           44
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
         (if any)

As per ICR guidelines, this is mandatory for Intensive Learning ICRs. No beneficiary
surveys were conducted in the framework of this ICR.

Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
        (if any)

As per ICR guidelines, this is mandatory for Intensive Learning ICRs. No stakeholder
workshops were conducted in the framework of this ICR.




                                          45
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                  SANTIAGO URBAN TRANSPORT
            PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT (IBRD-73150)

                          Borrower's ICR Comments on Draft ICR

1. Background.

In order to implement the reform of the public transport system of Santiago
(Transantiago), the Government of Chile requested the financial and technical support of
The World Bank. To this end, the Bank approved a Programmatic Development Policy
Loan (DPL) in 2005, and the loan was disbursed in 2006. This DPL was accompanied by
a Technical Assistance Loan for the Santiago Urban Transport system (TAL ­ P086689).
It was planned but not carried out a second DPL following the one approved in 2005.

2. Implementation of Transantiago

The reform of Santiago's public transport system was unquestionably very pioneering in
nature and scope. There were no experiences in the developing world of a citywide public
transport reform before Transantiago. Thus, although good practice was available on
specific aspects of the reform, such as busways, concessions and other issues, the reform
did not benefit from the lessons of previous international experiences in the developing
world that could have guided the overall design and implementation phase.

This is explicitly recognized in this Implementation Completion and Results report (ICR).
It was an ambitious project designed to overcome the serious deficiencies of the
traditional public transport model that characterize cities in Latin America and other
developing countries. In particular, the reform had a city-wide coverage and integrated all
the public transport modes (buses and metro). In contrast, other experiences in Latin
America, particularly Bogota, have been much more limited. As a result, the
implementation was more difficult than expected. The initial design and start-up
problems are well documented in this ICR report.

After more than two years, it can safely be said that the public transport system in
Santiago has not only stabilized but it is starting to offer the benefits of a clean, orderly,
safe, fast and dependable transport system. The ICR recognized these achievements and
explicitly suggests that the Santiago public transport system is fast becoming one of the
best in the region.

3. Main outcomes of the reform

The ICR presents an exhaustive list of the main outcomes of the reform to date. We agree
with most of these outcomes. However, we would like to emphasize some of the concrete



                                              46
social and economic benefits that the reform has provided now that the initial start-up
problems have been overcome. Among these are:

   A marked reduction in accidents involving the public transport system. These have
   fallen from 7,164 during the last full year before the reform (2004) to 3,291 in 2008
   (source: CONASET).

   Air pollution attributable to the public transport system has also fallen. Just
   comparing the winter of 2006 with the winter of 2007, particulate matter from buses
   fell by 30% and NOx by over 50% (Centro Mario Molina, 2008). It is likely that these
   figures underestimate the reduction since a major part of the fleet was renovated after
   this study was concluded.

   Average travel times are now lower than with the old system. In part this was
   achieved thanks to the more intensive use of the metro and the operational
   improvements --including skip-stop operation-- introduced in this mode. The new
   dedicated infrastructure for buses has also increased commercial speeds by over 30%
   in those corridors (64 kilometers to date).

   Waiting times are now much lower than when the new system began operating.
   Operators are close to meeting 100% target of required fleet in the streets, frequency
   compliance is close to 95% during the morning peak hours with some operators close
   to 100% compliance and regularity (even spacing between buses) compliance is 85%
   for the system during morning peak hours, again with some operators with over 90%
   compliance with service regularity during this period.

   The new system has allowed for people with reduced mobility to travel.

   An integrated fare system that increase people's mobility potential by allowing them
   to reach any part of the city by paying just one fare. Fare integration has also opened
   up the metro system to new users, particularly members of poor income households.

   The dedicated bus ways and bus only streets and lanes, and the express services
   introduced are among those features that are highly valued by users

   One of the positive side-effects of the new electronic payment system is the sharp fall
   of assaults on drivers. These fell from 1,657 in 2006 to 147 in 2008 (source:
   Carabineros de Chile).

These are just some of the benefits achieved by the new system. Naturally, there are still
areas where improvements can be made. In particular there is an ongoing evaluation of
improvements to the route network to reduce unnecessary or undesirable transfers,
increase coverage and improve the match between supply and travel demands.
Concession contracts need to be further improved. To date six of the nine feeder services
have signed new improved concession contracts and the new trunk 3 contract which is
currently being tendered also has the new contract features.


                                            47
4. Remaining challenges

Among the most important remaining challenges is the current operational deficit of the
system. However, this deficit is not excessive by international standards. In the United
States, fares on average cover only 35% of transit authorities operational costs (National
Transit Database, National Transit Authority, 2006) while in Europe the equivalent figure
is closer to 50%. Even in this politically sensitive area advances are being made. Tariffs
were increased by 5% in February 2009 and there is a bill currently being discussed in
Congress that would fund the transition to a sustainable financial position during the next
few years.

However, it must be recognized that the current system is also somewhat more expensive
than the old system. In part this is related to some hidden subsidies present in the old
system, particularly the informal working conditions of drivers. In the previous system
drivers would work up to 15 or 16 hours a day, in informal conditions. Under the new
system, workers have formal working contracts. Naturally, this change increased the
number of drivers required per bus, increasing labor costs compared to the old system.
Other characteristics of the system have also entailed costs which did not exist in the
previous system. For example, the modern fleet which makes up close to 60% of the total
and the new technological elements, such as the electronic payment system and the fleet
management technology.

5. Bank Performance

Considering the activities undertaken by the bank team, the methods used and the effort
expended in disseminating best practices in this field, we judge the banks performance
and quality at entry to be satisfactory. This evaluation takes into account the pioneering
nature and magnitude of the reform, and the informal nature and lack of data regarding
the pre-reform public transport system.

The bank team undertook regular missions to supervise the project and met all the
relevant stakeholders of the system. At the end of each mission the Bank team informed
its assessments and conclusions to the borrower. Also, the Bank team was very
forthcoming to provide information and offer advice to the borrower when the difficulties
associated with the initial stages of the reform became apparent.

Now that the initial start-up problems have been resolved and the system is beginning to
show its benefits, the Government of Chile is still very interested in the assistance that the
Bank can provide in improving Santiago's public transport system within the framework
of the GEF Sustainable Transport and Air Quality Project and the TAL. This last loan is
currently being restructured to take into account the new conditions and necessities of the
public transport system. The interaction with the Bank team in all theses activities has
been very fruitful.




                                             48
6. Borrower performance

The Government of Chile recognized its responsibility in the problems related to the
design and implementation of this reform, and reacted quickly to resolve these problems
with the outcome that now Santiago's public transport system is arguably one of the best
of the region. This has been explicitly recognized in this ICR report.

7. Lessons learned

There are many policy lessons to be learned from Santiago's public transport reform.
Among the most important is the speed and scale at which a major reform of the public
transport system should be undertaken. As Transantiago shows, any disruption or
problems that arise in a citywide public transport reform can have dire consequences for
the city and its citizens. Thus, Santiago's experience would suggest that a more
piecemeal and gradual approach is advisable for future public transport reform and for
other countries intent on similar projects. Also, good information regarding the existing
public transport system is required before a successful reform can be designed.

Also critical for a reform such as Transantiago, is to have key infrastructure (segregated
bus ways, bus only lanes, boarding stations, etc.) built before the implementation stage.
The same can be said for the technological elements required for the correct functioning
of a modern transport system (electronic payment mechanism, fleet management system,
etc.). This may call for the contracts providing the infrastructure and the technological
elements to be tendered well in advance of the actual operational contracts (bus operation
contracts).

Transantiago's experience also shows the importance of contract design, incentives and
proper enforcement. Related to this last point, is the need to consider in any reform the
creation of a strong institution capable of monitoring and enforcing the diverse contracts
related to the system and to coordinate the different government bodies that are related to
urban and transport issues.

Finally, the financial aspects surrounding a reform of this nature should be carefully
assessed for future reforms. The original intention of radically transforming and
modernizing the public transport system in a city of the size of Santiago without
introducing public subsidies was, with hindsight, unrealistic. It was also contradictory
with the international experience, particularly in developed countries, where subsidies are
ubiquitous, and with the academic literature that expounds the social welfare benefits of
subsidizing public transport.

The policy lessons from the Transantiago experience are many and require a detailed
analysis that goes beyond the scope of this contribution. However, it is important to also
note some lessons learned regarding the loan instrument used in this particular operation.
First, although a DPL is considered to be an adequate instrument to assist a public
transport reform, in this particular operation it is recognized that disbursement was too
early. Second, the fact that the DPL was divided into two tranches had the paradoxical



                                            49
effect of diminishing the interaction of the Bank team with the Chilean counterpart,
especially when the Government of Chile decided not to request the second tranche.
These lessons should be born in mind when considering future Bank operations in Chile
as well as in other countries.




                                          50
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
There were no co financiers or other partners.




                                    51
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Transantiago and TransMilenio: two different urban public transport approaches, by
Pierre Graftieaux and Nicolas Serrie, World Bank, 2007

Transantiago: una reforma en panne, Andres Gomez-Lobo, TIPS Trabajos de
Investigación en Políticas Públicas, Departamento de Economía Universidad de Chile,
N4, June 2007

Transantiago: el remedio que está matando al paciente, Felipe Morandé L., Juan Esteban
Doña, TIPS Trabajos de Investigación en Políticas Públicas, Departamento de Economía
Universidad de Chile, N5, Agosto 2007

La experiencia de un año en Transantiago, Oscar Figueroa for The World Bank, March
2008.

Why Competition Does Not Work in Urban Bus Markets: Some New Wheels for Some
Old Ideas, Gómez-Lobo, Journal of Transport Economics and Policy, Volume
41, Number 2, May 2007, pp. 283-308 (26)

A Critical Look at Major Bus Improvements in Latin America and Asia: Case Studies of
Hitches, Hic-Ups and Areas for Improvements; Synthesis of Lessons Learned and Case
Study Transantiago, Diaro Hidalgo, PhD, Transport Consultant, Paolo Custodio,
Transport Consultant, Pierre Graftieaux, Senior Transportation Specialist, April 2007

Mensaje de S.E. la Presidenta de la Republica N. 212-355 con el que inicia un proyecto
de ley que crea la autoridad metropolitana de transportes, May 17, 2007

Proceedings of the Investigation Commission (http://www.camara.cl/comis/main.htm)
Conclusions of the Investigation Committee of the Concertación

Encuesta CEP, Encuesta Nacional de Opinión Publica, www.cepchile.cl,
November/December 2007

Study carried out by Libertad y Desarrollo on travel and walking times, 2007 and 2008

Department for Engineering of the Catholic University of Chile (DICTUC) travel times
surveys, on behalf of the Ministry of Transport, 2007 to 2009

Santiaguinos no cree que Transantiago siga mejorando, Escuela de Ingeniería Industrial,
Universidad Diego Portales UDP, November 2007

Encuesta Evaluación Gestión del Gobierno, ADIMARK GFK, 2007 - 2009




                                           52
User Satisfaction Survey for the Subway, Metro de Santiago, Collect GfK, December
2007

User Satisfaction Survey carried out by Collect GfK on behalf of Transantiago-SE,
March/April 2009

Collect GfK Survey on walking distances, on behalf of Transantiago-SE, March/April
2009

Draft final report of the Strategic Environmental Analysis of the Public Transport
Program, March 2008

Ficha de Identificación Año 2007, Definiciones Estratégicas, Ministerio de Transporte y
Telecomunicaciones

"Estoy Contigo", Program of the Government of Michelle Bachelet 2006-2010

Agenda Pro Participación Ciudadana 2007, Intervención de la Presidenta de la Republica,
Michelle Bachelet, en el lanzamiento de la agenda pro participación ciudadana, Santiago,
September 29, 2006

Affordability and Subsidies in Public Urban Transport: What Do We Mean, What Can be
Done?, Nicolás Estupiñán, Andrés Gomez-Lobo, Ramón Muñoz-Raskin, Tomás
Serebrinsky, Policy Research Working Paper 4440, The World Bank, 2007

Operating Reports of the Metro of Santiago

IBRD and IFC Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Chile for the Period
2007-2010, April 24, 2007

Project Document, Aide Memoires of preparation and supervision missions, and Progress
Reports prepared by Transantiago-SE in IRIS




                                             53
                  Annex 7. Project Development Objectives, Monitoring Indicators and
                  Achievement of Expected Outcomes

Dimensions   Supervision           Current Status                                       Achievement of Expected Outcomes to             Expected Future
 of PDO55   Indicators and                                                                             Date                              Achievements
           Targets (Page 31-
              35 of PD)
(a) TO UPGRADE THE LEVEL OF TRANSPORT SERVICES
Coverage        To implement an       Coverage: According to the Collect GfK        Despite the different format of the available   Frequencies are
and             integrated public     study56, in March/April 2009 the average      data to assess the compliance with the          expected to improve
Frequency       transport network walking distance was 2.7 blocks, which            indicator, it seems reasonable to conclude      further in the short run
(Availability   through which at      corresponds to less than 300 m. No surveys on that it was fully met.                          due to contract
of Services)    least 90% of the      distances of households from public transport                                                 renegotiations and strict
                households in each stops and stations for the old system are                                                        enforcement (the worst
                of the 10 service     available. However, while the previous system                                                 performing concession
                areas will be located had 303 bus services and 2,335 route-km, the                                                  contract was cancelled
                at less than 800 m current system has 326 services and 2,454                                                        and rebid).
                from a stop served at route-km (September 2008). This means an
                least by 5 buses per improvement in coverage compared to the old
                hour and/or a metro system.
                line (from 6AM to
                10 PM)                Frequencies: Currently, between 6.30 AM
                                      and 10 PM the scheduled minimum frequency
                                      is 5 buses an hour. Only for a limited and
                                      justified number of services the frequency
                                      between 5.30 and 6.30 AM may be as low as 2
                                      buses an hour. Moreover, the average
                                      compliance with the operational programs for
                                      the system was around 95%57 in November
                                      2008. Additionally, the subway further
                                      extended the operating hours early in the
                                      morning and late in the evening (now from
                                      5.40 AM to 11.30 PM) and during weekends.
Reliability     None                  There is anecdotal evidence that, under the   Despite the limited hard evidence to            As soon as the
                                      previous system, if there was a demand, there compare the previous and the current            performance of the bus
                                      was a bus service even during night hours     systems, it seems reasonable to conclude        operators improves
                                      because drivers were allowed to keep the      that the reliability of the public transport    further, the final fleet
                                      vehicles and make some extra money.           system improved under most aspects, but         management system
                                      Therefore, in spite of the absence of fixed   still constitutes a certain challenge during    becomes operational
                                      timetables or minimum frequencies, it is said off-peak hours due to irregular bus arrivals.   and more of the new
                                      that users could generally rely on the                                                        segregated busways will
                                      availability of services (which came at the                                                   be in place, operations
                                      expense of long working hours for drivers and                                                 are expected to become
                                      a very informal system). However, the old                                                     even more regular. Also,
                                      system worked with relatively old buses, so                                                   systems are being tested
                                      breakdowns were more frequent. The latter,                                                    by operators to permit
                                      together with a considerably higher number of                                                 users to get information
                                      accidents, reduced the system's reliability.                                                  on bus departure times
                                                                                                                                    via cellular phone. The
                                     Under the new system, the operators must                                                       implementation of a



                  55
                     Identified from the Benefit Section, the Indicator Table on pages 31-35 on the overall content of the reform supported
                  by the Project.
                  56
                     The Collect GfK study was carried out on behalf of Transantiago-SE. The study is based on bimonthly user surveys
                  and considers a sample of 1212 people.
                  57
                     This means that about 5% of the scheduled trips are currently not or not correctly carried out, which is relative low at
                  least for Latin America.


                                                                             54
Dimensions     Supervision                       Current Status                     Achievement of Expected Outcomes to         Expected Future
 of PDO55     Indicators and                                                                       Date                          Achievements
             Targets (Page 31-
                35 of PD)
                                 comply with the frequencies determined in the                                              real-time information
                                 operational programs, and since August 2008                                                system with pre-trip and
                                 there has been a remarkable compliance                                                     on-trip travel
                                 improvement (compliance with established                                                   information is planned.
                                 frequencies increased from 75% in August
                                 2008 to 95% in May 2009 and the morning
                                 peak regularity index increased from 75% to
                                 close to 90%). Accidents are much lower and
                                 it is also assumed that breakdowns have
                                 decreased (more than half of the bus fleet is
                                 new and vehicle maintenance of most
                                 companies has improved). However, the still
                                 limited amount of segregated busways and
                                 lack of a final fleet management system, is
                                 causing some bunching of buses.
Comfort      None                A large part (close to 60%) of the bus fleet isDuring the early days of operation of the     With (a) the measures
                                 new, less polluting and noisy, and has low     new system, for a number of passengers,       still being implemented
                                 floors and better driving comfort. However,    comfort improved, but for others, mostly the by the subway operator,
                                 some of the new buses (the articulated ones)   previous subway users during peak hours, it (b) the greater price
                                                                                decreased. This conclusion was confirmed differentiation between
                                 have relatively less seating availability, which
                                 is of particular concern for people traveling  by the CEP survey60. Since then, more new subway and bus fares
                                 from the further neighborhoods.                buses have been introduced and crowding in during peak hours, (c)
                                 The subway ridership has nearly doubled, so    the subway during peak hours has been         the expected further
                                 more people have now access to this relatively reduced. Additionally, an increased use of improvements in the
                                 comfortable and high quality transport mode.   the subway system and the consequent          reliability of the bus
                                 Initially, however, this greatly reduced       reduction in comfort due to crowding during system, and (d) a greater
                                 passenger comfort during peak hours. Since     peak hours was an intended outcome of the familiarity of the users
                                 then, the subway operator has made great       reform and average peak occupancies           with the overall public
                                 efforts to reduce crowding and increase        between 5 and 6 passengers per sqm are        transport system,
                                 comfort (for details see Annex 8), and 79% of  rather normal in rail-based systems around subway occupancy
                                 all trips in the subway are made with a densitythe world. In the case of Santiago, the       during peak hour is
                                 of less than 3 passengers per sqm58. The       mistake was not to prepare the users for this expected to go down
                                 average occupancy in May 2009 was below        change61. Therefore, it seems likely that for somewhat more and
                                 5.8 passengers per sqm during morning peak     most passengers, comfort improved as          hence further improve
                                 hours and below 5.3 passengers per sqm         originally expected.                          comfort. Additionally,
                                 during evening peak hours59.                                                                 more than 500 buses
                                                                                                                              will be replaced by new
                                                                                                                              ones still in 2009.
Travel Time None                 According to the DICTUC study62, the average While data from observations indicate that With the operation of
                                 overall travel time during morning peak hours overall travel and waiting times went          the final fleet
                                 in March 2009 was 44.4 min., which is slightly considerably down compared to the ex ante management system at
                                 below the overall travel time during the same situation, users do not yet necessarily        the end of 2010 and the
                                 peak period in 2001 (46.7 min. according to perceive this positive evolution. This is        completion of the



              58
                 Figure provided by Metro de Santiago (see e-mail of June 26, 2009 in IRIS).
              59
                 May 2009 Operating Report of the Santiago Metro.
              60
                 According to this study 18% of the interviewees considered that they traveled more comfortably in the new system,
              62% felt no change, and 18 % mentioned that they traveled less comfortably. See footnote 72.
              61
                 For instance, see Alamys, Comite de Operaciones, www.alamys.org.
              62
                 The study by the Department for Engineering of the Catholic University of Chile (DICTUC) was carried out on
              behalf of the Ministry of Transport. The DICTUC study is based on 2211 observations of people actually making the
              trip carried out over the period June 2007 to March 2009. The sampling error is 7% with a confidence interval of 90%.
              The 2001 baseline refers to the 2001 O-D survey results and the 2006 baseline was obtained by simulating the travel,
              waiting and walking times with an assignment model on the multimodal network. The commercial speeds for bus
              services were estimated on the basis of data on the evolution of system speeds. This study also looked at walking,
              waiting and in-vehicle times. For walking times, people that made the journey registered the time for each trip leg.


                                                                         55
Dimensions      Supervision                          Current Status                      Achievement of Expected Outcomes to             Expected Future
 of PDO55      Indicators and                                                                           Date                              Achievements
              Targets (Page 31-
                 35 of PD)
                                     the 2001 O-D survey) and considerably lower        likely at least in part due to the fact that   planned segregated
                                     than the 2006 morning peak travel time (52.6       Transantiago started so badly and it has not busways, further
                                     min.). Considering that average travel times       yet been possible to change the users' initial reductions in the in-
                                     for private vehicles have gone considerably up     perception. It probably also depends on the vehicle and waiting
                                     since 200663, the public transport travel time     fact that the number of transfers increased, times, thus overall travel
                                     reductions are even more significant.              which are valued higher by users than in- times, are expected.
                                     According to the same study, the average           vehicle and overall travel time. Since an
                                     waiting time during morning peak hours went        increase in transfers was an expected
                                     down from 6.5 min. in 2006 to 6 min. in            outcome of this reform, this clearly
                                     March 2009 (but it is still higher than 4.6 min.   highlights a communication shortcoming.
                                     in 2001).
                                     Again, according to the same study, the
                                     average walking time increased slightly from
                                     6.9 min. in 2001 and 7.2 min. in 2006 to 8.2 in
                                     March 2009. However, normally there are
                                     great variances in walking times depending on
                                     who makes the trip, and walking time
                                     perceptions are not totally reliable. A more
                                     objective measure is the average walking
                                     distance, which, as seen previously, is
                                     currently 2.7 blocks or approximately 300 m.
                                     Such a distance can normally be covered in
                                     about 6 minutes, hence today's average
                                     walking times could well be similar or even
                                     lower than under the old system.

                                     According to the L&D study64, overall travel
                                     times increased from 62 min. in October 2006
                                     to 72 min. in March 2008. Average waiting
                                     times went up from 15 min. in October 2006
                                     to 19 min. in March 2007 and 19 min. in
                                     March 2008. Average walking times also
                                     increased from 15 min. in October 2006 to 16
                                     min. in March 2008.
Safety       To complete             The fierce competition for passengers in the Safety levels improved, among others,          No significant further
             competitive bidding     streets stopped, and drivers get fixed salaries, because buses are not anymore racing to    reductions in safety are
             processes for a         have regular working hours, and received         pick up passengers, drivers have regulated expected.
             limited number of       training. This drastically changed their driving and shorter working hours and buses are in
             big size concession     behavior and significantly improved safety       better safety conditions.
             contracts, for feeder   levels. In 2005, there were 6,366 accidents
             and trunk services      involving buses in Santiago. This number went
             (competition for the    down to 3,291 in 2008 (by 48%). In the same
             market instead of in    period, the number of injuries decreased by
             the market)             39%, and the number of deaths by 29%65. For
                                     2007, this corresponded to a reduction in




               63
                  According to data from the Unidad de Control de Transito (UOCT), average morning and evening peak travel times
               for private vehicles in the 15 most important streets in Santiago increased by 8.13% from 2006 to 2007, 3.1% from
               2007 to 2008, and 11.3% in the first trimester of 2009, compared to 2008.
               64
                  The study by Libertad y Desarrollo (L&D) also looked, among others, at walking, waiting and in-vehicle times. It
               used a sample of only 455 households and was based on interviews, which means the interviewees' estimations of time.
               Given (a) the somewhat differing conclusions of both studies, (b) the fact that the L&D study is based on interviews
               and not on observations, and (c) that there was no survey after March 2008, in this report we rely on the information
               from the DITUC study, which was officially provided by the Borrower.
               65
                  Source: Carabineros de Chile and Comisión Nacional de Seguridad de Transportes (CONASET).


                                                                             56
Dimensions       Supervision                        Current Status                     Achievement of Expected Outcomes to             Expected Future
 of PDO55       Indicators and                                                                        Date                              Achievements
               Targets (Page 31-
                  35 of PD)
                                    generalized costs of accidents of
                                    approximately US$ 16 million66.
System        To implement full Full fare integration was implemented and             Fare integration was a success and the        With the construction of
Integration fare integration,        users are very satisfied with the smart card and indicator on physical integration was         the definitive enclosed
              which will ease        the new fare and payment system67.               complied with, therefore integration was      pre-payment areas, the
              transfers among bus                                                     achieved. Nevertheless, since the new trunk construction of
              routes and with the                                                     and feeder network increased the number of additional transfer
              metro system                                                            trips that require transfers from 17.3% to    stations with the new
                                                                                                    68
              To construct transfer Transfer stations: 37 ready and 4 planned (to around 50% (instead to 80% as originally corridors and additional
              stations for urban     be constructed together with the bus             expected), further improvements in terms of improvements in terms
              transport passenger corridors)69.                                       physical integration are desirable.           of bus stop location,
                                     Intermodal stations: La Cisterna ready; the                                                    physical integration will
                                     works in Quinta Normal are paralyzed because                                                   be further improved.
                                     the new subway extension made it necessary
                                     to redesign the station.
Accessibility To adopt and           Standards for new Transantiago vehicles were The indicator was complied with and this With the conclusion of
for People implement rules and established in article 7 of Decreto Supremo            contributed to the objective of reaching a    the fleet renewal, a
with          norms for public       122 of 1991 of the MTT and subsequent            more inclusive public transport system70,     possible reduction of
Reduced       transport facilities modifications, and in the bidding documents accessible for seniors and people with               subway ridership during
Mobility      that will enable       for bus operations. Additionally, the Manual disabilities. Nevertheless, old buses and         peak hours (see above)
              access for users with of Graphical Norms for Transantiago includes facilities were generally not retrofitted          and the construction of
              disabilities,          norms for signaling in buses, at stops and in (except for reserved seating and signalizing new public transport
              including at least (a) stations. All Transantiago buses have reserved for vision impaired people in buses) and in facilities, the
              signaling for vision- seats for seniors and those with reduced          certain areas of the city and during peak     accessibility and
              challenged people; mobility and signaling for vision-impaired           hours the public transport system, especially inclusiveness of the
              (b) ramps to access people. All new buses (about 60%) have low the subway, is now more crowded (although system will be further
              stations for mobility- floor and all new public transport facilities    as seen above, crowding has been              enhanced.
              challenged people; have access ramps for people with reduced            importantly reduced over the last year and
              and (c) reserved       mobility and signaling for vision-impaired       further improvements are expected). This
              seats in buses         people.                                          reduces the benefit of global accessibility
                                                                                      because there may be simply no space, for
                                                                                      instance, for a wheelchair.
Vehicle       To establish new       New standards were established (Article 7 of All new buses (about 60% of the overall           With the conclusion of
Quality       standards for buses Decreto Supremo 122 of 1991 of the                  fleet) have low-floor and their transmission the fleet renewal,
              including: (a) access Ministerio de Transportes y                       and suspension systems provide better         vehicle quality will be
              level (low-floor       Telecomunicaciones and subsequent                riding comfort. More than 500 buses will be further improved.
              buses); (b) automatic modifications). They apply to all new buses replaced with new ones in 2009.
              transmission and       and constructions in the Transantiago system.
              pneumatic
              suspension; and (c)
              emissions standards
Affordability None                   The average fare of the system in December The affordability of public transport               Additional fare




                66
                   Source: Comisión Nacional de Seguridad de Transportes (CONASET).
                67
                   For instance, see the study by Libertad and Desarrollo (L&D).
                68
                   For the reasons pointed out in footnote 21 this figure may be overestimated. Additionally, since 61% of all trips with
                transfers use the subway for at least one transfer, the overall travel time may have decreased.
                69
                   It is not totally clear how many transfer station had been envisaged for the original launch. The PD does not include
                any figure and the Report of the Investigation Commission of Alianza por Chile mentions 112 or 36; however,
                according the TRANSANTIAGO-SE all transfer stations planned for the launch of the system were ready at the
                moment of the preparation of this ICR.
                70
                   Inclusion was also enhanced for (a) public transport workers because the new system meant an escape from
                informality, providing them with access to credit and other social benefits and (b) students and other groups who pay
                reduced fares because the use of smart cards as a means of payment eliminated the discrimination against them.


                                                                            57
Dimensions      Supervision                        Current Status                     Achievement of Expected Outcomes to              Expected Future
 of PDO55      Indicators and                                                                        Date                               Achievements
              Targets (Page 31-
                 35 of PD)
                                   2007 was CLP 318 compared to CLP 354 in significantly increased.                 increases over time are
                                   January 2007 (10% lower in real terms) 71.                                       likely, so the current
                                   Additionally, contrary to what was originally                                    benefits in terms of
                                   planned, passengers who transfer between                                         affordability may be
                                   different modes are not charged for the                                          somewhat reduced.
                                   additional portion of their journey, except for                                  Nevertheless, the
                                   transfers from the bus to the subway during                                      submission to Congress
                                   peak hours. This especially benefited those                                      of a law to permanently
                                   passengers who had previously to transfer                                        subsidize the system
                                   (17.3% of all passengers and mostly low                                          aims at ensuring the
                                   income people) and are now paying                                                affordability of public
                                   approximately 50% less.                                                          transport services in the
                                                                                                                    long run.
Image      None         Due to the severe start-up problems of          There are no data to compare the image of With time, the ongoing
                        Transantiago, the image of the public transport the previous system with the one of the new improvements to the
                        system suffered very strongly, but has since system. However, since the old system was system and good
                        been improving considerably72.                  considered as very bad in terms of service communication, the
                                                                        quality, the image of the new system may image of Transantiago is
                                                                        now well be better than the one of the      likely to improve
                                                                        previous system. No conclusive evidence further.
                                                                        exists.
(b) TO INCREASE ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
Air Quality To adopt binding      Targets were established through the              The indicator was complied with and the        Further air quality
            emission reductions Environmental Prevention and Clean-Up Plan          expected outcome of meeting the 2005           improvements are likely
            targets against which (Plan de Prevención y Descontaminación            pollution reduction targets fixed by           with the completion of
            Transantiago's        Ambiental ­ PPDA) for the metropolitan            CONAMA and SESMA for public transport          the fleet renewal
            environmental         region, and the 2008 MP10 level was 184t and      (162t of PM10 and 6,579t of Nox) within a      program, the operation
            success will be       the Nox level was 3.710t 73.                      safety margin of 20% was achieved. The         of the fleet management
            objectively assessed                                                    second expected outcome of reducing the        system and the
                                                                                    number of alert, pre-emergency, and            introduction of
                                                                                    emergency days was not achieved due to         additional segregated
                                                                                    reasons external to public transport           busways.
                                                                                    (interruption of the gas supply from



               71
                  Since then, a fare increase of about 5% was applied, but no calculation of the average fare was available.
               72
                  According to a survey carried out by Collect-GfK, a market research company, on behalf of Transantiago-SE, the
               overall satisfaction rating for the public transport services increased from 3 in March 2007 to 4.5 in March 2009 (on a
               scale of 1 to 7, with 4 being considered as a positive rating). According to the Encuesta Nacional de Opinión Publica,
               Encuesta CEP, www.cepchile.cl, 2009, public transport is not anymore among the principal worries of the Chileans.
               Indeed, it ranked 12th out of 15 topics. Finally, according to Encuesta Evaluación Gestión del Gobierno, ADIMARK
               GFK, the approval rate of how the government of President Bachelet is handling Transantiago was progressively
               increasing from 9.6% in October 2007 to 25% in March 2008. It fell again steeply to 11% in August 2008 and was 24%
               in June 2009. However, it should be noted that ADIMARK GFK is a national survey and 60% of the interviewees live
               outside Metropolitan Santiago. The same is true for the CEP survey.
               73
                  According to estimations by CONAMA-RE that take into account the increase in the number of buses and service km
               after February 2007. A very recent study carried out by the Centro Mario Molina Chile ("Evaluación del Impacto de
               Transantiago en la Calidad del Aire de la Region Metropolitana, año 2007", Resumen Ejecutivo, May 2008), which
               focused on street-level transport-related pollution, confirmed that the new public transport system has considerably
               reduced its NOx emissions as well as the level of ultra-fine particles (which pose a high health risk) and soot; however
               because of the increase in private transport this has not led to a reduction of the total NOx concentrations at street level.
               The study also concluded that the reduction in NOx likely means a reduction in the responsibility of public transport in
               the formation of nitrates, an important component of the secondary PM present in Santiago. The study does not provide
               overall values for the current PM10 and NOx emissions of the public transport system. It is likely that the study
               underestimates the current public transport emission reductions since an important part of the fleet was renewed after
               its completion.


                                                                           58
Dimensions     Supervision                       Current Status                      Achievement of Expected Outcomes to                Expected Future
 of PDO55     Indicators and                                                                        Date                                 Achievements
             Targets (Page 31-
                35 of PD)
                                                                                   Argentina and consequent use of more
                                                                                   polluting fuels, growth in industrial
                                                                                   activities, and winter weather conditions.)

Noise        None                No data on post-Transantiago noise levels are There is anecdotal evidence that the new              Once the fleet renewal
                                 available. Nevertheless, noise reductions were public transport system decreased its noise          program is completed,
                                 reported in the press in the period immediately levels.                                             the final fleet
                                 after the launch of the new system and in                                                           management system is
                                 major avenues, such as O'Higgins, it is now                                                         operational and the
                                 possible to converse without shouting, which                                                        system is fully stabilized
                                 was not the case before.74                                                                          (the latter two are both
                                                                                                                                     expected to reduce the
                                                                                                                                     number of buses serving
                                                                                                                                     the system), some
                                                                                                                                     additional noise
                                                                                                                                     reductions are likely.
(c) TO REDUCE TRANSPORT COSTS AND INCREASE TRANSPORT EFFICIENCY
User costs   None                Out-of-pocket costs: The average fare of the It is likely that out of pocket savings and            With the full
                                 system in December 2007 was CLP 318               reduction in the cost of externalities offset a   stabilization of the
                                 compared to CLP 354 in January 2007 (10% possible higher time cost, but there is no                 system, user cost in their
                                 lower in real terms) 75. Additionally, contrary quantitative data to conclude so with               travel time dimension is
                                 to what was originally planned, passengers        certainty.                                        likely to further
                                 who transfer between different modes are not                                                        decrease; however, the
                                 charged for the additional portion of their                                                         current out of pocket
                                 journey, except for transfers from the bus to                                                       savings may somewhat
                                 the subway during peak hours. This especially                                                       shrink due to future fare
                                 benefited those passengers who had previously                                                       increases/differentiation.
                                 to transfer (17.3% of all passengers and mostly
                                 low income people) and are now paying
                                 approximately 50% less.
                                 Costs of externalities directly borne by
                                 users: The reduction in bus-related air
                                 pollution, noise and accidents means fewer
                                 medical expenses and financial losses due to
                                 health problems. No quantitative data are
                                 available.
                                 Generalized cost of travel: Even if in-
                                 vehicle, overall travel times and waiting
                                 decreased with respect to the ex-ante situation,
                                 the generalized cost of travel of users may still
                                 be slightly higher due to the higher value
                                 generally attributed to transfers. No
                                 quantitative data are available.
Government None                  As is the case with many transport systems        There is no quantitative data to conclude         The current deficit is
fiscal costs                     which attempt to minimize the financial           whether or not the costs of the system are        expected to decrease
(Society as a                    impact on passengers by offering low fares        balanced by increased government                  with the aggressive
Whole)                           with high service, so is the case of              collection and savings (through                   campaign against fare
                                 Transantiago. Providing such a service at a       externalities) to society or how the present      evasion (estimated at
                                 low cost does have a fiscal impact - the          situation compares with the ex-ante               around 20% for bus




              74
                 Additionally, an ex-ante study (Strategic Environmental Analysis of the Public Transport Program, Draft Final
              Report, March 2008) shows that the new bus system (if implemented as originally planned) would have reduced the
              percentage of streets in Santiago with the highest noise levels (from 75.0 ­ 90.0 dBA) by 13%. The overall reduction of
              noise would have been 1.7 dBA.
              75
                 Since then, a fare increase of about 5% was applied, but no calculation of the average fare was available.


                                                                          59
Dimensions     Supervision                         Current Status                      Achievement of Expected Outcomes to               Expected Future
 of PDO55     Indicators and                                                                          Date                                Achievements
             Targets (Page 31-
                35 of PD)
                                  government is currently supporting this service situation.                                   services in March
                                  by covering part of the operating deficit76.                                                 2008), through network
                                  However, this outflow is weighed against         .                                           optimization and fare
                                  government benefits from the new system,                                                     increases. Under the
                                  such as higher tax revenues and social security                                              current financing
                                  contributions from the formalization of the                                                  structure, normally
                                  sector, and non quantifiable externalities such                                              richer students are
                                  as improved safety, reduced medical                                                          subsidized by the public
                                  requirements, and increased productivity.                                                    transport users, which
                                  Since no quantitative data exist, both due to                                                are mostly the poorer
                                  the nature of the pre-launch system and the                                                  segments of the
                                  nature of the externalities, it is impossible to                                             population 77. Therefore,
                                  accurately evaluate the ultimate fiscal impact                                               according to the draft
                                  on the government.                                                                           law on public transport
                                                                                                                               subsidies submitted to
                                                                                                                               Congress, a significant
                                                                                                                               part of the future
                                                                                                                               subsidies would come
                                                                                                                               from government
                                                                                                                               compensations for
                                                                                                                               reduced student fares.
                                                                                                                               Additionally, according
                                                                                                                               to projections of the
                                                                                                                               IADB, considering fare
                                                                                                                               increases, the current
                                                                                                                               deficit is expected to
                                                                                                                               decrease by half by
                                                                                                                               201478.
Costs of     None                 It is assumed that the public transport          There is no data to conclude whether or not In the long run, with the
public                            operators experienced operating cost savings the operating cost savings offset the cost of new biddings of the
transport                         (e.g. cheaper vehicles, reduced fuel costs       professionalization and formality.          public transport
operators                         because of fewer, larger and less fuel intensive                                             concessions, the cost of
                                  vehicles, better maintenance), but there are                                                 public transport
                                  now additional costs due to the                                                              operators may go down.
                                  professionalization of the sector (e.g. taxes,
                                  professional management, training, regular
                                  maintenance of vehicles, new technologies).
                                  Moreover, the sector internalized the cost of
                                  informality previously borne by the
                                  owner/drives or the society as a whole (e.g.
                                  long working hours, lack of tax revenue and



              76
                  It is necessary to point out that the current operating deficit "pays" for the political decision to freeze user fares until
              the full stabilization of the new system (for two years) and the technical difficulties to apply the original fare structure
              (i.e. differentiated fares for feeder and trunk services and charging of returns). If the original fare increase mechanism
              envisaged in the concession contracts would have been maintained, the user fare in 2008 would have been about 80%
              higher (at around CPL 700 or US$ 1.4) and would have offset the operating deficit. In February 2009, there was a fare
              increase of close to 5%. In addition, input costs have decreased by 8,1% during the first semester of 2009. Since
              nominal fares have remained unchanged, this is equivalent to an increase of 5% in real fares. Therefore, the revenue
              shortfall is gradually being corrected, and it is expected that in the next few years the average fare of the new system
              will converge to the average fare of the previous system. For cost and revenue projections see IADB document "Ley
              sobre Subsidio Nacional para el Transporte Publico Remunerado de Pasajeros", June 5, 2008.
              77
                 Affordability and Subsidies in Public Urban Transport: What Do We Mean, What Can be Done?, Nicolás Estupiñán,
              Andrés Gomez-Lobo, Ramón Muñoz-Raskin, Tomás Serebrinsky, Policy Research Working Paper 4440, The World
              Bank, 2007.
              78
                 Proyecto de Ley sobre Subsidio Nacional para el Transporte Publico Remunerado de Pasajeros, June 5, 2008.


                                                                            60
Dimensions      Supervision                       Current Status                     Achievement of Expected Outcomes to               Expected Future
 of PDO55      Indicators and                                                                       Date                                Achievements
              Targets (Page 31-
                 35 of PD)
                                   social security, and no vehicle amortization).
Transport    To exclusively         Segregated busways ready: 60 km (End of By significantly exceeding the project target With the conclusion of
Efficiency   dedicate to public      2008)79                                      in terms of segregated busways,             the construction of the
             transport at least 19  Acceleration of the segregated busway         accelerating the construction of the most   new segregated
             km of lanes on the      construction program: a total of 90 km to be important remaining busways, and            busways, these
             bus trunk routes        completed by the end of 2009 (which is       dedicating some of the main thoroughfares efficiency benefits will
             network                 about the size of the subway system) and     of the road network during peak hours or    be fully available.
                                     225 km by the end of 2014                    some lanes permanently to public transport,
                                    Segregated lanes permanently dedicated to the GoCH allocated road space efficiently
                                     public transport: 77 km                      and clearly showed its priority for energy
                                    Streets dedicated to public transport during and space efficient transport modes.
                                     peak hours: 30 km
                                    Slight increase in bus commercial travel
                                     speeds from 18 km/hour before
                                     Transantiago to 19 km/hour in April 2008)
             To reduce the          Appraisal: 7,700 buses                        With the introduction of the new trunk and It is likely that there will
             number of buses by      December 2007: 6,400 (17% reduction)         feeder system, public transport supply was be additional reduction
             20% in relation to                                                   rationalized even though the reduction in   in bus-km when the
             the pre-Transantiago                                                 bus-km was 27% lower than expected. The final fleet management
             situation                                                            regulation of taxi supply reduced the       system is operational
             To reduce the          Appraisal: 53.9 million monthly bus-km        number of taxis circulating without         and all infrastructure is
             number of bus-km        April 2008: 42 million monthly bus-km        passengers and eliminated the competition in place.
             by 30% in relation to (22 % decrease)                                between taxis and larger public transport
             the pre-Transantiago                                                 vehicles.
             situation
             To adapt a policy to  The number of taxis permitted to circulate in
             control the number      Santiago was regulated and all taxi services
             of taxis in Santiago    were bid in 2004.

           To complete a         5 concessions for trunk routes and 9               Since public transport services are now
           competitive bidding concessions for feeder service areas were            provided by a limited amount of large
           process for a limited awarded through open competitive bidding80.        companies, which manage public transport
           number of big size                                                       services in a professional way, using fewer,
           concession                                                               larger and less fuel intensive vehicles,
           contracts, for feeder                                                    maintaining them better, etc., it is expected
           and trunk services                                                       that operating costs savings through
           (competition for the                                                     economies of scale and better supply
           market instead of in                                                     demand match have occurred (but no
           the market)                                                              quantitative data are available).
(d) TO IMPROVE COORDINATION OF PUBLIC SECTOR ACTIVITIES
             To create an         The Committee of Ministers for Urban              The coordination of public sector activities With the creation of the
             institutional        Transport in Santiago and Transantiago-SE as      improved since within the Committee of         metropolitan transport
             mechanism to         its executive secretariat were created in 2002.   Ministers public transport decisions are       authority (which seems
             implement            An international seminar on metropolitan          taken jointly by several ministries and        likely), the coordination
             Santiago's Urban     transport authorities was organized in 200681     agencies. Nevertheless, this implementation of transport and other
             Transport Plan       and a draft law to create a metropolitan          mechanism is ideal and the creation of a       public sector activities is
                                  transport authority for Santiago was submitted    metropolitan transport authority is desirable. expected to further
                                  to Congress on May 17, 2007.                                                                     improve


               79
                  This does not include the partially segregated Alameda corridor of 7 km and about 4 km of road connection.
               80
                  The concession for the trunk service no. 3 expired, was temporarily extended, and is currently under bidding. A study
               is ongoing to assess if it is necessary to bid the feeder service area no. 10 (the central area of Santiago) because in
               September 2007 it was decided to extend some of the routes of the adjacent feeder service areas until the city center to
               reduce the number of transfers in the system.
               81
                  Financed through the TAL.


                                                                          61
Dimensions         Supervision                      Current Status                    Achievement of Expected Outcomes to              Expected Future
 of PDO55        Indicators and                                                                            Date                         Achievements
                Targets (Page 31-
                    35 of PD)
              To establish a       A fleet monitoring center was established        A specific purpose entity was created, and
              Control and          within Transantiago-SE to monitor and ensure the concession contracts (in their modified
              Technical Inspection compliance with concession contracts. This       versions) are now strictly enforced. Hence
              Department for       center is assisted by the Inspection-            the first indicator was complied with and the
              concession contracts Supervision Department of the Transport          expected result achieved.
                                   Ministry (Departamento de Fiscalización del
                                   Ministerio de Transportes), which supports
                                   Transantiago-SE in the field inspections, and
                                   various consulting firms. At the moment of the
                                   preparation of this ICR the complete bus fleet
                                   was equipped with a GPS and the fleet control
                                   system was working, so the compliance with
                                   the operational programs could be checked in
                                   real time.
              To set up            A technical committee for infrastructure was The responsibilities of the technical             It is possible that the
              coordinated          set up to coordinate the implementation of the committee for infrastructure are limited to metropolitan transport
              transport and        infrastructure necessary for Transantiago. This the coordination of the infrastructure         authority will get a
              infrastructure       committee is composed of SERVIU,                 necessary for Transantiago, hence the         stronger role in
              planning             Transantiago, MINVU, Secretaría Regional indicator was not fully met. Nevertheless, coordinating transport
              mechanisms at the Ministerial of MINVU, SEREMITT,                     the stated objective in the PD of making a and infrastructure
              metropolitan level SECTRA, Concession Department of MOP, first step towards decentralization and                    planning issues.
                                   and Mideplan. Additionally, a draft law for the coordination of urban transport policies at
                                   creation of a metropolitan transport authority the metropolitan level was achieved.
                                   was submitted to Congress in 2007, which         Overall, it is also likely that with this
                                   envisages a certain degree of influence of the committee the coordination of public sector
                                   metropolitan authority in urban planning         activities improved.
                                   matters if they are related to public transport.
              To design multi-     No multi-sector coordination mechanisms          The indicator was not fully complied with,
              sector coordination were designed, but MTT participated in            but the participation of MTT in the revision
              mechanisms,          preliminary working groups (mesas de trabajo of land use instruments may contribute to
              including at least a preliminares) to revise land use planning        the expected outcome of reducing the
              coordination         instruments, such as the General Law on          likelihood of contradictory land-use and
              agreement among Urbanism and Construction and the "Plan               transport policies.
              key agencies,        Regulador Metropolitano" for Santiago.
              including MINVU,
              Transantiago, the
              municipalities



   Additional Supervision                                     Status                                            Achievement of Expected Results
         Indicators
General Urban Transport
To adopt an Urban Transport      The plan was approved in March 2002, and Transantiago was With the approval of the plan the expected result of
Policy for the Santiago          fully implemented in February 2007, but had huge start-up clearly defining the priorities and policy goals in the urban
Metropolitan Area through        problems and shortcomings.                                transport sector (i.e. to keep public transport modal share
approval by the Committee of                                                               stable) was achieved.
Ministers (by March 2002)
To secure executive              This was partially achieved: Bidding documents for bus              Through the inclusion of this obligation in the bidding
endorsement of congestion        services (article 2.9) include an obligation for the GoCH to        documents the GoCH took the first step in complying
pricing as a way to co-fund      submit to Congress a draft law to rationalize car use if feeder     with this indicator. However, the expected results of
public transport in case fares   services fares were higher than CLP 360 (readjusted). Such a        making road pricing applicable to cushion potential fare
reach a predefined maximum       law was already submitted to Congress in 1997 and is still          increases, internalizing external costs related to car use
level (feeder route              pending approval. A study on congestion pricing is currently        and reducing congestion go beyond the reach of this
fares>CLP$360) (by               in its final stage. This study could be the basis for a new draft   indicator. Nevertheless, the conditions in Santiago seem
November 2004)                   law on congestion pricing.                                          currently rather favorable for a possible new law on
                                                                                                     congestion pricing.



                                                                              62
   Additional Supervision                                    Status                                          Achievement of Expected Results
         Indicators
Elaborate proposals for the     This was partially done through a study that looked at            As in the previous case, the expected results had no direct
recovery of road space freed in mobility and accessibility measures for the recuperation of       causal relationship with the indicator since to elaborate
the process of urban transport the central area of Santiago82. The study led to the               proposals does not necessarily mean that they will be
modernization, especially in development of a master plan with recovery proposals and the implemented. Hence it was unrealistic to expect urban
the city center (without        preparation of engineering designs for some of the proposals environment improvements and non-motorized transport
deadline)                       considered as priority according to the selection criteria of the and public space promotions as a result of this study. This
                                study. However, these priorities do not match with the current said, since appraisal many measures have taken place to
                                political priorities of the different municipalities of           improve the urban environment and foster non-motorized
                                Santiago's, except for the pedestrianization of a central         transport in Santiago, such as the improvements around
                                avenue in Miraflores, which partly coincides with one of the the main square of the municipality of Ñuña and the
                                proposals of the study.                                           construction of more than 120 km of bikeways.

Regulatory Framework
To offer concessionaires       Envisaged in the bidding documents for bus operations of     With the provision of this minimum revenue guarantees,
minimum revenue guarantees November 2004 (articles 2.9, 3.4.4 and 3.5.2.1.2).               the expected result of reducing the risk level perceived by
that cover between 60 to 85%                                                                operators was achieved and no concessionaire charged a
of the required payment, i.e.                                                               risk premium, which would have negatively impacted fare
all operating costs (plus debt                                                              levels. However, this was not sufficient to ensure the
service in the case of                                                                      financial sustainability of the system, which is currently
concessions requiring new                                                                   jeopardized: (a) due to the lack of readiness of the
vehicles). Said guarantee, if                                                               technical components at the moment of the launch of
called upon, is expected to be                                                              Transantiago fares were set at a lower level than originally
implemented through fare                                                                    planned and kept unchanged until February 2009, (b)
increases (by end of 2004)                                                                  there is a high level of fare evasion in buses, (c) the
                                                                                            system is more costly than originally expected (e.g. more
                                                                                            buses, enclosed pre-paid areas, more vehicle-km), and (d)
                                                                                            passenger demand for trunk bus services is lower than
                                                                                            expected.
To concession through a         The fare box revenue collection and administration was      The three indicators have been complied with and the
competitive process farebox     contracted on July 28, 2005 (AFT), and the public transport expected results were achieved. Fare integration through
revenue collection and          information and management center was contracted on         smart cards (and the installation of enclosed pre-payment
administration and the public   May 26, 2006 (SIAUT).                                       areas) eased/speeded up boarding. Fare integration also
transport information and                                                                   opened up the subway system to all public transport users
management center                                                                           (more than doubling of subway passengers) and benefited
To implement full fare          Full fare integration started on February 10, 2007 and the especially users who live in remote areas and used to take
integration, which will ease    initial problems and shortcomings were resolved.            more than one bus and pay several fares.
transfers among bus routes and
with the metro system           Rules set in clauses 28 to 38 of the contract with AFT.
To set rules to share farebox
revenues between public
transport services providers
and infrastructure
concessionaires (by end of
2006)
Public Participation

Formal commitment of MOP         The formal commitment was sanctioned through the                The indicator has been complied with, and the objective
and MTT to citizens'             Instructivo Presidencial of 2002, through which the             of promoting participatory approaches in government
participatory process            government stated its interest in having efficient channels and sponsored infrastructure projects was achieved (even
sanctioned via Presidential      mechanisms of information and participation in government though these approaches do not yet seem sufficiently
Instruction (by end of 2002)     programs and actions that benefit citizens and communities. efficient).
                                 For the Urban Transport Plan for Santiago, the Instructivo
                                 Presidencial establishes a formal compromise of the MOP
                                 and MTT to engage in participatory processes. Additionally,




                82
                     Financed through the GEF Sustainable Transport and Air Quality Project for Santiago (P073985).


                                                                             63
   Additional Supervision                                    Status                                         Achievement of Expected Results
         Indicators
                                 the Agenda Pro Participación Ciudadana 2007 envisaged a
                                 number of specific obligations of the Transport Minister in
                                 relation to citizens' participation under Transantiago.
To organize (a) continuous       This formal commitment sanctioned at the presidential level The indicator was complied with, but the intended
technical discussions with the   led to a serious of participatory processes, including among outcomes of "including citizens' participation in
participation of the 34          others:                                                         Transantiago's design" and "dialoguing with all
municipalities; (b) workshops     Regular technical discussions with the 34 municipalities of stakeholders" were not fully achieved. The participatory
with NGOs; (c) at least 50         the metropolitan region have taken place (especially after activities that took place during the design process were
public workshops to assess         the start-up problems) to discuss topics such as: route       more informative than participatory and considered as
user's satisfaction (without       design, bus stops, corridors, etc.                            insufficient. This is particularly evident as far as fine-
deadline)                         Public meetings with the citizens of each municipality and tuning the network design and preparing the users for the
                                   specific meetings with shop keepers, collective taxi owners, new system are concerned. It is also unlikely that
                                   and other stakeholder                                         Transantiago dialogued with all stakeholders.
                                  Office for Information, Complaints and Suggestions
                                   (Oficina de Información, Reclamos y Sugere­cias - OIRS)
                                   at ministerial level that receives complaints from the public
                                   and answers to requests for information
                                  Transantiago Informa (SIAUT) has a call center/website
                                   through which they provide information, receive
                                   suggestions and handle complaints of the public
                                  Workhops with NGOs, especially between 2003 and 2005,
                                   mainly to inform them about Transantiago and get their
                                   input for the design, presentations of Transantiago in
                                   neighborhood organizations, universities, schools and
                                   during public events
                                  Special attention during the design and implementation of
                                   Transantiago given to people with reduced mobility, people
                                   affected by the infrastructure works, public transport
                                   musicians, and street and market vendors
To organize (a) press            A press conference to disseminate Transantiago and initial      With the organization of a press conference and the
conference to publicize          workshop to launch Transantiago took place in December          launch of workshop this indicator was complied with and
Transantiago; and (b)            2003. Since mid-2006 Transantiago Informa (SIAUT) has           this certainly contributed somewhat to the expected result
launching workshop for           been disseminating information on Transantiago through          of disseminating information about Transantiago.
Transantiago (by end of 2003)    media campaigns, website, call center, 10 information
                                 centers, and informants at bus stops, stands during events, in
                                 a special office in all 34 municipalities, etc.
Executive branch to send the     Draft law on public participation sent to Congress in June      The draft law was sent to Congress, but it has so far only
draft law on public              2004, approved by the House of Representatives on October been approved in the House of Representatives. Hence,
participation to Congress (by    31, 2007 and currently for approval in the Senate.              the expected result of promoting and strengthening public
end of 2005)                                                                                     participation at the national level through the approval of
                                                                                                 such law has not yet been achieved. Nevertheless, it is
                                                                                                 unrealistic to expect that sending a draft law to Congress
                                                                                                 would strengthen public participation.
Land use
Preparation of a draft law that Draft law not established.                                      The indicator was not complied with and the result of
establishes incentives for                                                                      slowing down urban sprawl and densification of the areas
efficient location of housing,                                                                  well served by public transport (which should in turn lead
schools, and activities in                                                                      to shorter trips, increase in public transport modal share,
metropolitan urban areas (by                                                                    and to less contamination and congestion) was not
end of 2006)                                                                                    achieved. However, again it is unrealistic to expect that
                                                                                                this can be obtained simply though the presentation of a
                                                                                                draft law. Additionally, slowing down of urban sprawl
                                                                                                and densification are long term effects.
Social Dimension of
Transport




                                                                             64
   Additional Supervision                                 Status                                         Achievement of Expected Results
         Indicators
To execute a program to       University "Alberto Hurtado": in 2003 training of 93 bus        The requirements of the indicator were met and two of the
promote formal companies,     owners and 42 drivers                                           intended outcomes were fully achieved (facilitating the
and to offer training and                                                                     "corporatization" process of the bus industry and ensuring
reinsertion into the labor    DICTUC (Department for Engineering of the Catholic              regular working hours for bus drivers, eliminating their
market for current public     University of Chile): in 2004 training of 320 drivers           stress of having to attract a large number of passengers
transportation drivers that   1st semester of 2006: MTT created the Labor-Social Support and benefiting them from current labor laws).
request it, to facilitate     Unit, which elaborated a social mitigation program for public Regarding the third intended outcome, mitigation of social
reinsertion into the labor    transport workers aiming at facilitating the reinsertion of     impacts for displaced bus workers, the available
market (by end of 2006)       public transport workers into the labor market and their        information does not permit to judge how effectively this
                              access to the generic social benefits (unemployment payment, outcome was achieved. As a matter of fact, the measures
                              health care, etc.). Among others, this unit has carried out the adapted by the GoCH came relatively late; however, since
                              following training activities:                                  the new system needed many more workers than
                               For trade union representatives and bus owners in the          originally expected (thus it is likely that it has absorbed
                                 development of a business plan and support in the            most of the available labor force) and considering that the
                                 implementation of the same                                   press did talk very little about this issue (in general, the
                               For workers over 55 in setting up their own business           press was and still is very hard on Transantiago), it is
                               Retraining for workers between 40 and 54 and for those         concluded that the social impact of this reform was
                                 younger than 40 to acquire training to obtain the new        relatively low.
                                 driving license necessary for Transantiago




                                                                          65
         Annex 8. Milestones Of Project Implementation And The Future Outlook

         Milestones in the Bank Project and the Implementation of Transantiago
         The following table provides an overview of the principal activities in the implementation
         of Transantiago:

March 2002           Approval of the Santiago Urban Transport Plan by the Committee of Ministers

2002                 Implementation of some immediate measures to improve urban transport, consisting of the introduction of exclusive
                     bus lanes during morning peak, reversible streets for cars, etc.
2004                 Award of 14 concession for the operation of the bus services (5 trunk and 9 feeder service packages)

2005 ­ February      Award of a concession to AFT for the smartcard, fare collection/clearing system, and communication, fleet control
2007 (preparation)   and management systems and other minor technical equipment in buses (passenger counting system, alarm button,
                     cameras, etc.)
                     BOARD APPROVAL (July 2005)
                     Start of operations by the new operators on the old bus route network (without fare integration between buses and
                     the subway) and under the old fare system
                     Retirement of some of the old buses and introduction of part of the new fleet
                     DISBURSEMENT OF FIRST DPL (January 2006) AND LIMITED INTEREST IN SECOND DPL
                     Award of the concession to SIAUT for the user information and customer service system (May 2006)
                     Gradual completion of part of the segregated bus lanes (19 km by December 2006)
                     Pavement rehabilitation and the improvement of bus stops/shelters (about 3,000 by February 2007)
                     Gradual completion of part of the transfer stations
                     Inauguration of about 40 km of new subway (the total extension of the subway in 2006 was 85 km)
                     Creation of a Labor-Social Support Unit for public transport workers (May 2006)
                     Start of the information campaign carried out by SIAUT (August 2006)
                     Installation of some of the ticket validators in buses and testing of smart cards (September 2006 ­ February 2007)
February 2007 ­ full Introduction of new city-wide trunk and feeder network, reducing overlaps between bus routes but increasing the
implementation       number of transfers
(entrada en regimen) Introduction of a smart card as unique means of payment for buses
                     Introduction of fare integration between buses and the subway system
                     Retirement of more old buses
Main urgent          Installation of the remaining ticketing equipment in buses
measures between Urgent measures in the subway systems to cope with overcrowding ("Clone" buses on the same routes as the
February 2007 and subway system, passenger flow management, additional trains, express trains, station expansion, etc.)
May 2009             Introduction of some point to point connection served by express buses
                     Gradual introduction of additional buses (totaling to 6,400 by December 2007)
                     Gradual introduction of pre-payment areas (totaling to 155 by May 2009)
                     Gradual construction of additional bus stops/shelters (totaling to 8,600 by December 2007)
                     Resignation of the Transport Minister (April 2007) and approval rating of the President decreases
                     Creation of a Parliamentary Committee to investigate on the causes of Transantiago's problems and establish
                     responsibilities (the final report was issued in December 2007)
                     Start of operation of the "La Cisterna" intermodal station (May 2007)
                     Sending a law to Congress to create a Metropolitan Transport Authority (May 2007)
                     Approval by Congress of a law to subsidize the system in 2007 (to avoid fare increases)
                     Fixing of the ticketing/payment/clearing system (May ­ July 2007)
                     Renegotiation of the contracts with operators to introduce more buses, increase incentives to comply with the
                     contractual obligations and introduction of flexibility in the network design (February 2007 ­ ongoing)
                     Modification/extension of existing bus routes and introduction of new services (over 300 modifications by the end
                     of 2007)
                     Provision of operational support to operators through a team of experts and fixing most of the problems with the
                     fleet control system
                     Resignation of the Coordinator of Transantiago and nomination of an interim coordinator (August 2007)
                     Introduction of additional exclusive lanes for buses and dedication of some of the main thoroughfares to public
                     transport during peak hours



                                                                  66
                       Improved efforts in terms of enforcement (e.g. use of GPSs to control compliance with frequencies, use of cameras
                       and manual enforcement (300 inspectors and 80 police agents) to ensure compliance with dedicated bus lanes)
                       Approval of a loan in the amount of US$ 160 million to cover the deficit of Transantiago during the first months of
                       2008
                       Renegotiation of the contract with AFT to link the payment to the degree of compliance with the contractual
                       obligations, the creation of an expert panel to evaluate this compliance, the creation of a technical committee of
                       operators to advise on the technology (in particular final fleet management system)
                       Nomination of a new coordinator of Transantiago (February 2008)
                       Operation of the Santa Rosa busway (11 km ­ March 2008)
                       Submission of a draft law to Congress to create a stable subsidization mechanism for public transport (April 2008)
                       Testing of the provisional fleet management system (July 2008)
                       Fare evasion campaign (July 2008)
                       Intensifying enforcement of concession contracts and segregated bus corridors
                       Introduction of measures to decrease crowding in the subway (e.g. additional extension of the operating hours early
                       in the morning and late in the evening as well as during weekends, express services with limited stops, investments
                       in stations to increase capacity, purchase of new trains to arrive in September 2009)
                       Use of the constitutional fund to cover the operating deficits of the system
                       Fine-tuning and optimization of bus service provision
                       Small fare increase (about 5%) and greater differentiation between the fares of the subway and the bus system
                       during peak hours (February 2009)
Future milestones      Introduction of the remaining technical equipment in buses (communication system, passenger counting system,
                       alarm button, cameras, etc.)
                       Approval of the law on public transport subsidies
                       Operation of the final fleet management system (end of 2010)
                       Introduction of greater flexibility in bus operations by permitting feeder operators to cross the limits of their
                       concessions and trunk line operators to operate on route originally not defined as trunk routes
                       Likely further fare increase (and possible also payment for different trip segments and reduction of time window
                       during which passengers are allowed to transfer for free)
                       Extension of the subway system, investment in rolling stock, expansions of a number of stations, and other
                       operational improvements
                       Gradual conclusion of fleet renovation
                       Creation of a metropolitan transport authority
                       Gradual operation of additional segregated busways (to total 225 km by 2014 and the remaining program by 2020
                       or later)


         Latin America Comparison of Public Transport Systems

   City                Santiago                         Sao Paulo                     Brasilia                   Bogota
   Integrated          Bus and subway                   Municipal bus and subway      No integration between     TransMilenio (the rest
   transport modes                                      (inter-municipal are not      municipal bus, inter-      of the city is not
                                                        integrated)                   municipal bus and          integrated)
                                                                                      subway
   Number of daily     6 million                        13 million approximately      950,000 in 2000            Public transport system
   public transport                                     (360 million monthly                                     as a whole: 5.8 million
   trips                                                boardings) of which 65%                                  TransMilenio: 1.4
   (boardings)                                          by municipal bus and 35%                                 million
                                                        by rail mode
   % of journeys       50%                              45%                           Main municipal bus         Public transport system
   that imply at                                                                      service (no information    as a whole (not
   least one                                                                          available for other        integrated): 19%
   transfer                                                                           modes): 21%                TransMilenio: 51%
   Average fare        CLP386 (US$ 0.7)*                R$ 2.45 (US$ 1.46)            R$ 3.11 (US$ 1.85)         Not available
   per trip (only
   passengers
   paying full fare)
   Integrated fare     CLP400 (US$ 0,76) for bus,       R$ 2.3 (US$ 1.37) for bus-    Not available              TransMilenio: COP
                       subway, bus-bus or bus-          bus integration (up to 4                                 1400 (US$ 0,8)
                       subway integration during        vehicles)
                       normal off-peak (up to 4         R$ 3.65 (US$ 2.17) for



                                                                    67
City                Santiago                          Sao Paulo                    Brasilia                   Bogota
                    vehicles/modes), CLP 380          bus-bus integration (up to
                    (US$0.69) early morning or        4 vehicles) and one
                    late in the evening in the        additional trip leg on the
                    subway, and                       rail mode
                    CLP460 (US$ 0,83) for the
                    subway or bus-subway
                    integration during peak (up to
                    4 vehicles/modes)
Period of           2 hours                           2 hours                      The ticket is valid as     The ticket is valid as
validity of the                                                                    long as the user does      long the user does not
integrated fare                                                                    not leave the              leave the TransMilenio
                                                                                   bus/subway                 system
Operating           Substantial operating deficit     In 2007 R$ 392 million       None for bus services,     None
deficit                                               (US$ 233 million) for the    operating subsidies for
                                                      bus system only              subway
Average             8.2 minutes in March 2009         7 minutes                    8 minutes (for main        Public transport system
walking time to     according to the DICTUC                                        municipal bus service)     as a whole: 5.4 minutes
bus                 study, 16 minutes in March
stop/subway         2008 according to the L&D
                    study, and 2.7 blocks in
                    March/April 2009 according
                    to the Collect GfK study,
                    which corresponds to
                    approximately 300 m or
                    about 6 minutes
Average in-         30.2 minutes in March 2009        60-65 minutes                49 minutes (for main       Not available
vehicle time        according to DICTUC study                                      municipal bus service)
                    and 37 minutes in March
                    2008 according to L&D
                    study
Average             6 minutes in March 2009           Not available                68% of users wait more     Public transport system
waiting time        according to DICTUC study                                      than 15 minutes at a bus   as a whole: 8.6 minutes
                    (only 6.4% of the users wait                                   stop (for main             (per vehicle)
                    more than 10 minutes at                                        municipal bus service)
                    stops), and 19 minutes
                    according to L&D study
Data sources        Transantiago-SE, DICTUC           SPTRANS Sao Paulo            Pesquisa Domiciliar        Plan Maestro de
                    study (see footnote 62), L&D                                   Transporte: 2000,          Movilidad para Bogotá
                    study (see footnote 64), and                                   Brasilia: CODEPLAN         D.C. 2005
                    Collect GfK study (see footnote                                2002: Pesquisa de
                    56)                                                            Satisfação do Usuário do
                                                                                   Transporte Público do
                                                                                   Distrito Federal 2007
       *This does not include the 5% average fare increase in February 2009.


       Outlook
       1) Over the last two years the GoCH has made impressive efforts to fix the start-up
       problems and improve the system, which is currently very close to being stabilized.
       Nevertheless, there are still some challenges ahead. The issue of the operating deficit will
       have to be solved. Many of the initial measures, such as the introduction of new services
       or the location of prepayment areas, had to be taken in a hurry to solve the most urgent
       problems. These measures will have to be revisited and fine-tuning is necessary. The
       leadership of Transantiago is currently in the hands of the Transport Minister to whom
       the President provided full powers. However, this is a temporary solution and the creation
       of an autonomous entity to manage the system is an important undertaking. There is a
       need to further cut down on fare evasion in buses and ensure service regularity. The final
       fleet management system will only be ready by the end of 2010, and some of the


                                                                 68
   infrastructure, notably the segregated busways that will reduce travel times and further
   improve the level of service, will only be ready by 2014 or at a later stage. An overview
   on the situation of public transport in Santiago before Transantiago, today and the future
   outlook is given in the table below.

Situation before Transantiago           Current situation                             Outlook
Steady and steep decrease of public     No current data on public transport modal     The ongoing improvements in public transport
transport modal share (83.4% of         share is available but it is likely that it   quality and possible additional measures, such
motorized trips in 1977, 70.5% in       continued to decrease                         as congestion pricing, may stabilize public
1991 and 51.9% in 2001)                                                               transport modal share (or even increase it)
Very fragmented institutional           Committee of Ministers for Urban              The creation of a metropolitan transport
responsibilities for public transport   Transport in Santiago responsible for the     authority is likely (the respective law was sent
in Santiago and a lack of inter-        implementation of Transantiago                to the Congress in May 2007)
institutional coordination              Transantiago-SE, its executive secretary,
                                        with very limited powers and autonomy
                                        and inadequate inter-institutional
                                        coordination
                                        Transport Minister currently with full
                                        powers to stabilize the new system
Competition for passengers in the       Competition for the market                    The introduction of an additional degree of
market (street)                         (competitively tendered concessions)          "controlled" competition, especially for feeder
                                                                                      services, is possible
Only services crossing the city         All bus services concessioned to 5 trunk      Renewal of concessions
center were competitively tendered,     and 9 feeder service providers
while the others were provided in a
situation of free competition
Services provided by about 3,000        Services provided by 10 companies,            Some concentration in this market through
individual operators or small           professional management of bus                acquisitions or re-bidding of concessions is
companies, informality, very strong     operations, dismantling of bus lobby but      possible
bus lobby                               still relative large negotiation power of
                                        each of the companies
Significant overlapping of bus          Rationalized the bus network, reduced         Further reductions in the overall bus-km are
routes and their concentration along    overall bus-km, and less routes passing       likely once the fleet management and the new
the main roads of the city center       through the city center                       segregated busways are in place
(80% of bus routes passed through
the seven main arteries of the city)
Very long bus routes (63 km on          Shorter bus routes (average 32.2 km,
average)                                trunk routes 36 km, feeder routes 18.6
                                        km)
Oversupply of bus services mainly       Improved match between supply and             Further improvements in the match between
during off peak hours                   demand                                        supply and demand are likely
Rapidly increasing bus fares (more      Lower average fares than before the           Fares are expected to increase but without
than 100% between 2000 and 2006)        launch of Transantiago and fare freeze        jeopardizing affordability. It is also likely that
                                        between February 2007 and February            they will be differentiated according to trip
                                        2009                                          segments
No fare evasion (but drivers were       High levels of fare evasion in buses          Fare evasion is expected to be further cut
not handing in all revenues to the      (about 20% in March 2008)                     down with strict enforcement
vehicle owners)
No operating deficit                    Operating deficit                             A stable mechanism to subsidize public
                                                                                      transport operations will be devised
Large and polluting bus fleet           Reduced (more than 1,000 vehicles less)       Bus fleet renewal will be completed by 2010
                                        and renewed bus fleet (about 60% new
                                        vehicles)
High levels of bus-related air          Reduced bus-related emissions and noise       Further emission reductions are expected with
pollution and noise                                                                   the completion of the fleet renewal program,
                                                                                      the use of filters, and the operation of the
                                                                                      additional busways
High number of accidents                Substantially fewer accidents involving       Accidents may further go down when the new
                                        buses (for accident reduction study see       busways are introduced
                                        Annex 7 (a) Safety)



                                                              69
Situation before Transantiago           Current situation                           Outlook
High levels of congestion               High (possible even higher) levels of       Talks about the introduction of congestion
                                        congestion due to increased car             pricing and hence possible decrease in
                                        ownership prompted by the favorable         congestion
                                        economic situation
Heavy bus congestion                    Reduced bus congestion                      With the operation of the final fleet
                                                                                    management system and the new busways bus
                                                                                    related congestion will further decrease
Low commercial speeds of buses          Slight increase in commercial speeds of     Additional increases in commercial speeds
(18 km/hour)                            buses (19 km/hour in April 2008)            with the implementation of the final fleet
                                                                                    management system and the segregated bus
                                                                                    infrastructure
Very ample coverage                     Slightly more ample coverage                Additional adjustment to bus routes may
                                                                                    further improve coverage
Mostly point-to-point services with     Trunk-feeder network completed by point
few transfers (only 17.3% of all        to point services with an increase in the
public transport trips, including the   amount of trips that require transfers
subway, required a transfer)            (from 17.3 to 50%)
No integration between buses and        Full fare integration between buses and     Improvement of operational and physical
with the subway system                  the subways system, still incomplete        integration through the new fleet management
                                        physical and operational integration        system and improved transfer infrastructure
Underutilized subway system             Doubling of the length of the subway        Possible additional extensions of the subway
                                        system (from 46 to 85 km) and its full      system, injection of new trains and
                                        utilization (from 820,000 to 2,300,000      improvement of the current system to improve
                                        passenger per working day)                  service quality
Drivers working 12-15 hours a day,      Regulated working times and conditions,     The provision of some incentives to drivers (a
no regulated working times and          fixed salaries                              variable element), mainly to curb down fare
conditions, informality, wages                                                      evasion and improve service quality to
depending on the number of tickets                                                  passengers, is possible
sold




                                                             70
Annex 9. Policy Areas and Building Blocks of Transantiago


                                                                  Timing for the Implementation of the Building Blocks of Transantiago
                                                                                                              Timing
 Policy areas supported     Planned at                                                                        Real
   and main building        appraisal
 blocks of Transantiago

                                         2005    2006   Launch of        March-      May-        July-     Sept-    Nov-Dec 07    Jan-   March-      May-July 08   August-   Nov 2008       Outlook
                                                        system Feb       April 07    June 07     August    Oct                    Feb    April 08                  October
                                                        07                                       07        07                     08                               08

1. PUBLIC TRANSPORT PRIORITIZATION
Construction of 19 km of By launch                      15.6 km                                                                                                              60 km plus
segregated busways       of system                                                                                                                                           temporary
                                                                                                                                                                             preferential
                                                                                                                                                                             treatment of
                                                                                                                                                                             PT
Construction of 240 km of   After                                                                                                                                                           90 km by 2009
segregated busways          launch of                                                                                                                                                       and 225 km by
                            new system                                                                                                                                                      2014
2. GROSS-COST CONTRACTING OF BUS OPERATIONS
Concessioning of public     2005       Concessioned
transport service provision
to 14 operators
Incumbent owner-            By launch                                                                                                                Incumbent
operators function as       of system                                                                                                                operators
structured companies                                                                                                                                 function as
                                                                                                                                                     structured
                                                                                                                                                     companies
3. PUBLIC TRANSPORT FLEET RENEWAL
Fleet renewed        Gradually   Gradually as planned                                                                                                                                       Expected to be
                     starting in                                                                                                                                                            continued as
                     2005                                                                                                                                                                   planned
4. ROUTE NETWORK REDESIGN
Construction of 2    By launch                                                                                                           1                                                  2 in medium-
intermodal stations  of system                                                                                                           Intermod.                                          term
                                                                                                                                         station
Bus stops and transfer      By launch                   Transfer                                                    All stops
station                     of system                   stations, but                                               available
                                                        limited no. of
                                                        stops
Adequate user information   By launch                   Limited user                                                Acceptable                                                              Continuous
                            of system                   information                                                 user                                                                    improvements
                                                                                                                    information

5600 buses in the street    By launch                   Less than                                                   6000                                                     6400
                            of system                   4000
Fare integration            By launch                   Fare
                            of system                   integration

                                                                                                  71
                                                                  Timing for the Implementation of the Building Blocks of Transantiago
                                                                                                              Timing
 Policy areas supported     Planned at                                                                        Real
   and main building        appraisal
 blocks of Transantiago

                                         2005    2006   Launch of       March-       May-        July-     Sept-      Nov-Dec 07    Jan-    March-         May-July 08    August-   Nov 2008      Outlook
                                                        system Feb      April 07     June 07     August    Oct                      Feb     April 08                      October
                                                        07                                       07        07                       08                                    08

Introduction of redefined   By launch                   Redefined                                                  Adaptation and improvement of network                                          Network
route network (initial 3    of system                   route                                                                                                                                     revision
month-period to fine-tune                               network                                                                                                                                   finalized end of
route network envisaged)                                (initial                                                                                                                                  2009
                                                        problems)

5. FARE COLLECTION SYSTEM CONCESSIONING AND SYSTEM UNIFICATION
Concessioning of the         2005      Concessioned
provision of the fare
system
Use of Smart cards           June 2005                           Use of
                                                                 smart card
Validators in buses          By launch                           Validators
                             of system                           in buses
Differentiated fares for     By launch                                                                                                                                                            Probably in
trunk and feeder services    of system                                                                                                                                                            2009
Software to differentiate    By launch                                                                                                                                              Software
fares for trunk/feeder serv. of system                                                                                                                                              ready**
Software to compensate       By launch                                               Software
operators for passengers     of system                                               ready
carried
Off-board prepayment         Not                                 20-30Prov.                                                                                                         155 Prov.     Final pre-
areas                        envisaged                           Pre-                                                                                                               Pre-payment   payment areas
                                                                 payment                                                                                                            areas         in 2009-10
                                                                 areas
Adequate user information By launch                 Limited user                                                      Acceptable                                                                  Continuous
                             of system              information                                                       user                                                                        improvements
                                                                                                                      information
Fare integration            By launch                   Fare
                            of system                   integration

6. BUS FLEET MGT./CONTROL SYSTEM CONCESSIONING
Fleet mgt. system    By launch                                                                                                                             Provisional                            Final system
functioning          of system                                                                                                                             system ready                           end 2009

Fleet control system    By launch                                                                System
functioning             of system                                                                ready
Concessioning of the    2005      Concessioned
provision of the fleet
control and mgt. system
7. INFORMATION SYSTEM CONCESSIONING




                                                                                                  72
                                                                    Timing for the Implementation of the Building Blocks of Transantiago
                                                                                                                Timing
 Policy areas supported         Planned at                                                                      Real
   and main building            appraisal
 blocks of Transantiago

                                             2005   2006   Launch of      March-       May-        July-     Sept-    Nov-Dec 07    Jan-   March-     May-July 08   August-   Nov 2008   Outlook
                                                           system Feb     April 07     June 07     August    Oct                    Feb    April 08                 October
                                                           07                                      07        07                     08                              08

Provision of adequate user      After the                  Limited user                                               Acceptable                                                         Continuous
information/education           launch of                  information                                                user                                                               improvements
                                system                                                                                information

       Real time user        By launch                                                                                                                                                   Medium-term
        information          of system
8. ASSISTANCE FOR DISPLACED TRANSIT WORKERS
Social mitigation activities 2006 and      Implementation of social mitigation activities
for transport workers        also after
                             launch of
                             system
9. LAND USE PLANNING AND TRANSPORT POLICY COORDINATION
Coordination mechanism       Gradually,                                                                                                                                                  Medium to
for transport and land use   also after                                                                                                                                                  long term
planning in place            launch of
                             system


Grey Blocks indicate triggers




                                                                                                    73
