Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20156- PNG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUrNT OF US$ 7.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
INDEPENDE,NT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR
GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 2, 2000
Energy and Mining Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 5/2/2000)
Currency Unit = Kina
1 Kina = US$ 0.39
US$ 1.00= Kina 2.56
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MMCFD           million cubic feet per day
MMBPD           million barrels per day
MMB             million barrels
TCF             trillion cubic feet
BCF             billion cubic feet
MMCF            million cubic feet
MCF             thousand cubic feet
DPE             Department of Petroleum and Energy
PD              Petroleum Division
PPL             Petroleum Prospecting License
PDL             Petroleum Development License
Vice President                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director               Klaus Rohland
Sector Director                Yoshihiko Sumi
Team Leader                    Salahuddin Khwaja



Papua New Guinea
Gas Developmenit and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective .............................2
1. Project development objective ........................2
2. Key performance indicators ......................2
B Strategic Context .............................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  .2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                 .3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices   .4
C Project Description Summary                                .4
1. Project components                              .4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project      .6
3. Benefits and target population                       .6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                .6
D Project Rationale                                    .8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection        .8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  .9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .10
E Summary Project Analysis .,                                                            11
1. Economic .11
2. Financial .12
3. Technical .12
4. Institutional .12
5. Social .12
6. Environmental assessment .13
7. Participatory approach .13
F Sustainability and Risks .14
1. Sustainability .14
2. Critical Risks .15
3. Possible Controversia,l Aspects .15



G Main Loan Conditions ...................................................                                                            15
1. Effectiveness Conditions ................................................... 15
2. Other ...................................................                                                              15
H  Readiness for Implementation ...................................................                                                  16
I Compliance with Bank Policies ...................................................                                                   17
Annexes
Annex 1:  Project Design Summary .18
Annex 2:  Project Description .19
Annex 3:  Estimated Project Cost .22
Annex 4:  Implementation Planning .24
Attachment 1: Organizational Structure of Implementing Agency ............................................ 37
Attachment 2: Project Implementation Schedule ....................                               ............................... 38
Attachment 3: Implementation Time Tables of Project Activities ............................................ 40
Attachment 4: Processing Steps and Time Tables for Procurement of Goods and Consultants. 54
Attachment 5: Detailed Cost Estimate (US$ 000) without contingencies .................                                ................ 59
Annex 5:               Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ......................................... ....... 63
Attachment 1: Procurement Plan; Skills Upgrading ...............                                           ......                   68
Attachment 2: Procurement Plan; Studies ...................................................                                         73
Attachment 3: Procurement Plan; Promotions ................                                 ................................... 78
Attachment 4: Procurement Plan; Equipment ...................................................                                       83
Attachment 5: Procurement Plan; Institutional Study .................................                           .................. 85
Attachment 6: Procurement Plan; Project Management ...................................... 87
Annex 6:   Project Processing Budget and Schedule .89
Annex 7:  Document in Project File .90
Annex 8:   Statement of Loans and Credits .91
Annex 9:  PNG at a Glance .92
Annex 10: Map .94



Papua New Guinea
Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Date: November 1999                                 Team Leader: Salahuddin Khwaja
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland             Sector Manager/Director: Yoshihiko Sumi
Project ID: PNG 66954                               Sector: Energy
Lending Instrument: Bank Loan                       Theme(s): Institutional Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [ I No
Project Financing Data
[X ] Loan      [] Credit      [] Grant       [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 7.0
Proposed terms:    [] To be defined      [] Multicurrency     [X] Single Currency Fixed Spread
[I Standard Variable   [] Fixed           [X] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):           5
Years to maturity:             20
Commitment fee:            0.85% of the undisbursed amount for the first 4 years and 0.75% thereafter
Service charge:                0.0%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:    1.0%    Capitalized
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ of
Government                                                0.5                                0.5
IBRD                                                                       7.0               7.0
IDA
Other (specify)
Total:                                                    0.5              7 0               7.5
Borrower: Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: Department of Petrol urn and Energy
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Anniual       1.0         1.6          1.7          1.4          1.0         0.3
Cumulative                    2.6          4.3         5.7          6.7          7.0
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: September 30, 2000     Expected closing date: March 31, 2006
Implementing agency: Department of Petroleum and Energy
Contact person: Mr. Paul Tiensten, Director of Petroleum Division, Department of Petroleum and Energy
Address: P. 0. Box No. 1993, Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea
Tel: 675 322 4200             Fax: 675 322 4222             E-mail: Paul Tienstengpetroleum.gov.pg



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project has the objective to build the capacity in the Government for the efficient
management of gas sector development through: a) the strengthening of policy and regulatory
framework to promote investment in gas development; b) formulation and analysis of gas
development schemes; c) promotion of investment opportunities in gas; and d) enhancing of
monitoring and regulation capacity of the Government to ensure optimal gas sector development.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Papua New Guinea (PNG) desires to develop its substantial natural gas resources to achieve
economic and social development. The realization of such resource development and its
continuity over many years will be an indirect indicator of the project's success and impact.
Macro measures of success in gas development will be the annual production volumes and the
investment levels in exploration and development activities.
The project will seek to build the capacity of the Government to manage such gas sector
development efficiently. A necessary outcome of this project will therefore be the Petroleum
Division's capability to plan, promote and manage the economic exploitation of discovered gas
fields, and to encourage the exploration for new fields.
It is anticipated that the program of skills upgrading, studies, promotions and procurement of
necessary equipment will be direct milestone indicators of project implementation and
performance. The successful completion of each component and sub-component will be
measurable by timely procurement, expenditure, and implementation.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see
Annex 1)
Document number: R99-197           Date of latest CAS discussion: December 9, 1999
The overarching CAS goal is to support a concerted effort to reduce poverty and improve the
quality of life of Papua New Guineans. This will involve support in the re-establishment of
economic growth, enhancement of transparency and effectiveness of public sector operations,
investment in human resource and rural development, and strengthening of institutions & policies
to accelerate private investment.
Support in the development of PNG's large natural gas resources is an important element of the
strategy. Gas exports, and domestic utilization, would make significant contribution in stabilizing
the economy over the medium and long-term and would make it more resilient so it could better
resist the effects of economic cycles and external shocks. Enhancing the capacity of the
Petroleum Division to plan and manage the development of the country 's natural gas resources
efficiently is the key objective supported by this Project.
Further, it is part of the vision for PNG that sustainable economic and social development
requires an increasing stakeholder participation. Thus, to improve the capacity of the Government
to manage the gas development involves creating conditions to allow consideration of landowner



Page 3
concerns and facilitate the participation of local communities. The proposed project is expected to
increase the efficiency of PNG resource management and to enhance the collection of fiscal
revenues, as well as, to bring benefits to the communities and people of provinces where gas is to
be extracted, processed and transported.
Fundamentally, PNG is endowed with substantial natural resources which have the capacity to
support the Nation in its economic development. Strategically, PNG may be thought of as being
in the foundation stage of its economic development. It has been cash cropping its natural
resources to date, but has not developed the capacity to save the benefits or invest the benefits of
such resource development. Capital accretion and capital formulation expenditure that may
consistently aid social and economic development need to be fostered. As a consequence of the
long term development of gas resource, the opportunity arises for there to be planned and better
managed use of resource incomes. Such could provide for services to communities and better the
lives of the people of PNG.
Whilst modest in expense and scope, the Bank's involvement in this project may assist in
generating vital income and foreign exchange. It may thus have a highly leveraged effect on the
lives and welfare of many people in the country.
2. Main sector issues and Gcvernment strategy:
Declining oil production, as currently producing fields are depleted, coupled with a period of low
oil prices has reduced Government revenues from tax and participation, and similarly GDP
contributions and foreign exchange earnings. Whilst crude prices have staged a marked global
increase in recent months, the specter of declining oil production and relatively low prices,
remains.
Lack of success in making newv oil discoveries, perceptions about prospectivity, and limited
international exploration budgets have caused a downturn in levels of exploration activity. The
high cost of exploration activities due to limited infrastructure and poor development of local
support industries compounds the difficulty in attracting risk capital.
Access to land to conduct operations has become increasingly difficult on account of landowner
demands for greater benefits arising from the use of their land. Rights with respect to land access
and use need better explanation and understanding. The proper enunciation of law, policy, and
the rights and obligations thereunder of the State, its Licencees, and of the traditional landowners
is therefore vitally necessary. To afford ease of access to land, the Government has previously
amended its policies with regards the sharing of benefits with landowners and has defined these
provisions in the new Oil and Gas Act. Government strategy now is to administer and implement
these provisions with due diligence.
The Government strategy is to maintain the level of National oil production by developing newly
discovered fields thus mitigating production declines of existing producing fields. However, with
the paucity of fields awaiting development this is at best a medium term solution. The gas
resources, currently estimated at 15 trillion cubic feet (TCF) i.e., 2660 million barrels of oil
equivalent, are equivalent to approximately eight times the remaining recoverable oil reserves of
340 million barrels. Therefore, the Government intends to develop the gas resource as a longer-
term solution. The Gas to Queensland project, which is currently being promoted, is an important
first step towards this strategy.



Page 4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Faced with declining oil revenues and dwindling remaining recoverable reserves, the Government
intends to develop the Nation's gas resources. It has chosen to enhance the capacity of the
Petroleum Division (PD) of the Department of Petroleum and Energy (DPE) to help the
Government manage gas development. To achieve this, the Petroleum Division has designed a
project that will entail the development of its expertise in gas resource evaluation, market
assessment, gas processing, gas transportation, gas distribution, and utilization. The project will
additionally enable the upgrading of associated skills in development planning and promotion,
license and agreement administration, economic and policy analysis, development monitoring and
regulation, social impact mitigation, and environmental protection.
A lack of understanding of the relationships between landowners, companies and Government,
and the laws and policies governing such relationships leads to incorrect assumptions about
access rights, resource ownership and benefits arising from sector activities. In enhancing the
Petroleum Division's capacity to manage gas development, this issue will be covered by project
activities, which will include development planning, policy development, legislative development
and awareness programs.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Enhancement of the Petroleum Division's expertise in gas resource evaluation, market
assessment, processing, transportation, distribution, utilization, development planning and
promotion, license and agreement administration, economic and policy analysis, development
monitoring and regulation, as well as to support mitigation of social and environmental impact of
gas resource development. Skills of the 34 professional staff of the Petroleum Division will be
upgraded through a needs-based training program consisting of: i) on-the-job training; ii) short
courses; iv) attachments to industry; v) formal courses; vi) post graduate studies; and vii)
management training which will include project management and execution. Secondees (up to a
maximum of ten) from other departments (Internal Revenue Commission, Office of Environment
and Conservation, Department of Lands an Department of Planning and Implementation) will
also participate in relevant courses and training assignments. The involvement of other
Government Departments and Agencies in selected aspects of the training to be achieved under
this project will promote coherency of policy and understanding of the industry and enable the
Government to manage the sector in a consistent and concerted manner.
Studies to be conducted in-house by the staff of the Petroleum Division under supervision of
outsourced experts as required, covering: a) LPG policy and utilization; b) gas-based industrial
development; c) gas-based power generation opportunities; d) LPG and CNG use in
transportation; e) off-take of gas from export systems for local industrial use; f) opportunities for
gas reticulation; g) gas resource evaluation; h) review of LNG market opportunities; i) gas
pipeline and facility regulation; and j) standards and codes for LPG and natural gas quality,
storage and transport infrastructure, and user equipment.
Promotion of investment opportunities for gas export and domestic utilization involving
presentations, promotional packages, exhibitions, seminars and publications with assistance from
outsourced experts as required. Allied to such promotions will be in-country awareness
campaigns amongst affected communities to make known to people the Government's law and
policies for the sector.



Page 5
Equipment to support the above activities including: computer hardware and software, specialist
publications and applications, audio-visual facilities, and office support equipment, etc.
Institutional Studies to assist jin the development and establishment of alternative arrangements
for the Petroleum Division as an organization to include analysis and preparation for transition of
the Petroleum Division into a Statutory Authority.
Project Management Assistance. Advice and assistance will be provided throughout the course of
project implementation to the Project Management. Such support will be provided by an
outsourced oil and gas expert to ensure efficient, useful, and timely project implementation in
concert with the PD's business of managing the sector development.
Project Costs
1. Enhancement of skills of    Gas             4.468     62.86      4.275    95.68
National professional staff
2. Studies                     Gas             0.750     10.55      0.675    90.0
3. Promotion of investment     Gas             0.450      6.33      0.378    84.0
opportunities
4. Equipment                   Gas             0.800     11.25      0.720    90.0
5. Institutional studies       Gas             0.100       1.41     0.100   100.00
6. Project management          Gas             0.540      7.60      0.540   100.00
assistance
Total       7.108    100.0       6.688    94.09
0
Contingencies       0.415               0.390
Total Project Costs
Interest during construction
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required      7.523                7.078
Financing Plan
Base cost                  _0.4205                         6.6875         7.1080
Contingencies                             0.0246           0.3907         0.4153
Total Cost                                0.4451           7.0782         7.5233
Financing Plan
Govermment of Papua New G'ruinea            0.4451                          0.4451
IBRD                                                         7.0782         7.0782
0.4451          7.0782         7.5233
Rounded to                                  0.5000           7.000          7.5000



Page 6
Of the proposed Bank financing of US$ 7 million, a sum of US$ 0.3 million will be required for
retroactive financing of consultant services. These funds will be used to advance the
commencement of skills development in areas related to the evaluation of the proposals for the
Gas to Queensland Project, associated community and land relation matters, and license,
agreements, and titles management.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Policies for domestic use of gas need to be developed. Areas that will be the subject of policy
development are: LPG use for industry, transport and households; opportunities for CNG use; and
gas for industry and power generation.
Transition of the existing Petroleum Division into a Statutory Authority is intended so that it may
become more financially autonomous and thus be able to enhance the terms of engagement of its
staff. The inability of the Petroleum Division to retain trained and competent professionals
within the Public Service framework may thus be mitigated
3. Benefits and target population:
The population that would benefit directly from the Project are the professional officers of the
Department of Petroleum and Energy and other professional officers when seconded from the
Department of Provincial Affairs and Local Level Government, the Department of Lands, the
Internal Revenue Commission, the Office of Environment and Conservation, and the Department
of Planning and Implementation. These professionals will gain the skills to manage gas sector
development, particularly, the Gas to Queensland Project - a project that has a magnitude greater
than any single investment as yet seen in PNG to date. These skills are essential to ensure that the
State's and the people of PNG's interest are protected and their collective benefits maximized. If
the Gas to Queensland Project does not eventuate, there will be an even greater necessity to build
the expertise of the Petroleum Division to promote and realize other gas development
opportunities.
Moreover, the optimal development of the gas resources will bring benefits to the Nation and the
traditional land-owning communities where gas is to be extracted, processed and transported.
The landowners and local Governments in particular will variously receive royalties, equity
benefits, development levies, infrastructure spending in their areas, business development
schemes and improved services arising from enlarged local revenues streams.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Implementation Period: 5 years.
Implementation Agency: The Department of Petroleum and Energy to have the overall
responsibility for implementation of the proposed project centered on the existing Petroleum
Division.
Institutional setting: The Department of Petroleum and Energy is organized into three Divisions
namely, the Petroleum Division, the Energy Division and the Support Services Division. The
Petroleum Division is responsible for the planning, promotion and management of PNG's
petroleum resource development (actual exploration and development of the resource is carried
out by international oil companies under licenses granted by and agreements with the
Government). With the capacity enhancement received under the ongoing project, the Division
has managed oil resource development effectively which is particularly evident in the assessment
of work programs, approval of development plans, promotion of petroleum potential, evaluation



Page 7
of oil field performance and monitoring of development costs. Also, substantial policy
development and strengthening of policies have been brought about culminating in the
introduction of new comprehensive legislation (Oil & Gas Act of 1998) for the sector.
The Petroleum Division now needs to consolidate its institutional gains and prepare itself for
multiple developments not only of oil, but most significantly gas. The opportunities to utilize gas
domestically are worthy of assessment, and warrant preparation and strengthening of the
institution. The preparations 2or large-scale gas development and the gestation of gas production
necessitate that the Petroleum Division prepares for a step-change in work due to the intricacies
of gas development.
There are schemes and ideas for the Petroleum Division to become an Authority funded by levies
on production, license rents, and fees raised for services pursuant to the Oil and Gas Act. The
development into an Authority could help obtain better staff remunerative benefits that are
otherwise restricted in the Public Service. This could mitigate staff losses and attrition to
industry. There is no negative impact for project implementation were the Division to achieve
Authority status. Transition to a Statutory Authority, however, may not be made a condition of
financing as the process of transition depends on specific legislation being developed and passed
by Parliament.
Project Execution: The proposed project will be executed by the Petroleum Division. The
Division is organized into five: branches (Annex 4) responsible for exploration, engineering,
policy, co-ordination and title management (registry). Each Branch is headed by an Assistant
Director and the Division is headed by the Director.
Under the ongoing project the capacity of the Division to manage petroleum matters as well as
project implementation has been significantly enhanced. The project management has been vested
in the office of the Director. The various aspects of implementation such as procurement,
contracting, cost control and disbursement are reasonably well understood. In the execution of
the proposed project there will, however, be a need to spread the responsibility for project
management. This is on account of the enlargement of the responsibilities of the Director due to
the advent of gas development:. It will also be necessary in order to generate a wider sense of
project ownership amongst middle managers. It will have the effect of training more managers
down the line and will thus est;ablish a more robust organization.
Implementation arrangements in this project will be an order more complex than in the current
Petroleum Exploration and Development TA where a reputable intemational organization was
engaged and available to supply a wide range of services under a Technical Collaboration
Agreement. The needs-based philosophy of this project means that the project implementation
activities will be more burdensome and will require more direct input from the senior staff of the
Petroleum Division.
For the proposed project it is intended that the Director, Petroleum Division will be the Project
Manager. Assistant Directors will support the Director in the enhancement of professional staff
skills in their branches and select committees will assist the Director to oversee procurement,
finance and project performance. These committees will be formed within the Division from
amongst the professional staff and will normally be limited to three senior officers. Additionally,
the Director, as Project Manager, will be supported by Procurement Staff and an Accountant.
Notwithstanding these efforts to promote project ownership and responsibility for
implementation, advice to the Project Management will be necessary for successful project co-
ordination, monitoring and evaluation. Such will include the preparation of detailed



Page 8
implementation plans, scheduling of activities, procurement processing, cost control and
maintenance of project accounts, evaluation of results and preparation of progress reports: all of
which have to be synchronous with PD's business. PD will out-source an expert to advise and
assist the project management in such manner.
The overall methodology of project implementation will involve needs-based on-the-job training
with the provision of responsible sector advice, courses and post graduate prograns, in-house
studies and promotions (see Annex 4).
Procurement Planning: The procurement capability of the Petroleum Division was assessed
during pre-appraisal keeping in view its track record during implementation of the Petroleum
Exploration and Development Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 3670-PNG). Lessons learnt were
matched against the findings of the CPAR. The guidance provided in the OCSPR memorandum
of August 11, 1998 has been utilized in the preparation of the Procurement Capability
Assessment Report of the Petroleum Division.
A procurement sequence has been developed for each generic type of activity involved. Examples
have been worked through to yield a series of schedules that form the body of the procurement
plan agreed with the Bank. (Annex 5).
Financial Reporting and Auditing: The financial reporting and accounting system of the
ongoing Petroleum Exploration and Development Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 3670-PNG)
has been found satisfactory to the Bank (see Annex 4 Financial Management). It will be the basis
for the proposed project financial management system. The Petroleum Division will engage
accounts expertise to assist the project management in keeping project accounts (the accounting
firmn currently responsible for preparation of monthly financial management reports will, likely,
continue its service under the proposed project). A computerized financial management will be
developed to produce Project Management. Reports as required pursuant to Bank's Project
Finance Management Manual. The traditional Statement of Expenditure method will be used for
disbursement. Within one year from effectiveness a review wvill be conducted to deternine the
feasibility of adopting PMR based disbursement. Annual audit of project financial statements,
statements of expenditure and the Special Account will be conducted by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and audit reports will be furnished to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation: The Petroleum Division will furnish the Bank with quarterly
progress reports on all project activities in accordance with Project Finance Management Manual
(see Annex 4 Monitoring and Reporting). A mid-term review will be undertaken about two and
half years after loan effectiveness, which will provide detailed analysis of project implementation,
progress towards achievement of objectives and performance vis-a-vis selected indicators.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Various alternatives to capacity building in the Government are:
Use consultants and contractors for recurrent work.  Very costly.
No continuity or institutional memory.
Employ expatriate officers in line positions.  Costly.
This method abandoned in favor of localization.
Leave Division as it is.                   Insufficient capacity to manage gas development.
Withdraw all Bank support for the Sector  Institutional decay will set in rapidly



Page 9
Clearly with the extent of work to be undertaken for gas development, the Petroleum Division
requires significant enhancement in its skills and capabilities regardless of its prior efforts in
respect of institutional develcpment. The Petroleum Division has a cadre of qualified staff who
need training to develop their full potential to manage gas development.
2. Major related projects fiiianced by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
Implementation   Develpmen
Progress         Objective
(IP)             (DO)
Bank-financed
- Compilation, collation and    Petroleum           S                    S
interpretation of past      Exploration
exploratory data of PNG's   Technical
sedimentary basins          Assistance
- Promotion of PNG's        Project
hydrocarbon prospects to   (Cr.1279-PNG)
attract private investment in
exploration
- Formulation of a frameworki  Petroleum
of regulatory and ownership   Exploration  and      S                    S
policies that would increase    Development
investment in the petroleum    Technical
sector.                     Assistance
-Strengthening of           Project
Government's capacity for    (Loan No. 3670-
comprehensive management   PNG)
of petroleum exploration and
development.
-Upgrading Government's
capacity to gather, process,
analyze and market to
international investors
exploration and development
data on the sector.
-Formulation of standards for
safe storage and transport of
petroleum products.
-Evaluation of the potential
for commercial development
of natural gas reserves.
Other development agencies _ None
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)



Page 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
In implementing this project the Government is building upon its experience variously gained
under the prior two projects. Implementation of the first project, Petroleum Exploration Technical
Assistance Project (Cr. 1279-PNG) was managed and implemented by foreign-based consultants.
The second project, Petroleum Exploration and Development Technical Assistance Project (Ln.
3670-PNG) engaged a prominent international organization who deployed a team of resident
consultants to provide training and advice. In the proposed project, the PD will take on full
responsibility for project implementation and engage expertise only on a needs basis. This would
provide valuable experience for the individual as well as for the Division as a whole in work
programming and planning, identification and outsourcing of expertise, and management of
available resources.
The proposed project contains a Wider assemblage of different mechanisms for skills upgrading
than the previous project. In this project, on-the-job training will be supported with post-graduate
studies, management training, and industry attachments. This will provide the opportunity for
professionals to anneal their experience gained during the tenure of the previous project and
subsequently focus on management of their areas. Industry attachments will be used to gain
valuable external experience for both newer professionals and those who have not had the
opportunity to work in the industry. This formulation of skills upgrading is designed to create
well-rounded professionals. It is timely for the state of development of the Petroleum Division
and for the level of professional advancement achieved so far.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has been progressively examining the development of the country's gas
resources since early 1990s. It has studied the resource, defined policies, studied utilization
schemes, amended legislation and promoted gas resource development which has catalyzed
private sector consideration of investment. Two major gas development schemes have been
muted in recent years: the pipeline transmission of gas to markets in Queensland, Australia - The
Gas to Queensland Project, and the production of LNG for export to Asian markets - The PNG
LNG Project. In early 1998, the Government endorsed these projects in principle pending
formulation of formal proposals from the industry. The former of the two projects is scheduled to
commence front-end engineering in the third quarter of 1999 and is expected to submit its formal
proposals to the Government mid 2000. With this background, the Department of Petroleum and
Energy has correctly recognized the need for the Petroleum Division to gain as much knowledge
and experience of gas matters as possible. The Government realizes that gas development will
provide a significant boost to the economy.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has a long track record in the development of PNG's petroleum sector. The first Bank
funded project, Petroleum Exploration Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1279-PNG), enabled the
gathering of historic exploration information upon which analysis of the petroleum potential of
PNG was made. That potential was globally promoted and resulted in more than USD 1.0 billion
of exploration investment in the ensuing decade during which significant oil and gas discoveries
were made. Production from some of these discoveries subsequently gave rise to Government
revenues in excess of USD 1.0 billion during the period 1992-98. The second Bank funded
project, the Petroleum Exploration and Development Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 3670-
PNG) due to be completed by the end September 2000, brought about the establishment of an
integrated Petroleum Division and skills upgrading to manage exploration and production of oil.
The Bank has supported two TA projects in the sector which laid the ground work for petroleum
development. It is, therefore, in a unique donor position, having a clear understanding of the



Page 11
Division's development needs, sector issues and the Government's aspirations for gas
development and utilization. The Bank is thus well positioned to assist the Government in
preparing for the development of PNG's gas resources through the proposed project. Successful
inauguration of gas development will transform the economy and lay substantial foundations for
economic growth based on the availability of natural gas.
E: Summary Project Analysis:
1. Economic:
Total investment in PNG to develop the Gas to Queensland Project is estimated at US$ 2.5
billion, of which US$ 1.5 billion is necessary for first gas sales (to take place by 2002) and US$
1.0 billion is required to tie-in additional gas reserves from the Hides field (by 2007).
Investments in Australia are estimate around US$ 1.0 billion. Over 30 years, sales of gas, LPG
and condensate, in 1998 dollars, are estimated to account for US$ 14.4 billion, of which the PNG
government take is estimated to be around US$ 3.6 billion.
Such large investments, signiiicant cash flows and potential State revenues will require careful
monitoring and management. The Government is well advised to dedicate both financial and
manpower resources for this purpose. Skills to be upgraded include expertise in gas resource
evaluation, market assessment, economics of gas operations and utilization, strategic
development and planning, license and agreement administration, monitoring and regulation,
social impact mitigation and environmental protection. Studies to be funded by the Project will
provide policy recommendations to ensure that optimal government decisions are taken.
There is no clear-cut methodology for evaluating the economic merits of a TA project that
supports such large natural gas resource development. The difficulty emerges when benefits are
tied to the magnitude of the inputs given. There are a number of catenated outcomes that may
variously measure the cost benefit of this project, but they all have other determinants that may
easily and readily swamp the project outcomes.
The project provides technical assistance and as such does not lend itself easily to quantitative
investment analysis. However, a number of economic indicators can be taken into account and
compared with present sector performance such as volume of hydrocarbon (condensate and gas)
exports, value of such exports, fiscal revenues and investments in sector development.
Certainly, the sector needs strong and technically capable management. That may be achieved by
the outsourcing of expertise, but the cost of such is prohibitive in the long run and eventually not
sustainable nor politically desirable. There will necessarily be a cost benefit to PNG of training
its Nationals in gas matters. IThis may be realized not only through successful implementation of
the project as prepared, but also by the dedication of the individuals that are recipients of the
training. The replacement cost of trained Nationals throughout the industry can only realistically
be measured in hindsight when the petroleum industry in general and the gas sector in particular
is eventually and finally significantly localized at some time in the future.
Cost outcome analysis may be useful, if the project may lay claim to the revenue outcomes from
gas development. As a catalyst for such revenue outcomes, the project may be said to not only be
having cost effectiveness in tlbe overall sector, but also a cost benefit within the wider economy.



Page 12
2. Financial:
The ability of the PNG Government to set adequate tariffs and to collect taxes are essential to
maximize the benefits to be derived from the gas development. Tariffs for pipeline use and for
domestic utilization of gas and LPG need to be carefully and appropriately implemented.
Efforts to improve the current cost reporting procedures for tax collection from crude oil
exploration and development projects need to be enhanced to collect royalties and taxes
effectively also from more complex gas projects. Co-ordination and cooperation already
established with the Internal Revenue Commission must be pursued.
3. Technical:
Understanding of the basic technological choices for the exploitation, processing, transportation
and utilization of natural gas and LPG is a pre-requisite to the formulation and monitoring of
adequate gas regulations.
Efforts to create and/or improve information data-bases, retrieval and sharing systems with other
government agencies and local stakeholders will help in consensus building regarding the
adequate policy decisions.
Further to the activities developed using resources from the project, continued co-operation with
the companies involved in the development of PNG gas reserves will greatly facilitate the
enhancement of technical capacities of the National professionals.
4. Institutional:
Since the commencement in September 1994 of the ongoing Petroleum Exploration and
Development Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 3670-PNG), a total of 15 professionals out of the
approved establishment of 34 of the Petroleum Division have left the Division. Almost all have
taken up more lucrative employment with the industry. Whilst there were some improvement to
staff emoluments, they were not sufficient to stop the attrition, and further improvement is not
likely due to constraints of Public Service pay scales. Conversion of Petroleum Division into a
self-financing Statutory Authority and thus de-linking of the professional staff pay scales from
those in the Public Service could be a means whereby more competitive industry-linked
remunerative packages could be offered.
5. Social:
Oil and gas operations are generally carried out on traditionally owned land. Licensees and
Government have to work closely with local communities to gain access to fields and
infrastructure sites. Whilst compensation is paid as required by law, the communities have, in
accordance with the 1998 Oil and Gas Act, obtained additional benefits in respect to resource
extraction. The existing legislation includes procedures for the allocation of these benefits.
Nevertheless, exact delivery of benefits can often be confused due to uncertainty of land
ownership, perceived or otherwise. Studies and legislative thrusts point to the importance of
social mapping and community involvement to help resolve this matter. Many problems arise
from the lack of clarity and poor understanding of policies and industry operations. Land
ownership patterns may be very complicated in tribally based society and are often poorly
understood by the industry. The Petroleum Division needs to significantly enhance its role in
mitigation of such problems with sound policy and conflict resolution and consensus building
knowledge.



Page 13
6. Environmental assessment:
(a) Issues. This project will help to strengthen the social and environmental monitoring and
evaluation capacity of the Petroleum Division and of the Office of Environment and
Conservation. With the expansion of the petroleum industry into natural gas, there will be
abundant new infrastructure constructed, both onshore and offshore. To be able to advise the
Office of Environment and Conservation, the Petroleum Division needs to gain a better
understanding of industry impacts on the environment.
In the overall management of the gas sector the project will support the Government in continued
improvement of environmental and social assessment, mitigation and monitoring.
On the other hand, in the long term, the use of natural gas as a substitute at consumer end of
petroleum products and coal will have a very positive impact on the local and global
environment.
(b)    Category             []A           [lB          [xI C
(c)    Justification/Rationalle for category rating:  There is no industrial facility to be
constructed, nor a field operation funded under this Project. The activities that are proposed are
essentially technical assistance to the government agencies for managing PNG's gas resources in
an economically, environmentally and socially acceptable manner. Such activities in themselves
have no environmental impact.
(d)    Status of Category A assessment: N/A
(e)    Proposed Actions: N/A
(f)    Status of any other environmental studies: N/A
(g)    Local groups and NGOs consulted (list names): N/A
(h)    (Resettlement): N/A
(i)    Borrower permission to release EA: N/A
7. Participatory approach:
(a). Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The direct beneficiaries of the project will be the professionals of the Department of Petroleum
and Energy and other Government officers when seconded from the Department of Provincial
Affairs and Local Level Development, the Department of Lands, the Intemal Revenue
Commission, the Office of Environment and Conservation, and the Department of Planning and
Implementation. This makes a group of 44 professionals including 10 secondees. When
consulted, this group has expressed a strong support to the project and has provided useful ideas
for implementing the training activities and studies.
(b). Other key stakeholders:
The PNG Chamber of Mines and Petroleum, representing the companies operating in the sector,
has indicated the importance of the Bank assistance to improve the skills and technical capacity
of the Petroleum Division. The Chamber also forecasts that the gas project will be of critical
importance to sustain exploration efforts in the country and for the development of small gas
reserves. It has been advocating modifications to the taxation regime and other regulations
required to increase the attraction of PNG's petroleum sector to private investors.
The Office of Environment ancl Conservation, has positively responded to the idea of sending
secondees to work and be trained at the Petroleum Division as part of the activities funded by the



Page 14
project. The issues to be covered are basically the capacity of the Office to evaluate
environmental assessments of the gas related projects and to monitor compliance with existing
procedures. It is hoped that a more macro view of potential environmental impacts and their
mitigation may be achieved where otherwise minor non-crisis matters tend to be the focus of
attention.
The Department of Provincial Affairs and Local Level Government, the Department of Lands,
and other sector participants which have been consulted expressed a strong interest in the Project
and are all receptive to the strengthening of the Petroleum Division particularly for gas
development. The reactions reflected a desire to work with a more receptive, capable, efficient
and knowledgeable Petroleum Division that is competent with sectoral participants and impacted
communities. The Department of Provincial Affairs and Local Level Government is the central
government agency for the control, monitoring and regulation of Provincial and Local Level
Government conduct and expenditure. It is therefore hoped that an improved understanding of
the devolution of benefits arising from petroleum projects, and gas projects in particular, and their
management may be obtained through collaboration.
Secondments and the involvement of other Government Departments and agencies will also
foster a better understanding of the respective statutory and business roles of such entities. The
improved relationship and better knowledge of respective responsibilities should not only provide
more coherency within the Government as a whole, but facilitate a better framework for investors
and their regulation.
A key aspect of Papua New Guinea's Oil and Gas Act brought into effect earlier this year is the
definition of benefits for communities. For the first time the equity and royalty sharing that the
State has previously adopted as policy is now enshrined in Law. Additionally, the Government
has introduced a new levy, the Development Levy, that is required under the 1995 Organic Law
on Provincial Government and Local Level Government. This levy is paid by the developers
directly to the Provincial Government of the host province of the petroleum production activity.
These provisions have been introduced whilst maintaining tax neutrality with the investors and
are fundamentally a bold effort to spread the benefit of petroleum resource development to the
people, particularly in the resource extraction areas. In this respect Papua New Guinea has been
quite progressive in the development of its legislation. In the area of gas resource development,
the scope of such benefit distribution is now firmly established in Law prior to the
commencement of development activities. Papua New Guineans are keenly interested to
participate in their resource industries. The proposed project will provide the Government with a
strengthened organization that will be capable of not only ensuring sound management of the
sector, but of managing this benefit devolution process.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is expected to make a significant contribution to sustain effective development of
PNG's natural gas resources and with it ensure continued sizeable exchange earnings and fiscal
revenues. It will ensure such benefits continue beyond those generated by the declining crude oil
exports. The improved regulatory framework, the capacity developed in the government agencies
and the right ownership policies are expected to lead to greater investments and government
revenues from the sector.
The sustainability of the benefits derived from the project would be enhanced if likely attrition of
professionals in the Petroleum Division is stemmed. This is expected to be achieved with



Page 15
payment of better salaries and compensation packages once the Division is converted into a
Statutory Authority.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective
1. Staff would remain motivated                 M        Petroleum Division to be converted
into a Statutory Authority to provide
remuneration in line with industry
standard
2. Proper planning and execution skills         M        Project Implementation Plan
upgrading will take place
3. Proper planning & execution of studies will  M        Project Implementation Plan
take place
4. Proper planning & execution of promotions    M
5. Overall project implementation will be       M        Engagement of Project Adviser
coordinated and planned
From Components to Outpuits
1. Timely procurement of gocids and services    M        Establishment of Procurement
Committee, engagement of
procurement staff, and preparation
of Procurement Manual
Overall Risk Rating                             M 
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None apparent.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
Appointment of Project Finarnce Committee to oversee financial management and reporting of
project.
Issuance of a Financial Management System Handbook acceptable to the Bank
2. Other:
Execution
Carry out the project within the Department of Petroleum and Energy at the Petroleum Division
with the Director, Petroleum Division as Project Manager.
Retain the present organizaticonal structure of the Petroleum Division for the duration of project
implementation.



Page 16
Employ and maintain qualified staff in adequate numbers for the Petroleum Division.
Carry out the Institutional Study with regard to the conversion of the Petroleum Division into a
Statutory Authority by January 2001, in accordance with a time table and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank; discuss with the Bank the report arising from the study and duly take the
Bank's comments into account; and take necessary measures to implement the recommendations
of the study which are acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
The Borrower shall present to its Parliament for consideration a bill, containing a proposal,
acceptable to the Bank, for converting the Petroleum Division into a Statutory Authority in
accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Bank.
Additional Event of Default: Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the Petroleum Division shall
not have been converted into a Statutory Authority in accordance with a time schedule acceptable
to the Bank.
Financial Reporting, Monitoring, and Auditing
Maintain and provide the Bank with quarterly progress reports, with unaudited project accounts to
reflect project expenditures and original project cost estimates for the implementation period
using the Bank's project management reporting (PMR) system;
Fumish to the Bank audited statements of the project account, statements of expenditures, and
financial statements within six months of the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, in
accordance with international accounting and audit practices, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank.
Representative of the Borrower
The Minister of Finance and Treasury of the Borrower has been designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
H: Readiness for Implementation
(a) The project implementation, procurement and disbursement arrangements (Annex 4) have
been planned and cleared with the Bank.
(b) The Petroleum Division has defined steps for project commencement (see Annex 4 Project
Launch) and is capable of undertaking these steps in a timely manner.



Page 17
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
Safeguard Policies (check applicable items):
This is a TA project and as mentioned elsewhere no infrastructure development is involved hence
all of the following are not applicable.
Environment Assessment (OD 4.01)                                N/A
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                                N/A
Forestry (OP 4.36)                                              N/A
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       N/A
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   N/A
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    N/A
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30)                              N/A
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)                                        N/A
Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50)                   N/A
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)                            N/A
Business Policies (check applicable items):
Financing of recurrent (OMS 10.02)
Cost sharing above cotntry 3-yr average (OP/BP/GP 6.30)
Retroactive financing above normal limit (OP/GP/BP 12.10)
X    Financial management (OP/BP 10.02)
Involvement of NGO'! (GP 14.70)
Other (provide necessary details)
The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
signature
Team Leader: Salahuddin Khwaja       '
signature
Sector Manager/Dyrector: Yoshihiko Sumi
signature                          S13/u-ir
Country Ma ar/Di ector: Klaus Rohland



Page 18
Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Program Goal:          Sector Indicators:      Sector /Country        (from Goal to Mission)
Economic development   300 million cubic feet of   Reports:           Markets for gas sales and
of the gas resources of    gas per day production  Production and sales    financing for gas
Papua New Guinea to    and sale by 2005        statistics            infrastructure will be
achieve economic and                                                  realized
social development     US$ investment in gas    Investment monitoring
exploration and
development
Gas reserve accretion   Resource analysis
.__ _ _ _ _   studies
Project Development    Outcome / Impact        Project Reports:       (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:             Indicators: Petroleum   Project and Petroleum    That the Petroleum Division
Capacity building of the   Division able to plan,  Division performance    would be a catalyst and
Government to          promote and monitor the   appraisal            proactive promoter of gas
efficiently manage gas    economic development of                     development
sector development     gas resources                                  That the Government efforts
in gas resource development
would make a difference to
the market demand for gas
Output from each       Output Indicators       Project Reports:       (from Outputs to
component:             Two thirds professional    Staff performance   Objective)
Skills Upgrading       staff capable           appraisals             That staff would remain
Studies                Completion of Studies   Study reports          motivated
Promotions             Completion of            available             Proper planning & co-
Equipment              Promotions              In  stor  sns          ordination of studies
Purchase and installation  vesuop re ponse    Proper planning &
=____________________   of equipment:    Equipment usage        execution of promotions
Project                Inputs: (budget for each  Project Reports:     (from Components to
Components/Sub-        Component in US$)                              Outputs)
components:                                    Project reports on     Timely procurement and
30 courses                                     activities and         effective quality control
16 management courses,                         expenditure
16 man-yrs of postgrad         635,000
144 man-mth indsecond          339,000
205 man-mths expertise         847,000
10 studies                     305,000
10 promotions                 2,604,000
10 exhibitions                 790,000
10 seminars                    212,000
10 publications                106,000
Equipment                      53,000
Institutional study            106,000
Project management             847,000
106,000
572,000



Page 19
Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 2: Project Description
By Component:
Project Component 1 -Skills upgrading - US$4.730 million
On-the-Job Training and Advice. Two hundred and five man-months of out-sourced expertise
have been estimated to provide on-the-job training and advice during the course of the project.
Such expertise will be engaged on a need basis. The expertise required has been grouped into
thematic areas as follows.
Resource evaluation                                18
Resource development                               36
Economic and policy, analysis                      55
Planning and promotion                             21
License and agreement administration               12
Monitoring and regulation                          21
Socio-economic impact matters                      18
Environmental protection                           12
Information technology                             12
The engagement of expertise will yield a loading of four experts at any given time to assist the
PD with its program of advancement under this project. The expertise will also be involved,
where appropriate, in the study teams for the conduct of the studies. Terms of reference for
engagement of expertise in these thematic areas will be developed at Branch level under the
supervision of Assistant Directors, and will be approved by the Director. Multi-discipline
expertise will involve several 'Branches. A particular aspect of this project's implementation is
that the professionals will participate in the determination of expertise requirements. This
participatory approach is key to this aspect of project implementation.
Short Courses. Short courses will be selected as needed to supplement on-the-job training and
will generally be incisively chosen to satisfy a work-related needs. Such courses will be selected
from reputable providers both domestically and internationally. It is stressed that these courses
must be to serve immediate or imminent recognized needs for the PD to conduct its work.
Officers in selected disciplines will be required to attend such courses as directed by the Director;
there will be no candidacy
Management Training. In-house courses, local business and administrative courses and
international petroleum management programs will be used. In-house courses will require out-
sourced expertise depending on the focus of the particular course and will generally involve
groups of staff members. Occasional local courses will be used where the course content and
material is relevant. Attendance at such courses will be by nomination approved by the Director.
For international courses candidates will be selected according to the requirements of the
organization and the training needs of the individual, but in all cases selection will be determined
by the Project Manager.



Page 20
Post-Graduate Studies. Candidates will be selected during the course of the project for formal
post-graduate studies, typically, lasting one year. Twelve programs have been planned and
candidacy for these programs is to be by merit upon completion of a period of successful and
productive work as determined by the Project Manager. Programs will include, but not be limited
to geo-science, engineering, economics, law, finance and management. The project will provide
for tuition fees, subsistence, travel as well as books and IT support for selected candidates only.
Accompanying dependants will not be a cost to the project.
Industry Attachments. To gain realistic industry experience the project plans to second officers
directly to operating oil and gas companies who will be invited to participate in such a program.
Attachments will generally be for three months and should involve normal company work in the
particular discipline of the secondee. All costs will be borne by the project in support of the
secondee, but the host company will provide a work environment and supervision. The selection
will be by candidacy and approved by the Director. No accompanying dependants will be
allowed.
Project Component 2 - Studies US$0.790 million
Studies to be conducted in-house by the staff of the Petroleum Division under supervision of
outsourced experts as required, covering: a) LPG policy and utilization; b) gas-based industrial
development; c) gas-based power generation opportunities; d) LPG and CNG use in
transportation; e) off-take of gas from export systems for local industrial use; f) opportunities for
gas reticulation; g) gas resource evaluation; h) review of LNG market opportunities; i) gas
pipeline and facility regulation; and j) standards and codes for LPG and natural gas quality,
storage and transport infrastructure, and user equipment.
Studies will be conducted by in-house study teams with participation of out-sourced expertise
either specifically engaged to assist with the study or otherwise already involved in the skills
upgrading component of the project. It is anticipated that around 37 man-months of specialist
expertise may be need to specifically help with the study teams to complete the designated studies
over and above the expertise available through the training described above.
Project Component 3: Promotions - US$ 0.477 million
Promotions will consist of the design and printing of promotional packages arising from
development planning efforts and studies. Publications, and exhibitions at conferences will be
made to encourage investment. Additionally, seminars, publications and promotional packages
will be used to aid policy awareness amongst PNG communities.
Project Component 4: Institutional Study - US$ 0.106 million
In consultation with the Bank, the project will engage experts to conduct a study and prepare
plans for the development of the PD into a Statutory Authority. In instituting recommended
reforms to the PD, the Government would usefully be assisted by competent non-Government
organizations to ensure transparency.
Project Component 5: Equipment- US$ 0.825 million
Project Component 6: Project Management - US$ 0.572 million
Advice to the Project Management will be required for successful project co-ordination,
monitoring and evaluation. Such will include the preparation of detailed implementation plans,
scheduling of activities, procurement processing, cost control and maintenance of project



Page 21
accounts, evaluation of results and preparation of progress reports: all of which have to be
synchronous with PD's business. PD will out-source an expert to advise and assist the project
management in such manner.



Page 22
Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Skills upgrading                                  0.192          4.276          4.468
Studies                                           0.075          0.675          0.750
Promotions                                        0.072          0.378          0.450
Equipment                                         0.080          0.720          0.800
Institutional Study                               0.000          0.100          0.100
Project Management                                0.000          0.540          0.540
Total Baseline Cost                               0.420          6.688          7.108
Contingencies                                  0.025          0.390          0.415
Total Project Costs          0.445          7.079          7.524
Interest during
construction
Front-end fee
Total Financing              0.445          7.079          7.524
Required
Full details are provided in Attachment 5 ofAnnex 4
_~~~ a
Consultants                                         0.209          3.866         4.075
Training                                            0.074          2.051         2.125
Goods and Services                                  0.162          1.162          1.324
Total Project Costs            0.445          7.079          7.524
Interest during construction
Total Financing Required       0.445          7.079          7.524



Page 23
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
On the basis of the arrangements diiscussed above, the project costs by procurement method would be
as follows:
(in US$ 1000s)
Category    Activity/Subactivity   L.I.B.   N.C.B.   Shopping    N.B.F.    Other   Total
On-the-job training                                     130     2474    2604
Studies                                                  79      714      793
Institutional study                                               106     106
Project Coordination                                             572      572
Consultants                                                          209      3866    4075
_________ _________      (3866)  (3866)
Short course                                             32      603      635
Management training                                       0       339     339
Postgraduate studies                                     42       804     846
Industry attachments                                      0       305     305
Training                                                             74     2051    2125
________________   (2051)   (2051)
Packages                106        53          21        32               212
Exhibitions                                    90        16               106
Seminars                                       45         8                53
Publications              85                             21               106
Promotional                           191        53         156        77               477
Materials                           (191)      (53)       (156)                        (400)
Equipment  Equipment                 318       318         127        85               847
(318)    (318)       (127)                       (762)
7524
Notes.
1.          Amounts include contingencies based on annual costs inflated at 3% per annum
2.          Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank
3.          LIB, NCB, & Shopping cover goods and services to be procured per Bank guidelines
4.          Others covers consultants to be procured per Bank guidelines
5.          NBF means Non-Bank Financed



Page 24
Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Implementation Planning
The project objective is to enhance the Government's capacity for efficient planning and
management of the development and utilization of Papua New Guinea's natural gas resource.
The gas resource is large and represents in excess of US$ 40 billion of National asset value.
Efficient exploitation of gas depends upon appropriate policies, planning, promotion, and
management, and monitoring. Although strengthened by recent efforts, the Petroleum Division
(PD) does not have expertise in gas and related downstream matters. Any organization or
institution involved in gas development needs considerable technical, economic, commercial and
management expertise. The Government could outsource this expertise by engaging contractors,
but such would not be sustainable, nor would it be in the long term National interest. The desired
approach is to develop gas skills in the Petroleum Division of the Department of Petroleum and
Energy. The main objective, therefore, is: capacity building of the Government to efficiently
manage gas sector development.
The project will aim to develop such capacity of the Government to efficiently manage gas sector
development through: a) the strengthening of ownership and regulatory policies; b) formulation
and analysis of gas development schemes; c) promotion of investment opportunities in gas; and d)
enhancing of the monitoring and regulation capability to ensure optimal development.
Specifically, it will entail the enhancement and acquisition of expertise in:
*  gas resource evaluation,
*  market assessment,
*  gas processing,
*  gas transportation,
*  gas distribution,
*  utilization,
and associated skills in;
*  development planning and promotion,
*  license and agreement administration,
*  economic and policy analysis,
*  development monitoring and regulation,
*  social impact mitigation, and
*  environmental protection.
The project will consist of the following major components.
I. Skill acquisition and upgrading through programmed and needs-based: a) on-the-job training;
b) short courses; c) attachments to industry; d) formal courses; e) post graduate studies;
and f) management training.
2. Studies to be conducted in-house by the staff of the PD under supervision of outsourced
experts as required, covering: a) LPG policy and utilization; b) gas-based industrial
development; c) gas-based power generation opportunities; d) LPG and CNG use in



Page 25
transportation; e) off-take of gas from export systems for local industrial use; i)
opportunities for gas reticulation; g) gas resource evaluation; h) review of LNG market
opportunities; i) gas pipeline and facility regulation; and j) standards and codes for LPG and
natural gas quality, storage and transport infrastructure, and user equipment.
3. Promotion of investment cipportunities for gas export and domestic utilization involving
presentations, promotional packages, exhibitions, seminars and publications with assistance
from outsourced expertise as required. Allied to such promotions will be in-country
awareness campaigns amongst affected communities.
4. Equipment to support the above activities including: computer hardware and software,
specialist publications and applications, audio-visual facilities, and office support equipment
etc.
5. Institutional study to assist in the development and establishment of alternative arrangements
for the Petroleum Division as an organization to include analysis and preparation for
transition of the PD into a Statutory Authority.
6. Provision of advice and assistance to the Project Manager on project implementation in the
context of the PD's business.
Proiect Costs
The project costs and the financing plan (assuming that the foreign costs would be funded by the
proposed Bank Loan) are sumrnarized as follows:
Estimated Costs                                  Local        Foreign    Total
a) Skills Upgrading                              0.1930       4.2750     4.4680
b) Studies                                       0.0750       0.6750     0.7500
c) Promotions                                    0.0725       0.3775     0.4500
d) Equipment                                     0.0800       0.7200     0.8000
e) Institutional study                           0            0.1000     0.1000
f) Project Management                            0            0.5400     0.5400
Base cost                                      0.4205       6.6875     7.1080
Contingencies                                  0.0246       0.3907     0.4153
Total Cost                                     0.4451       7.0782     7.5233
Financing Plan
Government of Papua New Guinea                   0.4451                  0.4451
IBRD                                                          7.0782     7.5233
0.4451      7.0782      7.5233
Note: Contingencies based on cost inflated at 3% per annum



Page 26
Implementation Methodology
The overall methodology of project implementation will involve needs-based on-the-job training,
provision of responsible technical advice, attendance of courses and post-graduate programs, and
the conduct of in-house studies and promotions. An institutional study will also be conducted to
ascertain the most efficient and effective way of transformning the PD into a Statutory Authority.
The Project Management will be supported by a project adviser/ coordinator.
Skills upgrading
On-the-Job Training andAdvice. Two hundred and five man-months of out-sourced expertise
have been estimated to provide on-the-job training and advice during the course of the project.
Such expertise will be engaged on a need basis. The expertise required has been grouped into
thematic areas as follows.
Resource evaluation                                                  18
Resource development                                       ..6
Economic and policy analysis                                         55
Plaiming and promotion                           .21
License and agreement administration                                 12
Monitoring and regulation                                            21
Socio-economic impact matters                                        18
Environmental protection                                             12
Information technology                                               12
The engagement of expertise will yield a loading of four experts at any given time to assist the
PD with its program of advancement under this project. The expertise will also be involved,
where appropriate, in the study teams for the conduct of the studies. Termns of reference for
engagement of expertise in these thematic areas will be developed at Branch level under the
supervision of Assistant Directors, and will be approved by the Director. Multi-discipline
expertise will involve several Branches. A particular aspect of this project's implementation is
that the professionals will participate in the determination of expertise requirements. This
participatory approach is key to this aspect of project implementation.
Short Courses. Short courses will be selected as needed to supplement on-the-job training and
will generally be incisively chosen to satisfy a work-related needs. Such courses will be selected
from reputable providers both domestically and internationally. It is stressed that these courses
must be to serve immediate or imminent recognized needs for the PD to conduct its work.
Officers in selected disciplines will be required to attend such courses as directed by the Director;
there will be no candidacy
Management Training. In-house courses, local business and administrative courses and
intemational petroleum management programs will be used. In-house courses will require out-
sourced expertise depending on the focus of the particular course and will generally involve
groups of staff members. Occasional local courses will be used where the course content and
material is relevant. Attendance at such courses will be by nomination approved by the Director.
For intemational courses candidates will be selected according to the requirements of the
organization and the training needs of the individual, but in all cases selection will be determined
by the Project Manager.



Page 27
Post-Graduate Studies. Candidates will be selected during the course of the project for formal
post-graduate studies, typically, lasting one year. Twelve programs have been planned and
candidacy for these programs is to be by merit upon completion of a period of successful and
productive work as determined by the Project Manager. Programs will include, but not be limited
to geo-science, engineering, economics, law, finance and management. The project will provide
for tuition fees, subsistence, travel as well as books and IT support for selected candidates only.
Accompanying dependants will not be a cost to the project.
Industry Attachments. To gain realistic industry experience the project plans to second officers
directly to operating oil and gas companies who will be invited to participate in such a program.
Attachments will generally be for three months and should involve normal company work in the
particular discipline of the secondee. All costs will be borne by the project in support of the
secondee, but the host company will provide a work environment and supervision. The selection
will be by candidacy and approved by the Director. No accompanying dependants will be
allowed.
Studies
Ten studies have been identified which focus on gas resource development, utilization and
associated regulatory issues. Studies will be conducted by in-house study teams with participation
of out-sourced expertise either specifically engaged to assist with the study or otherwise already
involved in the skills upgrading component of the project. It is anticipated that around 37 man-
months of specialist expertise may be need to specifically help with the study teams to complete
the designated studies over and! above the expertise available through the training described
above.
Promotions
Promotions will consist of the design and printing of promotional packages arising from
development planning efforts and studies. Publications, and exhibitions at conferences will be
made to encourage investment. Additionally, seminars, publications and promotional packages
will be used to aid policy awareness amongst PNG communities.
Institutional Study
In consultation with the Bank, ihe project will engage experts to conduct a study and prepare
plans for the development of the PD into a Statutory Authority. In instituting recommended
reforms to the PD, the Government would usefully be assisted by competent non-Government
organizations to ensure transparency.
Project Management
Advice and assistance will be provided throughout the course of project implementation to the
Project Management. Such support will be provided by an outsourced expert to ensure efficient,
useful, and timely project implementation in concert with the PD's business of managing the
sector development.



Page 28
Implementation Planning
Organization
As this is a technical assistance project that has a high component of human resource
development, it is hoped that there will be strong project ownership amongst the staff of the
Petroleum Division. Indeed, it is the staff of the Division that is very much the direct beneficiarv
of much of the proposed project activity. There will therefore be a strong compunction for staff to
exercise their project ownership to better themselves and in doing so strengthen the management
of the gas sector in Papua New Guinea. Responsibilities have been outlined above for the variety
of project activities. As in the ongoing Petroleum Exploration and Development Technical
Assistance Project (Ln. 3670-PNG), close links will be maintained with the Bank's project
supervision team.
To ensure the success of the project, project implementation activities and responsibilities will be
formally distributed between the Director, Assistant Directors, the Procurement Officer and an
array of committees (see Organization in Attachment 1). Whilst the intention is to fully mobilize
the professional capacity that currently exists in the PD to manage the project, there will be the
need for support in this area. Notwithstanding these efforts to promote project ownership and
responsibility for implementation, advice to the Project Management will be necessary for
successful project co-ordination, monitoring and evaluation. Such will include the preparation of
detailed implementation plans, scheduling of activities, procurement processing, cost control and
maintenance of project accounts, evaluation of results and preparation of progress reports: all of
which have to be synchronous with PD business. PD intends to out-source an expert to advise and
assist the project management in these matters.
Aside from the activities based on the components described above, procurement processing,
financial control and audit are recognized as necessary implementation activities. The project
activities and associated responsibilities are detailed below.
Activity: Procurement Processing                 Responsibility
Preparation of terms of reference for expertise and    Assistant Director
specifications for equipment
Preparation of tender/bid documents              Procurement Officer
Tender/bid invitation                           Procurement Officer
Tender/bid evaluation                            Procurement Committee & Director
Contract negotiation & finalization             Procurement Officer & Director
Contract negotiation & finalization             Procurement Officer & Director
Activity: Financial Control and Audit           Responsibility
Project accounts                                Accountant
Intemal audit                                   Finance Committee
Extemal audit                                    Finance Committee & Director
Activity: Skills Upgrading                       Responsibility
Selection of trainee                            Assistant Director
Selection of courses and post graduate programs  Assistant Director
Selection of collaborating company for industry  Director
secondments
Definition of on-the-job training                Assistant Director & Director



Page 29
Arrangements for training and courses (logistics,  Procurement Officer
etc)
Performance evaluation                          Performance Committee & Director
Terms of reference for expertise                Assistant Director
Procurement of expertise                        Procurement Officer
Management of expertise                         Director
Activity: Studies Direction                     Responsibility
Scope definition                                Assistant Director & Director
Terms of reference of study                     Assistant Director
Terms of reference for expertise                Assistant Director
Procurement of expertise                        Procurement Officer
Management of expertise                         Director
Management of study                             Assistant Director
Assessment and review                           Director
Activity: Promotions Co-ordination              Responsibility
Definition and identification                   Assistant Director
Approval of promotional unclertaking            Director
Planning                                        Assistant Director
Procurement of expertise, conference packages,  Procurement Officer
materials, etc
Activity: Euipment Procurement                  Responsibility
Identification and specificatio                 Assistant Director
Approval                                        Director
Procurement processing                          Procurement Officer
Schedule
The overall project implementation schedule is defined in Attachment 2. Generic implementation
schedules for each thematic area developed in Attachment 3. These provide the detail for any
given thematic area. Procurement processing schedules are provided in Attachment 4. Emerging
from these schedules are expenditure estimate schedules which is given in Attachment 5. The
Project Adviser will be engaged from the outset of the project and is planned to remain with the
project throughout implementation.
The schedules for each activity define sequential implementation steps. Each step has been
analyzed in the light of the PD's procurement and implementation capacity, dependence on other
agencies for processes and approvals, and necessary periods for maintaining transparency. It must
be noted that some activities have significant lead times and will require initial implementation
steps well in advance of scheduled activity. For the project to be successfully launched the PD
needs to commence some precursory implementation steps. Advantage should be taken of the
presence of experts for on-the-job training to assist in the gestation of other activities such as
development of the terms of reference of the studies. However, such deployment of the expertise
should be limited to advice on such matters with the conduct of implementation steps to be
carried out by the National professional staff. Adherence to the schedules developed should
provide for orderly implementation and departures from schedules should be the focus of
remedial planning and action.
The PD has a professional staff of 34 who will be available during the five year implementation
period of the project. Total professional manpower availability will thus be 170 man-years. The



Page 30
project contains a variety of skills upgrading mechanisms; amongst these short courses,
management training, post-graduate studies and industries attachments which will commit 30
man-years (17.6%) of professional staff time. This leaves 140 man-years of professional staff
time for on-the-job training in the course of performance of their duties and the conduct of studies
and promotions. It is considered that the proportion of formal training determined above is a
reasonable allocation of time for training away from duties. Any detraction that this may have
from the focus of duties will more than adequately be compensated for by the advice and
assistance obtained through on-job-training.
Skills upgrading through on-the-job training will require 205 man-months of expertise. This
represents 17.1 man-years of expertise against professional staff availability of 140 man-years; an
overall ratio of 8.24 professional staff per expert and an overall expert availability of 3.4 experts
at any given time. Given PD's experience with the volume of recurrent work and studies
committed to in the proposed project together with PD's present level of expertise, these ratios
are considered to be satisfactory. Comparable ratios for the technical collaboration under the
ongoing Petroleum Exploration and Development Technical Assistance Project have been 5.6
professional staff per expert and overall expert availability of 5.3.
Thirty short courses have been scheduled throughout the implementation period whilst 16
management training has been distributed over the first four years. Post graduate studies will
commence as soon as possible and will synchronize with academic years; a total of 12 post-
graduate programs will be undertaken. Five batches of three to four professionals will be
dispatched for each year of implementation to reputable universities and colleges providing
courses and programs in relevant disciplines. In preparation for these courses, PD has
commenced selection and nominations procedures to enable the first batch to commence studies
as soon as possible after loan effectiveness.
Forty-eight attachments of professional staff to the petroleum industry, each of 3 months
duration, are planned. At any one time, 2.4 staff will be away from the PD on attachment. These
attachments will be conducted throughout the implementation period. The first batch of trainees
will be sent as soon as possible after the loan effectiveness, following which there will be a short
assessment period before further attachments are made.
The ten studies and their duration and timing have been scheduled in accordance with the likely
emergence of the gas industry in the PNG economy. The LNG market review has been broken
into two component studies so that an updated of present market understandings may be made
early on in the project and a final before the end of the project. Related studies such as Gas-based
Power Generation, Gas-based Industrial Development and Gas off-take for Local Industry have
been timed to coincide. The LPG Policy & Utilization and the Gas Pipeline & Facility Regulation
studies have been scheduled early in project implementation on account of the impending gas
development, i.e. Gas to Queensland Project. Seminars related to study findings have been
scheduled accordingly after study completion. A total of ten seminars will be given. Publications
have been programmed throughout the last four year of implementation; presently four maj or
publications are envisaged. Ten exhibition presentations will be made allied to which ten
promotion packages will be generated. Schedules for these activities define preparation times of
two to three months.
An institutional study will be conducted in the first year of project implementation to examine the
possibilities of the PD developing into a Statutory Authority. Whilst the study itself is expected
to take approximately 4 months, there is significant planning and preparation to be undertaken to
ensure that a timely and useful study eventuates. Consultation with the Bank throughout then
process will be required and wherever possible there should be non-involved input into the



Page 31
determination and findings of the study contractor. The contractor should have no interest in
Papua New Guinea and should be selected without any suggestion as to the outcome and findings
of the study.
Further details of this study are given below in an action plan for the study:



Page 32
ACTION PLAN FOR RELVIEW OF INTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS & PREPARATION FOR
MAKING OF A STATUTORY AUTHORITY
Actions             Action by              Dateline month
Appointment of DPE task team   Secretary DPE          End February 2000
Preparation of terms of reference   Task team w/Adviser    Mid March 2000
Approval of Terms of reference    Bank                End March 2000
Advertisement                  Project Manager        Early April 2000
Receipt of expressions of interest  Task team/Adviser  April 2000
Shortlist of consultant        Task team              Early May 2000
Selection of Consultants       Task team and project    Mid May 2000
manager
NOL from Bank                  Bank                   End June 2000
Contract Award                 State                  August 2000
Mobilization of Consultant     Consultant             September 2000
Conduct of study               Consultant             October 2000-January
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 2 0 0 1
Bank review of study           Bank                   February 2001
Submission of findings to NEC  DPE & Task team        April 2001
Preparation of Legislation     DPE with Legislative   May 2001
Counsel
Endorsement of draft legislation    NEC               June 2001
Bill presented to Parliament   Minister for Public    August 2001
Service
Expected date of conversion                           January 2003
Project Financial Manazement
A recent review of the financial management system of PD was made by a Bank during the
course of CPPR of October 1999. Based upon this review, the pre-appraisal mission for this
project made a further assessment, in November 1999, of the PD's financial management system
particularly with regard to the PD's capacity to produce project management reports (PMRs).
These reports are referenced in Annex 4 of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).
PD's proposal to continue to outsource the accounting functions obviates any concern as to
whether financial management system will be able to produce PMRs. Given that this is a small
technical assistance project with a relatively low volume of final transactions, this approach is
deemed appropriate. However, feasibility of adopting the Project Financial Management System
to the PMR-based disbursement method will be reviewed by end September, 2001.
Other matters raised in the review and assessment were: the establishment of a project finance
committee, the compilation of a financial management handbook, and further use of IT systems.
A project finance committee comprised of senior PD staff will have responsibility for the
compilation of project accounts and overseeing project financial management and reporting. The
PD will compile, by the effectiveness of the loan, a project financial management handbook
which will reference applicable Bank and Government financial procedures for project
implementation providing clearly mapped guidelines. The PD has a well developed IT system,
and will purchase a suitable PC-based accounting package. Under the Loan Agreement of the
ongoing Petroleum TA Project (Ln. 3670-PNG), the Borrower is required to have the project



Page 33
financial statements audited foi each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and make such audited statements available to the Bank within six moths after the end of each
fiscal year. These arrangements has been satisfactorily followed under the ongoing project and
are planned to be maintained under the proposed project.
Financial Management Actionz Plan
I
The following action plan has been agreed with PD for the financial management of the project.
Actions to be taken                 Responsible Group        Completed By
I. Organization and Staffing
a. Establishment of PD                     GOPNG          Established under ongoing
project.
b. Appointment of Project                 GOPNG           Appointed under ongoing
Manager                                                   project
c. Appointment of Project Finance         GOPNG           Effectiveness
Committee to oversee financial
management and reporting of the project.
II. Accounting System and Procedures
a. Establishment of computerized Project  GOPNG           December 31, 2000
Financial Management System acceptable
to the Bank
b. Issuance of a Financial Management     GOPNG           Effectiveness
System Handbook acceptable to the Bank
Reportin2 and Monitoring
Project Progress Reports
The project will be using the project management reporting (PMR) system to monitor progress in
the physical implementation of the project and to monitor the project's budgetary and financial
status. The following quarterly reports will therefore be produced: a Financial Report; Project
Progress Report; and Procurement Management Report. As the project is a small technical
assistance project with no major goods or works procurement, the cash model of PMR reporting
(in accordance with the Project Financial Management Manual [PFMM]) will be used. The
reporting formats which are specified in the PFMM will be used: (Cash Model Reports IA, 1B,
ID, IE,lFI, 1F2, 2A, 2B, 3A, 3B, 3C and 3D as required). Production of these quarterly reports
will commence from the end of the first quarter following the date of loan effectiveness.
Whilst the Financial Report and the Procurement Management Report have clearly recognized
input data, the Project Progress Report requires the use of output data to measure development
effectiveness. As the project's implementation will be through skills upgrading, studies, and
promotion of the sector, the broad output indicators have been defined in the project design as:
the proportion of professional staff attaining full capability, the completion of studies, the
completion of promotions; and the purchase and installation of equipment. For the purpose of the
Simplified Model Report 2B, the following have been selected as output indicators:



Page 34
ACTIVITY                            PMR UNIT                  PLANNED OUTPUT
On-the-Job Training                 Man-years of training             70
Short Courses                       Course                            30
Management Training                 Course                            16
Post Graduate Studies               Study years                        16
Industry Attachments                 3 man-month attachment           48
Studies                             Study                              10
Promotional Packages                Package                            10
Exhibitions                         Exhibition                         10
Seminars                            Seminars                          10
Publications                        Publications                      4
Institutional Study                  Study                             1
Equipment acquisition               US $ spent                        800,000
All of the above activities are readily measurable except for on-the-job training and equipment.
In determining, the appropriate PMR unit to measure the output of the on-the-job training
activity, regard was given to the availability of professional staff and experts' time as inputs. As
discussed above in the section on Schedule, on-the-job training will be provided through the
provision of 205 man-months of expertise for 34 professional staff over a period of five years.
After taking into account the professional staff time that would be devoted to other skills
upgrading activities, 140 man years of staff time would be available, of which 70 man-years is
estimated to be required for the performance of regular duties. This leaves the balance 70 man-
years for interaction with the expertise through on-the-job training. These indicators may serve
as a reliable link to costs of the implementation activities.
With regard to equipment acquisition, due to the wide variety of support equipment that the PD
intends to procure to support the project activities, it is not feasible to define a PMR unit.
Equipment that is envisaged comprises: books, industry reports and journals to support studies,
exhibition, seminar and promotional materials, computer hardware and software, office
equipment, etc. The activity in this case is the acquisition of equipment, which due to its variety is
not readily measurable per unit acquisition. Therefore, the output measure for this activity is by
value only.
Development impact
Whilst the above has described the output measures or indicators that will be used for PMR
reporting, indicators that measure the project's performance to project objectives are as follows:
Sector indicators
* Quantity of gas produced and sold per day
* Value of investment in gas exploration and development
* Volume of gas reserves
These indicators will ultimately measure the sector performance. It is not possible to provide
numbers at this stage as gas development has not yet commenced.



Page 35
Project indicators
* PD able to plan, promote and monitor the economic development of gas resources
It is expected that at the end of the project two-third of the professional staff will have the
capability to conduct the business of the PD in respect of gas development It is the PD's
experience, however, that further indicators of both institutional and professional development
will emerge during the course of project implementation. This will be the case especially where
the sector is growing in complexity (e.g. the policy formulation initiatives undertaken under the
Petroleum Exploration and Development Technical Assistance Project - which became useful
development effectiveness measures).
Outcomes in the longer term, over and above the project outputs, that may contribute to
development effectiveness are: development of the PD into an independent and autonomous
Government Authority; increased environmental awareness, eventual reduction of dependence on
bio-mass fuels, and improved economic analytical capacity leading to optimization of benefits
from gas development. These may not be measurable against input costs and activities, but may
represent sector development -milestones with, or otherwise subsequent to, implementation.
Proiect Launch
In order to optimize project implementation, the PD needs to be prepared for project
commencement. This will involve: establishing the organization, procedure/guidelines, financial
preparations and procurement processing as well as training in financial management and
procurement processing well head of loan effectiveness. These requirements have already been
identified in this Implementation Plan and are summarized as follows:
PREPARATORY ACTIONS                       APPROXIMATE TIMING
Organizational
Establish Procurement Committee           Six months prior to loan effectiveness
Establish Finance Committee               Six months prior to loan effectiveness
Engage procurement staff                  Three months prior to loan effectiveness
Engage accountant                         Three months prior to loan effectiveness
Procedural
Prepare Financial Management Handbook     By end June 2000
Prepare Procurement Manual                By end March 2000
Prepare PMR reporting forms               By end June 2000
Training
Procurement Processes                     In February 2000
Financial Management                      In March 2000
Disbursement Processes                    In April 2000
Accounting and Reporting Systems           n May 2000
Audit Requirements                         n June 2000



Page 36
Financial Preparation
Obtain Trust Authority for bank accounts    Two months prior to loan effectiveness
Open project bank accounts                  One month prior to loan effectiveness
Prepare accounting system                   Three months Priori to loan effectiveness
Preparations for Procurement: Year 1
Activities
Commencement of precursory steps per
implementation schedules)
On-the-job training                         Six months before loan effectiveness
Short courses including management training  Before loan effectiveness
Postgraduate studies                        One mear before effectiveness
Industry attachments                        Four months before loan effectiveness
LPG Policy and Utilization Study            Three month after loan effectiveness
Gas Pireline and Facilit a Reyulation Studm  Before loan effectiveness
Promotional Packages                         One month after loan effectiveness
Exhibitions                                  Before loan effectiveness
Seminars                                    Two months arter loan effectiveness
SEquipment Acquisition                       Four months before effectiveness
IInstitutional Study                         Trwo months before effectiveness 
Supervision
This project involves appreciably more management effort than the ongoing Petroleum
Exploration and Development Technical Assistance Project, as there is no plan to provide a single
t.echnical collaborator to plan and manage a variety of project activities. It will, therefore, require
closer monitoring and supervision involving increased communication between the Bank's
Snupervision Task Team and the PD's Project Management, a project launch mission, two field
supervision missions per year as well as a fullI-fledged implementation review mid way through
the implementation. The skill mix of the Supervision Task Team at the Bank Headquarters should
be the same as that for the Project Preparation Team. The timing, duration in weeks, and skill
mix of the field supervision missions should be along the following lines.



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Implementation Planning
Attachment 1: Organizational Structure of Implementing Agency
I        Secretarv
Dept of Petroleum & Energy
Joseph Gabut
Deputy Secretary                                                                
Dept of Petroleum and Energy -
Bernard Pawih
x  E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
,~~~~~~~ .                                             ,    , 



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 2: Implementation Schedule (Page I of 2)
Implementation Year 1_     _1
Implementation Quarter        _                               2 4_                                 4            2     _     4      _     2     _      4
Skills Upgrading
On-the-Job Training
Short Courses
Management Training
Post Graduate Studies
Industry Attachments                       =_1=
LPG Policy & Utilization
Gas-based Industrial Development
Gas-based Power Generation
LPG & CNG in Transport
Gas Offtake for Local Industry
Opportunities for Gas Reticulation
Standards for Natural Gas & LPG   _
Quality, Storage, Transportation,H I
,User Equipment



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 2: Implementation Schedule (Page 2 of 2)
I mpl                                                 eme nta tio n  Year    _a_  - ; . ................... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ....................  . .......... ..........  _......... _   .......... . .........    ... ..    .....    ........ .     ....  ..    .   .
Implemnentation Quarter           _         2              4  2_4
Studies (continued)                                                                                                                                                  I  J _     H
LNG Market Review
Gas Pipeline & Facility Regulation
Petroleum Resource Evaluation
Promotions                                                                                                                                                            I _|
Promotional Packages
Exhibitions
Seminars                                          |           J         11         11                       LIIIIIIJ              II        *    IIIIII              IIIII                          t
Publications
Equipment
Acquistion & installation
Institutional
Institutional Study                                                                                                                                             I         I
Project Management
|Project Adviser



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 3: Implementation Time Table of Project Activities
Activity: Skills Upgrading: On-the-Job Training (Page 1 of 2)
Implementation Quarter
Implementation Steps                                               TIME REQUIRED
Identify area for skills development   _    LIIIL1_
Develop scope of skills required      _                    L         i___=
Identify tasks involved                       _                      _                                                           =
Identify expertise required _
Prepare cost estimate & budget         _       __=               -=_                             ==             -                -
Prepare TOR for tasks involved        _          _ _          ____--
Prepare TOR for expertise required          _                      __                  ______
Procure consultants                              -                              -
Process visas                        r                _       X  T                                      _



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 3: Implementation Time Table of Project Activities
Activity: Skills Upgrading: On-the-Job Training (Page 2 of 2)
Implementation Quarter
Implementation Steps                                            TIME REQUIRED
Mobilize consultant                                         _                                                          .
Commence training                                                                    _  _          X     t               l
Process contract payments              =                              _      _       _  _
Review progress                                                                      _  _            - _  _
Monitor Quality-                                                                             ----
Prepare completion report                                                                                             _
Management review & comments           =       =      =       =       =



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 3: Implementation Time Table of Project Activities
Activity: Skills Upgrading: Short Courses, including Management Training (off-the-shelf) (Page 1 of 1)
Implementation Quarter
Implementation Steps                                                  TIME REQUIRED
Identify area for skills development  _
Identify attendees                    _                                      .
Develop scope of skills required        =
Identify courses required                 .
Identify providers                         _                              _                                                    _
Determine timing and location          _ .____
Select course                        __       _                                                                                    _
Prepare cost estimate & budget                  _
Execute contract                                    _
Deliver course                                        ...
Evaluate skills developed                                 -                                              ___



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 3: Implementation Time Table of Project Activities
Activity: Skills Upgrading: Post Graduate Courses (Page I of 1)
Implementation Quarter
Implementation Steps        |                                         TIME REQUIRED
Identify area for skills development     _                                 _        _          _ _____
Identify and select eligible candidate                i
Seek place at reputable college                    -
Estimate cost & formulate budget                              _
Obtain Management approval of budget                           _                                                          _   __e
Prepare for studies (TOEFL/GRE, etc)                                                                                                              4 A
Obtain acceptance                                                                   L                                     .
Finalize cost and budget                                                                    ___
Obtain visas and other clearances                                                                     _     . . .
Plan travel and finance arrangements                                                     _                      _
Commence post-graduate study                                                                             _                   -
 .



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 3: Implementation Time Table of Project Activities
Activity: Skills Upgrading: Industry Attachments (Page I of 1)
Implementation Quarter                  _
Implementsation Steps                                               TIME REQUIRED
Identify area for skills development                                  l      T       l       l       l_l_l_l
Identify and select eligible candidate  _
Arrange attachment with a company           _            -
Estimate cost & formulate budget                            _
Obtain Management approval of budget                   X       _                                                                   ___
CD
Obtain visas and other clearances                                __                                  _                                        A
Plan travel and finance arrangements
Commence attachment                                                              -        _
Report on attachment                                                               _                          ___



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 3: Implementation Time Table of Project Activities
Activity: Studies (Page 1 of 2)
Implementation Quarter
Implmentation Steps                                                   TIME REQUIRED
Appoint study team                    _
Identify inputs required
Procure consulants as required                                                                             _                          .
Research topic for study
Determine scope of study
Develop terms of reference                                                                                                                            . .  _  .  v
Identify support services required                                                                 _      .
Develop study schedule                                                                  .
Prepare cost estimate and budget                                                                                   _
- - -   -       -~. -



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 3: Implementation Time Table of Project Activities
Activity: Studies (Page 2 of 2)
Implmentation Steps                                                   TIME REQUIRED
Commence study                                                                                           study
________     ________    ________      _______         period
Process any contract payments                                                 _                          varying                   __.
from
Study visits                                                            _                _               six to   '                _
twelve
Review progess & monitor quality               _                                                         months  *
Produce report                                                                                .
Management evaluation of report_                                _ _  _                                                 _  _



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 3: Implementation Time Table of Project Activities
Activity: Promotions: Promotional Package (Page 1 of 1)
Implementation Quarter                                                                                                       |
Implementation Steps                                                TIME REQUIRED
Identify topic for promotion                                                                         l       l       l       l
Select promotional team                _                                             _l
|Devop sOPe S content of promotion  I          t     I       I       I       I       I       I                              _
Select promotion media                                                ___
Prepare cost estimate & budget              _                                                                                                m
Procure support services     =                _      =  = - = =_=_=_=_
Produce promotional packages                                                                                          .
Assemble packages                                                                             _
Formulate distribution mechanism                     _        _
Distribute                                                              _      _
Obtain feedback                                                                    _                       _    __



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 3: Implementation Time Table of Project Activities
Activity: Promotions: Exhibitions (Page I of 1)
Implementation Quarter                                                                          _
Implementation Steps                                                       TIME REQUIRED
Identify topic for exhibition
Select exhibition presenters                   -
Define audience                                  _
Develop scope & content of exhibition                _
Select venue (conference)         l__ _                       _        ____X
Prepare cost estimate & budget                =_                 =                                          =                         ==
Procure support services                                    _                     =__         _                                  .___
Produce exhibition materials                                     _       _           .              _
Assemble materials and conduct trial
Make travel and exhibition arrangements        =        =        =                      _       = = =       =       =        =_=_=
Exhibit .
Follow contacts & pursue enquiries                                                           _ _____



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 3: Implementation Time Table of Project Activities
Activity: Promotions: Seminars (Page I of 1)
Implementation Quarter
Implementation Steps                                                  TIME REQUIRED
Identify topic for seminar             _
Select team to organize seminar         .                                                                                     _
taentity seminar ieader ana speakers  _
Develop scope & content of seminar          _
Invite seminar attendees
Select time and venue                       Q_                                                  _ _                                                tr
Define support materials and services                                    .
Prepare cost estimate & budget                                                         _                                      _
Prepare seminar papers
Hold seminar                                      -
Record proceedings & distribute                 _
Obtain feedback on seminar



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 3: Implementation Time Table of Project Activities
Activity: Promotions: Publications (Page I of 1)
implementation Quarter
Implementation Steps                                               TIME REQUIRED
Select (& prepare) item for publication    _
Select publication team              -                                                .       _
Define readership                   _____
Select method of publication               _
Plan publication                            _                                                                _
Prepare text for publication                  _                                       _  _ _                                                 e_
Prepare cost estimate & budget              _
Secure printing/publication services  _                                                                                         _
Print and publish                   ___                     _.____
Distribute



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 3: Implementation Time Table of Project Activities
Activity: Equipment (Page I of 1)
Implementation Quarter
Implementation Steps                                              TIME REQUIRED
Identify equipment required
Prepare specifications             K     _ _ _ _ _ I T                     T IT         Il_l_ _ _i
Prepare cost estimate and budget    _
Procure equipment                   _  .             -
Install equipment                       l _       _                                               _        ____X_C_
----E



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 3: Implementation Time Table of Project Activities
Activity: Institutional Study (Page I of 1)
Implementation Quarter
Implmentation Steps                                                  TIME REQUIRED
Appoint study management team           _                                                                 .
Identify support services required        _                             _                           _                 _
Procure consultants as required     _              m
Prepare data (files, copies of laws, etc)                _       _                                                ___
Determine scope of study                     _                          _                 _
Develop study terms of reference           =    _    __=_                                   _  _   _                    _            - __
Develop study schedule                                                                          ___               _
Undertake study                                                                                       _                              . -
Process any contract payments                         ___                                             _   _   _   _ -    L  _
Review progess & monitor quality         ______          __ _  _ _ _
Produce report                                                                                                         __
Define further management actions



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 3: Implementation Time Table of Project Activities
Activity: Project Management (Page I of 1)
..  ....                                .. .     ............ . . .........................................  ............... ..
Implementation Quarter
Implementation Steps                                                           TIME REQUIRED
Develop scope of advice & assistance                     _
Identify expertise required                   _
Prepare cost estimate & budget                                                   l        l                  lll                        
Prepare TOR for expertise required                 a __|_T1__
Procure expertise                                 _       -                                   -
Process visa
Mobilize expertise
Commence project support                        _        _
Process contract payments                               __ __.   _  ._                                                 .  _      ,   _ M O



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 4: Procurement of Consultants (Page 1 of 2)
Implementation Quarter                    _
Processing steps                                                   TIME REQUIRED
Preparation specific to thematic activity  .     *                                                _        _       _      -|    l   
Obtain Bank's clearance of TOR          __
Prepare cost extimate of expertise            _
Prepare advertisement                        _
Advertise for expertise                  ___             _
Receive expressions of interest                         ,                                                 _                                       .
Prepare short list of consultants       _        _       __ ___                                                      _
Obtain Bank's clearance of short list                     _
Prepare Letter of Invitation                    _
Prepare Information to Consultants               _
Draft proposed contract                          _ ____



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 4: Procurement of Consultants (Page 2 of 2)
Processing steps                                                   TIME REQUIRED
Obtain Bank's clearance of documents                  _
Invite formal proposals                 _          =      ___=___________
Receive proposals                                        ___
s-a_ _.s.t .st.zf  _a Ljv
Evaluate financial proposals
Final evaluation of quality and cost                                                                                            _ _
Obtain Bank's clearance of evaluation       _
Negotiate contract                                                          -
Obtain legal clearance                  _____                ____
Execute Contract                                              _
Send signed contract to Bank                                           .



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 4: Procurement of Goods and Services (Page I of 3)
Implementation Quarter                     _
Processing steps                                                      TIME REQUIRED
Identify goods or service required        _
Prepare specifications
Prepare initial cost estimate                _
Identify relevant procurement process        _
~~~~~~~~~~_                              _ _                   _ _ _ _ _    m  e    _ _ __                           _ _ _  
Prepare short list of potential suppliers                           _       _       _   _             _.             _ _
Obtain Bank's clearance of short list
Prepare bid documents & draft contract           _
Obtain Bank's clearance
Invite bids
Receive bids



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 4: Procurement of Goods and Services (Page 2 of 3)
Evaluate bids & select supplier                                _ .
Obtain Bank's clearance
Obtain legal clearance                                                            _
Execute contract
Send signed contract to the Bank                                        . ._.                             __.
Prepare bid documents & draft contract       _    _
Obtain Bank's clearance
Advertise to invite bids                   _      _         _
Receive bids                                            _                                               .
Evaluate bids & select supplier                  _       .
Obtain Bank's clearance                                        _



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 4: Procurement of Goods and Services (Page 3 of 3)
Processing steps                                                  TIME REQUIRED
Obtain legal clearance                    =       =     _         =       =       _       =_=_=-                         =_
Execute contract                                                  _                     .
Send signed contract to the Bank                                  _                    _
Prepare request for quotations              _                                          . _
Solicit quotations                                   _                                                                                       00
Evaluate quotations & select suppliers        _                                                                   . .
Issue acceptance lefter                         _



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 5: Detailed Cost Estimate (US $ 000) without contingencies (Page I of 4)
ACTIVITY/INPUT                         NO. UNIT            UNIT  YEAR 1  YEAR 2  YEAR 3  YEAR 4 YEAR 5  LOCAL  FOREIGN   TOTAL
DESCRIPTION                                                COST TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL COST   COST  COST    COST
On-the-job training                     205 man-months          12      412       590       508      508       442       123        2337      2460
Short courses                            30 2 week course      10        80       140       160      120        100       30          570      600
Management training                      16 2 week course      10        40        80       10Q       100                  0          320      320
Postgraduate studies                      16 study years       50       200       150       150       150       150       40          760      800
Industry attachments                     48 3 month             2        48        60        60       78         42        0          288      288
attachment
LPG Policy and Utilisation                 I study             75        75                                               7.5        67.5       75
Gas based industrial development           I study              75                           75                           7.5        67.5       75
Gas based power generation                 I study             75                            75                           7.5        67.5       75
LPG and CNG in Transport                   I study             75                  75                                     7.5        67.5       75
Gas Offtake for Local Industrial Use       I study             75                            75                           7.5        67.5       75
Opportunities for gas reticulation         I study             75                                      75                 7.5        67.5       75
Standards for LPG and natural gas          I study             75                            75                          7.5         67.5       75
quality, storage, transportation,
and user equipment



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 5: Detailed Cost Estimate (US S 000) without contingencies (Page 2 of 4)
ACTIVITY/INPUT                         NO. UNIT            UJNIT  YEAR 1  YEAR 2  YEAR 3 YEAR 4  YEAR 5  LOCAL  FOREIGN   TOTAL
DESCRIPTION                                                COST TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL COST   COST  COST    COST
Review of LNG market                       I study             75:                37.5                         37.5       7.5        67.5       75
Gas pipeline and facility regulation       I study             75        75                                              7.5         67.5       75
Petroleum resource evaluation              I study              75                 75                                     7.5        67.5       75
Promotional packages                     10 promotional        20        40        60        60       40                  30          170      200
packages
Exhibitions                               10 exhibitions        10       20        20        20       20         20       15           85      100
Seminars                                 10 seminars             5        10       10        10        10        o0      7.5         42.5       50
Publications                               4 publications      25                  25        25        25        25       20           80       100             t
CIN
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
Procurement processing                      competetive    bid        100         200       200      200        100       80          720      800
Institutional Study                        1                  100    100                                                              100      100
Project Coordination, Monitoring         45 man months          12       10       1080                                                540      540
Evaluation and Advice
1. Project expenditures and payments are free of taxes ,duties and other imposts such as VAT
2. All costs are based on PD's experience in the ongoing project and curent price estimates as at November at 1998



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 5: Detailed Cost Estimate (US $ 000) with contingencies (Page 3 of 4)
ACTIVITY/INPUT                          NO. UNIT             UNIT YEAR I YEAR 2 YEAR 3 YEAR 4 YEAR 5 LOCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL
DESCRIPTION                                                  COST TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL COST   COST  COST    COST
On-the-job training                      205 man-months          12       436        624      538       538        468       130        2474      2604
Short courses                              30 2 week course      10         85       148       169       127       106        32          603      635
Management training                        16 2 week course       10        42        85       106       106         0         0          339       339
Postgraduate studies                       16 study years        50       212        159       159       159       159        42          804       847
Industry attachments                       48 3 month             2         51        64        64        83        44         0          305       305
attachment
LPG Policy and Utilisation                  1 study              75         79                                                 8           71        79
Gas based industrial development            I study              75                             79                             8           71        79
Gas based power generation                  I study              75                             79                             8           71        79
LPG and CNG in Transport                    I study              75                   79                                       8           71        79
Gas Offtake for Local Industrial Use        I study              75                             79                             8           71        79
Opportunities for gas reticulation          I study              75                                       79                   8           71        79
Standards for LPG and natural gas           I study              75                             79                             8           71        79
quality, storage, transportation,
and user equipment



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 4: Project Implementation Planning
Attachment 5: Detailed Cost Estimate (US $ 000) with contingencies (Page 4 of 4)
ACTIVITY/INPUT                          NO. UNIT             UNIT YEAR 1 YEAR 2 YEAR 3 YEAR 4 YEAR 5 LOCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL
DESCRIPTION                                                  COST TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL COST   COST  COST    COST
Review of LNG market                        I study              75                   40                          40           8           71        79
Gas pipeline and facility regulation        I study              75         7 9                                                8           71        79
Petroleum resource evaluation               I study              75                   79                                       8           71        79
Promotional packages                       10 promotional        20        42         64        64       42       0           32          180      212
packages
Exhibitions                                10 exhibitions         10       211        21        21       21         21        16           90       106
Seminars                                   10 seminars            5  K    Ii          11       11        11         11         8           45       53
Publications                                4 publications       25                   26        26       26         26        21           85       106
Procurement processing                        competetive    bid           106       212       2        212        106        85          762      847
Institutional Study                         1                   100        106                                                            106       106
"W"NOWNW IM W,  .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22, .j.$    2,2,> 
Project Coordination, Monitoring           45 man months         12        114       114       1(4      114        114                   572       572
Evaluation and Advice
1. Project expenditures and payments are free of taxes ,duties and other imposts such as VAT
2. All costs are based on PD's experience in the ongoing project and curent price estimates as at November at 1998
Notes not for printing
Disbursement basis                               0.940841306           1302.522 1623.6714 1693.8761 1427.9943  1030.1675 IBRD
82       102       107       90         65 GOPNG
1384.4227 1725.7654 1800.3845 1517.7845  1094.9429 TOTAL



Page 63
Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 5: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
PD will have fuil responsibility for procurement under the proposed project. As this is a capacity
building project, most procuremnent will center on the engagement of expertise under consultancy
contracts and securing training services. However, some minor procurement of goods and other
services will be required to support project activities. Skills upgrading will be achieved through
on-the -job training, industry atachments, post-graduate courses and studies.
Procurement Capability Assessment
The procurement capability of the Petroleum Division has been assessed. The guidance provided
in the OCSPR memorandum of August 11, 1998 has been utilized in the preparation of the
Procurement Capability Assessment Report (referenced in Annex 7).
Taking into account PD's good track record in the procurement for the ongoing Petroleum
Exploration and Development Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 3670-PNG), and the type and
nature of procurement envisaged in the proposed Gas Development and Utilization Technical
Assistance Project, the procurement risk is assessed as average. The PD is aware of Bank
guidelines and requirements ancd Government procedures. It has recognized the likely increase in
procurement activities arising under the proposed project and based on the analysis compiled in
Attachment 2 of the Procurementt Capability Assessment it has agreed to: a) enhance Bank
supervision by iowering the prior review thresholds (compared with those for the ongoing
project); and b) strengthen its procurement capability involving:
*  preparation of a Procurement Manual, showing where Bank's procedures take precedence
over Government procedures and defining all procurement procedures from inception to
delivery of goods and services (Government's ethical standards will be clearly echoed in
Procurement Manuals);
*  engagement of Procurement Staff to supervise procurement, and formnal designation of
Assistant Directors and other professional staff to help in procurement with clear definition of
roles; and
*  establishment of Project Procurement Committees to oversee the procurement for different
thematic areas and appointment of professional staff to the committees.
Procurement Methods
All goods and consultant services to be financed under the Bank loan will be procured in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines ("Guidelines-Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits", January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999
and "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers",
January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999). Project costs by procurement
arrangements are summarized in Table A.



Page 64
Goods (US$ 1.324 million) required for the project would comprise office equipment such as
desk-top computers, printers, photocopiers, drawing office equipment etc; promotional material
such as brochures, handouts and displays; and technical reports and publications. Procurement
under International Competitive Bidding is not anticipated as goods requirements are small and
varied and consequently will grouped into packages below US$ 200,000 equivalent to be
procured through Limited International Bidding, National Competitive Bidding and Shopping.
The thresholds for these procurement methodologies will be: (i) US$ 200,000 or below for the
procurement of goods through Limited International Bidding; (ii) US$ 1 00,000 or below for the
procurement of goods through National Competitive Bidding; and (iii) below US$ 50,000 for
procurement of goods through International and National Shopping. Contract packages estimated
to cost below US$ 200,000 will be procured through Limited International Bidding, up to an
aggregate of US$ 500,000. Contract packages for goods available locally at prices lower than
international market rates for contracts between US$ 50,000 and US$ 100,00, up to an aggregate
of US$ 400,000, would be procured through National Competitive Bidding using procedures
acceptable to the Bank, international suppliers may compete in these procedures. Contract
packages with an estimated value of below US$ 50,000, up to an aggregate of US$ 300,000, will
be awarded through National Shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank, after solicitation of at
least three written price quotations form qualified suppliers. If these goods are not available at
competitive prices with in the country, International Shopping procedures will be followed.
Services involved in the preparation of brochures, displays, handouts etc, worth a small fraction
of the total cost and being of a specialized nature, would be included in the procurement of goods.
Prior review by the Bank of all stages of bidding process will be required for: (i) all goods
having a threshold of US$ 100,000 equivalent or more; (ii) the first three contracts for goods
awarded, each year, under National Competitive Bidding. Selected review of awarded contracts
below the threshold levels will be conducted during supervision.
Consultancy Services (US$ 6.2 million) will cover studies, discrete technical assignments, on-the
-job training, training at specialized institutions, tertiary institutions, and attachments with
industry. All services will be procured on the basis of quality and cost based selection except for
the conduct of the institutional study, in which case quality based selection will be adopted.
Individual consultants will be employed on assignments for which teams of personnel are not
required, no additional outside professional support is required, and the experience and
qualifications of the individual are the paramount requirement. Individual consultants will be
selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment, which may be done through
comparison of qualifications among those expressing interest or approached directly by the
Borrower. Aggregate values of contracts for consultant firms and individual consultants are US$
3.8 million and US$ 2.1 million respectively. Prior review by the Bank of all stages of the bidding
process will be required for: (i) all contracts with consulting firms with an estimated value of US$
100,000 or more; and (ii) all contracts with individual consultants US$ 50,000 or more. Selected
review of awarded contracts below threshold levels will conducted during supervision.



Page 65
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
1. Goods                          0.00       0.37        0.79       0.16          1.32
(0.00)     (0.37)     (0.79)     (0.00)        (1 .16)
2. Services                       0.00       0.00        5.92       0.28          6.20
(0.00)     (0.00)     (5.92)     (0.00)        (5_.92)
Total                          0.00        0.37       6.71        0.44         7.52
.___________________________  (0.00)   (0.37)     (6.71)      0.00         (7.08)
Notes
1. Amounts include contingencies based on annual costs inflated at 3% per annum
2. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank
3. Others include procureme:nt of goods through LIB and Shopping and procurement of
consultant services.
4. NBF means Non-Bank Financed
Prior Review Thresholds
On the basis of the procurement capability assessment, the prior review thresholds would be as
follows.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
US 9S thousands                              US $ millions
1. Goods              All contracts valued at     LIB                      0.40*
US$ 10(),000 or more
Contract:s valued at       NCB                       0.10*
US$ 100,000 and the
first three contracts
awarded each year
regardless of value
2. Services
Firms            All contracts valued at  QCBS, QBS                   3.00*
or over lJS$ 100,000
and all TORs
regardless of value
Individual       All cont-acts valued at  Selection of Individual     2.00*
or over US$ 50,000    Consultants
and all lTORs
regardless of value
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    5.5 (78%)
* Estimate



Page 66
Procurement Plan
A Procurement Plan for the project is given in Attachments 1-6 of this Annex, with each
Attachment covering a project component. For each component, the involved tasks are listed in
the pages following the Attachment. The start and end times of each task relate to the first year of
project implementation. For subsequent years, the tasks would remain the same but the start and
end times (not possible to ascertain at this stage as these would also be need based) would be
different.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Disbursement
The Bank loan will be disbursed against:
1.     100% of the foreign exchange cost of imported equipment, materials and services;
2.     100% of local expenditures for equipment, materials (ex-factory);
3.     85% of the local expenditure on equipment, materials and services;
4.     100% of expenditure for consultants' services; and
5.     100% of expenditures for training.
The implementation period for the project is estimated at five years. Annual disbursement based
on the implementation schedules are estimated as follows:
Implementation Year       I Year One   Year Two  Year Three   Year Four   Year Five
Disbursement (US$ million)  11.3      1.7         1.7          1.3         1.0
Assuming that the loan becomes effective in September 2000, the disbursement schedule in the
Bank financial years would be as follows:
Bank Financial Year        2001      2002      2003    2004       2005       2006
Disbursement (US$ million)    1.0    1.6       1.7      1.4        1.0       0.3
This disbursement schedule is in line with the Bank's standard disbursement profile.
Disbursements would be made either directly by the Bank or through a Special Account. In the
latter case, the Department of Petroleum and Energy will open a Special Account with a reputable
commercial bank upon the authority of the Department of Treasury. The account will be
maintained in Kina. An initial deposit of US$400,000 will be made into the account as an
advance from the loan; this represents the four-month average of project expenditures to be
financed through the Special Account. Disbursements under the project for contracts below the
value of US$100, 000 equivalent will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
for payments made from the Special Account. All documentation in respect of SOE



Page 67
disbursements will be maintained in the Department of Petroleum and Energy and will be subject
to periodic review by the Bank. Direct payments, however, will be permitted for such small
amounts on application to the Bank if required and justified. Nevertheless, to the extent possible,
payments would be channeled through the Special Account. For payments of amounts of the
value of US$100, 000 and abcve, direct payments will be made on application to the Bank.



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 5: Implementation and Procurement Plan
Attachment 1: Skills Upgrading (Page I of I)
Task Name _l_1_ _l_
152  4                                   2 24[~~   1[  S~                                            p11 
General Procurement Notice              ttl          t     t   3X         E       F3I   t               f              i        _3   __       E3
On-the-Job Training_   fP     _             
Short Courses and                 _itS                                                      f               
Managennent Training_      33 t e   3F i- - E
Post Graduate Studies_     _ _  t tt_
Planning _     FFF                               k                        i            _        -F                     F
Procurement   I i           I 1- H                      1  1   g         0LH-f-                           _t~  
Execution _LI1^|I*_         
Industry Attachments                 b    I-                              E-                                        S   
- r'PCmlnD8u  ;LH-I I L:  S  2  L : L 1f1
Planning - - - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Procurement~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O



Page 69
Component and                        Task                    Duration      Start         End
Sub Component                                               (days)
Skills Upgrading
On the Job Training
Planning Identify areas for skills upgradfng          13       01-Feb-00     14-Feb-00
Develop scope of skills required              13      01-Feb-00     14-Feb-00
Identify tasks involved                       11      07-Feb-00     18-Feb-00
Identify expertise required                   11      07-Feb-00     18-Feb-00
Prepare cost estimate and budget              6        14-Feb-00    20-Feb-00
Prepare TOR for tasks involved                10       14-Feb-00    24-Feb-00
Prepare TOR for expertise required            10       14-Feb-00    24-Feb-00
Obtain Bank's c]learance of TOR               5       24-Feb-00    29-Feb-00
Procurement Seek expressions of interest                  7       03-Mar-00    10-Mar-00
Receive expressions of interest               28      11-Mar-00    10-Apr-00
Prepare letter of invitation to bid           7       11-Mar-00    15-Mar-00
Prepare advertisement                         2       11-Mar-00    16-Mar-00
Prepare draft contract                        5       11 -Mar-00    18-Mar-00
Obtain Bank's clearance of documents          10      18-Mar-00    25-Mar-00
Shortlist and/or lpre-qualify consultants     5       10-Apr-00    13-Apr-00
Get Bank's clearance of shortlist/prequalifiers  2    13-Apr-00    15-Apr-00
Advertise                                     7        15-Apr-00    22-Apr-00
Receive formal proposals                      28      22-Apr-00    22-May-00
Evaluate proposals                            5       22-May-00    27-May-00
Select winning bidder                         1       27-May-00    28-May-00
Obtain Bank's clearance of evaluation         10      28-May-00    07-Jun-00
Negotiate contract                            7       07-Jun-00     14-Jun-00
Obtain legal clearance for contract           21       14-Jun-00    05-Jul-00
Award contract                                7        06-Jul-00    13-Jul-00
Execution Process visas                                 28       14-Jul-00    14-Aug-00
Mobilise consultant                           10      14-Aug-00    31-Aug-00
Commence training                                     01-Sep-00   per contract
Process contract payments                             per contract
Review progress                                        quarterly
Monitor quality                                        monthly
Prepare completion report                            last 4 weeks
Management review & comments                             after



Page 70
Component and                         Task                     Duration       Start         End
Sub Component                                                  (days)
Skills Upgrading
Short Courses including
Management Training
(off the shelf courses)
Planning Identify areas for skills upgradfmg            13      01-May-00    14-May-00
Develop scope of skills required               13      01-May-00    14-May-00
Identify participant                           14       14-May-00    28-May-00
Identify courses required                      14       14-May-00    28-May-00
Procurement Identify course providers                      16       29-May-00     14-Jun-00
Deternine timing and location                  7        14-Jun-00     21-Jun-00
Select courses                                 7        21-Jun-00     28-Jun-00
Prepare cost estimate and budget                9       29-Jun-00     06-Jul-00
Obtain Bank's clearance of selection            3       06-Jul-00     09-Jul-00
Negotiate contract                              5       09-Jul-00     14-Jul-00
Obtain legal clearance for contract (in house)  7       14-Jul-00     21-Jul-00
Award contract                                 7        21-Jul-00     28-Jul-00
Execution Process visas                                  17       28-Jul-00    14-Aug-00
Mobilise consultant/attendees                  10       14-Aug-00    31 -Aug-00
Commence courses                                        01-Sep-00    per contract
Process contract payments                              per contract
post course evaluation                                 after course



Page 71
Component and                        Task                    Duration       Start         End
Sub Component                                                (days)
Skills Upgrading
Post Graduate Courses
Planning Identify areas ior skills upgradfing         60       01-Feb-00    01-Apr-00
Identify and select eligible candidates       7       01-Mar-00    07-Mar-00
Prepare for studies (TOEFL &/or GRE)          61      01-Mar-00    01-May-00
Seek acceptance at reputable college          85      07-Mar-00    31-May-00
Estimate costs and formulate budget           6        01-Jun-00    07-Jun-00
Obtain Project Management approval            6       01-Jun-00     07-Jun-00
Obtain college acceptance letter              6       01-Jun-00     07-Jun-00
Finalise cost and budget                      7        07-Jun-00    14-Jun-00
Obtain visas arnd clearances                  30       14-Jun-00    14-Jul-00
Plan travel and fmace arrangements            15       14-Jul-00    31-Jul-00
Procurement Submit candidate and college to Bank review   6       01-Aug-00    07-Aug-00
Obtain Bank's clearance                       7       07-Aug-00    14-Aug-00
Execute contract with college                  I      07-Aug-00    08-Aug-00
Purchase travel items (tickets, insurance etc)  13    08-Aug-00    21-Aug-00
Execute Mobilise candidate                            7       21-Aug-00    30-Aug-00
Commence postgraduate studies                          07-Sep-00   end of study



Page 72
Component and                         Task                     Duration      Start         End
Sub Component                                                (days)
Skills Upgrading
Industrial Attachments
Planning Identify areas for skills upgradfmg           14      01-Jun-00     14-Jun-00
Identify and select eligible candidates       14      01 -Jun-00    14-Jun-00
Arrange attachment with company               60       14-Jun-00    14-Aug-00
Estimate costs and formulate budget           7       14-Aug-00    21-Aug-00
Obtain Project Management approval            3       21-Aug-00    24-Aug-00
Obtain visas and other clearances             21      24-Aug-00    14-Sep-00
Plan travel and other requirements            7       24-Aug-00    31 -Aug-00
Procurement Execute contract with company for training    3       31-Aug-00    03-Sep-00
Execution Commence attachment                          90       04-Sep-00    04-Dec-00



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 5: Implementation and Procurement Plan
Attachment 2: Studies (Page I of 3)
Task NameD_ __01_I
Study PlanninE_____ __._______        -     ;             11       
Procurement of Expertise to Assist
Execution
Study Planning
Procurement of Expertise to Assis
ProcuementofEx Ert xecutionAss
Procurement of Expertise to Assist
IProcurement ofExpertise to Assist|||||||1|               _IIII11111111111||||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1111i    
I~~~~~~xcto                                                 Hi  I 11 1111 1 1111111111111   111   111111 111111 1111 N                                               
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 11I I _ _  1_ _ ILIll I  llllI-IlIl



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 5: Implementation and Procurement Plan
Attachment 2: Studies (Page 2 of 3)
Task Name lll_
Procurement of Expertise to Assist
Execution
__ | | | | |xecuion                                                              l 1       1     111111 4111111
Study Planning11S XXXf                                                                           IIIIIIIIII11               
ProcuTement of Expertise to Assisl             t 12 0 4f                       l       l ll llI11-1i|!dP|--- t!|{{t1 
. L ~~~Exct1 ioN.}1115  1                             



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 5: Implementation and Procurement Plan
Attachment 2: Studies (Page 2 of 3)
Task Name to Assist
troX_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EL                    ]I-  J    111111111 11 ttII II  II I  I I  II  I I
Study Plannin g     I I                                             I
Procurement of Expertise to Assist
__4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
Execution                              I I I                               I I I I    I
I            ~~~~~~Executioni   1111111111111111111111111111iIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
I ~~~~~Study Planning TTT   11 11 11 1 1 1 1 '111111111111111111111I  IIIIriiII
Prcrmn of Expertise to Assist1111111111111111111111111
|  Procurment  of Ex ecutions            |||IW||||111                                  111111111111                                  111111111111           
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~~td   Planni ||||ng               |||||||||                           |||||||||    :||||||                            |||||||||        



Page 76
Component and                        Task                    Duration      Start          End
Sub Component                                                (days)
Studies
LPG Policy and
Utilisation Study
Planning Appoint study team                            3       01-Jun-00    03-Jun-00
Determine scope of study                      6       04-Jun-00     10-Jun-00
Develop terms of reference                    13       11-Jun-00    24-Jun-00
Identify inputs required                      5       24-Jun-00     29-Jun-00
Identify support services required            5       29-Jun-00     03-Jul-00
Develop study schedule                        10       03-Jul-00    13-Jul-00
Prepare cost estimate and budget              7        13-Jul-00    20-Jul-00
Commence research for study                  152       20-Jul-00    20-Dec-00
Procurement Purchase other studies, reports and reviews   152      20-Jul-00    20-Dec-00
Develop TORs for expert assistance            5        20-Jul-00    25-Jul-00
Seek expressions of interest                  7       01-Aug-00    08-Aug-00
Receive expressions of interest               28      08-Aug-00    05-Sep-00
Prepare letter of invitation to bid           7       08-Aug-00    15-Aug-00
Prepare advertisement                         2       08-Aug-00    10-Aug-00
Prepare draft contract                        5       08-Aug-00    13-Aug-00
Obtain Bank's clearance of documents          10      15-Aug-00    25-Aug-00
Shortlist and/or pre-qualify consultants      5       05-Sep-00     10-Sep-00
Get Bank's clearance of shortlist/prequalifiers  2     10-Sep-00    12-Sep-00
Advertise                                     7        19-Sep-00    26-Sep-00
Receive formal proposals                      28      26-Sep-00    24-Oct-00
Evaluate proposals                            5       24-Oct-00    29-Oct-00
Select winning bidder                         2       29-Oct-00     31-Oct-00
Obtain Bank's clearance of evaluation         3       31-Oct-00    03-Nov-00
Negotiate contract                            7       03-Nov-00    10-Nov-00
Obtain legal clearance for contract           14      10-Nov-00    24-Nov-00
Award contract                                3       24-Nov-00    27-Nov-00
Process visas                                 24      01-Dec-00    21-Dec-00
Mobilise consultant                           10      21-Dec-00    01-Jan-01
Execution Commence study support                                01-Jan-01    30-Sep-01
Process contract payments                             per contract
Review progress                                        quarterly
Monitor quality                                        monthly
Prepare completion report                           last 4 weeks
Management review & comments                             after
Studies will follow the same generic task schedule but only have different start times.
The extent to which external expert support is required will vary from study to study
The procurement lead time for obtaining expert support permit time for in-house research



Page 77
Component and                        Task                    Duration       Start         End
Sub Component                                                (days)
Studies
Gas Pipeline & Faciility
Regulation Study
Planning Appoint study team                             3       01-Sep-00    03-Sep-00
Determine scope of study                       6       04-Sep-00    10-Sep-00
Develop terms of refe:rence                   13       11-Sep-00    24-Sep-00
Identify inputs required                       5       24-Sep-00    29-Sep-00
Identify support seivices required             5       29-Sep-00    03-Oct-00
Develop study schedule                        10       03-Oct-00     13-Oct-00
Prepare cost estimate and budget               7       13-Oct-00    20-Oct-00
Commence research for study                   152      20-Oct-00    22-Mar-01
Procurement Purchase other studies, reports and reviews   152      20-Oct-00    22-Mar-01
Develop TORs for expert assistance             5       20-Oct-00    25-Oct-00
Seek expressions of interest                   7      01-Nov-00    08-Nov-00
Receive expressions of interest               28       08-Nov-00    06-Dec-00
Prepare letter of invitation to bid            7       08-Nov-00    15-Nov-00
Prepare advertisement                          2       08-Nov-00    10-Nov-00
Prepare draft contract                         5       08-Nov-00    13-Nov-00
Obtain Bank's clearance of documents          10       15-Nov-00    25-Nov-00
Shortlist and/or pre-qualify consultants       5       06-Dec-00    1 1-Dec-00
Get Bank's clearance of shortlist/prequalifiers  2     11-Dec-00    13-Dec-00
Advertise                                      7       20-Dec-00    27-Dec-00
Receive formal proposals                      28       27-Dec-00    24-Jan-01
Evaluate proposals                             5       24-Jan-01     29-Jan-01
Select winring bidder                          2       29-Jan-01     31-Jan-01
Obtain Bank's clearance of evaluation          3       31-Jan-01    03-Feb-01
Negotiate contract                             7       03-Feb-01     10-Feb-01
Obtain legal clearance for contract            14      10-Feb-01     24-Feb-01
Award contract                                 3       24-Feb-01     27-Feb-01
Process visas                                 24       03-Mar-01     23-Mar-01
Mobilise consultant                            10      23-Mar-01    03-Apr-01
Execution Commence study support                                 03-Apr-01    30-Sep-01
Process contract payments                             per contract
Review progress                                         quarterly
Monitor quality                                         monthly
Prepare completion report                            last 4 weeks
Management review & comments                             after
Studies will follow the same generic task schedule but only have different start times.
The extent to which external expert support is required will vary from study to study
The procurement lead time for obtaining expert support permit time for in-house research



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 5: Implementation and Procurement Plan
Attachment 3:Promotions (Page I of 1)
Task Name 1|11-i _1
| ~~~~~Plannlinig l    : t   4
| eloIttPwcremenct :4R
f, _fi s ti ]~~Cuio
Exe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
CD
7  ME    7,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e



Page 79
Component and                         Task                     Duration      Start         End
Sub Component                                                 (days)
Promotions
Promotional Packages
Planning Identify topic for promotion                  27      01-Nov-00    03-Nov-00
Select promotional team                        1       03-Nov-00    04-Nov-00
Define audience                                3       04-Nov-00    07-Nov-00
Develop scope & content of promotion           7       07-Nov-00    14-Nov-00
Select promotion media                         5       14-Nov-00    19-Nov-00
Prepare cost estimate & budget                 5       20-Nov-00    25-Nov-00
Procurement Procure support services                       6       25-Nov-00    31-Dec-00
Issue letters of invitation to bid             4       26-Nov-00    30-Nov-00
Receive quotation for services                 14      30-Nov-00    14-Dec-00
Select support services                        7       14-Dec-00    21-Dec-00
Sek Bank clearances (if required)              7       21-Dec-00    28-Dec-00
Award contract                                 I       31-Dec-00    01-Jan-01
Execution Produce promotional package                   59       01-Jan-01    28-Feb-01
Assemble packages                              13      01-Mar-01    14-Mar-01
Formulate distri bution mechanism              6       01-Mar-01    07-Mar-01
Distribute                                    31       14-Mar-01     14-Apr-01
Obtain feedback                               n/a      14-Apr-01      ongoing
Promotional packages will be produced per the schedule
Ten promotional packages will be produced during the project
Two will be prepared in the first year of implementation



Page 80
Component and                         Task                    Duration      Start         End
Sub Component                                                (days)
Promotions
Exhibitions
Planning Identify topic for exhibition                 3       01-Jul-00     04-Jul-00
Select exhibition presenters                  2        04-Jul-00    06-Jul-00
Define audience                               3        07-Jul-00    10-Jul-00
Develop scope & content of exhibition         21       10-Jul-00    31-Jul-00
Select venue (conference)                     1       01-Aug-00    02-Aug-00
Plan logistical arrangements                  14      03-Aug-00    17-Aug-00
Prepare cost estimate & budget                13      18-Aug-00    31-Aug-00
Procurement Procure support services                      60      01-Sep-00    31 -Oct-00
Issue letters of invitation to bid            4       01-Sep-00    05-Sep-00
Receive quotation for services                14      06-Sep-00    20-Sep-00
Select support services                       6       21-Sep-00    27-Sep-00
Seek Bank clearances (if required)            9       27-Sep-00    06-Oct-00
Award contract                                1       07-Oct-00     08-Oct-00
Execution Produce exhibition materials                 31       09-Oct-00    09-Nov-00
Make travel and exhibition arrangements       22      09-Oct-00     31-Oct-00
Assemble materials and conduct trial          4       10-Nov-00    14-Nov-00
Exhibit                                       9       21 -Nov-00    30-Nov-00
Follow contacts & pursue enquiries                      31 Nov       ongoing



Page 81
Component and                          Task                     Duration       Start          End
Sub Component                                                   (days)
Promotions
Seminars
Seminar A
Planning Identify topic for seminar                      1       01-Dec-00    02-Dec-00
Select team to organize seminar                 2       02-Dec-00    04-Dec-00
Develop scope & content of seminar              7       03-Dec-00      10-Dec-00
Identify seminar leader and speakers            5        05-Dec-00     10-Dec-00
Prepare cost eslEimate & budget                 4        10-Dec-00     14-Dec-00
Select time and venue                           1        11-Dec-00     12-Dec-00
Invite seminar attendees                        2        13-Dec-00     15-Dec-00
Define support materials and services           3        15-Dec-00     18-Dec-00
Prepare seminar papers                          31       15-Dec-00     15-Jan-01
Procurement Arrange and contract venue and services         23       18-Dec-00     10-Jan-01
Execution Hold seminar                                    2        16-Jan-01     18-Jan-01
Record proceeclings & distribute                10       16-Jan-01     26-Jan-01
Obtain feedback on seminar                               27-Jan-01      ongoing
I.______________          ___________________________                   1 1_____  1_______    ________



Page 82
Component and                         Task                    Duration      Start         End
Sub Component                                                (days)
Promotions
Publications
Planning Select & prepare item/material for publication  13    01-Oct-01     14-Oct-01
Select publication team                       2       03-Oct-01     05-Oct-01
Define readership                             3       05-Oct-01     08-Oct-01
Select method of publication                  6       09-Oct-01     15-Oct-01
Plan publication                              16       15-Oct-01    31 -Oct-01
Prepare text for publication                  44      01-Nov-01    15-Dec-01
Prepare cost estimate & budget                4       16-Dec-01    20-Dec-01
Procurement Invite proposals for printing                 10      21-Dec-01    31 -Dec-01
Receive final estimates and quotes            30       01-Jan-02    31 -Jan-02
Review quotations                             7       01-Feb-02    08-Feb-02
Obtain Bank cleamances if required            5       09-Feb-02     14-Feb-02
Award contract to print house                 6        15-Feb-02    21-Feb-02
Execute Print publication                            67       22-Feb-02    30-Apr-02
Take delvery of printed publication           13      01-May-02    14-May-02
Distribute publication                        17      14-May-02    31-May-02



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 5: Implementation and Procurement Plan
Attachment 4:Equipment (Page I of 1)
Task Name     1-e      rrrr
|Limited Intemnational Bidding e       llai lit{t|||4||o
|                ~~~~~Deliveryh   33     HFj I2f_                                                 11-                                4|||o
I           4         4        11111111111   111111111::11  1|11111101Hil        I IIIII I                   IIIIIII-I   I
|National Competititve BiddingE-!-Il
| ~~~~~Deliverye 23111  !111 m 
|Local and International Shopping;                                           4w                            
| ~~~~~Delivery            ilS   i]
|                 ~~~~~~NOTE There will be no single major item of procurement nor will there be any singular procurement activity. Equipment will be to|
|                      |~~~~~~~~support project activities. There is envisgaed to be a continuous need to utilise alll three procrement methods described above |



Page 84
Component and                        Task                    Duration      Start         End
Sub Component                                                (days)
For a single procurement w/given starting date
Equipment
Planning Identify goods or service required            3       01 -Jun-00   04-Jun-00
Prepare specifications                        4       05-Jun-00     09-Jun-00
Prepare initial cost estimate                 3        10-Jun-00    13-Jun-00
Identify relevant procurement process         I        14-Jun-00    15-Jun-00
Preocurement
L IB.
Prepare short list of potential suppliers     15       15-Jun-00    30-Jun-00
Obtain Bank's clearance of short list         6        01-Jul-00    07-Jul-00
Prepare bid documents & draft contract        6        01 -Jul-00   07-Jul-00
Obtain Bank's clearance                       6        08-Jul-00    14-Jul-00
Invite bids                                   16       15-Jul-00    31-Jul-00
Receive bids                                  30      01-Aug-00    31-Aug-00
Evaluate bids & select supplier               6       01-Sep-00    07-Sep-00
Obtain Bank's clearance                       6       08-Sep-00     14-Sep-00
Obtain legal clearance                        15      15-Sep-00    30-Sep-00
Execute contract                              14      01 -Oct-00    15-Oct-00
Send signed contract to the Bank              I       16-Oct-00     17-Oct-00
N. C.B.
Prepare bid documents & draft contract        15       15-Jun-00    30-Jun-00
Obtain Bank's clearance                       6        01-Jul-00    07-Jul-00
Advertise to invite bids                      2        08-Jul-00    10-Jul-00
Receive bids                                  21       11-Jul-00    01-Aug-00
Evaluate bids & select supplier               7       02-Aug-00    09-Aug-00
Obtain Bank's clearance                       5       10-Aug-00    15-Aug-00
Obtain legal clearance                        7       16-Aug-00    23-Aug-00
Execute contract                              20      24-Sep-00     14-Oct-00
Send signed contract to the Bank              1       15-Oct-00     16-Oct-00
Shopping
Prepare request for quotations                6       15-Aug-00    21-Aug-00
Solicit quotations                            7       22-Aug-00    29-Aug-00
Evaluate quotations & select suppliers        10      07-Sep-00     17-Sep-00
Issue acceptance letter                       I       20-Sep-00    21-Sep-00



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 5: Implementation and Procurement Plan
Attachment 5: Institutional Study (Page I of 1)
...... .   ..   .._               .... .    ............ ..... . .
Task Name_ ...n  '' ""'"'' "'|9''..........'' ""i  I
_2 _4                                                                                     n    m  
IMAN ~                                                        ....   .... _...   _______        ______
P'NM~ ~~                                                               11111111111111111111111
b W00000gHWEStudy Planning
|Prourement of x erieto AsisetoAss|T +llllX                                           
|                  xcuin   |||          | _            g|         |||         |W        ||  Execution|0        00|1         110  ll  0r 
|         ~~~Post Study Executionil||||||||||         _0gg|0||0W0||||XX&|0X|2|0|0||0f                 
00
T FF-I~(



Page 86
Component and                        Task                     Duration      Start         End
Sub Component                                                (days)
Institutional Study
Study
Planning Appointt study management team                 2       16-Feb-00     18-Feb-00
Prepare terms of reference of study           25       19-Feb-00     15-Mar-00
Seek approval of Terms of Reference            15      16-Mar-00    31 -Mar-00
Procurement Prepare advertisement                          6       25-Mar-00    31-Mar-00
Seek expressions of interest                  13       01-Apr-00     14-Apr-00
Receive expressions of interest               30       15-Apr-00    15-May-00
Shortlist of consultants                      10       15-May-00    25-May-00
Select consultant                              5       26-May-00    31-May-00
Seek approval of Bank                         14       01-Jun-00     15-Jun-00
NOL from Bank                                  16      08-Jun-00     24-Jun-00
Award of Contract                             31       25-Jul-00    25-Aug-00
Execution Mobilization of Consultant                    29      01-Sep-00     30-Sep-00
Conduct study                                 122      01-Oct-00     31-Jan-01
Bank review of study                          27       01-Feb-01     28-Feb-01
Submission of findings to NEC                 24       01-Apr-01     25-Apr-01
Preparation of Legislation                    29       01-May-01    30-May-01
Endorsement of draft legislation              29       01-Jun-01     30-Jun-01
Bill presented to Parliament                  29       01-Aug-01    30-Aug-01



Papua New Guinea: Gas Development Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 5: Implementation and Procurement Plan
Attachment 6: Project Management (Page I of 1)
Task Name                 1         _       __l                         i 
*  2                          4                     4         211_z1    4   _     2   - 4
Procurement of Expertise to Advise
Execution
HIM 11111 1111111111111111111111111111111 11111   III 111111  c
L                 110f00111111f~~~~TFFF    r' 11111111111 11111f 1111111 +1111011



Page 88
Component and                         Task                     Duration      Start         End
Sub Component                                                 (days)
Project Management
Project Adviser
Planning Identify areas for Project Advice             13       01-Feb-00    14-Feb-00
Develop scope of skills required              13       01-Feb-00     14-Feb-00
Identify tasks involved                       11       07-Feb-00     18-Feb-00
Identify expertise required                   11       07-Feb-00     18-Feb-00
Prepare cost estimate and budget               6       14-Feb-00     20-Feb-00
Prepare TOR for tasks involved                10       14-Feb-00     24-Feb-00
Prepare TOR for expertise required            10       14-Feb-00     24-Feb-00
Obtain Bank's clearance of TOR                 5       24-Feb-00     29-Feb-00
Procurement Seek expressions of interest                   7       03-Mar-00    10-Mar-00
Receive expressions of interest               30       1 1-Mar-00    10-Apr-00
Prepare letter of invitation to bid            4       11 -Mar-00    15-Mar-00
Prepare advertisement                          5       11 -Mar-00    16-Mar-00
Prepare draft contract                         7       11-Mar-00    18-Mar-00
Obtain Bank's clearance of documents           7       18-Mar-00    25-Mar-00
Shortlist and/or pre-qualify consultants       3       10-Apr-00     13-Apr-00
Get Bank's clearance of shortlist/prequalifiers  2     13-Apr-00     15-Apr-00
Advertise                                      7       15-Apr-00    22-Apr-00
Receive formal proposals                      30       22-Apr-00    22-May-00
Evaluate proposals                             5       22-May-00    27-May-00
Select winning bidder                          I       27-May-00    28-May-00
Obtain Bank's clearance of evaluation         10       28-May-00    07-Jun-00
Negotiate contract                             7       07-Jun-00     14-Jun-00
Obtain legal clearance for contract           21       14-Jun-00     05-Jul-00
Award contract                                56       06-Jul-00    31-Aug-00
Execution Process visas                                 29      01-Sep-00     30-Sep-00
Mobilise consultant                            I       01-Oct-00     02-Oct-00
Commence advisory services                             02-Oct-00    per contract
Process contract payments                             per contract
Review progress                                         quarterly
Monitor quality                                         monthly
Prepare completion report                             last 4 weeks
Management review & comments                             after



Page 89
Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 6: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Project Budget
Planned            Actual (as of 12/31/99)
$ 110,500                    $ 67,100
Project Schedule
Schedule                      Plan                        Actual
Concept Review Meeting       10/14/1999                  10/14/99
RVP/ROC/OC Sign off
PID to PIC date
Depart pre-appraisal         10/29/1999                  10/39/99
Decision Meeting            02/01/2000                   02/02/2000
Authorize Appraisal
Update PID to PIC
EA received date            N/A
Depart Appraisal            02/15/2000
Invitation to Negotiate                                  02/29/2000
Start negotiations          05/00/2000
Board Presentation          07/00/2000
Completion Note
Project Task Team
S. Khwaja                   Consultant Gas Specialist (Task Team Leader)
E. Mayorga Alba             Sr. Petroleum Economist (Economist)
Y. Zhou                     Operations Officer (Procurement Specialist)
B. Nowroozi                 Sr. Financial Management Specialist
J. Fritz                    Environmental Engineer
M. Gopal                    Chief LEGEA (Lawyer)
H. Phung                    Disbursement Officer (Disbursement)
T. Gossa                    Team Assistant



Page 90
Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 7: Documents in Project File
A.    PNG: LNG and Gas Utilization Study, January 1998
B.    PNG: Petroleum Sector Review, November 1998
C.    Institutional Development & Policy Framework Review (Mission Aide Memoire, May
1999)
D.    Project Formulation Document (by PD), June 1998
E.    Procurement Capability Assessment of the PD, November 1999
F.    Financial Management Review and Assessment of the PD, November 1999
G.    Project Implementation Plan (by PD), November 1999



Page 91
Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference between expected
and actual
disbursements'
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Project ID      FY      Borrower                            Purpose                           IBRD      IDA      Cancel   Undisb   Orig.   Frrn
Rev'd
PG-PE-5546      1998    GOPNG                               EMERGENCY EL NINO                   5.0      0.00     0.00    4.32        1.42      0.00
PG-PE-4391      1994    GOVTOFPNG                           PETROLEUM DEVT TA                  11.00     0.00     0.00    0.58       0.29       0.00
PG-PE-4392      1993    INDEPENDENSTATE OFPNNG              EDUCATIONDEVELOPMENT               35.00     0.00     0.00     17.72     17.69      0.00
PG-PE-4399      1993    GOVT OFPNG                          POPULATION PROJECT                  6.90    0.00      0.00      3.81      3.81      0.00
PG-PE-4389      1992    GOVT. OF PAPUA IEW GUINE            ORO SMILHLDR OIL PALM              27.00     0.00     0.00     15.69     15.30      0.00
Total:                    84.90     0.00      0.00    42.12     38.51       0.00
Active        Closed          Total
Projects      Projects
Projects      Projects         Totai
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):       62.66          569.76         632.42
ot which has been repaid:      9.35          282.71         292.06
Total now held by MBRD and IDA:       96.35          291.69         388.04
Amount sold:         0.00          15.39          1539
Of whichrepaid:        0.00           15.39          15.39
Total Undisbursed:      42.12            0.00         42.12
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Page 92
Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 9: PNG at a Glance
Panua       East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    New      Asia &   riddle-
Guinea    Pacific  incorne      Development diamond*
1998
Pooulaton mid-vear (millions)                           4.6     1 817       908                  Life expectancy
GNP ner canita (Atlas method. US$                      890        990     1 710
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                        4.1     1.802     1 557
Averaae annual arowth. 1992-98
Ponulation I%)                                          2.3       1 2       1.1
Labor force (%l                                         2.3       1 6       1 5      GNP                              Gross
per    r      _      T       l primary
Most recent estimnate (latest vear available. 1992-981                               capita                       enrollment
Poveritv (%M of ooulation below national Dovertv line)
Urban Donulation (% oftotalDoDulation)                  17         35        58
Life exnectancv at birth (vears)                        57         69        68
Infant mortalitv (Der 1.000 live births)                64         37        38
Child malnutrihon (% of children under 5)               30         20                          Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofooDulation)                   28         77        75
Illiteracv (O/ ofDonulation aoe 15+)                    28         15        14
Gross Drimarv enrollment (% of school-aae Dooulation)   80        117       103              Papua New Guinea
Male                                                  87        119       105              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                74        118       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998        c
Eoomcratios-
GOP (USS billions)                             1.6      3.1       4 8       3 7
GrossdomesticinvestmentlGOP                  21.6      20.5      27.1      303
Exnorts of ooods and services/GDP            45.0      43 2      53.6      68 2                     Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                   20.3      14 0      23.0      28.3
Gross national savinnslGOP                   287        6 1      16.0      21 5
Current account balance/GDP                   6 0     -13 9       4 7       -1 6     Domestic
Interest Davments/GDP                         2.0       4.9       1 7       1 9                                   Investment
Total debt/GDP                               41 2      72 4      47 7      57 7      Savings
Total debt servicelexoorts                    14.8     24 8      14 3       13 3
Present value of rtehtlfP
Present value of debt/exDorts
Indebtedness
197747  1988-98      1997      1998   1999-03
(averace annual orowthl
GDP                                  1.6      4.6       4 6       2 5       1.4               Papua New Guinea
GNP oercanita                       -0.8      2.0      -7.6       01        -1 1              Lower-middle-inoome group
Excorts of ooods and services        3.6      9.1      -1.2      10.4       2 8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of outputand investmentI%)
(% of GDP)
Aoriculture                                   33 0     29.9      27.4      24.4      6
Industrv                                     26.1      31 7      36 6      42.3      40
Manufacturino                                7.7      94        95         9.0    20
Services                                     40.9      38.5      38.0      33 3  -s
-0      2         95    e     97    98
Prvate consumDtion                           53.7      63 6      54.7      51 0    140
General covernment consumotion                26.0     22 4      22.3      2037     |GDI                     0- GOP
ImDorts of ooods and services                46.3      49.7      57 6      70.2
197747  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth ratesof exportsand imports(%)
(averaae annual arowth)
Aariculture                                    2 2      2 8       4 2       -6.4    40
Industrv                                      32        8.4     -142       189      39
Manifdatririno                               07       38a       57        411      2t
Services                                       2.0      2 8       6 0       -S 5
Prvate consumotion                             1 6      2.6      -3.6       9-4o 
General covernment consumotion                -1 5      0 8       8 4      -13 6           s5    96   97   95
Gross domestic investment                      0 1      3 7       -7 8      4 1    -10
Imoorts of ooods and services                  1.0      4.8       3 9      13.4                   Exporls    4-Imports
Gross national oroduct                         1 4      4.3      -5.5       2 3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouo averaae If data are missina the diamond will
hp inrnmnlet.l



Page 93
Papua New Guinea
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987        1997      1998     Inflation ({')
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                            20
Consumer prices                                 4.5      3.4        4.0      13.6     1
Implict GDP deflator                            7.4      8.0        3.4      10.3    1n0
Govemnent finance                                                                      5
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                   ..    29.4       27.7      24.2             93    94    95   sr    97    98
Current budget balance                           ..      3.1        1.0      -0.9                    GDP defator    *  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -7.5        -4.4      -7.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Exportand import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..   1,259      2,192     1,843     3,000
a Gold                                         ..      466        501       607     29500
Copper                                         ..      310        226       323     2          n
Manufactures..                                           .          ..I)-
Total imports (cif)                                    1,292      1,895     1,289    12509            _f i
Food                                            ..     203       244        166     1                               ID0IH00I
Fuel arnd energy                                .      145        208       142       0
Capital goods                                  ..      390        763       519 
Exnort Drice index (1995=100)                            64        100        79            92   93   94   95   96  97   98
Imnort orice index (1995=100)                                      103        99                 0 Exports    ClamportS
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                           97        80
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millionsl                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports ofgoods and services                   721    1,306       2,507     2,141     20
Imports of goods and services                  743    1,462      2,396      1,956
Resource balance                                -22     -157       Ill       185
Net income                                      -51     -177      -303      -237
Net current transfers                          172      -105       -32         -6      s        r
Current account balance                         99      -438      -224       -58       o
9 2   93   94   95   94   97   99,:r
Financing items (net)                           39       420       138      -103
Changes in net reserves                        -138       18        86       161      L io
nMemo:
Reserves includino oold (USS millions)         427      437        355       194
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS)                0.8      0.9        1.4       21
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           676    2,276       2,273     2,161
IBRD                                          51      148        270       254                    G:154    A:254
IDA                                           31      117        101        99
Total debt service                              111      356       374       300                  s:99
IBRD                                           5       19         47        49                          |    /     :44
IDA                                            0         1         3         3(
Composition of net resource flows                                                        F:746
Official grants                              243      271        218       232
Official creditors                            17      109         -3         2                \:460
Private credltors                             22        7        -57      -109
Foreign direct investment
Portfolio equity                               0        0          ..        ..                         E. 404
World Bank program
Commitments                                   19       74          0         5      A-IBRO                        E- Bilatera
Disbursements                                 12       33         48        15      B-IDA      D- Othermultlateral   F-Private
Principal repayments                           1        10        31        32      C-IMF                         G-Short-term
Netflows                                      10       23         18       -17
Interest payments                              3       11         19        20
Net transfers                                  7        12        -2       -37
Development Economics                                                                                                     9/7/99



Page 94
Papua New Guinea: Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Annex 10: M[ap
Index Map of Papua New Guinea
showing
Major Gas Fields and Proposed Gas Export Pipeline



