                                          Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                Report No: ICR 304



                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                         (IBRD-70190)

                                            ON A

                           LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7 MILLION


                                           TO THE

                        INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA

                                            FOR A


       GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                        March 26, 2007




Transport, Energy and Mining Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2006)

              Currency Unit = PGK
                     K 1.00 = US$ 0.34


                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 ­ December 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DO       Development Objective
FMIS     Financial Management Information System
FEED     Front End Engineering and Design
GOPNG    Government of Papua New Guinea
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
IT       Information Technology
MTR      Mid Term Review
MRDC     Mineral Resources Development Company
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMR      Project Management Reporting
PJ       Peta Joule
PJ/a     Peta Joules per Annum
PNG      Papua New Guinea
TA       Technical Assistance
boe      Barrels of Oil Equivalent
mscf     Thousand Standard Cubic Feet
mmcfd    Million Standard Cubic Feet per Day
tscf     Trillion Standard Cubic Feet
km       Kilometer




           Vice President:       James W. Adams
         Country Director:       Nigel Roberts
          Sector Manager:        Junhui Wu
        Task Team Leader:        Salahuddin Khwaja

                                         PAPUA NEW GUINEA

GAS DEVELOPMENT AND UTILIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                                  CONTENTS


Data Sheet
 A.   Basic Information.............................................................................................................. i
 B    Key Dates.......................................................................................................................... i
 C.   Ratings Summary.............................................................................................................. i
 D.   Sector and Theme Codes ................................................................................................. ii
 E.   Bank Staff ........................................................................................................................ ii
 F.   Results Framework Analysis ........................................................................................... ii
 G.   Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ......................................................................... iv
 H.   Restructuring................................................................................................................... iv
 I.   Disbursement Graph .........................................................................................................v

 1.   Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.....................................................1
 2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ....................................................5
 3.   Assessment of Outcomes..................................................................................................9
 4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome...............................................................14
 5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...........................................................14
 6.   Lessons Learned..............................................................................................................17
 7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.................19

 Annexes
 Annex 1.    Project Costs and Financing................................................................................20
 Annex 2.    Outputs by Component .......................................................................................21
 Annex 3.    Economic and Financial Analysis.......................................................................29
 Annex 4.    Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..................30
 Annex 5.    Beneficiary Survey Results.................................................................................31
 Annex 6.    Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ........................................................32
 Annex 7.    Borrower's Report ..............................................................................................33
 Annex 8.    Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.............................40
 Annex 9.    List of Supporting Documents............................................................................41
 Annex 10.   Achievement of Development Objectives: Project Task Form Status Chart;
             Project Performance Charts ................................................................................42
 Map:        Papua New Guinea Petroleum Licenses Location Map

A. Basic Information

Country:                Pap. New Guinea       Project Name:          PG-GAS DEV TA
Project ID:             P066954               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-70190
ICR Date:               03/29/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     INDEPENDENT
Lending Instrument:     TAL                   Borrower:              STATE OF PAPUA
                                                                     NEW GUINEA
Original Total
                        USD 7.0M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 7.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Department of Petroleum and Energy
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/14/1999    Effectiveness:         08/14/2000        08/14/2000
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/01/2000    Mid-term Review:                         02/15/2004
                                     Closing:               03/31/2006        09/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry      None


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              73               73
Oil and gas                                                    27               27


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Export development and competitiveness                      Secondary        Secondary
Other financial and private sector development              Secondary        Secondary
Regulation and competition policy                            Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:         Nigel Roberts                    Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:           Junhui Wu                        Yoshihiko Sumi
Project Team Leader:      Salahuddin Khwaja                Salahuddin Khwaja
ICR Team Leader:          Salahuddin Khwaja
ICR Primary Author:       Salahuddin Khwaja



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project has the objective to build the capacity in the Government for the efficient
management of gas sector development through: a) the strengthening of policy and
regulatory framework to promote investment in gas development; b) formulation and
analysis of gas development schemes; c) promotion of investment opportunities in gas;
and d) enhancing of monitoring and regulation capacity of the Government to ensure
optimal gas sector development.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No revisions were made.




                                              ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval          Target         Completion or
                                               documents)         Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Professional staff capability for the Petroleum Division to plan, promote and
                monitor the economic development of gas resources.
Value
quantitative or 47 percent                 67 percent          No revisions   82%
Qualitative)                                                   made

Date achieved 08/14/2000                   09/30/2006          09/30/2006     09/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Completion of studies

Value
(quantitative   Zero                       Ten studies to be No revisions     Eleven studies
or Qualitative)                            completed           were made

Date achieved 08/14/2000                   09/30/2006          09/30/2006     09/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Completion of promotions
Value
(quantitative   Zero                       Ten promotion to No revisions      Fifteen promotions
or Qualitative)                            be completed        were made

Date achieved 08/14/2000                   09/30/2006          09/30/2006     09/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Need based procurement of equipment
Indicator 3 :   to enable planning, promotion and monitoring of gas development

                                           Computer

Value                                      hardware and                       Computer hardware
(quantitative   Zero                       software,           No revisions   and sorftware worth
or Qualitative)                            estimated cost      were made
                                           US$ 800,000 to be                  US$734,504

                                           procured and



                                                 iii

                                      installed.
Date achieved 08/14/2000              09/30/2006       09/30/2006 09/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived            DO                       IP           Disbursements
                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2000      Satisfactory             Satisfactory               0.00
  2     07/24/2000      Satisfactory             Satisfactory               0.00
  3     12/28/2000      Satisfactory             Satisfactory               0.45
  4     03/08/2001      Satisfactory             Satisfactory               0.50
  5     08/15/2001      Satisfactory             Satisfactory               0.78
  6     02/11/2002      Satisfactory             Satisfactory               1.60
  7     03/07/2002      Satisfactory             Satisfactory               1.66
  8     08/19/2002      Satisfactory             Satisfactory               2.38
  9     03/11/2003      Satisfactory             Satisfactory               2.95
  10    08/08/2003      Satisfactory             Satisfactory               3.42
  11    03/16/2004      Satisfactory             Satisfactory               4.21
  12    09/17/2004      Satisfactory             Satisfactory               4.77
  13    05/19/2005      Satisfactory             Satisfactory               5.75
  14    02/25/2006      Satisfactory             Satisfactory               6.66
  15    11/20/2006  Moderately Satisfactory      Satisfactory               7.00



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                           iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1   Context at Appraisal

The overarching CAS goal was to support a concerted effort to reduce poverty and improve the
quality of life of Papua New Guineans. Declining oil production, as the producing fields were
depleted, had reduced Government revenues from tax and participation. The Government
strategy was to maintain the level of national oil production by developing newly discovered
fields thus mitigating production declines of existing fields. However, with the paucity of fields
awaiting development this was at best a medium term solution. The proven, probable and
possible recoverable gas reserves then estimated at 15 tscf i.e., 2660 million barrels of oil
equivalent, were around eight times the remaining recoverable reserves of oil. Support for the
development of PNG's large natural gas reserves was thus an important element of the strategy.
(Currently, these reserves are estimated at more than 25 tscf, equivalent to about 4433 million
barrels of oil and even at a modest netback value of US$ 0.50 per mscf represent a capital
resource asset of at least US$ 12.5 billion.) Commercial utilization of PNG's gas resource could
make a significant contribution to the stabilization of the economy over the medium and long-
term. Building the capacity in the Government to plan and manage the development of the
country's natural gas resources efficiently was the key objective of the project.

The Bank had been involved in the development of PNG's petroleum sector since 1983. The first
Bank funded project, Petroleum Exploration Technical Assistance Project (Cr.1279-PNG),
enabled the gathering of historic exploration information upon which analysis of the petroleum
potential of PNG was made. That potential was globally promoted and resulted in over US$ 2
billion of investment in exploration and development in the ensuing decade during which
significant oil and gas discoveries were made. The second Bank funded project ­ the Petroleum
Exploration and Development Technical Assistance Project (Ln.3670-PNG), brought about the
establishment of an integrated Petroleum Division and skills upgrading of the staff to manage the
exploration and production of oil. These two projects laid the ground work for petroleum
development in PNG. During the tenure of the two projects (1983-2000), total investment in
exploration and production amounted to US$ 4.2 billion. Production from some of the
discoveries, subsequently gave rise to Government revenues in excess of about US$ 1.3 billion
during the period 1992-2000. The Bank, having a clear understanding of the Petroleum
Division's development needs and sector issues, was well positioned to assist the Government in
preparing for the development of PNG's gas resources through the subject project.

1.2   Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project aimed to build the capacity in the Government for the efficient management of gas
sector development through: a) the strengthening of policy and regulatory framework to promote
investment in gas development; b) formulation and analysis of gas development schemes; c)
promotion of investment opportunities in gas; and d) enhancing of monitoring and regulation
capacity of the Government to ensure optimal gas development.

Selected indicators to monitor the project impacts included: the Petroleum Division's capacity to
plan, promote and manage the gas resource development as the PDO indicator, and the program
of training of professional staff, studies, promotions and procurement of necessary equipment as
direct milestone indicators of project implementation and performance.


                                                 1

1.3  Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
     reasons/justification

No revisions were required.

1.4  Main Beneficiaries, original and revised

The primary target group was the professional staff of the Petroleum Division of the Department
of Petroleum and Energy and other professional staff as and when seconded from other
Government Departments. These professionals would gain the skills to manage gas sector
development, particularly, the Gas to Queensland Project (subsequently called PNG Gas Project)
for export of gas to Australia - a project that would have a magnitude greater than any single
investment as yet seen in PNG. These skills would be essential to ensure that the State's and the
people of PNG's interests are protected and their collective benefits maximized. If the project for
export of gas to Australia did not eventuate, there would be an even greater necessity to build the
expertise of the Petroleum Division to promote and realize other gas development opportunities.

Moreover, the optimal development of the gas resources would bring benefits to the Nation and
the traditional land-owning communities where gas would be extracted, processed and
transported. The landowners and the local and provincial governments in particular would
variously receive royalties, equity benefits, development levies, infrastructure spending in their
areas, business development schemes and improved services arising from enlarged local revenue
streams.

1.5  Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of:

Enhancement of the Petroleum Division's expertise in gas resource evaluation, market
assessment, processing, transportation, distribution, utilization, development planning and
promotion, license and agreement administration, economic and policy analysis, development
monitoring and regulation, as well as to support mitigation of social and environmental impact of
gas resource development. Skills of the 34 professional staff of the Petroleum Division to be
upgraded through a needs-based training program consisting of: i) on-the-job training; ii) short
courses; iv) attachments to industry; v) formal courses; vi) post graduate studies; and vii)
management training which will include project management and execution. Also, secondees
(up to a maximum of ten) from other departments (Internal Revenue Commission, Office of
Environment and Conservation, Department of Lands, Department of Planning and
Implementation) were to participate in relevant courses and training assignments.               The
involvement of other Government Departments and Agencies in selected aspects of the training
to be achieved under this project was provided to promote coherency of policy and
understanding of the industry and enable the Government to manage the sector in a consistent
and concerted manner.

Studies to be conducted in-house by the staff of the Petroleum Division under supervision of
outsourced experts as required, covering: a) LPG policy and utilization; b) gas-based industrial
development; c) gas-based power generation opportunities; d) LPG and CNG use in
transportation; e) off-take of gas from export systems for local industrial use; f) opportunities for


                                                 2

gas reticulation; g) gas resource evaluation; h) review of LNG market opportunities; i) gas
pipeline and facility regulation; and j) standards and codes for LPG and natural gas quality,
storage and transport infrastructure, and user equipment.

Promotion of investment opportunities for gas export and domestic utilization involving
presentations, promotional packages, exhibitions, seminars and publications with assistance from
outsourced experts as required. Allied to such promotions will be in-country awareness
campaigns amongst affected communities to make known to people the Government's law and
policies for the sector.

Equipment to support the above activities including: computer hardware and software, specialist
publications and applications, audio-visual facilities, and office support equipment, etc.

Institutional Studies to assist in the development and establishment of alternative arrangements
for the Petroleum Division as an organization to include analysis and preparation for transition of
the Petroleum Division into a Statutory Authority.

Project Management Assistance Advice and assistance to be provided throughout the course of
project implementation to the Project Management. Such support was to be provided by an oil
and gas expert to ensure efficient, useful, and timely project implementation in concert with the
Petroleum Division's business of managing the sector development.

(See Annex 4 for Out Put by Components)

1.6   Revised Components

No revisions were required.

1.7   Other significant changes

The overall methodology of project implementation was designed to be need-based. Accordingly
there were variations in the emphasis of application and scope of project components as
compared with the PAD estimates. Significant changes of emphasis and hence component
orientation of the project briefly discussed as follows.

a) Skills Enhancement
    Skills upgrading under the project covered 58 professional staff versus 34 planned in the
    PAD, without significant variation in the cost of this component. No secondments from other
    Government Departments and Agencies were able to be effected due to the lack of available
    staff in those respective organizations to undertake secondments. Such secondments were
    only envisaged as an adjunct participatory opportunity for those other Departments as and
    when such might be made.

b) Studies
    Many of the primary studies originally envisaged were obviated due to the industry
    conducting those studies of their own accord, yet in collaboration with the Government. The
    costs of studies was less than expected due to the studies being more specifically focused on



                                                  3

    particular gas development issues related to the PNG Gas Project (e.g. Optimization of the
    Location of Processing Facilities) and auxiliary and support studies for the Petroleum
    Division itself (e.g. data integration study). A total of eleven studies were undertake versus
    ten planned in the PAD.

c) Promotions
    Fifteen promotions were conducted as against ten planned at appraisal. However, the cost of
    this component has been less than that forecast largely due to the use of electronic media for
    information dissemination rather than printed media. Additionally, once promotional material
    was generated, there was little cost to update it, and only subsequent update, replication,
    delivery, and conference attendance costs were incurred.

d) Institutional Studies
    Two phases of institutional study were undertaken which necessarily elevated the costs.
    During the initial study, it was determined that a program of transition preparation was
    desirable.   Hence, a second study was conducted (q.v. the Review of Management
    Organization and Operational Practices was conducted). This has enabled a more measured
    (and less pressured) approached to consideration of the transition of the Petroleum Division
    into a Statutory Authority.

e) Project Management
    This component grew significantly, primarily due to inputs from the Government for support
    activities.
          i) The original design provided for the engagement of a Petroleum Adviser for 195
    days (75% of normal annual working days) of advisory services per year for 5 years for a
    total of 975 days. These days were exhausted by mid-July 2005 due to the very high demand
    on the Adviser's time. An additional 180 days were subsequently added to maintain the
    continuity of advisory services in the light of the demand and the revised project closing date
    of 30 Sep 2006. In May 2006, a further short term engagement was made for a total of 50
    days through to the project closing. The project adviser made a prolific contribution,
    particularly in project implementation planning; management advice; the provision of multi-
    disciplined technical advice; evaluation of development plans, mentoring of the staff;
    assessments of staff outputs, and advice to the Secretary of the Department and various
    Ministers. His files of work are archived on the Petroleum Division's server.
         ii) The other expenditure in this component represents the significant costs of the
    Petroleum Division in supporting project activities such as studies, promotions,
    implementation of institutional reforms, financial management services and many other
    ancillary costs which were accounted to project management because of their supporting
    nature.

There has, however, been no significant variation in the overall cost of the project.

The six months extension of the loan closing date does not reflect a delay in implementation per
se, but was a consequence of a later date being set to allow the completion of ongoing post
graduate studies in the northern hemisphere academic year of September 2005 to September
2006.



                                                  4

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1   Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

The Department of Petroleum and Energy, the project originating entity, instigated the project
preparation with an initial outline of a proposed project in a Project Information Document
(PID), which formed the basis of initial discussions with the Bank and with the Department of
National Planning and Implementation. Initial consideration of the PID led to the Bank being
invited to review and assist in project preparations, which in turn led to the formal submission of
a Project Formulation Document and request for assistance from the Bank. Project pre-appraisal
and appraisal was conducted in direct consultation with the Petroleum Division ensuring that the
project design was suitable and relevant to the skills enhancement needs of the Division and
sector development.

In preparation, the Petroleum Division took on considerable ownership of the project and
expressed its desire to manage the project directly without external collaboration and without a
separate project implementation unit (PIU). The Bank endorsed such a strategy on account of the
Petroleum Division's prior project implementation experience and the consequent enhanced
responsibility that this would afford the Petroleum Division. Quintessential to this approach was
the designation of the Director of the Petroleum Division as Project Manager. This placed the
project in the mainstream of the Division's work rather than as an adjunct and enabled the
Director to manage the project blending sector development imperatives with project objectives.

The project was designed with a menu of project components and activities that would provide
the Petroleum Division with professional and institutional advancement in the context of sector
development. As oil and gas developments are highly dependent on prices and markets, the
shape and extent of sector development could not be anticipated. The project activities were,
therefore, conceived to be need-based to enable the Division to choose the most appropriate
activities corresponding to its requirements.

Associated with increased investment in sector development, there was the possibility that the
trained staff of the Petroleum Division might be enticed to resign from the Petroleum Division
for better- remunerated employment within the industry. Studies were, therefore, included as a
project component to assist in the development and establishment of alternative arrangements
whereby more competitive industry-linked remunerative packages could be offered to minimize
such staff attrition.

The evaluation of the quality at entry was not carried out.

2.2   Implementation

Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency

Energy prices necessarily affect the level of investment in petroleum sector development. During
the course of the project, oil prices ranged from as low as US$ 18 per barrel in late 2001 to as
much as US$ 80 per barrel in 2006. In energy equivalence terms, for natural gas this translates
to a range of US$ 3.60 per mscf to US$ 16 per mscf. The higher crude prices have fostered the
consideration of investment in many gas projects world wide, including those being promoted in
PNG. This has been a positive and welcome factor, which has helped support the Petroleum
Division in its promotional efforts.


                                                  5

In the PAD, which was prepared in early 2000 when there was much enthusiasm associated with
the concept of evacuating unwanted volumes of associated gas arising from oil production, it was
envisaged that it was possible for gas production of 300 mmscfd to have been initiated by 2005
under the Gas to Queensland Project (subsequently called PNG Gas Project). This was
established as a sector indicator with the critical assumption that "markets for gas sales and
financing for gas infrastructure will be realized". The markets were slow to mature due to
competitive supplies of gas from Australian domestic sources and also from a number of coal
seam methane projects. By October, 2004 the project proponent companies were sufficiently
confident to advance the gas development with the conduct of front end engineering and design
(FEED) and planned to export a considerably larger volume of 550 mmscfd of gas. However,
during 3Q 2006, it was realized that the infrastructure costs of the Australian gas transmission
system had blown out due to elevated steel prices and increased system complexity. This in turn
prompted a demand for a higher transportation tariffs for the delivery of PNG gas to customers
making the PNG Gas Project economics questionable and the project had to be shelved. The
Government and the project proponent companies are now formulating plans for production and
export of gas and gas derivatives such as LNG, methanol/dimethyl ether, synfuels, ammonia, and
urea, as well as gas based aluminum smelting and power generation.

In regard to capacity building, two modalities of training were not used as much as was
originally envisaged; these were management training and industrial attachments. The
identification of appropriate management courses was found to be relatively difficult as most
industry programs concentrated on sector business rather than the business of running of a
petroleum agency of a government. It was also found to be difficult to obtain the support of
industry for the attachment of staff for in-house training and work experience with reputable oil
companies as most companies had switched over to outsourcing the training for their own staff
through external providers.

Some staff attrition took place during the course of the project leading to the loss of 12
professional staff as they took up alternative employment of their choice. After a period of
industry quiescence, sector development activity picked up on account of higher oil prices,
PNG's incentive fiscal terms, and impending construction of pipelines and facilities for the PNG
Gas Project. A considerable number of smaller entrepreneurial companies have taken up
petroleum prospecting licenses and either opened offices or sought local representation and
employees creating interesting opportunities for PNG petroleum professionals. Some of the
operating oil companies (Oil Search, InterOil, New Guinea Energy, Cheetah Oil and Gas and
Transeuro) and the operator of the PNG Gas Project (ExxonMobil) have also sought to engage
local petroleum professionals.

Factors generally subject to government control

With the experience of implementing prior TA projects the Petroleum Division had good
working relationships with other concerned Government agencies: Department of Treasury,
Department of National Planning and Rural Development, and State Solicitor's Office and as a
consequence received considerable cooperation. Much of this is due to the respect held for the
Petroleum Division and the partnership and colleague relationship between corresponding
officers of the Petroleum Division and those other officers.


                                                6

The attrition of staff mentioned above could have been reduced had the Government introduced
better terms and conditions of employment for their petroleum professionals as soon as
alternative employment opportunities emerged. The Government has consistently failed to
recognize the rewards that oil and gas sector may provide its professionals commensurate with
the demands of the industry and its high levels of investments. At the time of appraisal, it was
considered that the conversion of the Petroleum Division into a Statutory Authority might be a
means by which the organization might be able to devise better remuneration for its staff.
However, given the checkered record of the establishment of Statutory Authorities in PNG, the
Petroleum Division proceeded most cautiously along this route, so as to gain wider Government
support for such and embarked on a program of reform in late 2005 to get ready for conversion
by January 2008.

Despite some attrition of staff during implementation, the implementation of the project was not
impaired on account of the Government's prudent increase in the staff establishment to 58
professionals in September 2000, exceeding the anticipated number of 34 professionals to be
trained under the project.

Aside from implementation matters, the Government has been proactive in achieving the
program goal of "economic development of the gas resources of PNG to achieve economic and
social development". It engaged a multi-department team led by the Petroleum Division to
negotiate and conclude the PNG Gas Project Gas Agreement and Fiscal Stability Agreement to
support the planned export of gas to Australia. Building on that the Government established a
Ministerial Gas Committee and has given prominence to all efforts to advance gas development.

Factors generally subject to implementing agency control

The Petroleum Division took into account the changing needs of the sector in its choice and use
of the modalities of implementation of the project. Accordingly, in respect of skills upgrading,
expertise was engaged on a needs basis to provide on-the-job training and responsible advice to
the degree and extent required at any particular time. In a similar manner courses, postgraduate
studies, industrial attachments, studies and promotions were undertaken only as were justified. In
this manner the project made judicious use of the resources available and optimized
opportunities for sector engagement along with learning. The Petroleum Division was thus able
to involve itself in critical milestones of the planned PNG Gas Project, such as taking a lead role
in the negotiations for the Gas Agreement for that project and pre-FEED commercial
negotiations, project concept reviews, project financing and project sanction.

As a result of dwindling levels of investment, the Petroleum Division reviewed the fiscal terms
for petroleum exploration in general and for frontier areas, resulting in the Government reducing
the tax on new petroleum developments for an incentive period to same as that for gas. This
resulted in renewed interest in petroleum exploration, and with the likelihood of gas development
has enabled reconsideration of gas as being worthy of exploration. Thus, circumstances for
investment in gas exploration were enhanced.
2.3   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The project was designed to be executed by the Petroleum Division on a needs-basis. All project
activities were scrutinised for their appropriateness and the needs linked to the work of the
Division. Tasks were initiated at various levels of the organization: at a personal level to fulfill
training aspirations, at section level for branch tasks and at the Director's Office for Divisional


                                                   7

efforts. In all cases, a Project Task Form (PTF) was completed by the officer(s) to whom the
task was assigned. The completed PTF was furnished to the relevant Assistant Director of the
Branch who then assigned it a Branch code and sequence number (e.g. POL 031 for Policy
Branch Task No. 3). The Assistant Director then forwarded the PTF to the Director and Project
Manager for his approval.

The PTFs were essentially work-orders that provided for discussion, rationalization and
matching of the task with the aims and objectives of the project and the sector development
priorities. The PTF provided for the definition and objective of the task, a description of the
work, a plan and schedule for the task to be undertaken, assessment of the deliverables and costs
of the task, definition of the participating professional staff, approvals, assessment, closure,
feedback, and suggestions for further action required. This system remains in use with the
Division.

In the implementation of the project, a total of 349 tasks were identified of which 347 were
completed by the end of the project (consolidated in the document titled "Project Task Form
Progress Tracking Chart" in Annex 10).

The project used the Bank's project management reporting (PMR) system to monitor progress in
the physical implementation of the project (depicted in the document titled "Project Performance
Chart" in Annex 10) and to monitor the project's budgetary and financial status. As the project
was a small technical assistance project with no major goods or works procurement, the cash
model of PMR reporting (in accordance with the Project Financial Management Manual) was
used.

The Bank's supervision missions were generally conducted every six months throughout project
implementation. The mission aide memoirs, aside from the monitoring and reporting of project
performance also documented the progress and issues associated with sector development. No
quality of supervision reviews were undertaken by the Bank.

A Mid Term Report (MTR), pursuant to Loan Agreement Schedule V Section 6 (b), accounting
for the project to June 30, 2003 was prepared and submitted to the Bank in 4Q 2003. The mission
reviewed this report with the Petroleum Division, and no significant changes in project
implementation were required.

2.4   Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard Policies were not applicable.

Project Financial Management. After initially using the bookkeeping services of an
international reputable accountancy firm, the project elected to use a Bank approved
computerized Project Financial Management System. This conformed to the Project's Financial
Management System Handbook that had been devised at the outset of implementation and had
been approved by the Bank. Quarterly progress reports using Bank's PMR system were regularly
provided to the Bank. Independent auditors acceptable to Bank were employed to audit the
statements of the project account, statements of expenditures and financial statements which
were furnished to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year of the borrower,
confirming that the financial management of the project funds was adequate.




                                               8

Procurement The project prepared a Project Procurement Manual which guided project
procurements. Adequate procurement staff was on hand within in the Petroleum Division which
liaised with the project procurement committee to oversee the procurement. Prior review
thresholds were maintained. All goods and consultant services financed under the Loan were
procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Post procurement reviews were annually
conducted by Bank's supervision team.

2.5   Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project has been of invaluable assistance to the Petroleum Division in grappling with issues
surrounding gas matters. The intensity of skills enhancement under the project was considerable.
However, capacity building is an ongoing responsibility in any organization, especially where a
sector is in its early stage of development and where experience levels are low. Maintaining the
tradition set under the project, the qualified professional staff of the Division continue to impart
their knowledge to their subordinates and successors through ongoing in-house instruction, on-
the-job-training, mentoring and teamwork. Specific actions being taken for ongoing institutional
and capacity building operations are as follows:

    a) The reforms in preparation for transition of the Petroleum Division into a Statutory
        Authority are variously being approved and implemented; these should pave the way for
        full transition and correspondingly more control of such activities as staff professional
        development and training;
    b) A submission seeking revised Special Domestic Market Allowances (salary
        enhancements) is being considered by the Secretary of the Department of Personnel
        Management, and should be implemented in 2Q 2007;
    c) Petroleum Division staff regularly attend Ministerial Committees as the Government's
        principle adviser on sector matters;
    d) The FY 2007 Petroleum Division budget provides for ongoing training and staff
        development activities;
    e) The Petroleum Division maintains links with bilateral and multilateral organizations that
        continue to provide various training opportunities; and
    f) Preparation of the final draft Bill for the conversion of the Petroleum Division into a
        Statutory Authority, which will be placed on the legislative program of Parliament
        sometime during 2007.

The project was implemented in tandem with the ongoing duties and responsibilities of the
Petroleum Division and was managed entirely by the Petroleum Division itself, with the Director
of the Division being the Project Manager. There are, therefore, no organizational, functional or
staffing transitions involved.

3.    Assessment of Outcomes

3.1   Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Faced with declining oil revenues and dwindling remaining recoverable reserves, the
Government intends to develop the nation's gas resources. It chose to enhance the capacity of the
Petroleum Division of the Department of Petroleum and Energy to help manage gas
development. To achieve this, the Petroleum Division designed a project that entailed the



                                                  9

development of its expertise in gas resource evaluation, market assessment, processing,
transportation, distribution, and utilization. The project was additionally designed to enable the
upgrading of associated skills in development planning and promotion, license and agreement
administration, economic and policy analysis, development monitoring and regulation, social
impact mitigation, and environmental protection.

The development thesis was that through the enabling of gas development, economic growth
might be encouraged which would translate into macro-improvements in the economy, and
hence an increase in the welfare of the nation.

There has been no significant oil find since the discovery of Moran field in 1996. Oil production
continues to decline due to the maturity of the producing oil fields and the difficulty of dealing
with increasing volumes of associated gas produced with oil. The producing fields are likely to
be depleted by 2015. The development of gas resources, therefore, remains a high priority of the
Government for the continuance of sector investment and it is in line with the CAS goal to
support a concerted effort to reduce poverty and improve the quality of life of the people of
Papua New Guinea. Notwithstanding the changing fortunes of the PNG Gas Project for the
supply of gas by pipeline to Australia, a number of gas development schemes are currently under
scrutiny for potential development investment. The broad-based capacity building during the TA
project has equipped the staff of the Petroleum Division with most appropriate and
encompassing knowledge with which to consider these schemes.

3.2   Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The development objective of the project was to build capacity in the Government by the
enhancement of Petroleum Division's capabilities for efficient management of gas sector
development through: a) strengthening of policy and regulatory framework to promote
investment in gas development; b) formulation and analysis of gas development schemes; c)
promotion of investment opportunities in gas; and d) enhancing of monitoring and regulating
capacity of the Government to ensure optimal gas sector development. The objective was
satisfactorily achieved.

The strengthening the policy and regulatory framework to promote investment in gas
development was substantially achieved by amendments to law, the definition of additional
regulations and the consummation of a gas agreement and a fiscal stability agreement for the
PNG Gas Project involving the large-scale (5 trillion cubic feet) development of PNG's gas
reserves for transmission of sales gas to customers in Australia. In respect of the formulation
and analysis of gas development schemes, the Petroleum Division's efforts mostly centered
around the PNG Gas Project which was to have entailed an investment of around US$ 2.9 billion
in PNG for gas field development, processing facilities and gas delivery by pipeline to the
Australian border, and US$ 2.1 billion for the gas transmission system in Australia. It aimed to
export around 550 million cubic feet of sale gas per day to customers in Australia by the year
2009. As PNG's first major gas development project, it provided an excellent opportunity for the
Petroleum Division to enhance and test its capabilities in the planning, analysis and negotiations
involved in the formulation of gas development schemes. While the Project had to be shelved
due to unexpected increase in the cost of Australian gas transmission and distribution system on



                                                 10

account of escalation of steel prices, the Petroleum Division's capability enhancement has
enabled the Government to commence the expeditious examination and preparation of alternate
gas development schemes such as LNG export, manufacture of methanol, di-methyl ether,
synfuels, ammonia and urea, the probabilistic sum of which will most likely greatly exceed the
goal of 300 mmscfd targeted in the PAD.

                    Project              Sponsor                 Potential Demand

                                                          PJ/a               mmscfd

             Methanol-DME           OSL/Mitsui              80                 192

             Ammonia-Urea           OSL/Oswal               50                 120

             GTL Synfuels           Syntroleum             250                 600

             LNG-1                  ExxonMobil             250                 600

             LNG-2                  OSL/BG                 250                 600

             LNG-3                  InterOil               250                 600

             Aluminum Smelter       Rusal                  200                 480

             Power Generation       PNG Power               15                 36

                                               Total      1,345               3,228


The promotion of opportunities for investment in oil and gas exploration was largely achieved
through the introduction of incentive fiscal terms, which led to a large increase in the number of
licensees and investment plans for the period 2006 to 2010 amounting to US$ 335 million in new
petroleum work and expenditure commitments. To enhance the monitoring and regulation
capacity of the Government to ensure optimal gas development, the project sought to enhance
the Petroleum Division's learning and understanding of all aspects of gas resource development.
Apart from on-the-job training and discrete courses, the project has afforded the professional
staff the opportunity to pursue post-graduate studies at prominent universities in UK, USA and
Australia to embellish their practical sector experience. A total of 28 staff obtained Masters
Degrees in topics relevant to sector development, which has resulted into increasingly
professional behavior in the conduct of their responsibilities. The Petroleum Division, therefore,
has a substantial cadre of knowledgeable professional staff actively monitoring and regulating
the industry.

Overall, the development objective has been well-served with substantial efforts by the staff
themselves resulting in a stronger Petroleum Division with much more highly trained staff. The
Mid-Term Review, conducted in mid-2003, found that, based on aggregate assessments, 71.5%
of the staff was able to perform their professional responsibilities as compared to 46.9% at the
start of the project. A further assessment made in late 2005, found that the aggregate assessment
had risen to 81.7% as against the project outcome indicator target of 66.7%. The Petroleum
Division, therefore, has a substantial and knowledgeable professional staff actively monitoring
and regulating the industry.

A detailed account of the output by components and achievement of the development objective is
given in Annexes 2 and 10 respectively.



                                                11

3.3   Efficiency
Not applicable.

3.4   Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

      Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Due to the extended time of the gestation of large-scale gas development, specifically due to the
PNG Gas Project, the overall outcome might only be described as Moderately Satisfactory,
notwithstanding the sterling achievement of the staff in having made extraordinary advances in
their understanding of the various disciplines involved in the oil, and gas sector. Unfortunately,
the macro-economic outcome of gas development being initiated with gas flowing to customers
is overwhelmingly dependent on many exogenous factors outside of the control of the Petroleum
Division and the government such as the relative pricing of oil and gas per unit of energy
delivered, competition for customers by different energy providers; the global steel prices; the
global price of oil and gas fields services (itself dependent on the oil price); global and regional
political perspectives.

3.5   Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)   Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
      Contribution to poverty alleviation through large-scale commercialization of gas resources
      was intended but not realized.

(b)   Institutional Change/Strengthening
      The Petroleum Division has now been in existence for more than thirteen years and
      represents a stable Division of the Government. To date it has had five directors, the last
      four of which have been PNG citizens who were previously assistant directors of the
      Division's branches. The decision to build up a large cadre of professional national officers
      was made during the preparations for the previous Bank funded project called Petroleum
      Exploration and Development TA Project (Ln.3670). Although it took much energy to
      convince the Government to fund and staff an expanded establishment in the mid 1990s, it
      is now paying dividends, as there is a pool of trained and experienced staff capable of
      assuming section, branch and ultimately divisional responsibilities. This capacity for
      succession, if nurtured and preserved, should be the main ingredient of the Petroleum
      Division's sustainability. However, that capacity may be seriously eroded if qualified and
      experienced professionals were to leave the Petroleum Division to take up work within the
      industry where significantly better remuneration prevails. Whilst loss of PNG's public
      service professionals to private sector employment is not confined to the petroleum sector,
      the oil and gas sector is renowned for its rather demanding yet rewarding life-style and
      associated benefits. This is all the more accentuated with the global oil prices being so
      high. In managing the British North Sea petroleum activities, the UK government many
      years ago found it necessary to attract and retain oil and gas sector professionals by paying
      a special bonus equivalent to almost 85% of the base salary for the public service grade
      occupied. The Government of Papua New Guinea would do well to invest in and look after
      its oil and gas professionals in a similar manner.




                                                 12

The sustainability of the Petroleum Division will also depend on the professionals allying in
teams to deal with specific issues in a more industry-like manner. Already there is a trend
towards the appointment of teams tasked by the Director to do such; this is encouraging.

The last review of the Petroleum Division's staff establishment was made in the Department
Organizational Structure submission of 1999. In that review the professional staff establishment
was raised from 34 to 58 staff. The organizational structure is now seven years old. During that
time there has been a considerable enhancement of staff skills and knowledge, and for many a
further seven years of dealing with the sector. Just as the Government has responded to the
emergence of the oil and gas sector over the last two decades by developing its institutional
capacity, stature and profile, the Government will likely consider what arrangements best suit the
sector as it becomes more diverse and complex. The gas development will be more enduring than
the current developments of oil fields and will operate at steady rates and conditions. Also, the
gas utilization projects will be very industrial in character and may or may not be the
responsibility of the Petroleum Division. However, it seems that PNG is embarking on a period
of gas exploitation that will likely last several decades. Consequently, provided investments are
forthcoming, there should be continued and sustainable business for the Petroleum Division. The
vast array of skills, experience and qualifications that staff of the Petroleum Division has
acquired during the implementation of the project will need to be harnessed carefully by the
Departmental and Divisional management. This will require quality and stability in management
and strength in assuaging political interference in operations.

Few governments in the world, whether developed or otherwise, have ever kept pace with the
speed of petroleum sector development; most have been reactive rather than proactive only
providing enhanced human and financial resources to their petroleum agencies after realizing
positive economic outcomes. The sustainability of the Petroleum Division, therefore, depends
upon the PNG Government recognizing all the complexities and nuances of the industry that it is
pursuing, and appropriately equipping the future Petroleum Division. Gas development, once
initiated, will likely continue for many years beyond the production of foundation volumes of the
envisaged projects. Consequently, sector and establishment planning should be long term and
should involve the latest technologies, systems and databases.

Notwithstanding the enhancement of the skills of the staff of the Petroleum Division, the
Petroleum Division will continue to have specialist advisory needs; that's the way of the
petroleum industry. Few if any petroleum agencies are truly sustainable in themselves; even in
developed economies such organizations still outsource specialists to assist and advise on
specific issues.

(c)   Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
      None

3.6   Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable




                                                 13

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

Clearly, the Petroleum Division has matured into an established Departmental institution of the
Government, but whilst it remains as part of the Public Service, it may suffer from the
application of common denominators. Its evolution into an independent Statutory Authority,
which is well in train, should help consolidate its learning gains and institutional development
over the past years fostered by Bank technical assistance. There are, however, risks remaining to
the expected development outcome that the Petroleum Division would be able to plan, promote
and monitor the economic development of PNG's gas resources; these depend on many
circumstances.

    · Technical: the Petroleum Division will need to keep abreast of new technologies,
        particularly those pertaining to petroleum data receipt, storage, retrieval, interpretation
        and dissemination.
    · Financial: the Petroleum Division or its planned successor: the National Petroleum
        Authority will have to maintain appropriate levels of budget support or cash generation
        derived respectively from either the national budget or from fees levied on petroleum
        operations.
    · Economic: the robustness of global price of crude oil will have a marked effect on the
        ability of the Petroleum Division or its successor to operate.
    · Social: Government assertion of its right to the subterranean resources in the face of
        mounting and more sovereign claims of traditional landowners may not be sustainable.
    · Political: The relative political harmony that has existed since independence based on a
        parliamentary democracy may not prevail above other forms and means of Government
        or non-Government
    · Government ownership/commitment: The Government remains committed to resource
        exploitation as a contribution to the National budget and remains supportive of policies
        and budgetary provisions for the sector;
    · Other stakeholder ownership: Private industry is enthused with the terms for petroleum
        operations in PNG.

Taking into account the above, the overall Risk to Development Outcome is Moderate.

5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1   Bank Performance

(a)   Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
      Rating: Satisfactory

      The relevance of project and its components to the CAS objectives and the strategy of the
      Government for sector development were clearly established at project identification. The
      project team assisted the borrower and the implementing agency in the design of the project
      and its implementation arrangements. Project implementation was planned to be managed



                                                 14

    by the Petroleum Division in tandem with the Division's responsibilities for sector
    development. The experience gained and lessons learnt in the previous TA projects were
    taken into account during the design and preparation of the project. Significantly, project
    design sought to make sure that the systems and procedures for project management were
    in place before project commencement and that contract for goods and services were, as far
    as possible, be denominated in the currency of the loan to avoid impacts from exchange
    rate fluctuations and consequent cost variations. The appraisal was comprehensive as
    reflected in the PAD. The project team established good relationship with the various
    involved agencies of the borrower. The performance of the Bank through the lending phase
    is assessed to be satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
    Rating: Satisfactory

    Project implementation progress was documented in the periodic supervision mission aide
    memoirs to which were attached detailed charts and tables of activities undertaken. The
    aide memoirs regularly assessed the implementation progress of project components and
    their impact, and analyzed sector issues and development. In collaboration with the Project
    Manager, the staff and the Project Adviser, the supervision missions produced in-depth and
    substantial reports, not only on the project itself, but also the sector, which have been
    highly regarded by all sector stakeholders. The financial management and procurement
    activities of the project were monitored by the Bank's financial management specialist and
    the procurement specialist on the supervision team.

    No major implementation problems were encountered, as indications of impending
    difficulties became the subject of prompt consultation between the Project Manager, the
    Project Adviser and the Bank's Supervision Team and agreed actions to mitigate or avert
    such. The Bank's advice was well regarded by the Petroleum Division throughout the
    project. The performance ratings reflected the steady progress and performance of the
    project in the context of sector development. No recourse to the enforcement of the loan
    covenants or remedies was required. There were no requirements for modification or
    restructuring of the project.

    On average two supervision missions were undertaken each year at times suited to the
    Petroleum Division. The skill mix of the supervision missions comprised of the task team
    leader (gas specialist) and a petroleum economist as needed. The missions maintained the
    continuity of involvement of the same team members during project implementation, which
    enabled and fostered good professional dialog between the mission and the staff of the
    Division.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory


    Taking into account the performance during the lending and supervision phases as
    enumerated above, the overall performance of the Bank is considered satisfactory.
    Considerable effort was taken by the supervision team to determine the needs of the



                                              15

    Petroleum Division and to monitor sector development, institutional development and the
    training progress of the staff of the Petroleum Division.

5.2 Borrower Performance


(a) Government Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

    The Government maintained its macro-economic policy of permitting natural resource
    exploitation subject to the provision that it is conducted in a manner that minimizes socio-
    economic and environmental impact, provides optimal returns to the Government, and yet
    affords reasonable returns on investment. No changes to this established policy were either
    sought or made during the period of project implementation. The project in its objectives
    sought to support this policy by strengthening the regulatory framework. Amendments to
    sector legislation, important regulations and key agreements devised by the Petroleum
    Division under the project received strong Government support.

    Other Government departments have been accommodating and supportive of the project
    variously in approval of project budgets (Department of National Planning and Rural
    Development); approval of trust accounts, approval and dispatch of withdrawal
    applications, and approval of contracts (Department of Treasury); allocation of counterpart
    funds, receipt of monthly and annual project accounts (Department of Finance); legal
    clearance of contracts (Department of Attorney General); and increase of the professional
    staff establishment on project commencement (Department of Personnel Management) thus
    preventing attrition of staff from thwarting project activities.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

    The Petroleum Division of the Department of Petroleum and Energy was responsible for
    project implementation with its Director being the Project Manager. Considering the busy
    portfolio of the Director, project management has been most successful. The Assistant
    Directors and the Project Adviser supported the Director in project implementation. The
    Assistant Directors were responsible for selecting activities appropriate for the skills
    upgrading of their branches and for support of their sector work. The Project Adviser
    reported directly to the Project Manager and provided considerable sector advice and
    professional and project guidance.

    During appraisal, plans were made for the training of 34 professionals. However, with the
    increase in the establishment to 58 professionals in September 2000, many more had the
    benefit of skills upgrading and participation in project activities than was originally
    considered. The additional staff thus provided a cushion against attrition. The increase in
    staff was, therefore, a great foresight.

    The financial management of the project initially utilized bookkeepers sourced from a
    reputable accounting firm, but subsequently moved to the use of its own financial system



                                                16

     enabling the production of project accounts and reports in-house. A Financial Management
     Specialist was engaged to train the staff in the use of the system and to provide subsequent
     maintenance and support. The project produced project management reports (PMRs)
     throughout the period of its implementation and furnished them to the Bank.

     Monitoring and evaluation of the project implementation built on the Petroleum Division's
     previous successful project implementation experience. In tracking project activities, the
     Petroleum Division used a project task form (PTF). The PTF provides for the definition and
     objective of the task, a description of the work, a plan and schedule for the task to be
     undertaken, assessment of the deliverables and costs of the task, definition of the
     participating professional staff, approvals, assessment, closure, feedback, and suggestions
     for further action required. The progress of a PTF through the chain of approval from staff
     to Assistant Director, Director and the completion of the underlying activity was mapped in
     a PTF tracking chart using PMR units. The tracking chart was updated every quarter and
     the cumulative PMR data migrated to a project performance chart where activities levels
     were compared against the original levels envisaged in the PAD. This diligent recording of
     all the project activities provided input into the quarterly PMRs and enabled close
     monitoring.

     As the Petroleum Division was the implementing agency and took direct charge of project
     implementation itself (without recourse to a separate PIU) and as the staff were the target
     beneficiaries for skills upgrading, beneficiary participation was extremely high.

     The project maintained compliance with the Bank's procurement procedures. The annual
     audit of project accounts by external auditors was unqualified, and completed on time for
     every year of implementation. The Borrower was in compliance with all the covenants
     under the loan.

(c)  Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
     Rating: Satisfactory

     Based on the above overall borrower performance is assessed to be satisfactory. The
     Petroleum Division assiduously applied itself to systematic project implementation
     throughout the project period mindful that the very circumstances of gas development were
     constantly changing. It aptly used the TA to good effect to support its learning about gas
     development in the context of the evolving sector development. Much valuable experience
     and learning has been achieved through the judicious use of the menu of project activities.

6.   Lessons Learned

In instances where projects are managed by line managers, as was the case in this project where
the Director, Petroleum Division was designated as the Project Manger, provision needs to be
made for support throughout the project implementation period as there may not be constancy of
appointment. During the Gas TA project there were three directors each serving approximately
two years and having different styles of management, academic backgrounds and public service
records. They variously had expertise in environmental sciences, geophysics and economics and
all had worked in other organizations before joining the Petroleum Division and undertaking


                                                17

several years of training including postgraduate studies under the auspices of the Division. In the
formulation of TA projects based on organizations where there is rapid staff turn over and/or
succession, the provision should be made for a project assistant knowledgeable in project
management, sector issues and development, and Bank and Government processes; in case of
subject project such support was provided by the Project Adviser in addition to his own duties.

The use of PTF ensured that each implementation activity is properly conceived, pursues the
hierarchy of project objectives and is amenable to accounting. It voided ad hoc behavior,
introduced process and stability into project management decisions.

The project management reporting (PMR) as required by the Bank's Project Financial
Management Manual dated February 1999 was more exhaustive than was suitable to a TA
project such as this with no major goods and works procurement and relatively few transactions
per year.

In the implementation of TA projects that are seeking to enhance staff capacity in the context of
uncertain and changing sector development, rigidity of project design should be avoided. This
project wisely chose to be flexible in its implementation from the outset with all activities being
defined as need-based. A menu of likely skills upgrading modalities, likely topics for studies,
methods of promotion and a generic equipment component enabled the Petroleum Division to
choose the best suited activities and purchases for any given time and circumstance.

The uncertainty of petroleum sector developments arises from price, politics and markets all of
which are intrinsically uncertain in themselves. Where technical assistance is being provided to
help sector development in a developing country environment, these uncertainties should be
recognized lest premature and inappropriate activities are undertaken to the detriment of
activities that would support sector emergence.

In TA projects such as this where the enhancement of staff skills is sought, it is difficult to
reconcile and measure the advancement of skills during the implementation period and the
consequent improvement in performance. The Petroleum Division faced this vexed problem; it
was uneasy about subjecting the staff to examinations and testing lest there be disconcertment,
and yet it had to obtain a measure of the enhancement of staff skills and their capacity to carry
out their duties. Faced with this challenge the Petroleum Division devised a staff self-evaluation
form within which, amidst a variety of administrative and solicitous questions, the staff was
asked to assess how they considered their own performance. The results of evaluations showed a
clear appreciation and realization of advancement without any disconcert and correlated to the
observations of industry.

In the conduct of the Institutional Studies and the subsequent follow up study great emphasis was
placed on consultation with the staff. This provided valuable input and heightened the sense of
ownership of the strategy developed. Indeed, the open articulation of issues and concerns by the
staff helped guide the consultants in formulating more appropriate plans.




                                                 18

7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies:
    No issues were raised.

(b) Cofinanciers
    Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):
    Not applicable




                                           19

                                 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)       Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
(Total rows and percentage column will be calculated by the system)


           Components              Appraisal Estimate      Actual /Latest Estimate    Percentage of Appraisal
                                     (US$ million)              (US$ million)

1.Enhancement of skills of                                                                        1.00
National professional staff                4.47                      4.50

2. Studies                                 0.75                      0.36                         0.48

3. Promotion of investment                                                                        0.80
opportunities                              0.45                      0.36

4. Equipment                               0.80                      0.73                         0.91

5. Institutional studies                   0.10                      0.15                         1.50

6. Project management                      0.54                      1.38                         2.55

             Total Baseline Cost           7.11                      7.48                         1.05

Physical Contingencies                     0.41

Price Contingencies

             Total Project Costs

Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)

Front-end fee (IBRD only)                                            0.07

     Total Financing Required              7.52                      7.55                         1.00
Note:     1.  Project management costs included support for studies, promotions, implementation of institutional
              reforms, financial management (US$ 0.74 million), and project advice (US$ 0.64 million).
          2.  Total disbursement from the loan amounts to US$ 6,997,886.67; the remaining amount of US$
              2,113.33 has been cancelled.

(b)       Co-financing
(The appraisal estimate will be entered from the Financing data in SAP/AUS; Percentage of
Appraisal column will be calculated by the system)

                                                   Appraisal             Actual/Latest
   Source of Funds        Type of Financing         Estimate                Estimate           Percentage of

                                                 (US$ million)           (US$ million)            Appraisal

Government                                            0.50                    0.55                  1.10
IBRD                                                  7.00                    7.00                  1.00




                                                      20

                                 Annex 2: Outputs by Component

The project was designed with an array of components and sub-components that would allow for the
necessary need-based selection of activities to reflect the pace and progress of sector development
and yet still provide opportunities for skills enhancement, solutions to sector development questions,
promotion of sector development, appropriate equipment and responsible technical advice. The
component and sub-component activities of the project were fitted with project management report
(PMR) units during appraisal, so that the actual extent of activities (output) could be measured
against the envisaged output, which was based on the ideas and notions of sector development at the
time of appraisal.

1. Skills Upgrading

The project undertook skills upgrading to enhance the Petroleum Division's expertise in gas resource
evaluation, processing, transportation, distribution, utilization, development planning and promotion,
license and agreement administration, economic and policy analysis, development monitoring and
regulation, as well as to support mitigation of social and environmental impact of gas resource
development.

The enhancement of staff expertise was undertaken through a blend of different training modalities.
These were: on-the-job training; short courses; management training; postgraduate studies; and
industry attachments. Aside from these specific modalities, much experience and hence
enhancement of abilities was gained through other project components such as the conduct of studies
pertaining to sector development, promotion of investment opportunities through promotion
packages, exhibitions, seminars, conferences and meetings. A total of 58 professional staff of the
Petroleum Division received the training, compared with 34 staff envisaged at appraisal. Secondees
from other departments were invited to participate in the project, but no secondees were tendered by
the other Government Departments and agencies due to work commitments and general shortages of
key staff. Secondees from other departments did participate in just a few select courses where
specifically invited.

The staff skills were the subject of assessment exercises at the time of mid-term review and again
during the last year of implementation to determine their capability to perform their work unaided.

The staff was asked to rate their personal professional ability as of mid-2000 (before the subject
project commenced) and their current ability at the time of the mid-term review on a scale of 10,
where 1 indicated the need for expert assistance to perform normal duties and 10 indicated no expert
assistance required. The aggregate averages of these assessments gave scores of 4.69 and 7.15
respectively showing an enhancement of perceived ability amounting to 2.46 on the scale of 1 to 10,
or 24.6% overall. It is recognized that this is an aggregate score and that it may only represent the
sum of the discrete abilities of the staff in the institution. At the mid-term of the project, this was a
favorable outcome. An assessment made in late 2005 found that the aggregate assessment had risen
further to 81.7% as against the project outcome indicator target of 66.7% (two-thirds of the staff
being professional capable).




                                                    21

On-the-Job Training
Experts were engaged to provide on-the-job training and responsible advice in specific disciplines;
this included reservoir evaluation, reservoir simulation, pipeline simulation, facilities inspection, gas
processing, transportation, utilization, regulation, IT, law, economics, sociology, environment,
petroleum accounting and project financing. This expertise was sourced predominantly on a needs
basis to assist the Government with gas sector development. During the first half of the project,
expertise was deployed to provide training at a rate of approximately 12 man-years per year; this was
judiciously reduced to less than 6 man-years per year subsequently as more postgraduate training
was undertaken. The opportunity to add postgraduate study to the work experience already gained in
the Petroleum Division has embellished that experience of the staff and provided benchmarking of
skill attainments. Whilst the engagement of expertise to provide on-the-job training had the capacity
to train staff in situ and in tandem with sector work and priorities, it was not always capable of
gaining the full attention of staff, who were often diverted from the in-house training schedules of
the experts by work demands. With less emphasis on the activity of on-the-job training, less reliance
on experts for advice has ensued; this has enabled the staff to increasingly demonstrate their skills
through the provision of that advice themselves. Participation in negotiations and meetings
surrounding the PNG Gas Project Gas Agreement, commercial negotiations to underpin gas
development, and in the closing year of the project, participation in the PNG Gas Project Finance
Committee and other Committees have provided for the immediate sector development needs and at
the same time provided most fertile training opportunities which only real business experience can
give. The involvement of professional staff in this manner has diminished the need and dependency
on outsourced expertise. The staff now routinely advise Ministerial Committees and accompany
high-level Government delegations providing their advice and their reports whereas earlier this was
not quite the case (See Seminars below).

A total of 47.54 man-years of on-the-job training were achieved versus the 70 man-years planned in
the PAD.


Short Courses
Short courses were attended to supplement the other modes of training and comprised courses on a
wide variety of disciplines to support gas sector and institutional development and to serve the
recognized needs of the Petroleum Division and its staff. Courses have ranged from international gas
business workshops attended by 25 professionals over a two-week period, to attendance of
professional petroleum engineer training certificate program by individual professional staff over a
thirteen-week period, to courses of just a few days at a well control facility school.


A total of 162.56 man-fortnights of course attendance were recorded, which when normalized to an
average of four attendees per course gives 40.6375 fortnights of courses as compared with the
original PAD plan of 30 courses.

Management Training
Some management training has been undertaken with the attendance of professional staff on specific
petroleum management programs. These tended to be sector specific rather than general
management programs oriented towards organizational and business functions. Aside from specific
courses, a number of sector management training opportunities arose through bilateral arrangements



                                                  22

involving the secondment of staff to petroleum organizations of other countries. An example of such
is the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate program through which developing nation petroleum
personnel are invited to Norway for a two-month period of training.

A total of 5.25 man-fortnights of management training were achieved versus 16 man-fortnights
originally planned.

Postgraduate Studies
As a mode of confirmation of learning and embellishment of practical sector experience, members of
the professional staff were selected to undertake periods of postgraduate study generally lasting one
full academic year. The studies have been in a wide range of disciplines: drilling engineering;
petroleum engineering; reservoir engineering; gas engineering; pipeline engineering; basin studies;
reservoir modeling; petroleum geology; information management; information technology; geo-
science computer applications; oil and gas management; energy economics; energy policy;
petroleum policy; social anthropology; resource law; environmental management; mediation and
dispute resolution; conflict resolution.

A total of 31 studentships were awarded and the final batch concluded studies in September 2006.
Twenty-eight professionals were awarded Masters degrees, two received Diplomas and one failed.
The success rate of this program is 87%. Eventually, 32.5 man-years of postgraduate study on 31
studentships were achieved versus a planned 16 man-years.

This mode of training paid great dividends to the Petroleum Division by helping the staff to bring
together their industry experiences to date, focusing their attention on special and often useful topics
through Masters degree dissertations, and raising their overall level of ability. Additionally, the rigor
and discipline associated with such studies have translated into increasingly professional behavior in
the conduct of the Division's work once the staff returned to normal duties.

The opportunity to obtain postgraduate degrees at select international universities has afforded the
Petroleum Division a mode of disciplined learning that has not only advanced the overall
qualifications of the Division, but also given the staff some pride of performance. However, the
knowledge that such training has provided resides in the individual and is obviously transportable to
other organizations. Having invested in such training the Government needs to recognize this high
level of attainment and devise appropriate rewards that will mitigate the migration of staff to private
petroleum sector employment both here and overseas.

The staff was highly enthusiastic to undertake such Master's degree programs and made
considerable effort to secure admissions. This necessitated in some instances qualifying
examinations particularly in English language and in the case of US universities, Graduate Record
Examinations.

Industry Attachments
Industrial attachments were generally difficult to organize and arrange on account of an overall
reluctance of the industry to accept secondees for training purposes. This was attributed to the
overall restructuring of the industry in recent years and a propensity for outsourcing training to
specialist providers. Just a few specific industry attachments were achieved, but generally of shorter



                                                   23

duration than the three-month periods originally planned. The attachments achieved early in the
project were to both operating and non-operating licensees in the areas of petroleum geology and
geophysics. However, with relatively subdued license activity, the licensees generally lacked
enthusiasm. Notwithstanding such, some attachments were achieved through bilateral and
multilateral arrangements with organizations such as the Japan Center for Cooperation in Petroleum;
the Department of Industry and Resources, Western Australia; the Department of Energy,
Philippines; the Coordination Committee for Geoscience Programs in East and Southeast Asia,
Thailand; the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate, Norway; the Native Title Tribunal, New South
Wales, Australia; and the Australian Consumer Competition Council. Some further attachments
were achieved during the petroleum engineering study visit to the US and Canada to examine the gas
processing and transportation infrastructure and to Schlumberger in Perth, West Australia in respect
of database training. During the FEED of the PNG Gas Project, a senior petroleum engineer was
seconded to ExxonMobil for six weeks. To some degree the intensification of the use of
postgraduate study skills acquisition made up for the lesser number of industry attachments.

Notwithstanding the difficulties in arranging for industrial attachments, an aggregate of 13.65 three
man-months of attachments were achieved involving 45 staff compared to original plan of 48 three
man-months of attachments.

2.    Studies

Based on the status of gas development in the year 2000, ten studies were scheduled in the PAD in
accordance with the likely emergence of the gas industry in the PNG economy. There were
significant delays in the progress of the PNG Gas Project, which was originally envisaged to
commence production and export of gas to Australia in early 2003. Bearing the intermittent and
awkward slide in the timing of the PNG Gas Project, the schedule of studies was revised and efforts
concentrated on those studies needed for the advancement of gas development from time to time. In
early consideration of gas development schemes and the Government's support in principle for such
schemes, several specific studies were commissioned in respect of the PNG Gas Project (then styled
the Gas to Queensland Project) to examine matters of policy interest; these included studies on: gas
processing facility location optimization; pre-feasibility of a gas pipeline to Port Moresby; local
content in the PNG Gas Project; the equity option of the State in the Hides gas field; and the
definition of gas operations and designation of fields as being gas or oil fields. These studies greatly
aided the early consideration of development plans, particularly those relating to the PNG Gas
Project and were considered highly satisfactory, as they judiciously focused on resolution of
important sector and institutional development issues.

Subsequent studies focused on the Petroleum Division's extensive archive of petroleum reports with
a data audit study and a data integration study which paved the way for reconciliation and
reorganization of the archive and first steps towards the adoption of modern data receipt, accession,
storage, retrieval and dissemination through the use of the industry-recognized AssetDB platform.


Studies undertaken in the latter part of the project led to the preparation of draft facility and pipeline
regulations. A first contribution to the Gas Master Development Plan was made by way of a review
of all gas development schemes, concepts and plans, and its results were contained in a study titled:



                                                  24

Going for Gas, Gas Development Master Plan Phase 1, Review of Gas Development Proposal
Reports. This study was printed for public distribution and essentially contains the summed sector
knowledge with regard to gas development opportunities. A resource assessment study of the North
New Guinea infra-basins (Aitape, Ramu, and Sepik) was undertaken as PNG's second most
petroleum prospective area. This study sought to reveal the gas resource potential of these basins and
help solicit future investment in their definition and development.

A total of eleven studies were completed and one was still ongoing (80% complete) versus ten
planned in the PAD.

3. Promotion of Investment Opportunities

The promotion of investment opportunities has comprised primarily of the attendance of
international conferences where the Petroleum Division held exhibits and distributed promotional
materials to industry representatives, and participation in the many meetings for the discussion and
negotiation of matters pertaining to the PNG Gas Project. Adjunct to these activities has been the
publication of select reports on sector matters, which in themselves not only promoted investment,
but also provided a conduit for better understanding of investment issues in PNG. The promotional
activities were undertaken to good effect.

Promotional Packages
To support promotional activities at international petroleum gatherings for the solicitation of
investment in PNG's petroleum industry; promotional packages were compiled generally comprising
CD-ROMs, and exhibition poster displays.

Fifteen such packages were prepared and distributed at professional conferences during the course of
the project as compared to ten envisaged in the PAD.

For a period subsequent to the launch of PNG's incentive terms for petroleum exploration,
promotional T-shirts were handed out to overseas delegates at international conferences highlighting
the opportunities in PNG and heralding the new tax rates. This innovative marketing approach was
very well received by the petroleum industry.

Exhibitions
The promotion of the oil and gas potential and development opportunities in PNG was done
primarily been through the attendance of international and regional conferences where typically a
team of the Division's professional staff would man an exhibition booth, network with delegates,
and provide presentations. Prominent amongst the exhibitions was PNG's participation in the
international pavilion of the Annual Convention of the American Association of Petroleum
Geologists, which generally attracts around 50 nations to promote their petroleum investment
opportunities before the assembled delegates (typically c. 5,000~7,000).

The Petroleum Division staff undertook their promotional efforts with increasing confidence as their
knowledge and experience expanded, to the extent that staff had a sense of competition amongst
each other to see how much investment from new licensees they could solicit at each event.




                                                    25

A total of 15 exhibitions were held versus 10 planned in the PAD.

Seminars
As an activity, seminars included workshops, symposia, negotiation meetings, field awareness
meetings, and representative visits, and as such, embraced all assemblies of staff wherein gas sector
business was pursued. For PMR reporting all such activities were recorded as seminars. A wide
variety of themes, topics and issues were covered providing much valuable assistance to the
Petroleum Division in the conduct of its business related to gas development, providing a rich
learning opportunity.

Prominently, this activity encompassed many meetings for negotiations in relation to PNG Gas
Project, and some related thematic workshops. Other seminars were on particular topics such as
registration of customary land; understanding conflicts; environmental matters; risk assessment;
marginal fields; and policy promotion to landowners, amongst others. In respect of visits to field
areas to meet with the landowners, community leaders, local level and provincial governments such
visits were the substance and ongoing preoccupation of the Coordination Branch. In the period 2001-
2005, the Coordination Branch officers made 200 visits to areas of petroleum operations and
moreover four officers were resident in the field at the project sites affording constant interaction
with communities. The coordination officers roles in this regard were to raise the level of community
awareness of petroleum operation and the rights and responsibilities of all stakeholders, assist in the
mediation of land disputes, particularly those arising from compensation claims, and to advise the
communities of their entitlements to benefits. As these efforts were essentially recurrent, the
Petroleum Division supported them from its normal funding.

A total of 46 seminars (PMR units) of one kind or another were supported by the project against an
envisaged 10 in the PAD.

This component introduced the Petroleum Division staff to many gas matters that it would not
otherwise have been able to deal with, and thus provided valuable learning opportunities.

Publications
Publications were envisaged as a means of disseminating information and promoting investment in
PNG's oil and gas sector. The initial publications comprised a consolidation of the Oil and Gas Act,
No. 49 of 1998 to its amendment by No. 21 of 2001; a social mapping issues paper; and the Oil and
Gas Regulation, No. 10 of 2002. Subsequent publications were select reports resulting from in-house
and expert deliberations and studies that deserved wider dissemination to the public and industry.
These included publications on: gas field definition and classification, customary property rights,
landowner socio-economics, gas facility location; a handbook on social mapping and landowner
identification; and a socio-ethnographic review of the principal petroleum field province ­ the
Southern Highlands. Importantly, the first report contributing to the Gas Development Master Plan
was prepared for publication and printed. The Petroleum Division styled A5 format monograph
series for its publications.

A total of eleven publications were made versus four originally planned in the PAD.




                                                  26

4. Institutional Study

The institutional study of the Petroleum Division and its role and responsibilities was completed in
early 2004. It recommended that immediate transformation of the Petroleum Division into a
Statutory Authority would not be wise until the organizational practices and management processes
of the Division and its interfaces with the Department and other agencies were improved. It defined
a series of preparatory actions that were required for transition, and which were anyway also
required for improvement of the current organization.

A follow up study: Review of Management, Organizational Practice and Operation Procedures
within the Petroleum Division, was completed mid-2005. The study defined a detailed action plan,
which was vigorously pursued. It comprised of: management training; corporate and strategic
planning; organization structure and employee terms and conditions; performance management and
measurement; resolution of landowner issues; revenue; financial and budgetary systems and control;
personnel manual; work processes evaluation and documentation; office accommodation; legislative
planning for a Statutory Authority; and immediate actions. The implementation of this plan was led
by a special executive officer and a steering committee assisted by an expert.

The Petroleum Division undertook its institutional studies with considerable caution. The Division
recognized the need to develop its organization in a well-planned manner. Commensurately, it
conducted its follow-up study and embarked on the Action Plan with equal caution. This measured
approach has permitted greater consideration of problems and analysis of solutions, which resulted
in a steady and satisfactory progress in the area of institutional reform under the endorsement of the
Government. This in turn has led to the completion of a performance management system, review of
the Special Domestic Market Allowances, preparation of a Corporate Plan, structure and design of
the organization of the National Petroleum Authority, development of an IT master plan, review of
finance and budgetary practices, design of a cash recovery model for funding the National Petroleum
Authority, budgetary submission for the intended transition during FY 07, drafting instructions for a
Bill to Parliament and the preparation of the formal submission to the National Executive Council
for the conversion of the Department of Petroleum and Energy into a Statutory Authority. Once
approved by National Executive Council, the Bill will be prepared by the Legislative Council for
presentation to Parliament in 2007.

5. Equipment Acquisition

Total expenditure on equipment was Kina 2,180,088 (approximately equivalent to US$ 734,504).
The equipment purchases largely related to IT equipment and specialist software, with minor
amounts of office equipment, books and publications. In this project, equipment purchases have
pertained solely to the valid needs of the Petroleum Division in the conduct of its business with out
resort to superfluous purchases. The purchases of equipment have been highly appropriate and
totally suited.

The project enabled the Petroleum Division to maintain its IT systems at a high level and suitably
updated. Additionally, associated with the staff skills development, specialist sector software
packages were acquired. These included the acquisition of PIPESIM, a process flow simulation
program; Pipeline Studio, a pipeline simulator; RMS Tempest, a geo-modeling and reservoir



                                                  27

simulator package; GeoX, a reserves and prospect modeling package; and upgrade of the AssetDB
software. The non-specialist software acquisition included: MS Office 2000; CorelDraw; and
MapInfo 6.0. Together with the hardware systems that the Petroleum Division possesses,
considerable computing capacity is available for envisaged sector requirements.

6. Project Management

The Project Adviser provided advice to the Director and to a wide variety of staff throughout the
Division. A total of 1,205 days of service was delivered. The Adviser gave multi-disciplinary sector
advice whilst at the same time assisting the Director as Project Manager with various aspects of
project implementation.

The services of the Project Adviser have been diverse with the staff of the Petroleum Division using
him as a reference point for sector knowledge; consideration of issues; review of staff work; advice
on preparations for meetings and briefings, Government procedures and processes; and guidance in
professional development. This has involved constant dialogue and interaction with the Director,
Assistant Directors and the staff. The advice, comments and evaluations on various subjects
pertaining to sector development and project implementation are held on the Petroleum Division's
server and are copied to Project Files on CDs. His performance has been highly satisfactory.

All of the above project components were tracked during their implementation through the use of a
project task form (PTF), which provide project management control of project activities. These are
summarized in the PTF Tracking Chart (consolidated in the document titled "Project Task Form
Progress Tracking Chart" in Annex 10). To end 3Q 2006, 349 tasks had been identified, of which
347 had been completed. Overall performance of tasks that have been conducted on a needs basis
against the original plans of the PAD are consolidated in the document titled "Project Performance
Chart" in Annex 10 and are summarized in the following table: Planned versus Actual Outputs.

    ACTIVITY               PMR UNIT                 PLANNED OUTPUTS                 ACTUAL
                                                                                   OUTPUTS
    On-the-Job Training    Man-years of training               70                      47.54
    Short Courses          Course                              30                    40.6375
    Management Training Course                                 16                       5.25
    Post Graduate Studies Study year                           16                      32.25

    Industry Attachments   3             man-month
                           attachment                          48                     13.650

    Studies                Study                               10                       11
    Promotional Packages Package                               10                       15
    Exhibitions            Exhibition                          10                       15
    Seminars               Seminar                             10                       46
    Publications           Publication                         4                        11
    Institutional Study    Study                               1                          2
    Equipment acquisition US $ spent                        800,000                  734,504
    Project Adviser        Day                                975                     1205
   Planned versus Actual Outputs.




                                                 28

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

            Not applicable




                 29

           Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

  (a) Task Team members

             Names                            Title                Unit           Responsibility/ Specialty

Lending (from Task Team in PAD Data Sheet)

S. Khwaja                       Consultant Gas Specialist      EASEG         TTL

E. Mayorga Alba                 Sr. Petroleum Economist        COCPO         Economist

Y. Zhou                         Operations Officer             EASEG         Procurement

B. Nowroozi                     Sr. Financial Management Spec EAPCO          Financial Management

J. Fritz                        Environmental Engineer         EAPCO         Environment

M. Gopal                        Chief LEGEA                    LEGEA         Legal

H. Phung                        Disbursement Officer           LOAAS         Disbursement

T. Gossa                        Team Assistant                 EASEG

Supervision (from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs)

S. Khwaja                       Consultant Gas Specialist      EASEG         TTL

E. Mayorga Alba                 Sr. Petroleum Economist        COCPO         Economist

Y. Zhou                         Sr. Operations Officer         EASEG         Procurement Specialist

B. Nowroozi/David Chandler      Sr. Financial Mgt Specialist   EAPCO         Financial Management

M. L. Pallorina                 Financial Analyst              LOAG1         Disbursement

M. Good                         Sr. Counsel                    LEGEA         Legal

M. Sanchez/Perry Radford        Team Assistant                 EASEG

  (b) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
  (all fields are entered by the system)
                                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
         Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Staff Weeks                   US$ Thousands
                                                                          (including travel and consultant
                                                                                       costs)
  Lending
                 FY00                               11.48                           99,296.01
                 FY01
                            TOTAL:                  11.48
  Supervision/ICR
                 FY00                                 .40                             1,351.44
                 FY01                                5.85                           79,497.47
                 FY02                                4.33                          112,056.11
                 FY03                                1.23                           93,298.05
                 FY04                                0.18                           66,500.26
                             TOTAL                  12.09                          566,849.75




                                                      30

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

         Not applicable




               31

                Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                      32

                          Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

                                       Borrower's Report

               Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project

             IBRD Loan 7019-PNG and the Government of Papua New Guinea

Introduction

This report seeks to present some views and opinions of the Petroleum Division of the
Department of Petroleum and Energy with regard to the Gas Development and Utilisation
Technical Assistance Project (Project) which concluded at the end of September 2006. The
Project was funded by a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD) in the amount of US$ 7.0 million together with the PNG Kina equivalent of US$ 0.5 in
counterpart project contributions. It does not seek to replicate the ICR or other documents.

At the time of project definition and appraisal in 2000, the Petroleum Division was just
concluding its implementation of the Petroleum Exploration and Development Technical
Assistance Project (Ln.3670-PNG) through which it had successfully enhanced its capacity in
the overall management of the petroleum sector with the development of a sizeable cadre of
petroleum officers.

Need for Project

The bulk of PNG's petroleum resources are comprised of natural gas and in the late 1990s
industry participants were commencing to examine schemes for the development of this
significant resource. It was evident that further and more specific capacity building and
institutional development was necessary to enable PNG to optimise the benefits that might
accrue from development of the Nation's gas fields. Moreover, the Government realised that
gas development was significantly more complex than oil development in almost every facet,
and that schemes for gas development had a much longer gestation time. In the face of
declining oil production and hence dwindling Government revenues, steps towards gas
development were seen as vital Government initiatives towards harnessing the value of the gas
resource for national development.

Objectives

The Gas Development and Utilisation Technical Assistance Project was thus framed: to build
the capacity in the Government for the efficient management of gas sector development
through: a) the strengthening of policy and regulatory framework to promote investment in gas
development; b) formulation and analysis of gas development schemes; c) promotion of
investment opportunities in gas; and d) enhancing of monitoring and regulation capacity of the
Government to ensure optimal gas development.

Project Design

The project was designed recognising that the sector outcome of gas development would be
entirely and ultimately be dependent on investor decisions to develop PNG gas, but that much
ancillary and preparatory work could be usefully undertaken by the Government. What exactly


                                                33

would be needed of the Government, and when, could not be foretold, so a need-based menu of
project components and activities was assembled in the project design covering skills-
upgrading, studies, promotions, equipment, project advice, and an institutional study.

Project Components
Skills Upgrading

First and foremost, the Petroleum Division needed to heighten its sector knowledge. This was
proposed to be achieved through an array of various modalities of skills-upgrading comprised
of: a) on-the-job training; b) short courses; c) attachments to industry; d) postgraduate study;
and e) management training.

In the early part of the project, experts in various disciplines were engaged who provided
thematic training in disciplines related to gas development such as gas engineering;
environmental monitoring, legal maters, and social anthropology. These experts also provided
responsible advice on gas development issues as they arose, but as the capacity and knowledge
of the staff developed, the staff themselves increasingly delivered specific sector advice to
Government and supported the complex negotiation of the PNG Gas Project Gas Agreement
and its subsequent revisions. Many meetings with industry were supported under the activity of
seminars within which the staff gained most valuable experience as they went about the
business of arranging for sector development with industry.

During the latter part of the project, increasing numbers of the Petroleum Division staff were
chosen and dispatched to selected international universities to undertake master degree
programmes. This served to heighten their intellectual aptitude, foster discipline in their work
practice, and provide significant formal learning opportunities. Moreover, the attainment of
such qualifications markedly increased the overall confidence of the staff and helped to draw
together their earlier training and work experiences. The downside for the Government is that
the professional officers of the Petroleum Division are now quite inadequately rewarded
considering their experience and substantial qualifications. Given that the global oil and gas
sector is booming and has a shortage of personnel, this situation means that considerable
migration of staff to work outside of the Government will be inevitable unless remedies are
made. Whilst the Government has been slow to recognise the need for revision of the benefits, a
concerted effort was made by the Petroleum Division in 2006 to define appropriate terms and
conditions which have been the subject of a special submission to the Government's
Department of Personnel Management.

A large number of short courses on a diverse range of gas development related topics were
undertaken most often in response to the needs of either the particular individual, or otherwise
in response to the needs of the Petroleum Division. Some courses were held collectively where
the entire Division attended whereas at the other end of the scale some were professional
certificate programmes with a sole attendee from the Petroleum Division.

Industrial attachments were difficult to arrange with most petroleum companies being only
conditionally receptive to providing assistance. As the industry tends to out-source most of its
own training needs, there was little opportunity for the companies to receive secondments of
Petroleum Division staff. Notwithstanding these circumstances and considerable patience, some
attachments were achieved and provided most useful exposure to the workings of other
organisations.


                                               34

Studies
In respect of studies, a range of topics was selected at the time of project preparation, based on a
fairly linear and optimistic model of how gas development would unfold. However, the
circumstances of the gas sector proved to be quite different with somewhat haphazard steps
towards development characterised by significant and episodic achievements in respect of the
choice scheme of development: the PNG Gas Project, mixed with extraordinary commercial
wrangling and obstinacy between the companies.

The Government judiciously conducted studies that were either relevant to particular
development concerns, on topics such as: local content, optimisation of facility location,
distinction of gas from oil fields; and gas supply to Port Moresby; or otherwise relevant to
future institutional and development integrity: petroleum data audit and integration; draft gas
pipeline and facility regulations, and review of all prior gas development reports. The industry
conducted many studies which were subsequently provided to the Government which obviated
the need for the Government to undertake some of the earlier envisaged studies less they be
duplicated.

Promotion
In the area of promotion, the Petroleum Division successfully reversed the downwards trend in
exploration by advocating revised fiscal terms to stimulate interest. In January 2003, an
incentive period was defined offering a reduced rate of taxation on the profits arising from oil
production.
This was promoted world wide by attendance of select international petroleum conventions and
the exhibition PNG's petroleum potential and prospectivity. Towards the later part of the
project, the Petroleum Division successfully had seismic data obtained over large unexplored
tracts of its offshore area and launched a licensing rounds for fifteen areas applications for
which are due in early 2Q 2007.

Aside from exploration opportunities, the opportunity for gas development was similarly
promoted and lead to numerous discussions with prospective gas developers of various capacity
and enthusiasm for gas-based developments other than the PNG Gas Project including LNG,
CNG, power generation for alumina refining, di-methyl ether and methanol production,
synfuels, and fertiliser production.

Aside from the introduction of revised fiscal terms for oil production, three amending bills to
the primary sector legislation: the Oil and Gas Act were prepared and passed. A significant
number of regulations have also been drafted and await passage into law. These efforts provide
an improved framework for sector development and investment, especially with regard to gas.

Various interesting reports were published as monographs to promote and foster gas
development; this included subject as diverse as socio-economic understanding, socio-
ethnological studies of the people of the main gas district, the gas facility location optimisation
study and an important review of all prior gas development studies.



                                                35

Institutional Study
An institutional study of the Petroleum Division was completed in early 2004 which
recommended that the organisational practices and management processes of the Division and
its interfaces with the Department and other agencies needed to be improved as preparatory
action for transition into a statutory authority. A further study was then completed by mid-2005:
Review of Management, Organizational Practice and Operation Procedures within the
Petroleum Division, which defined a detailed action plan inter alia dealing with: corporate and
strategic planning; organization structure and employee terms and conditions; performance
management and measurement; revenue; financial and budgetary systems and control;
development of a personnel manual; work processes evaluation and documentation; and
legislative planning for a Statutory Authority.

The Petroleum Division undertook its institutional studies with considerable caution. The
Division recognized the need to develop its organization in a well-planned manner and to lay
sound foundations. The results of this are: the completion of a performance management
system; review of the Special Domestic Market Allowances (SDMAs); preparation of a
Corporate Plan; structure and design of the organisation of the National Petroleum Authority;
development of an IT master plan; review of finance and budgetary practices; design of a cash
recovery model for funding the National Petroleum Authority; budgetary submission for the
intended transition during FY 07; drafting instructions for a Bill to Parliament and the
preparation of the formal submission to the National Executive Council (NEC) for the
conversion of the Department of Petroleum and Energy into a Statutory Authority. Once
approved by NEC, the Bill will be prepared by the Legislative Council for presentation to
Parliament in 2007.

Project Management
Director as Project Manager

The Director of the Petroleum Division was designated as the Project Manager and the
Assistant Directors supported the Director in their respective Branches by developing and
defining work programmes; approving project activities tasks; and planning the use of the
project facilities for staff development and institutional strengthening. Aside from overseeing
the enhancement of professional staff skills in their branches, the Assistant Directors served on
project committees and assist the Director with regard to procurement, finance and project
performance. There can be no substitute for this way of managing technical assistance; having
the Director in charge provide conspicuous high level Government control of the project and
more importantly ownership. With the project management firmly in the hands of citizens, no
dispute of project rationale or authority ensued as has been the case in some other donor funded
projects.

Project Adviser
Notwithstanding this project management structure, which is designed to foster project
ownership, an experienced Project Adviser was provided in the project design to assist with
project activity execution, co-ordination, monitoring, and evaluation most importantly in
synchronous with the Government's sector business. The Adviser provided technical and sector
advice to staff as well as management advice to the Director and Project Manager. This has
included participation in gas agreement negotiations, gas development planning, sector
regulation and management, staff development, and training. On account of his extensive


                                                  36

experience of the PNG petroleum industry (having been PNG's first Director of Petroleum), the
Adviser was most familiar with the sector development, and the training and staff development
needs of the staff ; he was ever frequently called upon for advice by staff of all branches across
a broad range of disciplines.

Project Task Forms
One of the key features of project control was the Petroleum Division's use of its Project Task
Form (PTF). For all activities, a PTF was completed by the officer to whom the task was
assigned. The PTFs were essentially work orders that provided for discussion, rationalisation
and matching of the task with the aims and objectives of the project and the sector development
priorities. In this manner, tight control over the use of the project resources was maintained so
that needs of the Petroleum Division consistent with the Government's sector imperatives were
served, and partialities and indulgences prevented.        The PTFs instigated a ground-based
discipline into project activities which is often left to be only vouched in TA project
implementation most awkwardly during procurement processing and even implementation. The
PTFs were akin to work orders used within the industry and had the desired outcome of
affording more considered management vetting of activities.

Project Finance
In the initial years of project implementation, the books of the project were maintained by a
reputable external bookkeeper, but subsequently an electronic accounting system was
introduced calked WinBank4 which enabled in house preparation of not only the monthly
statements of expenditure, but also the quarterly project management reports and annual
statements of project accounts. There were no significant issues in this area other than the
seeming burden of producing the World Bank's desired quarterly Project Management Reports
which provided little if any useful analytical information that was not already provided by the
Project PTF Status Charts and Project Performance Charts. The end of year PMRs did however
serve to constitute the annual accounts of the project.

Project Context

The implementation of the project was all about context; it was designed in the hope of boosting
sector knowledge and capacity with only the expectation of the shape of future gas
development.

When the Project began in 2000, there had just been a period of anguished commercial debate
about the use PNG gas resources for either export as LNG to Asian markets or export via
pipeline to Australian east coast markets. The competition for a foothold in the LNG market
was daunting in the wake of the Asian financial crisis and both LNG and piped gas to Australia
had similar netback values to the Government, though perhaps the Australian market seem
slightly more captive to PNG due to the long history of Australian involvement in PNG.

Accordingly, much effort was afforded by the Government to promote the PNG Gas Project for
the transmission of gas to Australia. The participation by the Petroleum Division in the
prolonged negotiations for the PNG Gas Project Agreement were substantially facilitated by the
Project and provided most valuable experience.




                                                37

However, growing use of coal bed methane in eastern Australia, incessant commercial wrangles
between the PNG licensees, a lack of a synchronised Australian gas demand, and the perhaps
fatal flaw that energy deliveries in Australia are linked to coal prices, made the gestation of a
viable project most awkward. However, in October 2004, with support from the Government
via Oil Search Ltd., an entry into front end engineering and design (FEED) was commenced
reluctantly by the Project operator Esso Highlands Ltd. Customers were enlisted and indicative
term sheets negotiated for gas sales. Through early 2006 it finally started to look as though the
project might come to fruition. Already, the PNG Government has afforded the companies
many concessions of one kind of another, but then in 2Q 2006 it was realised that the costing
for the Australian gas transmission pipeline form the international border to the customers had
been underestimated. During the FEED for the Australian line, vastly escalated costs were
realised on account of higher steel prices, increased system complexity and the overall extent of
the pipeline system.



The PNG Government had always had lingering doubts about the viability of gas export to
Australia since it was first muted in the mid-1990s for the supply of gas from the offshore
Pandora field to Townville; the revenues from the sale of gas left very little remaining after the
costs of capital and operating had been taken into account. The wetter gases of the Kutubu and
Hides fields would have added liquid revenue values arising from condensate sales, but it was
shown that LPG extraction whilst desirable to create value adding was not economically or
financially viable.



Throughout, the commercial tortuous process, the Government kept an open mind, and indeed
in somewhat of an effort to excite more commercial zest as the PNG Gas Project proponents
seemed to drag their feet, the Government openly entertained other gas development options as
scheme worthy of consideration at least. The Government entered into several Memoranda of
Understanding with interested gas developers and joined a gas study group comprised of certain
licensees.  All of this activity has involved the Petroleum Division who similarly whilst
supporting the PNG Gas Project as the preferred development concept, kept an open mind.



The TA Project has been undertaken during a period of tumultuous and incessant consideration
of gas development. The Petroleum Division has seen not only the PNG Gas Project near to
gestation, but also considered many other schemes. This has been a very rich experience for the
staff which when compounded with the application of the skills upgrading component of the
project has introduced them to a wide range of gas business themes and matters. The context
has been rich and the project timely. It set the pattern for the Government to participate in gas
negotiations with industry so that nowadays the Department of Treasury take the oil and gas
sector business most seriously and is prepared to provide necessary budget support for urgent
meetings, efforts of due diligence, reviews and the like.




                                                38

Highlights and Successes


Rather than recreate more analysis than has already been made with regard to this project in the
MTR, ICR and the various Aide Memoires, the project deserves to herald some of it
achievements and great moments which are listed below:


   · conclusion of the PNG Gas Project Gas Agreement and subsequent amendments
   · preparation of eleven draft sector regulations for presentation to the government
   · preparation of a series of bills for amendment of the oil and gas act
   · introduction of incentive fiscal terms to boost and encourage exploration
   · twenty eight officers completed and awarded masters degrees - 87% success rate
   · preparation of transition arrangement to become the national petroleum authority
   · pay and remuneration of officers professionally reviewed against hay scale
   · resurgent petroleum exploration activity
   · resolute support for the PNG Gas Project through to its shelving
   · multiple gas development schemes vying for investment
   · multiple LNG development schemes also vying for investment
   · re-organisation of the petroleum division's archives using AssetDB
   · continued safe and environmentally harmless petroleum operations
   · launch of a licensing round for unlicensed and unexplored offshore areas -

and, above all:

   · confidence to continue administering the oil and gas sector within PNG.


Petroleum Division
1st February 2007
Port Moresby




                                              39

          Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                        40

                          Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

On Project File:

 1. Project Concept Note, September 1999
 2. Project Appraisal Document, May 2000
 3. Institutional Study, January 2004
 4. Review of Management, Organizational Practice and Operational Procedures,
     August 2005
 5. PNG Gas Based Industries Report, April 2004
 6. Publications:
     · Oil and Gas Act No. 29, June 02;
     · Social Mapping Issues Paper, December 02;
     · A Guide to Social Mapping for the Petroleum Industry, November 03;
     · Oil and Gas Regulation No. 10, March 03;
     · Gas Operations Phase 1, September 04;
     · Gas Operations Phase 2, September 04;
     · Joining Customary Property Rights, March 05;
     · Economics of Good Life, March 05;
     · Gas Processing Facility Optimization, June 05;
     · Gas Master Plan Phase 1, September 05;
     · Baseline Ethnographic Review of the Southern Highlands in relation to
         PNG Gas Project, October 05.
 7. Aid Memoirs and Annexes of Supervision Missions
 8. Mid Term Review Report
 9. End of Project Charts, Tables and Summaries:
     · Organization of the Department of Petroleum and Energy including the
         Petroleum Division
     · Petroleum Division Corporate Vision and Strategies
     · Petroleum Licenses, October 06
     · License Map, October 06
     · Overview of Skills Upgrading
     · Exploration Statistics
     · Petroleum Production Summary since 1991
     · Investments in Oil Exploration and Development
     · Oil Production, Price, Tax and Royalty with forecast to l 015
     · GDP and Export Earnings
     · Tapis and Kutubu Oil Prices
     · Oil Reserves
     · Gas Reserves
     · Project Performance Chart
     · Project Task Form Status Chart




                                            41

                      Annex 10: Achievement of Development Objective
               Project Task Form Status Chart and Project Performance Charts

a) Strengthening of policy and regulatory framework to promote investment in gas
    development

Considerable effort was made in this area by way of amendments to law, the definition of
additional regulations and the consummation of a gas agreement for the large-scale development
of PNG's gas reserves. This strengthening provided an improved framework for sector
governance. Sustained investment by the industry and impending investments in gas
development indicate that the objective was well achieved.

Building on earlier policy initiatives, which gave rise to the Oil and Gas Act No. 49 of 1998,
refinements were made by the Oil and Gas (Amendment) Act, No. 53 of 2000, and the Oil and
Gas (Amendment) Act, No. 21 of 2001. In preparation for the PNG Gas Project a series of
amendments to the Oil and Gas Act were made in 2006. The Oil and Gas (Amendment) Act No.
3 of 2006 initially dealt with matters specifically necessary for the PNG Gas Project such as
additional rights of entry onto land, tenure of licenses, and pre-submission of documentation for
licenses. The Oil and Gas (Amendment) Bill of 2006 sought to introduce revised arrangements
for landowner benefits essentially voiding the use of incorporated land groups (ILGs) and
requiring direct payments, and introduced a series of administrative reforms in the sector; this
Bill is still pending . Associated with negotiations for the PNG Gas Project Gas Agreement
policies for fiscal stabilization were legislated in the Resources Contracts Fiscal Stabilization
Act, No. 33 of 2000 and on the decision of the Government as majority shareholder to sell
Orogen Minerals Ltd. the policy framework for Orogen's existence was adjusted by the passage
of Mineral Resources Development Company Pty. Limited (Privatization) (Amendment) Act No.
18 of 2001. In 2002, the Oil and Gas Regulation No.10 of 2002 was made; this provided legal
force to the former draft Petroleum Regulations, which had hitherto been served as a Direction to
licensees pursuant to the Petroleum Act Chapter 198 and the Petroleum (Directions) Regulation.
In late 2002, the Petroleum Division sought to gain approval for fiscal incentives for the less
explored and less prospective areas of Papua New Guinea. The Government provided
overwhelming support for the initiative as exploration levels had been quite subdued, and
decided to introduce a reduced rate of income tax on petroleum operations of 30% of assessable
income for all new petroleum prospecting licenses granted in the period from January 1, 2003 to
December 31, 2007 from which a petroleum development license ensues on or before December
31, 2017. These incentives have greatly encouraged industry investment (refer below). This was
legislated in the Income Tax, Dividend (Withholding) Tax and Interest (Withholding) Tax Rates
(2003Budget Provisions) Act 2003.

The amending bills introduced a wide variety of sector policy reforms. These included:
    provisions for the Declaration of Location over past and historic discoveries;
    provisions to include social mapping and landowner identification under Location Studies;
    requirements to conduct full-scale social mapping and landowner identification studies in
    respect of Locations;
    requirements to conduct full-scale social mapping and landowner identification studies in
    respect of pipelines license and petroleum facility license application;



                                                 42

requirements for the Director to maintain a register of all social mapping and landowner
identification studies;
provisions for full scale social mapping and landowner identification studies to accompany
applications for Petroleum Retention Licenses;
provisions for application for a petroleum retention license by a petroleum development
licensee;
changes to the confidentiality requirements of social mapping and landowner identification
studies;
clarification of the participants at a development forum;
requirements for social mapping and landowner identification studies to be conducted prior
to a development forum;
revision to the timing requirements for development forums;
improvement of processes in respect of grant of variations to petroleum development licenses
by the Minister;
inclusion of the right for petroleum development licensees to process the petroleum
recovered in other tenement areas;
improved definition of the criteria for application for the extension of a petroleum
development license;
removal of application of written agreement caveats to access arrangements for a pipeline or
a petroleum facility and common carrier directions of pipelines;
revision of the criteria for the extension of the term of a pipeline license;
requirement for a register to specify the nature of a dealing in respect of a license;
requirement to notify and register changes of name, status, address, and controlling interest
of licensees;
update of the Act to reflect the commencement of the Environment Act No. 64 of 2000;
requirement for the registration of compensation agreements and their details;
update of compensation provisions to take cognizance of social mapping and landowner
studies;
distinction between compensation beneficiaries and Oil and Gas Act beneficiaries;
clarification of equity benefit grants;
clarification and distinction between landowner beneficiaries and project area landowners
who are beneficiaries;
distinction between the identification of project area landowners and the conferment of
benefit;
removal of the limitation of project benefits;
removal of latitude to make discretionary additional grants;
removal of MRDC responsibility to provide technical advice to landowners, local level
governments and provincial governments on the acquisition of additional interests in
projects;
re-arrangement of the manner of royalty benefit receipt; and
creation of a tribunal to review excessive costs of consultants engaged by landowners;
clarification of confidentiality of information submitted as a result of a consent for scientific
investigation;
requirement for inspectors to provide copies of all instruments and decisions to the Director
for registration;




                                               43

    expansion of the powers of inspectors to include social and environmental considerations,
    reservoir management and resource conservation, and to permit impoundment of equipment
    involved in an offence;
    revision of processes of appeal against an inspector's decision;
    procedures for revocation of the appointment of inspectors;
    procedures for formal pre-submission of documents for approval;
    introduction of the offence of interference with operations;
    introduction of an offence of obstruction of officers of the Department responsible for
    petroleum matters;
    confirmation of the State's policy for payment of the State equity entitlement on the basis of
    a carried interest paid for by the foregoing the State's proportionate share of production;
    clarification of the grant of equity benefit as being upon the commencement of commercial
    production pursuant only to approved proposals of a petroleum development license;
    introduction of the facility for royalty payments made direct to beneficiaries to be deemed to
    be payment of royalty to the State; and
    addition of further matters for regulation pertaining to petroleum agreements; gas
    agreements; joint operating agreements; abandonment; and presentation of matters to and
    conduct of the business of the Petroleum Advisory Board.

In further developments to support the interpretation of the Oil and Gas Act and to give effect to
the Act, a series of regulations were formulated. These were:

    Oil and Gas (Social Mapping and Landowner Identification) Regulation
    Oil and Gas (Petroleum Processing Facility-Design, Fabrication & Construction) Regulation
    Oil and Gas (Petroleum Processing Facility Safety) Regulation
    Oil and Gas (Determination of Wellhead Value of Petroleum) Regulation
    Oil and Gas (Determination of Well head Value of Gas Project Petroleum) Regulation
    Oil and Gas (Statutory) Forms Regulation
    Oil and Gas (Expenditure Implementation Committee) Regulation
    Oil and Gas (Petroleum Processing Facility General) Regulation
    Oil and Gas (Pipeline Design, Construction, Operation and Abandonment) Regulation
    Oil and Gas (Strategic Pipeline Commercial) Regulation
    Oil and Gas Regulation No. 10 of 2002 (Amendment) Regulation

These initiatives were aimed at improving and clarifying the policy and regulatory framework
for gas development and sustaining current oil production.

Aside from the preparation of Acts and Regulations a number of agreements were negotiated,
particularly the Gas Agreement and the associated Fiscal Stability Agreement for the PNG Gas
Project. The Gas Agreement between the State and the Project proponents, which was executed
in June 2002, establishes the basic terms for State participation, the scope of the Project and
various other matters such as the applicability of the gas fiscal regime. There were two
successive minor amendments to the Gas Agreement for the PNG Gas Project related to the
commitment to, schedule for, and timing of the Project's front-end engineering and design
(FEED).




                                                  44

The Gas Agreement defines the proponent companies, the oil and gas fields to be produced for
gas, the present and future licenses, and the scope of the PNG Gas Project. Importantly and
primarily, it defines the manner and extent of the State's participation in the development of the
Hides gas field and hence through that, the State's participation in the overall coordinated PNG
Gas Project. Ancillary provisions relate to title to petroleum, import of goods and export of gas,
sales arrangement, foreign exchange, training and localization, local supplies and business
development, arbitration, transfer and termination. It also, importantly, provides for the many
commitments made by the parties to each other to support the Project.

As both oil and gas sector development has ensued, issues have arisen for which policies have
needed to be devised. The Petroleum Act of 1977 was limited in scope and essentially considered
a singular discovery, development, and pipeline to carry production out of the license area. The
Oil and Gas Act of 1998 and its subsequent amendments have embraced many policy initiatives
dealing with increasing sector complexity. Issues that were the subject of current discussion and
review at the time of project closing reflected the advancement and maturity of the oil and gas
sector in PNG and pertain to: downstream gas processing; decommissioning and abandonment;
gas flaring; mature field operations; deep water exploration; and third party access arrangements
to facilities and pipelines.


b) Formulation and analysis of gas development schemes.


The Petroleum Division's efforts to support the objective of forming and analyzing gas
development schemes have centered around the most promising gas development scheme: the
PNG Gas Project, and are considered to have been most valuable.


During the currency of the project, investments in exploration, development and production
averaged around US$ 250 million per year. It was envisaged that the PNG Gas Project, which
intended to export up to 550 mmscfd gas, would entail investment of around US$ 2.9 billion for
field development, facility and pipeline construction in Papua New Guinea, and about US$ 2.1
billion for pipeline construction and associated compression facilities in Australia. With the FEED
having been completed, and gas marketing being well-advanced, the Project was poised to
commence construction in 1Q 2007 and was targeting 3Q 2009 for its first gas sale. The project
would produce around 5 tscf of sales gas and 150 million barrels of associated natural gas liquids
valued at a total of US$ 23 billion, and the Government anticipated receiving US$ 2.7 billion in tax,
and royalties and development levies amounting to US$ 300 million over the anticipated 30 year
life of the project.


However, during 3Q 2006, it was realized that the infrastructure costs of the Australian gas
transmission system had blown out due to elevated steel prices and petroleum service company
costs, and increased system complexity. This in turn prompted a demand by the Australian
pipeline infrastructure venture (the AGL-Petronas Consortium ­ APC) for higher transportation
tariffs for the delivery of PNG gas to customers making the PNG Gas Project economics
questionable and the project had to be shelved. Both the Government and the companies are
now considering alternate gas development strategies including the development of Liquefied



                                                 45

Natural Gas export options. The original gas development concept promoted by Esso and BP in
the mid-1990s focused on LNG. There is therefore substantial early work already in place
including site selections for LNG plant and pre-feasibility studies. Admittedly, there is
considerable competition for LNG markets, but PNG stands favorably as a potential Asia Pacific
supplier due to its proximal location to East Asian customers, non-aligned political status, open
access to the waters of the Pacific Ocean for LNG shipping not dependent on restricted shipping
lanes or straits, and the high quality of its gas void of noxious impurities and rich with valuable
natural gas liquids.

Additionally, proposals have been considered for various other gas usages including, but not
limited to, the manufacture of methanol/di-methyl ether and possibly methyl amines by
Mitsubishi Gas Chemical and Itochu; the conversion of gas to liquids to produce ultra clean
synfuels by Syntroleum, ammonia and urea production by Oswal. The first of these schemes
would require about 200 mmscfd (80 PJ per annum) of gas and an investment of US$ 700
million to produce 2.5 million tonnes of liquid products. The probabilistic sum of gas demand for
the schemes under consideration of the Government and industry will most likely greatly exceed
the goal of 300 mmcfd targeted in the PAD.

                    Project              Sponsor                  Potential Demand

                                                            PJ/a              mmscfd

             Methanol-DME           OSL/Mitsui              80                  192

             Ammonia-Urea           OSL/Oswal               50                  120

             GTL Synfuels           Syntroleum              250                 600

             LNG-1                  ExxonMobil              250                 600

             LNG-2                  OSL/BG                  250                 600

             LNG-3                  InterOil                250                 600

             Aluminum Smelter       Rusal                   200                 480

             Power Generation       PNG Power               15                  36

                                                 Total     1,345               3,228

PNG's petroleum regime provides for the grant of licenses to bona fide oil and gas companies to
explore for, develop and produce the petroleum resources that are owned by the State.
Essentially, developments of discovered petroleum resources eventuate only if they satisfy the
investment thresholds of the licensees. The Government's role is, therefore, one of promoter and
policy maker to encourage consideration of investment and regulator to ensure developments
conform to policy requirements as articulated in the Oil and Gas Act. Whilst the Government
may conceive gas development schemes, it relies upon encouragement to prompt the industry to
invest.

To support this catalytic role, the Petroleum Division undertook a number of studies during the
course of the project related to specific developments, issues and concepts. These were:

    Definition of Gas Operations
    State Equity in the Hides Gas Field
    Optimization of Local Content (Gas to Queensland Project)
    Optimization of the Location of the Gas Processing Facility (for the PNG Gas Project)


                                                  46

    Pre-feasibility of the Transmission of Gas to Port Moresby
    LPG Study
    Data Audit Study
    Database Integration Study
    Gas Master Plan Study
    Petroleum Resource Assessment Study (North New Guinea Basin) (ongoing)
    Gas Processing Facilities Regulation Study
    Gas Pipeline Regulation Study

The Petroleum Division also fostered and encouraged the oil and gas industry and other related
parties to study gas development options and submit studies to it. Many of the studies became
the subject of review and input during the conduct of Gas Master Plan Study.

Whilst the Petroleum Division might conceive gas development schemes, only the investing
companies can have carriage of them. The Petroleum Division's role can only be one of
reference and catalyst to respectively validate industry ideas and support those that are worthy.
Critical aspects of some gas development schemes have required and will require specialist
assessment. In this regard, the Petroleum Division cautiously studied some aspects of the PNG
Gas Project whilst discarding unwarranted studies.

The Petroleum Division's analysis of gas development schemes was considerable. Not only has
the detail of the PNG Gas Project been examined at pre-feasibility, feasibility and FEED stages,
on the basis of technical, economic and policy criteria, but many other gas development notions,
schemes and suggestions were reviewed such as export of gas as LNG and CNG, manufacture
and export of methanol, di-methyl ether, synfuels, ammonia and urea.

c) Promotion of investment opportunities in gas

The Government has promoted its identified gas resource with an emphasis on seeking
investment in gas developments that would provide domestic gas processing as far as possible.

Erstwhile, petroleum exploration was re-stimulated by the introduction of incentive fiscal terms
with effect from January 1, 2003 causing an increase in the number of licensees and their
associated working expenditure programs. Exploration expenditure rebounded with an estimated
US$ 247 million being spent to end 2006 and is expected to remain high based on the remaining
license exploration expenditure commitments which amount to US$ 335 million up to end 2010.

Since 3Q 2000, only fifteen new field wildcat wells have been drilled arising from which only
two very small sub-commercial oil discoveries were made at the Bilip and Saunders wells, one
commercial oil discovery at North West Moran and one recent gas discovery at Douglas ­1.
Otherwise no new gas discoveries have been made since the Kimu gas discovery in 1996.
However, with the resurgence in petroleum exploration licensing, statistically one would expect
to realize several new gas discoveries before 2010. Consequently, there were few reserve
additions during the period of the project, though there were minor reserve category re-
classifications based on field performance data and latest geological evaluations. PNG's
recoverable gas reserves, therefore, stand at 5.2 tscf proven, 15.8 tscf proven and probable and
25.5 tscf proven, probable and possible.



                                                47

The promotional efforts were successful not only in maintaining industry interest in gas
development during prolonged marketing efforts and negotiations for the PNG Gas Project, but
also in stimulating new petroleum exploration. The promotion of investment opportunities in gas
entailed a mix of activities and took many shapes and forms. The primary promotional efforts
were the holding of formal exhibitions at country-specific, regional and international petroleum
conferences. In this manner PNG's overall opportunities for petroleum sector investment and
specific opportunities for gas development were expounded and international industry at large
made aware of the development potential. Exhibition posters for display in exhibition booths
were prepared and CD ROMs with key PNG sector information distributed to conference
delegates. Particularly, this resulted in the PNG Gas Project being well known as one of the
world's most exciting frontier gas developments entailing the longest pipeline (over 3800 km
including laterals) in the southern hemisphere with an estimated overall project cost of ~ US$ 5
billion. Such large scale investments for cross border trade of gas have a long gestation period
and require constant care, attention and steady promotion; the Gas TA project has enabled such,
keeping the PNG Gas Project and PNG's desire to develop its gas fields alive in the minds of the
industry. Investor awareness of PNG's gas development potential has thus been maintained and
as a consequence investor response is enthusiastic.

The project provided support for many meetings that have helped the progress of gas
development encompassing bilateral meetings with the Federal Government of Australia and the
State Government of Queensland, negotiations with the project proponents, workshops on related
issues, studies and publications, and some in-country awareness programs amongst the affected
communities. The support mechanisms for such comprised: the availability of expertise through
the on-the-job training activity of the skills upgrading component, which provided responsible
advice and guidance; meeting facilitation; and logistical support. As the staff gained confidence
and experience, less and less expert advice was needed and the staff engaged in the sector
discussions and negotiations unaided.

Almost everybody in PNG has been aware of the impending development of gas; almost every
step towards the development features prominently in the local media. The landowners of the
petroleum project areas that would have supplied gas to the PNG gas project have announced
their support publicly on many occasions and are constantly enquiring what benefits they would
receive from the project. To this extent, gas development is seen as an economic panacea and an
opportunity for material advancement by stakeholders.

d) Enhancing of monitoring and regulation capacity of the Government to ensure optimal
    gas development

As a result of the project, the Government has a significantly more skilled and experienced
Petroleum Division to monitor and regulate sector development and ensure that developments
deploy the best options. Much has been learnt about gas development during and arising from the
preparations for the PNG Gas Project and the Petroleum Division has commensurately and
successfully enhanced its monitoring and regulation capacity.

The Government chose to develop its capacity in the monitoring and regulation of gas
development within its sector-dedicated Petroleum Division, which has overall responsibility in
the Department of Petroleum and Energy for oil and gas matters. The Petroleum Division was
established in 1993 shortly after the completion of the development of PNG's first commercial



                                                48

oil accumulation (Kutubu fields). Prior to that, it had only been a branch within the Geological
Survey dealing with technical and licensing matters. In 1997, as further oil fields (Gobe and
Moran) were brought into production, the former Department of Mining and Petroleum was split
into two separate departments, with the Petroleum Division becoming the core division of the
newly styled Department of Petroleum and Energy. Institutionally therefore, the Government has
attempted to keep pace with sector development. However, to support the sector, not only has the
Government had to learn the basics of the industry, but also countenance its growing complexity
as multiple oil fields were developed and abundant gas resources identified.

The project sought to assist the Petroleum Division's learning and understanding of gas resource
evaluation, market assessment, processing, transportation, distribution, utilization, development
planning and promotion, license and agreement administration, economic and policy analysis,
development monitoring and regulation as well as social impact and environmental impact
mitigation. Indeed, the project sought to help build capacity in any area that was needed to
ensure that the Petroleum Division obtained the broad-based capacity to monitor and regulate gas
developments. The modalities of capacity enhancement were: on-the-job training; short courses;
attachments to industry; management programs; and postgraduate studies. These were to be
undertaken according to the needs of the Division and the training needs of the individual
member of the staff to conduct sector business. Allied to these modalities were project activities
such as the conduct of studies and promotions, the holding of exhibitions and seminars,
publication of reports, and acquisition of equipment. The extent to which the project had
recourse to use any particular activity or component depended very much on the shape and form
of gas sector development at any particular time during the period of the implementation of the
project. Whilst an effort was made to foster learning in relevant disciplines on a programmed
basis, sometimes sector development business requirements necessarily impinged upon training
plans, but the attention to sector business under the guidance of experts also provided
tremendous learning opportunities. A fine example of such was the Petroleum Division's
leadership of the negotiations for the PNG Gas Project Gas Agreement, which introduced much
valuable experience and commercial reality to the learning process. Another example was the
dispatch of a senior policy officer to undertake a master's degree in petroleum project financing
who was subsequently able to take a lead role for the Government in the PNG Gas Project
Finance Committee. In yet another example, a senior petroleum engineer undertook a master's
degree in natural gas engineering obtaining a distinction and school prize and then returned to
lead the Government review of PNG Gas Project design through FEED. The application of the
staff's enhanced skills subsequent to the use of the project's training modalities continued
unabated through to the end of the Project.

It was necessarily difficult to accommodate all of the training desires of all the professional staff
and some branches of the Petroleum Division made considerably more use of the project than
others. To some degree, there was an inherent bias towards readily identifiable disciplines such
as petroleum engineering, and geosciences, which have well defined and readily available
professional and postgraduate courses. However, extensive use of the Center for Energy,
Petroleum and Mining Law and Policy at the University of Dundee, Scotland, UK also enabled
master's degrees to be obtained in petroleum taxation, financing, management, and natural gas
policy and energy studies. Some aspects of sector development and the corresponding
responsibilities of the Petroleum Division are more nebulous than others; this is particularly so
with regard to the Coordination Branch that is essentially the interface with community



                                               49

stakeholders. Exactly how staff may train to deal with customary landowners or poorly-
resourced local level and provincial governments poses a problem. The Petroleum Division
addressed this by carefully choosing appropriate postgraduate programs in social anthropology,
mediation, business studies, and conflict resolution. Other modalities of skills enhancement in
this area involved engagement of social mapping experts for on-the-job training, attachments of
staff to the Native Title Tribunal in Australia, and support for some landowner awareness
campaigns.

In association with the enhancement of capacity comes the wherewithal to apply that improved
capacity. Various amendments to the Oil and Gas Act and a series of regulations were prepared
and presented to the National Executive Council for their consideration. These are elaborated
above in a) Strengthening of policy and regulatory framework to promote investment in gas
development. Their passage will provide an improved framework within which the staff may
practice their enhanced sector skills.

Overall, substantial efforts by the staff have resulted in a stronger Petroleum Division. The Mid-
Term Review, conducted in mid-2003, found that, based on aggregate assessments, 71.5% of the
staff was able to perform their professional responsibilities as compared to 46.9% at the start of
the project. A further assessment made in late 2005, found that the aggregate assessment had
risen to 81.7% as against the project outcome indicator target of 66.7%. The Petroleum Division,
therefore, has a substantial and knowledgeable professional staff actively monitoring and
regulating the industry. (The assessment of staff capability has been based on a relative measure
of their professional capability as determined from the responses of staff provided in an
assessment form. The overall assessment is an aggregate of all staff and their perceived ability to
perform as petroleum professionals. Assessment data indicated that the aggregate percentage of
staff that felt capable of performing their duties as petroleum professionals was as follows:
August 2000 = 46.9%; April 2003 = 71.5%; and November 2005 = 81.7%.)




                                                 50

Project Task Form Status Chart


 GAS DEVELOPMENT & UTILISATION TA PROJECT: PROJECT TASK FORM PROGRESS TRACKING CHART                                                                 Quarter End      3Q 2006


        PTF No                 Task Description              Activity PMR units   PMR Cum.  Upto Qtr-Yr       Beneficiary &/or         App    App      App      On-  Done
                                                                     only          Credit                       participants           Pend    Dir     Bank    going


 DIRECTOR'S OFFICE                                                                                          PMR award is cumulative where task is ongoing

        DIR 001   Gas ops definition/Field Classification   Study                    1       Dec-00     Director,                                                        1

        DIR 002   Legal opinion on State's equity in Hides  Study                    1       Dec-00     F. Lola, Legal Adviser                                           1

        DIR 003   Project Adviser                           Project Advice         1155      Jun-06     All Divisional staff                                             1

        DIR       Project Adviser                           Project Advice           50      Sep-06     All Divisional staff                                             1
        003FE
        DIR 004   Talk at 6th PNG Mining & Pet Inv Conf     Exhibition               1       Dec-00     S Pono Acting Director                                           1

        DIR 004   Talk at 6th PNG Mining & Pet Inv Conf     Promo Package            1       Dec-00     S Pono Acting Director                                           1

        DIR 005   Risk Assessment Workshop                  Seminar                  1       Mar-01     Director & Prin Engineer                         `               1

        DIR 006   Legal Expert for Gas Agreement Drafting   On the job training    0.6338    Jun-01     F Lola, Legal Adviser                                            1

        DIR       Legal Expert for Gas Agreement Drafting   On the job training    0.317     Mar-02     F Lola, Legal Adviser                                            1
        006A
        DIR 007   IT support                                Other                    *       Mar-03     N Desiang & J Kambilijambi                                       1

        DIR 008   Hardware training for IT staff            Short Course             0.5     Mar-02     J Kamblijambi                                                    1

        DIR 009   AAPG Int Conf 2003 Barcelona, Spain       Exhibition               1       Sep-03     S Pono, R Avinaga, J Hua, G Balavue                              1

        DIR 009   AAPG Int Conf 2003 Barcelona, Spain       Promo Package            1       Sep-03     S Pono, R Avinaga, J Hua, G Balavue                              1

        DIR 010   Studies in information Technology         Short Course             19      Jun-02     S Ani                                                            1

        DIR 011   Strategic Course for Contracting          Short Course             0.5      Jul-01    Tiensten, Hua                                                    1

        DIR 012   Certificate in Accounting                 Short Course             3       Sep-02     P Soare                                                          1

        DIR 013   Gas project folders for promotional       Promo Package            1       Dec-02     Lola,Pono                                                        1

        DIR 014   Upgrading Project Financial Software      Equipment              32323     Sep-03     Soare, IT Staff                                                  1

        DIR 015   Landowner Leaders Management Seminar      Seminar                  1       Nov-02     All Ads & Coordinators                                           1

        DIR 016   7th PNG Mining & Pet Inv Conf             Exhibition               1       Dec-02     Pono,Woyengu,Lola,Manau                                          1

        DIR 016   7th PNG Mining & Pet Inv Conf             Promo Package            1       Dec-02     Pono,Woyengu,Lola,Manau                                          1

        DIR 017   Microsoft Certification Course            Short Course             1       Mar-03     J Kamblijambi                                                    1

        DIR 018   Promotional items for conferences         Equipment              58000     Jun-03     A Goiye                                                          1

        DIR 019   AAPG Annual Conv Salt Lake City USA       Exhibition               1       Jun-03     S Pono, P Kogl, P Woyengu, D Sebong                              1

        DIR 019   AAPG Annual Conv Salt Lake City USA       Promo Package            1       Jun-03     S Pono, P Kogl, P Woyengu, D Sebong                              1

        DIR 020   Project Implementation Meeting            Seminar                  1       Jun-03     S Pono, P Kogl, P Woyengu, D Sebong                              1

        DIR 021   English Language Testing                  Short Course            0.1      Jun-03     D Sebong, I. Manau, D Seteri                                     1

        DIR 022   Management training                       Management Course        1        Jul-03    All Professional staff                                           1

        DIR 023   Management training                       Management Course        2       Sep-03     F Lola, Legal Adviser                                            1

        DIR 024   Gas Commercialization Workshop            Seminar                  1       Dec-03     Senior Staff                                                     1


                                                                                            51

GAS DEVELOPMENT & UTILISATION TA PROJECT: PROJECT TASK FORM PROGRESS TRACKING CHART                                                           Quarter End      3Q 2006


    PTF No                 Task Description           Activity PMR units    PMR Cum.  Upto Qtr-Yr       Beneficiary &/or            App  App    App      On-  Done
                                                               only          Credit                        participants            Pend   Dir  Bank     going


    Mid Term Review

    DIR 101   Gas Development Strategies Meetings     Seminar                   1      Mar-04     S Pono & J Waminan                                              1

    DIR 102   Promotion to CNPC in Beijing, China     Promo Package             1      Mar-04     R Avinaga                                                       1

    DIR 102   Exhibition to CNPC in Beijing, China    Exhibition                1      Mar-04     R Avinaga                                                       1

    DIR 103   Representation at APPEA                 Seminar                   1      Mar-04     S Pono and S Vai                                                1

    DIR 104   Diploma in Accounting                   Short Course             7.5     Dec-04     J Taian 10 hrs/wk x 60 weeks                                    1

    DIR 105   Webmaster Course                        Short Course             0.5     Mar-04     S Ani                                                           1

    DIR 106   Special Geological Adviser              On the job training     0.079     Jun-05    Exploration Branch                                              1

    DIR 107   Representation at AAPG Dallas           Exhibition                1       Jun-04    J Kapi, Alu Ila, D Seteri, S Koyama                             1

    DIR 107   Representation at AAPG Dallas           Promo Package             1       Jun-04    J Kapi, Alu Ila, D Seteri, S Koyama                             1

    DIR 108   Intermediate & Advanced MS Excel        Short Course              6      Mar-04     Prof. staff various branches                                    1

    DIR 109   Update of Gas Development Studies Ph I  Study                     1       Jun-05    GMP In collaboration with KR                                    1

    DIR 110   Gas Development Meetings                Seminar                   1       Jun-04    J Waminan, S Pono, F Lola                                       1

    DIR 111   PNG Mining and Petroleum Workshop       Seminar                   1       Jun-04    24 professional staff                                           1

    DIR 112   Additional Database Entry Operators     Other                    n.a     Sep-05                                                                     1

    DIR 113   MS Window Active Directory Course       Short Course             0.5      Jun-04    N Desiang                                                       1

    DIR 114   Petroleum Legal Expert                  On the job training    1.2677    Sep-06     Legal officers and interns                                      1

    DIR 115   MS Certified Systems Engineer           Short Course             9.3      Jun-05    All IT staff                                                    1

    DIR       MS Certified Systems Engineer Exams     Short Course             0.5     Sep-06                                                                     1
    115A
    DIR 116   Postgraduate studies in IT              Post Graduate             1      Sep-06     N Desiang                                                       1

    DIR 117   Cisco Certified Network Training        Short Course             0.25     Jun-05    IT Staff                                                        1

    DIR 118   Project Special Audit FY 2005           Other                            Mar-06     Director                                                        1

    DIR 119   Change Management Adviser               On the job training    1.42615   Sep-06     Director & Asst Directors                                       1

    DIR 120   Finance and Budgetary Systems           On the job training    0.42785   Sep-06     Director & Asst Directors                                       1
              Specialist
    DIR 121   Organizational Specialist               On the job training    0.58631   Sep-06     Director & Asst Directors                                       1

    DIR 122   IT Specialist                           On the job training    0.11092   Sep-06     IT Section                                                      1

TOT    55     DIRECTOR'S OFFICE




COORDINATION BRANCH

    COO       Field Liaison Consultants               Other                     *       Jun-03    Coordination Branch                                             1
    001
    COO       Registration of Customary Land Conf.    Seminar                   1      Dec-00     Coordinators Coord Br                                           1
    002
    COO       Understanding Conflict                  Seminar                   1      Dec-00     Coordinators Coord Br                                           1
    003


                                                                                      52

GAS DEVELOPMENT & UTILISATION TA PROJECT: PROJECT TASK FORM PROGRESS TRACKING CHART                                                        Quarter End      3Q 2006


     PTF No                 Task Description              Activity PMR units   PMR Cum.  Upto Qtr-Yr      Beneficiary &/or       App   App   App      On-  Done
                                                                  only          Credit                       participants        Pend  Dir  Bank     going


     COO       MBA Southern Cross Univ. G. Gabonen       Post Graduate            1       Mar-02     G Gabonen, Coord. Officer                                 1
     004
     COO       Policy promotion to Kikori landowners     Seminar                  1       Mar-01     S Mapua, Liaison officer                                  1
     005
     COO       Visit Native Title Tribunal & UTS SYD     Industry Attachment     0.5      Mar-01     M Teka, A Lagap & H Philip                                1
     006
     COO       Social Mapping Experts                    On the job training    11.41     Mar-04     Coordinators Coord Br                                     1
     008
     COO       Visit Native Title Tribunal & UTS SYD: 2  Industry Attachment     0.5      Mar-01     J Kuatowa, D Manau                                        1
     010
     COO       S. Pacific Land Tenure Symposium          Seminar                  1       Mar-02     I Marru, H Phillip                                        1
     013
     COO       Master in Mediation                       Post Graduate            1       Sep-02     A Lagap                                                   1
     014
     COO       Seminar in Land valuation                 Short Course            0.5      Sep-02     G Gabonen                                                 1
     015
     COO       Social Mapping Issues Paper               Equipment              2000      Sep-02     Coordinators                                              1
     023
     COO       Gobe landowner policy awareness           Seminar                  1       Sep-02     Coordinators                                              1
     024
     COO       Masters in Social Anthropology            Post Graduate            1       Sep-04     Ian Marru                                                 1
     026
     COO       Social Mapping Workshop                   Seminar                  1        Jul-03    Coordination Branch                                       1
     033
     COO       Governance Symposium                      Seminar                  1       Sep-03     S Koyama                                                  1
     036
     Mid Term Review

     COO       Social Mapping and Dev Expert             On the job training    1.743     Sep-04     S Koyama                                                  1
     101
     COO       MA Poverty, Conflict & Reconstruction     Post Graduate            1       Sep-05     G Roaveneo                                                1
     102
     COO       Hides landowner database                  Equipment              11434     Dec-04     P Kamala                                                  1
     104
     COO       Mining and Petroleum Inv Conf Sydney      Promo Package            1       Dec-04     Senior staff                                              1
     105
     COO       Mining and Petroleum Inv Conf Sydney      Exhibition               1       Dec-04     Senior staff                                              1
     105
     COO       PETRAD Petroleum Management               Industry Attachment      1       Dec-05     Ian Marru                                                 1
     107       Program
TOT    22      COORDINATION BRANCH




POLICY BRANCH

     POL 001   JCCP Petroleum Marketing Course           Short Course             2       Dec-00     R Avinaga, Policy Officer                                 1

     POL 002   MSc Course Univ Dundee                    Post Graduate            1       Jun-02     K Puiye, Policy Officer                                   1

     POL 003   GASEX 2000 Conference                     Exhibition               1       Dec-00     Various policy officers                                   1

     POL 003   GASEX 2000 Conference                     Promo Package            1       Dec-00     Various policy officers                                   1

     POL 004   Gas agreement negotiations, 5th round     Seminar                  1       Dec-00     R. Rimua,Asst Dir Policy                                  1



                                                                                         53

GAS DEVELOPMENT & UTILISATION TA PROJECT: PROJECT TASK FORM PROGRESS TRACKING CHART                                                         Quarter End      3Q 2006


    PTF No                 Task Description            Activity PMR units   PMR Cum.  Upto Qtr-Yr      Beneficiary &/or           App   App   App      On-  Done
                                                               only          Credit                       participants            Pend  Dir  Bank     going


    POL 005  Pet. arrangements conf. & workshop       Seminar                  1       Dec-00     F. Lola, Legal adviser                                        1

    POL 006  Energex, Origin Energy and AGL           Industry Attachment    1.154     Dec-00     7 Policy & Coord Officers                                     1

    POL 007  GTQ Local Content Study                  Study                    1       Jun-01     Dir & various policy officers                                 1

    POL 008  GTQ Pre-feasibility Gas to Port Moresby  Study                    1       Jun-01     Dir & various pet eng officers                                1

    POL 009  6th Gas Agreement & Loan negotiations    Seminar                  1       Dec-00     R Rimua, Asst Dir Policy                                      1

    POL 010  GTQ concessional loan negotn w/Aust      Seminar                  1       Mar-01     P Tiensten Dir, R Rimua AD Pol                                1

    POL 011  International Gas Business Workshop      Short Course             1       Mar-01     D Sebong; D Manau                                             1

    POL 012  Long Term Modeling Economist             On the job training    4.437     Jun-03     Various policy officers                                       1

    POL 013  Long Term Gas Lawyer incl add 40 days    On the job training    3.423     Jun-04     Various policy officers                                       1

    POL 014  Environmental Expert                     On the job training    3.486     Jun-02     Various policy officers                                       1

    POL 015  LPG study Phase 1                        Study                    1       Jun-02     Various policy officers                                       1

    POL 016  Petroleum Cost Reporting Expert          On the job training      1       Jun-03     Various policy officers                                       1

    POL 017  Gas Agreement: Tax Group meeting         Seminar                  1       Mar-01     F Lola                                                        1

    POL 018  Gas Agreement Negotiations               Seminar                  1       Mar-01     F Lola, R. Rimua                                              1

    POL 019  Financial statement interpretation       Short Course             2       Jun-01     Various policy officers                                       1

    POL 020  Office Furnishings for new staff         Equipment              1000      Jun-01     New policy officers                                           1

    POL 021  Queensland Power Conference              Seminar                  1       Jun-01     B Pawih & D Sebong                                            1

    POL 022  Long Term Economic Adviser               On the job training    3.169     Dec-02     Various policy officers                                       1

    POL 023  Gas management at Oxford CPES            Short Course             1       Jun-02     R Rimua, Asst Dir Policy                                      1

    POL 024  Short-term Economist 8/00-               On the job training    1.902     Jun-01     Policy Officers                                               1
    &A       12/00&/2/01-6/01
    POL 025  LPG study Phase 2                        Study                   0.1      Jun-01     Policy & Engineering officers                        1

    POL 026  Short Term Economist 7/01-12/01          On the job training    0.951     Dec-02     Policy officers                                               1

    POL 027  Basic Excel & Word Course                Short Course             1       Mar-02     12 Policy officers & Div staff                                1

    POL 028  Greening the Environment course          Short Course            1.5      Sep-01     Pendrigh Lui                                                  1

    POL 029  Oil price, production forecast           Seminar                  1       Mar-02     Policy officers & Div staff                                   1

    POL 030  MSc Course Univ Dundee                   Post Graduate            1       Jun-02     Roger Avinaga                                                 1

    POL 031  Office Partitions                        Equipment              24383     Dec-01     All Policy officers                                           1

    POL 032  Gas Negotiations                         Seminar                  1       Nov-01     Tiensten, Lola and Rimua                                      1

    POL 033  Gas Negotiations                         Seminar                  1       Nov-01     Tiesnten, Lola and Rimua                                      1

    POL 034  Office Furnishings for new staff         Equipment              4190      Dec-01     All Policy officers                                           1

    POL 035  Gas Negotiations                         Seminar                  1       Jun-02     Tiensten, Sebong                                              1

    POL 036  Gas Agreement review                     Seminar                  1       Jun-02     Six officers                                                  1

    POL 037  APERC Simulation exercise                Seminar                  1       Jun-02     H Kila                                                        1

    POL 038  Report writing skills & upgrading        Short Course             1       Jun-02     Policy officers                                               1


                                                                                      54

GAS DEVELOPMENT & UTILISATION TA PROJECT: PROJECT TASK FORM PROGRESS TRACKING CHART                                                          Quarter End      3Q 2006


    PTF No                 Task Description             Activity PMR units   PMR Cum.  Upto Qtr-Yr       Beneficiary &/or          App   App   App      On-  Done
                                                                only          Credit                       participants            Pend  Dir  Bank     going


    POL 039   Environment workshop                     Seminar                   1       Jun-02    Divisional officers                                           1

    POL 040   World Bank course on Sector Reforms      Short Course              1       Jun-02    F Lola, R Rimua                                               1

    POL 042   GASEX 2002 Conference                    Exhibition                1       Jun-02    D Sebong, R Rimua                                             1

    POL 042   GASEX 2002 Conference                    Promo Package             1       Jun-02    D Sebong, R Rimua                                             1

    POL 043   Gas Agreement review by lawyers          Seminar                   1       Jun-02    F Lola                                                        1

    POL 044   MSc Course Univ Dundee                   Post Graduate             1      Dec-03     Rendle Rimua                                                  1

    POL 046   Norwegian Petroleum Directorate          Industry Attachment      0.64    Sep-02     Pendrigh Lui                                                  1

    POL 047   Japan Centre for Cooperation in Pet      Industry Attachment      0.23    Sep-02     Herry Manda                                                   1

    POL 048   Subscription Asia O & G, Petr Economist  Equipment               6708     Mar-02     Professional staff                                            1

    POL 049   Japan Centre for Cooperation in Pet      Industry Attachment      0.23    Sep-02     Gedisa Kone                                                   1

    POL 050   CCOP-SOPAC Exploration Forum             Seminar                   1      Sep-02     Rendle Rimua and P Woyengu                                    1

    POL 051   Financial Expert for GTQ Project         On the job training    0.61692   Dec-03     Policy and Management                                         1

    POL 052   PNGIA Annual Conference                  Seminar                   1      Dec-02     Dominic Sebong                                                1

    POL 053   GTA Financing Meeting , BNE, Aus         Seminar                   1      Dec-02     Dominic Sebong                                                1

    POL 054   Industrial Attachment - AAR Lawyers      Industry Attachment      0.5     Mar-03     Jeklin Talonu                                                 1

    POL 055   Industrial Attachment - ACCC             Industry Attachment      0.66    Mar-03     Jeklin Talonu & Kepsey Puiye                                  1

    POL 057   Tax Overview Course                      Short Course              1      Mar-03     Roger Avinaga & Kila Gare                                     1

    POL 058   JCCP Petroleum Marketing Course          Industry Attachment      0.3      Jun-03    Sarah Theo                                                    1

    POL 059   Gas Dev. Opportunities Workshop          Seminar                   1      Mar-03     Francis Lola                                                  1

    POL 060   OGCI Course, London, UK                  Short Course              1      Sep-03     Roger Avinaga                                                 1

    POL 061   Women In Mining Conference               Seminar                   1      Aug-03     Yuyuge, Talonu, Philip, Kapi                                  1

    POL 063   Post Graduate MsP                        Post Graduate            1.00    Dec-05     J Talonu                                                      1

    POL 064   MEnvMgt                                  Post Graduate            1.00    Dec-05     P Lui                                                         1

    Mid Term Review

    POL 101   Environmental Books                      Equipment               1369     Mar-04     Environmental Officers                                        1

    POL 102   Petroleum Accounting Books               Equipment                402     Mar-04     Economic Officers                                             1

    POL 103   APEC/ICPOCE/MMS week in Sing             Industry Attachment    0.1538    Mar-04     Gedisa Kone                                                   1

    POL 104   IELTS prep for postgraduate study        Post Graduate          0.0027    Mar-04     Jeklin Talonu                                                 1

    POL 105   Purchase of Petroleum Law books          Equipment                 0                 Legal officers in Policy Branch             1

    POL 106   Economic Modeling at Oil Search Ltd      Industry Attachment    0.3333     Jun-04    Economics Officers, Policy Branch                             1

    POL 107   Marginal Fields Symposium                Seminar                1.0000     Jun-04    Expl, Policy, & Eng Officers                                  1

    POL 108   Strategic Guide to Gas Companies         Equipment               3321      Jun-04    Policy Officers                                               1

    POL 109   Attachment to Oil Search SE Mananda      Industry Attachment    0.1846     Jun-04    R Rimua, J Kapi, E Tammy                                      1

    POL 110   Short term Gas Lawyer                    On the job training    0.6338    Sep-04     Legal officers, Policy Branch                                 1



                                                                                       55

GAS DEVELOPMENT & UTILISATION TA PROJECT: PROJECT TASK FORM PROGRESS TRACKING CHART                                                              Quarter End      3Q 2006


    PTF No                 Task Description               Activity PMR units   PMR Cum.   Upto Qtr-Yr      Beneficiary &/or            App   App   App      On-  Done
                                                                  only           Credit                       participants             Pend  Dir  Bank     going


    POL 113   IELTS prep for postgraduate study          Short Course            0.1000    Sep-04     J Talonu & E Yuyuge                                            1

    POL 114   MSc in Environmental Pollution Science     Post Graduate           1.0000    Sep-06     G Kone                                                         1

    POL 115   MSc in Energy Economics                    Post Graduate           1.0000    Sep-05     K Gare                                                         1

    POL 116   IELTS prep for postgraduate study          Post Graduate          0.0000     Sep-04     S Theo, G Kone                                                 1

    POL 117   Masters in Law University of Denver        Post Graduate           1.0000    Dec-05     Esther Yuyuge                                                  1

    POL 118   Pet policy & mgmt workshop CCOP            Industry Attachment     0.1538    Sep-04     Francis Lola, Greg Balavue                                     1

    POL 119   MBA in Oil & Gas Management                Post Graduate           1.2500    Mar-06     D Sebong                                                       1

    POL 122   CCOP- PPM 4th Workshop                     Seminar                 1.0000    Dec-04     D.Sebong & Gregory Balavue                                     1

    POL 123   Master in Petroleum, Business Mmgt         Post Graduate           1.0000    Dec-05     S Theo                                                         1

TOT    81     POLICY BRANCH




ENGINEERING BRANCH

    ENG 001   Pipelines course                           Short Course              1       Dec-00     Bob Morokai                                                    1

    ENG 002   Gas Processing course                      Short Course              1       Dec-00     Joe Taymen                                                     1

    ENG 003   MEng. Course, Curtin Univ. Perth           Post Graduate             1       Dec-01     Joe Taymen                                                     1

    ENG 004   GTQ processing facility locations          Study                     1       Dec-01     Various Engineers/Policy officers                              1

    ENG 005   Petroleum engineering certificate          Short Course              9       Jun-01     David Seteri                                                   1

    ENG 007   Masters degree in Petroleum Engineering    Post Graduate             1       Sep-04     Bob Morokai                                                    1

    ENG 008   Masters degree in Petroleum Engineering    Post Graduate             1       Sep-04     Alex Goiye                                                     1

    ENG 009   Gas processing & transportation software   Equipment               97500     Dec-01     All engineers                                                  1

    ENG 010   Fundamentals of Reservoir Engineering      Short Course              10      Dec-01     All engineers                                                  1

    ENG 011   Petroleum facilities inspection            On the job training    0.633725   Dec-01     All engineers                                                  1

    ENG 013   Office work stations                       Equipment               22811     Sep-01     All engineers                                                  1

    ENG 015   Pipelines flow simulation software         Equipment              152191     Jun-04     All engineers                                                  1

    ENG 017   Purchase of Risk & Portfolio mgmt          Equipment                1267     Jun-03     All engineers                                                  1
              Proceeding
    ENG 018   Engineering Database Handbook              Equipment                1447     Sep-03     All engineers                                                  1

    ENG 019   Engineering Books                          Equipment                1258     Sep-03     All engineers                                                  1

    ENG 021   Gas Conditioning and Processing Course     Short Course              0.5     Dec-01     Bob Morokai                                                    1

    ENG 022   Masters degree in Petroleum Engineering    Post Graduate             1       Sep-04     Boas Kota                                                      1

    ENG 025   IHRDC Leading Edge Skills course           Management Course        0.25     Dec-01     Peter Kogl                                                     1

    ENG 026   Professional Petroleum Eng Cert            Short Course              8.5     Jun-02     Boas Kota                                                      1

    ENG 027   MSc Degree at Salford University           Post Graduate             1       Jun-03     Joe Waminan                                                    1

    ENG 028   Petroleum facilities inspection training   On the job training    0.3763     Dec-02     All engineers                                                  1



                                                                                          56

GAS DEVELOPMENT & UTILISATION TA PROJECT: PROJECT TASK FORM PROGRESS TRACKING CHART                                                           Quarter End      3Q 2006


    PTF No                  Task Description                Activity PMR units   PMR Cum.  Upto Qtr-Yr      Beneficiary &/or        App   App   App      On-  Done
                                                                    only          Credit                       participants         Pend  Dir  Bank     going


    ENG 031   M Eng at Heriot Watt, Edinburgh              Post Graduate            1       Sep-03     Ephraim Tammy                                              1

    ENG 032   Gas Conditioning and Processing Course       Short Course             1       Jun-03     C Bomai                                                    1

    ENG 033   Participate in HAZOPS for refinery           Industry Attachment     0.27     Sep-02     Joseph Waminan                                             1

    ENG 036   IWCF Well Control School                     Short Course             2       Jun-03     B Kota & D Seteri                                          1

    ENG 037   OGCI Course - USA                            Short Course            8.7      Mar-03     Ignas Yaok                                                 1

    ENG 038   Training in gas processing & transport       On the job training    5.261     Jun-05     All petroleum engineers                                    1

    ENG 039   LNG Promotion Meeting with PRC reps          Seminar                  1       Aug-03     P Kogl                                                     1

    ENG 041   OGCI Course - USA                            Short Course            8.7      Mar-04     C Bomai                                                    1

    Mid Term Review

    ENG 038   Gas Processing Facility Regulation Study     Study                    1       Dec-04                                                                1

    ENG 038   Gas Pipeline Regulation Study                Study                    1       Dec-04                                                                1

    ENG 101   NW Moran Risk Assessment Workshop            Seminar                  1       Mar-04     L Kumbun and P Kogl                                        1

    ENG 102   Economic & Management Course                 Short Course             2       Jun-04     J Waminan                                                  1

    ENG 103   Reservoir Simulator                          Equipment              301794    Jun-05     Reservoir Engineers                                        1

    ENG 104   Gas Processing and Transportation Books      Equipment               9137     Jun-04     Petroleum Engineering Branch                               1

    ENG 105   Gas processing & transportation tour         Industry Attachment     1.33     Dec-04     Taymen, Kogl, Seteri, Kumbun                               1

    ENG 113   Oil & Gas Act & Regulations Workshop         Seminar                  1       Dec-04     Petroleum eng and geologists                               1

    ENG 114   Masters degree in Petroleum Engineering      Post Graduate           1.00     Sep-05     Ignas Yaok                                                 1

    ENG 115   Pipeline Software: Pipeline Studio           Equipment              103125    Jun-05     All engineers                                              1

    ENG 116   Reservoir Simulation Training                On the job training     0.16     Jun-05     Reservoir Engineers                                        1

    ENG 117   Masters in Pipeline Eng Univ. of Newcastle   Post Graduate           1.00     Sep-06     Lawrence Kumbun                                            1

    ENG 118   Masters degree in Pet Eng Herriot Watt       Post Graduate           1.00     Sep-06     David Seteri                                               1

    ENG 119   Masters degree in Pet Eng Herriot Watt       Post Graduate           1.00     Sep-06     Cletus Bomai                                               1

    ENG 120   Secondment to ExxonMobil for FEED            Industry Attachment     0.50     Sep-05     J Waminan                                                  1

    ENG 121   Training in gas pipeline simulation          On the job training     0.16     Sep-05     Petroleum Engineering Branch                               1

    ENG 122   Reservoir simulation hardware                Equipment              25000     Jun-05     Reservoir Engineers                                        1

    ENG 123   Pipeline Rules of Thumb Books                Equipment               3713     Jun-05     Petroleum engineers                                        1

    ENG 124   Attachment of Roxar Geomodeling training     Industry Attachment    0.167     Sep-06     Ephraim Tammy                                              1

TO     48     ENGINEERING BRANCH
T



EXPLORATION BRANCH

    EXP 001   English Language Testing                     Short Course             1       Dec-00     P. Woyengu, Explor Br                                      1

    EXP 002   New computers                                Equipment              73,194    Dec-00     Various PD officers                                        1



                                                                                           57

GAS DEVELOPMENT & UTILISATION TA PROJECT: PROJECT TASK FORM PROGRESS TRACKING CHART                                                          Quarter End      3Q 2006


    PTF No                 Task Description              Activity PMR units   PMR Cum.  Upto Qtr-Yr       Beneficiary &/or         App   App   App      On-  Done
                                                                 only          Credit                        participants          Pend  Dir  Bank     going


    EXP 003  Petroleum Lectures at Univ of Tech.        Seminar                  1       Dec-00     Pet Eng officers                                             1

    EXP 004  IT Expertise                               On the job training     2.48     Dec-01     IT Manager and IT Officer                                    1

    EXP 005  MSc Studies in Pet Geol                    Post Graduate            1       Sep-01     P. Woyengu, Expl Br                                          1

    EXP 006  Database audit                             Study                    1       Mar-01     Asst Dir Expl & Archives Mgr                                 1

    EXP 007  Aust. Gas Assoc. Conference                Seminar                  1       Dec-00     Various Policy officers                                      1

    EXP 008  Data management                            Industry Attachment     0.66     Dec-00     Archives Officers, Expl Br                                   1

    EXP 009  Masters in Info Management                 Post Graduate            2       Dec-03     B Joku                                                       1

    EXP 010  Geophysical Training                       Industry Attachment     0.33     Mar-01     A Ila                                                        1

    EXP 011  Text books                                 Equipment               925      Jun-01     Exploration Branch                                           1

    EXP 012  Subs for Bulletin of the AAPG              Equipment              1,020     Jun-01     Various Explor Staff                                         1

    EXP 013  Purchase of digital topographic data       Equipment              10,550    Jun-01     All staff                                                    1

    EXP 014  Participation in TCM of PDL 2              Industry Attachment     0.15     Mar-01     J Kapi                                                       1

    EXP 015  APPEA Conference 2001, Hobart              Exhibition               1       Jun-01     J Haumu , G Balavue                                          1

    EXP 015  APPEA Conference 2001, Hobart              Promo Package            1       Jun-01     J Haumu , G Balavue                                          1

    EXP 016  International Gas Business Workshop        Short Course            12.5     Mar-02     25 Petroleum Division officers                               1

    EXP 017  Oil and Gas Industry Teams course          Short Course             1        Jul-01    J Haumu, Petr Geol                                           1

    EXP 018  Visit to Schlumberger data centre          Industry Attachment     0.05     Jun-01     S. Pono & P Tiensten                                         1

    EXP 019  Exploration experience with Oil Search Ltd Industry Attachment      1        Jul-00    L Solomon                                                    1

    EXP 020  Chevron Industry Attachment                Industry Attachment     0.33     Aug-01     S Sioni                                                      1

    EXP 021  Petroleum resources evaluation study       Study                   0.7      Dec-05     Expl & Engineering Officers                                  1

    EXP 021  Petroleum resources evaluation study       On the job training    0.3803    Mar-05     Expl & Engineering Officers                                  1

    EXP 022  EABS Symposium Melbourne                   Seminar                  1       Dec-01     P.Woyengu,Alu Ila                                            1

    EXP 023  7th ASCOPE Conference & Exhibition         Exhibition               1       Dec-01     A.Goiye, E.Yuyuge                                            1

    EXP 023  7th ASCOPE Conference & Exhibition         Promo Package            1       Dec-01     A.Goiye, E.Yuyuge                                            1

    EXP 024  DST Hydrodynamics course                   Short Course             2       Dec-01     Greg,Silo, Ephraim, Jenny                                    1

    EXP 025  Database integration                       Study                    1       Feb-02     Archives Officers, Expl Br                                   1

    EXP 026  Skills Upgrading for Exec Secretaries      Short Course             9       Nov-01     All secretaries                                              1

    EXP 027  Executive Secretaries Workshop             Short Course             2       Dec-01     Julie, Matilda, Gaudi, Kori,                                 1

    EXP 029  Integrated Database Management             On the job training    0.316     Dec-02     Archives staff                                               1

    EXP 030  Field trip to examine petroleum seeps      Seminar                  1       Jun-02     Expl Br staff                                                1

    EXP 032  Computer administrator training            Short Course             1       Jun-02     IT staff                                                     1

    EXP 033  GIS application training in MapInfo v 6.5  Short Course             2.5     Jun-02     IT staff                                                     1

    EXP 035  MSc in Computer Applic in Pet Geol         Post Graduate            1       Jun-03     Alu Ila                                                      1

    EXP 036  Formation Evaluation Course                Short Course             4.8     Jun-03     Petroleum Geol and Geophys                                   1



                                                                                        58

GAS DEVELOPMENT & UTILISATION TA PROJECT: PROJECT TASK FORM PROGRESS TRACKING CHART                                                       Quarter End      3Q 2006


    PTF No                Task Description              Activity PMR units   PMR Cum.  Upto Qtr-Yr      Beneficiary &/or        App   App   App      On-  Done
                                                                only          Credit                      participants          Pend  Dir  Bank     going


    EXP 037   MS Window System Management              Short Course            0.2      Mar-03     Nemi Desiang                                               1

    EXP 039   Advertisement for Prospecting            Promo Package            1       Jun-03     Exploration Branch                                         1

    EXP 040   Post graduate study in Basin Studies     Post Graduate            1       Sep-04     Larissa Solomon                                            1

    EXP 041   22nd World Gas Conference                Exhibition               1       Jun-03     Expl & Eng Branches                                        1

    EXP 041   22nd World Gas Conference                Promo Package            1       Jun-03     Expl & Eng Branches                                        1

    EXP 044   Data-entry operations for Asset DB       Other                   n/a      Mar-04     Expl Branch & Archives                                     1

    EXP 045   Post graduate preps GRE & TOEFL          Short Course             0.2     Mar-04     D Sebong, D Seteri                                         1

    EXP 046   CCOP Basin Analysis Seminar              Seminar                  1.2     Sep-03     S Vai. G Balavue                                           1

    EXP 047   Post graduate preps GRE & TOEFL          Short Course            0.2      Mar-04     S Vai. L Kumbum                                            1

    EXP 049   Promotions to CNPC                       Exhibition               1       Dec-03     P Woyengu                                                  1

    EXP 050   MS 2000 Systems Course                   Short Course            0.5      Sep-03     N Desiang                                                  1

    Mid Term Review

    EXP 101   GeoX Training at DoE, Manila             Industry Attachment    0.1538    Mar-04     P Woyengu & P Kamala                                       1

    EXP 102   Bar coding equipment for archives        Equipment              13296     Mar-04     Asset DB team                                              1

    EXP 103   Bar codes                                Equipment              1578      Mar-04     Asset DB team                                              1

    EXP 104   Asset DB software upgrade                Equipment              7803      Sep-04     Asset DB team                                              1

    EXP 105   Asset DB &Oracle training                On the job training    0.1585    Sep-04     AssetDB team and Exploration                               1

    EXP 106   Dept Indust. & Resource & Schlumberger   Industry Attachment    1.3333    Dec-04     Mataenge & Keket 84 days                                   1

    EXP 107   Purchase GeoX software                   Equipment              25803     Sep-04     Exploration Branch                                         1

    EXP 109   Preps for postgraduate study ILETS       Post Graduate            0       Jun-05     Kapi, Balavue, Vai,                                        1
                                                                                                   Kumbun, Bomai, Manda
    EXP 114   Coral Draw software                      Equipment              1760      Mar-05     Exploration Branch officers                                1

    EXP 115   Postgraduate degree Geoscience at HWU    Post Graduate           1.00     Sep-06     Jenny Kapi                                                 1

    EXP 116   Asset DB Data Entry Assistants           n/a                                         Expl Br Archives Section                                   1

    EXP 117   ICB-CCOP Workshop                        Industry Attachment     0.08     Jun-05     J Haumu                                                    1

    EXP 118   Secondment to Cosmos Petroleum, Japan    Industry Attachment     0.67     Dec-06     J Mataenge, Boas Kota                                      1

    EXP 119   GIS and remote Sensing Training          Short Course            1.00     Mar-06     W. Keket                                                   1

    EXP 120   Review new seismic acquisition by Fugro  Industry Attachment     0.08     Dec-05     S Pono                                                     1

    EXP 121   Not used

    EXP 122   Promotion at APPEA 2006 Gold Coast       Exhibition              1.00     Jun-06     J Hua, R Avinaga, J Haumu                                  1

    EXP 122   Promotion at APPEA 2006 Gold Coast       Promo Package           1.00     Jun-06     J Hua, R Avinaga, J Haumu                                  1

TOT    64     EXPLORATION BRANCH



REGISTRY BRANCH

    REG 001   Petrad Petroleum Policy Course           Short Course             4       Dec-01     Joshua Hua                                                 1

                                                                                       59

GAS DEVELOPMENT & UTILISATION TA PROJECT: PROJECT TASK FORM PROGRESS TRACKING CHART                                                              Quarter End      3Q 2006


     PTF No                  Task Description          Activity PMR units   PMR Cum.       Upto Qtr-Yr       Beneficiary &/or          App   App   App      On-  Done
                                                                only         Credit                             participants           Pend  Dir  Bank     going


     REG 002   Australian Registrar's conference      Seminar                  1             Sep-01    Iati Ai                                                       1

     REG 003   Legal drafting training                Short Course            0.5            Dec-01    Joshua Hua and other lawyers                                  1

     REG 004   Victorian Bar Reader Program           Short Course             6             Sep-02    Joshua Hua                                                    1

     REG 005   Reconciliation of documents            Other                   n/a            Sep-06    Registry staff                                                1

     Mid Term Review

     REG 101   International. Petroleum Mgmt Prog     Management Course        2              Jun-04   Iati Ai                                                       1

     REG 102   MSC Studies in Oil and Gas Regulation  Post Graduate            1             Sep-05    Joshua Hua                                                    1

TOT      7     REGISTRY BRANCH



INSTITUTIONAL STUDIES

     STU 001   Institutional study                    Institutional Study      1             Mar-04    Dir, Asst Dirs, & senior staff                                1

     Mid Term Review

     STU002    Mgmt, Ops Proc, & Organ Pract Review   Institutional Study      1              Jun-05   Dir, Asst Dirs, & senior staff                                1

TOT      2     INSTITUTIONAL STUDIES




EQUIPMENT                                                                         Entry in Kina

     EQU 001   Furnishings: new staff for training    Equipment              34,310          Dec-00    New staff                                                     1

     EQU 002   Purchase of project photocopier        Equipment              15,690          Dec-00    All staff                                                     1

     EQU 004   GPS & Digital camera for field work    Equipment              7,114           Dec-01    Coord Officers                                                1

     EQU 005   Photocopier                            Equipment              31,890          Mar-01    Coord Officers                                                1

     EQU 006   Laptop for post grad studies           Equipment              6,800            Jun-01   P Woyengu                                                     1

     EQU 007   4 PCs                                  Equipment              8,998            Jun-01   Policy Officers                                               1

     EQU 008   15 UPSs                                Equipment              5,750            Jun-01   All officers                                                  1

     EQU 009   Laptops computers                      Equipment              50,991          Mar-01    Pooled with IT Section                                        1

     EQU 010   Wireless Radio link                    Equipment              41,466          Dec-01    IT section                                                    1

     EQU 011   Furniture                              Equipment              4,625           Sep-01    Petroleum Division staff                                      1

     EQU 012   20 new computers                       Equipment              75,647          Sep-01    Divisional                                                    1

     EQU 013   Exploration printer replacement        Equipment              3,512           Nov-01    Divisional                                                    1

     EQU 014   Security system                        Equipment              16,366          Dec-01    Petroleum Division                                            1

     EQU 015   New file server                        Equipment              27,987          Dec-01    Divisional Officers                                           1

     EQU 016   Policy Branch Network Expansion        Equipment              2,961           Sep-02    Policy Officers                                               1

     EQU 017   8 New Computers, New officers Pol/IT   Equipment              30,180          Sep-02    Policy Officers                                               1

     EQU 018   New printers                           Equipment              19,993          Sep-02    Policy Branch and IT section                                  1


                                                                                            60

GAS DEVELOPMENT & UTILISATION TA PROJECT: PROJECT TASK FORM PROGRESS TRACKING CHART                                                     Quarter End      3Q 2006


    PTF No                Task Description            Activity PMR units  PMR Cum.  Upto Qtr-Yr       Beneficiary &/or        App   App   App      On-  Done
                                                             only          Credit                        participants         Pend  Dir  Bank     going


    EQU 019   Laptops for postgraduate studies        Equipment            22,300    Sep-02     Divisional use                                              1

    EQU 020   New network hubs                        Equipment            1,325     Sep-02     Division                                                    1

    EQU 021   New backup tape drive for server        Equipment            3,450     Sep-02     IT section                                                  1

    EQU 022   Additional computers                    Equipment            33,765    Sep-02     Various branches                                            1

    EQU 023   Registry remodeling                     Equipment            19,760    Sep-02     Registry                                                    1

    EQU 024   Purchase of MS Office 2000              Equipment            1,815     Dec-02     All users                                                   1

    EQU       A0 Plotter                              Equipment            27,500    Mar-03     All users                                                   1
    024a
    EQU 025   Bar code scanners                       Equipment            4,000     Mar-03     IT section                                                  1

    EQU 026   Laptop and mobile phones Proj Mgr       Equipment            11,700    Mar-03     Project Manager                                             1

    EQU 027   Portable Promotional Package            Equipment            10,444    Jun-03     All staff                                                   1

    EQU 028   Fax Machine                             Equipment            4,500     Jun-03     All staff                                                   1

    EQU 029   Photocopier                             Equipment            25,000    Aug-03     All staff                                                   1

    EQU 030   Cartgs, Toners, Inks                    Equipment            22,501    Aug-03     All staff                                                   1

    EQU 031   UPS ComputerSet & Winfax                Equipment            11,235    Sep-03     All staff                                                   1

    Mid Term Review

    EQU 101   6 KVA UPS                               Equipment            22,023    Mar-04     IT Section & senior staff                                   1

    EQU 102   Colour Printer                          Equipment            4,542     Mar-04     All staff                                                   1

    EQU 103   Printer, PC & Hub for accounts system   Equipment            5,719     Mar-04     Accounts section                                            1

    EQU 104   Laptop                                  Equipment            8,332     Mar-04     IT administration                                           1

    EQU 105   Plotter upgrade and MS Project 2003     Equipment            16,455    Jun-04     IT administration                                           1

    EQU 106   Printing materials for promotions       Equipment            24,481    Jun-04     Divisional use                                              1

    EQU 107   IT Equipment upgrade                    Equipment            46,726    Jun-04     Divisional use                                              1

    EQU 108   DDS Tape drives and cartridges          Equipment            12,163    Sep-04     IT Section                                                  1

    EQU 109   PCs for AssetDB project                 Equipment            26,221    Sep-04     Asset DB Project                                            1

    EQU 110   Laptops for postgraduate students       Equipment            20,235    Sep-04     Various postgraduate students                               1

    EQU 111   Labels for AssetDB barcoding            Equipment            7,084     Sep-04     Asset DB Project                                            1

    EQU 112   Furnishings for training room           Equipment            4,554     Sep-04     Petroleum Engineers and others                              1

    EQU 113   Photocopier                             Equipment            33,000    Mar-05     All branches                                                1

    EQU 115   Oracle Server for AssetDB               Equipment            86,761    Jun-05     AssetDB team                                                1

    EQU 116   Promotional CDs labeling kit and ink    Equipment            5,408     Dec-04     All branches                                                1

    EQU 117   Laptop for postgraduate student         Equipment            4,840     Dec-04     Lui                                                         1

    EQU 117   Laptop for postgraduate student         Equipment            22,787    Mar-05     Talonu, Yuyuge, Lui, Theo,                                  1
                                                                                                Sebong
    EQU 118   Basin Mod software for basin modeling   Equipment            25,803    Dec-05     Exploration Branch                                          1

    EQU 120   Archive compactus                       Equipment            7,831     Jun-05     Archived Branch                                             1


                                                                                    61

GAS DEVELOPMENT & UTILISATION TA PROJECT: PROJECT TASK FORM PROGRESS TRACKING CHART                                                         Quarter End      3Q 2006


     PTF No                Task Description              Activity PMR units  PMR Cum.    Upto Qtr-Yr       Beneficiary &/or       App   App   App      On-  Done
                                                                 only         Credit                          participants       Pend   Dir  Bank     going


     EQU 121   Various IT ancilliary equipment          Equipment              6,203      Jun-05     IT Office                                                  1

     EQU 122   Laptop for postgraduate student          Equipment              6,562      Sep-05     Laptop                                                     1

     EQU 123   PC upgrades                              Equipment             60,498      Jun-05     Various staff                                              1

     EQU 124   Network server                           Equipment             40,709      Sep-05     IT system for all staff                                    1

     EQU 125   Data transfer window: UNIX AseetDB ops   Equipment              3,205      Dec-05     AssetDB team                                               1

     EQU 126   High-end & basic PCs & monitor w/UPSs    Equipment             96,960      Mar-06     IT and staff                                               1

     EQU 127   Binding machine                          Equipment              1,626      Mar-06     All staff                                                  1

     EQU 128   WinBank Upgrade                          Equipment              2,286      Mar-06     Project Clerk                                              1

     EQU 129   Printers, UPSs, memsticks, ext HDs,      Equipment             28,862      Sep-06     IT Section and IT system                                   1
               DDS4 tapes
TOT    59      EQUIPMENT



PUBLICATION
S
     PUB 001   Oil and Gas Act, No 29 of 1998           Publication              1        Jun-02     All staff                                                  1

     PUB 002   Social Mapping Issues Paper              Publication              1        Dec-02     All staff                                                  1

     PUB 003   Oil and Gas Regulation, No 10 of 2002    Publication              1        Mar-03     All staff                                                  1

     Mid Term Review

     PUB 101   Gas Operations Phase I                   Publication              1        Sep-04     All staff                                                  1

     PUB 102   Gas Operations Phase 2                   Publication              1        Sep-04     All staff                                                  1

     PUB 103   Gas Processing Facility Location         Publication              1        Jun-05     All staff                                                  1
               Optimization
     PUB 104   Joining Customary Property Rights        Publication              1        Mar-05     All staff                                                  1

     PUB 105   Economics of the Good Life               Publication              1        Mar-05     All staff                                                  1

     PUB 106   Gas Master Plan Ph I : Review of Reports Publication              1        Sep-05     All staff                                                  1

     PUB 107   Social Mapping Manual                    Publication              1        Jun-06     All staff                                                  1

     PUB 108   Socio-ethnological review: Southern      Publication              1        Jun-06     All staff                                                  1
               Highlands
TOT    11      PUBLICATIONS



TOT    349     PROJECT TASKS DEFINED                                                                                   ANALYSIS   0     0     1        1      347


                                                                                                                      Percentage  0.0   0.0   0.3      0.3    99.4


                                                                             Normalized     PAD               Percentages

Component      Unit of PMR Measurement                  PMR Units             PMRUs       PMRUs               completed

Study          Study completed                                   11.8         11.8000       10                   118%


                                                                                         62

GAS DEVELOPMENT & UTILISATION TA PROJECT: PROJECT TASK FORM PROGRESS TRACKING CHART                                                                         Quarter End      3Q 2006


       PTF No              Task Description                     Activity PMR units       PMR Cum.       Upto Qtr-Yr      Beneficiary &/or         App   App   App      On-  Done
                                                                       only                 Credit                         participants           Pend  Dir  Bank     going


Short Course   Man-fortnights                                          162.55             40.6375           30                 135%

Seminar        Seminar (incl. meetings etc)                            46.2               46.2000           10                 462%

Promo          Promotional Packs                                        15                15.0000           10                 150%
Package
Exhibition     Exhibition                                               14                14.0000           10                 140%

Project Advice Days                                                    1205                1205.0           975                124%

Post Graduate  Man-years of study                                      32.253             32.2528           16                 202%

On the job     Man-years of training                                   47.54              47.5433           70                  68%
training
Management     Man-fortnights                                          5.25                5.2500           16                  33%
Course
Equipment      Kina spent actual (US$ PAD)                           2,215,750            720,119         800,000               90%

Institutional  Institutional Study                                       2                 2.0000            1                 200%
Study
Publication    Publication                                              11                 11.000            4                 275%

Industry       3 man-month attachment                                  13.650              13.650           48                  28%
Attachment
Notes:         1. For full details of the activity please refer to the PTF as identified by the unique PTF number

               2. Users of this table are advised to open folders corresponding to the PTF prefix codes and to file the PTFs in numerical succesion

               3. GoPNG means task funded entirely from GoPNG funds and not eligible for IBRD financing hence no PMR credits awarded

               4. Note some PTF numbers have not been used due to lack of approval of PTFs by the Project Manager or the World Bank




                                                                                                         63

Gas Development and Utilisation Technical Assistance Project: Performance Chart


Qtr.         On the Job Training        Short     Management        Post Graduate          Industry       Studies             Promo Packs       Exhibitions            Seminars          Publica  Institutional Study   Equip-           Project Adviser
                                       Courses       Courses            Course          Attachments                                                                                      --tions                        ment

         PAD       Actual      PAD     Actual   PAD       Actual   PAD       Actual   PAD        Actual   PAD      Actual   PAD      Actual  PAD        Actual  PAD     Actual   PAD     Actual   PAD          Actual   PAD     Actual  PAD       Actual


Unit     Man-       Man-       Man-     Man-    Man-       Man-    Study      Study   3 mth       3 mth     #        #        #         #      #           #    # sem.  # sem.   # pubs  # pubs   study         study    US$     US$    days       days
          yrs        yrs       Fort-    Fort-   Fort-      Fort-    yrs       yrs      att.        att.   studies  studies  proms     proms  exhibn     exhibn                                                          expd    expd
                               nights  nights   nights     nights
4Q 2000     3.5     0.3476          2     1.25       0      0.000       1       0.50    4.00        1.21     0.00        2    0.00        2    0.33          2       0        6    0.00        0   0.000             0   40000   51276   48.75       23


1Q 2001     3.5      1.549          1     2.50       2      0.000       1       1.00    0.70        0.98     0.33        1    1.00        0    0.67          0       1        3    0.00        0   0.000             0   40000   51135   48.75       60


2Q 2001     3.5      1.145          1     0.50       0      0.000       1       1.00    2.00        0.05     0.83        2    0.25        1    0.00          1       1        1    0.00        0   0.250             0   40000   20549   48.75       42


3Q 2001     3.5        3.2          1     4.75       1      0.000       1       1.00    1.30        0.73     0.83        0    0.75        0    1.00          0       0        2    0.00        0   0.750             0   40000   24198   48.75       63


4Q 2001     3.5       3.18          2     5.63       2      0.250    0.75       1.00    2.00        0.70     0.25        1    0.67        1    0.00          1       1        1    0.38        0                     0   40000   70857   48.75       62


1Q 2002     3.5      3.900          2    4.025       1      0.000    0.75       0.75    3.00         0.0     0.75        1    0.67        0    1.00          0       0        4    0.38        0                     0   40000   24966   48.75       52


2Q 2002     3.5      4.020          2    0.500       0      0.000    0.75       0.75    2.30         0.0     0.75        1    1.00        1    0.00          1       0        6    0.25        0                     0   40000   11805   48.75       50


3Q 2002     3.5       4.15          3    0.950       1      0.000    0.75       1.25    2.70         1.4     0.75        0    0.67        0    1.00          0       1        4    0.00        1                     0   40000   6731    48.75       57


4Q 2002     3.5       3.01          2    2.700       1      0.000    0.75       1.00    3.00         1.0     0.83        0    1.00        2    0.33          1       1        3    0.17        1                  0.25   40000   4487    48.75       62


1Q 2003     3.5        2.8          1    1.438       3      0.000    0.75       1.00    2.70         1.2     1.17        0    0.60        0    0.67          0       0        2    0.50        1                  0.65   40000   10035   48.75       58


2Q 2003     3.5       2.23          2    3.012       0      0.000    0.75       1.25    2.30         0.3     1.17        0    0.90        3    0.00          2       0        1    0.33        0                  0.00   40000   8335    48.75       29


3Q 2003     3.5       2.72          2    0.698       1      1.000    0.75       1.25    2.00         0.4     0.83        0    0.50        1    1.00          1       1        2    0.00        0                     0   40000   6547    48.75       59


4Q 2003     3.5        1.9          2    0.280       2      2.000    0.75       1.50    3.70         0.5     0.00        0    0.67        0    0.00          0       1        2    0.00        0                  0.05   40000   7521    48.75       57


1Q 2004     3.5       1.65          1    6.200       1      0.000    0.75       1.34    3.00         0.6     0.50      0.1    0.58        1    1.00          2       1      4.2    0.38        0                  0.05   40000   19593   48.75      56.5


2Q 2004     3.5      1.478          1    0.749       1      2.000    0.75       1.16    3.00         0.2     0.50        0    0.75        1    0.50          1       0        3    0.38        0                     0   40000   80740   48.75       36


3Q 2004     3.5       1.34          1    1.020       0      0.000    0.75       1.25    3.30         0.2      0.0        1                0    0.50          0       0        0    0.25        2                     0   40000   33236   48.75      54.5


4Q 2004     3.5     1.4976          2    2.750              0.000    0.75       1.00    2.00         1.3      0.0        1                1    0.50          1       1        1    0.17        0                     0   40000   12531   48.75       51


1Q 2005     3.5       1.74          2    0.375              0.000    0.75       2.25    3.00         0.5      0.0        0                0    0.50          0       0        0    0.50        2   0.000          0.75   40000   40436   48.75      58.5


2Q 2005     3.5     1.5365               0.943              0.000    0.75       2.25    2.00         0.0      0.0        1                0    1.00          0       1        0    0.33        2                  0.25   40000  162612   48.75       50


3Q 2005     3.5     0.1622               0.000              0.000    0.75       2.25                 0.9      0.0     0.65                0                  0                1                0                     0   40000   15127   48.75       68


4Q 2005             0.8262               0.000              0.000               2.75              0.6154      0.5        0                0                  0                0                0                     0           9432               44.5


1Q 2006               0.18               0.250              0.000               1.75                0.75                 0                0                  0                0                1                     0           43179               27


2Q 2006             1.0426               0.000              0.000               1.25                   0                 0                1                  1                               0.5                     0               0               44


3Q 2006             1.9433               0.125              0.000               1.75              0.1667                 0                0                  0                0              0.5                     0           9381                41


Total        70     47.548         30  40.6400      16       5.25      16     32.25       48       13.65    10        11.8   10          15      10         14      10     46.2    4.00       11    1.00             2  800000  724709    975      1205.0


Notes     a                      b                c                  d                  e                    f                g                h                  j                k                l                    m               n




                                                                                                                             64

a Man years trng = expert man yrs x ave. counterpart availability (205 man-months expert x 8.24 ave. availability per expert divided by 2 [only half staff available] = 70 man-years of training)

b 30 courses were programmed at 2 weeks providing a total 60 man weeks of courses; actual course numbers quoted are man-fortnight courses normalized for ave. attendance of 4 person per course

c 16 courses were programmed at two weeks, each providing total 32 man weeks of courses; actual course numbers quoted are man-fortnight courses to indicate the intensity of attendance

d Post graduate studies counted from commencement of course by actual time on course in quarters and measured in man years of study

e Industry attachments based on three months attachment as measurable unit; total weeks x persons divided by 13 equals quantity

f Ten studies envisaged in the PAD; actuals include studies other than those provided for in the PAD

g Ten promotions envisaged in the PAD; actuals include promotions other than those provided for in the PAD

h Ten exhibitions envisaged in the PAD; actuals may include exhibitions other than those provided for in the PAD

j Ten seminars envisaged in the PAD; actuals include seminars other than those provided for in the PAD including meetings and negotiations for gas development
                                                                                                  Annex X
k Four publications planned

l Institutional study - single study

m Equipment by US$ expenditure

n Man days of project management advice delivered




                                                                                                  65

Gas Development and Utilization Technical Assistance Project: Performance Chart - Cumulative Assessment



Quarter     On the Job      Short Courses   Management   Post Graduate      Industry         Studies      Promo Packs   Exhibitions    Seminars      Publications     Institutional   Equipment             Project Adviser
            Training                         Courses        Course        Attachments                                                                                     Study
         PA    Actual      PA      Actual  PA     Actu  PAD     Actual  PAD     Actual    PAD      Actu  PAD     Act   PAD      Actu  PA    Actu  PAD         Actua  PAD       Actua  PAD        Actual   PAD        Actual
         D                 D               D      al                                               al            ual            al    D     al                l                l
 Unit      0             0   0           0   0       0     0          0     0           0     0        0     0      0     0        0   0        0       0          0     0         0          0         0       0           0


4Q 2000  3.5        0.3476   2         1.3   0       0     1        0.5     4       1.214     0        2     0      2  0.33        2   0        6       0          0     0         0      40000     51276   48.75          23


1Q 2001    7        1.8966   3         3.8   2       0     2        1.5   4.7       2.194  0.33        3     1      2     1        2   1        9       0          0     0         0      80000    102411   97.5           83


2Q 2001   11        3.0416   4         4.3   2       0     3        2.5   6.7       2.244  1.17        5  1.25      3     1        3   2      10        0          0  0.25         0     120000    122960  146.25         125


3Q 2001   14        6.2416   5         9.0   3       0     4        3.5     8       2.974  2.00        5     2      3     2        3   2      12        0          0     1         0     160000    147158    195          188


4Q 2001   18        9.4216   7       14.6    5    0.25  4.75        4.5   10        3.674  2.25        6  2.67      4     2        4   3      13    0.375          0               0     200000    218015  243.75         250


1Q 2002   21       13.3216   9       18.7    6    0.25   5.5       5.25   13        3.674  3.00        7  3.33      4     3        4   3      17     0.75          0               0     240000    242981   292.5         302


2Q 2002   25       17.3416  11       19.2    6    0.25  6.25          6  15.3       3.674  3.75        8  4.33      5     3        5   3      23        1          0               0     280000    254786  341.25         352


3Q 2002   28       21.4916  14       20.1    7    0.25     7       7.25   18        5.044  4.50     8.05  5.00      5     4        5   4      27        1          1               0     320000    261517    390          409


4Q 2002   32       24.5016  16       22.8    8    0.25  7.75       8.25   21        6.044  5.33     8.05  6.00      7  4.33        6   5      30   1.1667          2            0.25     360000    266004  438.75         471


1Q 2003   35       27.3016  17       24.2   11    0.25   8.5       9.25  23.7       7.204  6.50     8.05  6.60      7     5        6   5      32   1.6667          3             0.9     400000    276039   487.5         529


2Q 2003   39       29.5316  19       27.2   11    0.25  9.25       10.5   26        7.504  7.67     8.05  7.50     10     5        8   5      33        2          3             0.9     440000    284374  536.25         558


3Q 2003   42       32.2516  21       27.9   12    1.25    10      11.75   28        7.904   8.5     8.05  8.00     11     6        9   6      35        2          3             0.9     480000    290921    585          617


4Q 2003   46       34.1516  23       28.2   14    3.25  10.8      13.25  31.7       8.404   8.5     8.05  8.67     11     6        9   7      37        2          3            0.95     520000    298442  633.75         674


1Q 2004   49       35.8016  24       34.4   15    3.25  11.5      14.59  34.7        9.05     9     8.15  9.25     12     7       11   8     41.2   2.375          3               1     560000    318035   682.5        730.5


2Q 2004   53       37.2796  25       35.2   16    5.25  12.3      15.75  37.7        9.23   9.5     8.15 10.00     13   7.5       12   8     44.2    2.75          3               1     600000    398775  731.25        766.5


3Q 2004   56         38.62  26       36.2                 13         17   41         9.38   9.5     9.15           13     8       12   8     44.2       3          5               1     640000    432011    780          821


4Q 2004   60       40.1172  28       38.9               13.8         18   43       10.717   9.5     10.2           14   8.5       13   9     45.2  3.1667          5               1     680000    444542  828.75         872


1Q 2005   63       41.8572  30       39.3               14.5      20.25   46       11.232   9.5     10.2                  9            9     45.2  3.6667          7            1.75     720000    484978   877.5        930.5


2Q 2005   67       43.3937           40.3               15.3       22.5   48       11.234   9.5     11.2                 10           10     45.2       4          9               2     760000    647590  926.25        980.5


3Q 2005   70       43.5559                                16      24.75            12.118   9.5     11.8                                     46.2                                        800000    662717    975       1048.5


4Q 2005            44.3821                                         27.5            12.734    10                                                                                                    672149                1093


1Q 2006            44.5621          40.52         5.25            29.25            13.484    10     11.8           14             13         46.2                10                2               715328                1120


2Q 2006            45.6047          40.52         5.25             30.5            13.484           11.8           15             14         46.2               10.5               2               715328                1164


3Q 2006                             40.64         5.25            32.25             13.65           11.8           15             14         46.2               11.0               2               720119                1205




                                                                                                                     66

   Project Performance Charts

                                                                                                                    On The Job Training
80

         Man-Years


70




60


                 Actual                 PAD

50




40




30




20




10
                                                                                                                               Quarter Ending


 0

  2000  2001  2001  2001  2001  2002  2002  2002  2002  2003  2003  2003  2003  2004  2004  2004  2004  2005  2005  2005  2005  2006  2006  2006
4Q    1Q    2Q    3Q    4Q    1Q    2Q    3Q    4Q    1Q    2Q    3Q    4Q    1Q    2Q    3Q    4Q    1Q    2Q    3Q    4Q    1Q    2Q    3Q




                                                                               67

                                                                                                            Short Courses

45
        Fortnights

40



35
                      Actual Fortnights

                      PAD 0
30



25



20



15



10



5

                                                                                                             Quarter Ending
0

4Q 20001Q2001 2001 2001 2001 2002 2002 2002 2002 2003 2003 2003 2003 2004 2004 2004 2004 2005 2005 2005 2005 2006 2006 2006
            2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q




                                                                    68

                                                                                                 Management Courses


      Fortnights

18
                  Actual 0         PAD 0



15




12




9




6




3


                                                                                                         Quarter Ending

0

  2000 2001 2001 2001 2001 2002 2002 2002 2002 2003 2003 2003 2003 2004 2004 2004 2004 2005 2005 2005 2005 2006 2006 2006
4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q




                                                             69

                                                                                                     Postgraduate Courses
35
      Man Years


30




25

                     Actual 0         PAD 0

20




15




10




 5

                                                                                                              Quarter Ending

 0

  2000 2001   1           1          2         2   3           3          4 2004 2004 200
                                                                                        4          5         5   6           6
            200         200  2002 200  2002 200  200         200  2003 200                 2005 200  2005 200  200         200
4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q 20014Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q 20033Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q 20063Q




                                                                  70

                                                                                         Industry Attachments
50

       Three Month Attachments



40




                        Actual 0       PAD 0

30




20




10




                                                                                               Quarter Ending

 0

  2000 2001 200 2001 200 2002 200
              1         1        2 200 2002 200 2003 200 2003 200 200
                                     2        3         3        4  4 2004 200
                                                                             4 2005 200 2005 2005 200
                                                                                       5            6 2006 2006

4Q  1Q   2Q   3Q  4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q  4Q  1Q   2Q  3Q   4Q  1Q   2Q  3Q  4Q   1Q  2Q   3Q  4Q   1Q   2Q  3Q




                                                         71

                                                                                                                                                    Studies
16

            Number of Studies

14




12


                        Actual 0         PAD 0

10




 8




 6




 4




 2
                                                                                                                                            Quarter Ending


 0

  2000  2001
4Q    1Q    2Q 2001 3Q20014Q 2001 1Q2002  2002
                                        2Q    3Q 2002 4Q20021Q 2003 2Q2003  2003
                                                                          3Q    4Q 2003 1Q20042Q 2004 3Q 2004 4Q20041Q 2005 2Q2005  2005
                                                                                                                                  3Q    4Q 2005 1Q20062Q 2006




                                                                               72

                                                                                                            Promo Packs
16

         Promotional Packages

14



12



10                   Actual 0     PAD 0




 8



 6



 4



 2

                                                                                                        Quarter Ending

 0

  2000 2001 2001 2001 2001 2002 2002 2002 2002 2003 2003 2003 2003 2004 2004 2004 2004 2005 2005 2005 2005 2006 2006 2006
4Q  1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q




                                                              73

                                                                                                                                     Exhibitions
16

         Exhibitions

14



12
                     Actual 0           PAD 0


10



 8



 6



 4



 2
                                                                                                                              Quarter Ending


 0

  2000  2001  2001
4Q    1Q    2Q    3Q 20014Q2001  2002  2002  2002  2002  2003  2003  2003  2003  2004  2004
                               1Q    2Q    3Q    4Q    1Q    2Q    3Q    4Q    1Q    2Q    3Q 20044Q2004  2005  2005  2005
                                                                                                        1Q    2Q    3Q    4Q 20051Q2006  2006  2006
                                                                                                                                       2Q    3Q




                                                                          74

                                                                                                              Seminars
50

       Seminars




40



                Actual 0      PAD 0

30




20




10


                                                                                                            Quarter Ending


 0
  2000 2001 2001 2001 2001 2002 2002 2002 2002 2003 2003 2003 2003 2004 2004 2004 2004 2005 2005 2005 2005 2006 2006 2006
4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q




                                                              75

                                                                                                                                                    Publications

12
       Publications



10


                          Actual 0                PAD 0

 8




 6




 4




 2


                                                                                                                                                    Quarter Ending


 0

4Q 20001Q 20012Q 20013Q 20014Q 20011Q 20022Q 20023Q 20024Q 20021Q 20032Q 20033Q 20034Q 20031Q 20042Q 20043Q 20044Q 20041Q 20052Q 20053Q 20054Q 20051Q 20062Q 20063Q 2006




                                                                                       76

                                                                                                     Institutional Study
2.5

       Studies




 2




                        Actual 0              PAD 0
1.5




 1




0.5


                                                                                                          Quarter Ending


 0

   2000 2001 2001 2001 2001 2002 2002 2002 2002 2003 2003 2003 2003 2004 2004 2004 2004 2005 2005 2005 2005 2006 2006 2006
4Q    1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q




                                                               77

                                                                                                                    Equipment
1000000

           US dollars expenditure
 900000


 800000

                                      Actual 0       PAD 0

 700000


 600000


 500000


 400000


 300000


 200000


 100000
                                                                                                                  Quarter Ending

      0

      2000 2001 2001 2001 2001 2002 2002 2002 2002 2003 2003 2003 2003 2004 2004 2004 2004 2005 2005 2005 2005 2006 2006 2006
    4Q  1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q




                                                                    78

                                                                                                Project Management Advice
1250
           Man days




1000



                                   Actual 0        PAD 0


750




500




250


                                                                                                              Quarter Ending


   0

  4Q 20001Q2001 2001 2001 2001 2002 2002 2002 2002 2003 2003 2003 2003 2004 2004 2004 2004 2005 2005 2005 2005 2006 2006 2006
              2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q   4Q   1Q   2Q   3Q




                                                                    79

80

