Report No. PID8603
Project Name                     Papua New Guinea-Gas Development and (@) ...
Utilization Technical Assistance Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Energy
Project ID                       PGPE66954
Borrower(s)                      Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Implementing Agency              Department of Petroleum and Energy
P.O. Box 1993, Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea
Tel: 675 322 4200
Fax: 675 322 4222
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                January 14, 2000
Projected Appraisal              February 2000
Board Date                       July 2000
Country and Sector Context
The overarching CAS goal is to support a concerted effort to reduce poverty
and improve the quality of life of Papua New Guineans. This will involve
support in the re-establishment of economic growth, enhancement of
transparency and effectiveness of public sector operations, investment in
human resource and rural development, and strengthening of institutions &
policies to accelerate private investment.
Support in the development of PNG's large natural gas resources is an
important element of the strategy. Gas exports, and domestic utilisation,
would make significant contribution in stabilising the economy over the
medium and long-term and would make it more resilient so it could better
resist the effects of economic cycles and external shocks. Enhancing the
capacity of the Petroleum Division to plan and manage the development of the
country's natural gas resources efficiently is the key objective supported by
this Project.
Further, it is part of the vision for PNG that sustainable economic and
social development requires an increasing stakeholders' participation. Thus,
to improve the capacity of the Government to manage the gas development
involves creating conditions to allow consideration of landowners' concerns
and facilitate the participation of local communities. The proposed project
is expected to increase the efficiency of PNG resource management and to
enhance the collection of fiscal revenues, as well as, to bring benefits to
the communities and people of provinces where gas is to be extracted,
processed and transported.
Fundamentally, Papua New Guinea is endowed with substantial natural resources
which have the capacity to support the Nation in its economic development.
Strategically, Papua New Guinea may be thought of as being in the foundation
stage of its economic development. It has been cash cropping its natural



resources to date, but has not developed the capacity to save the benefits or
invest the benefits of such resource development. Capital accretion and
capital formulation expenditure that may consistently aid social and economic
development need to be fostered. As a consequence of the long term
development of Papua New Guinea's gas resource, the opportunity arises for
there to be planned and better managed use of resource incomes. Such could
provide for services to communities and better the lives of the people of
Papua New Guinea.
Whilst modest in expense and scope, the Bank's involvement in this project
may assist in generating vital income and foreign exchange. It may thus have
a highly leveraged effect on the lives and welfare of many people in Papua
New Guinea.
Government Strategy
Declining oil production, as currently producing fields are depleted, coupled
with a period of low oil prices has reduced Government revenues from tax and
participation, and similarly GDP contributions and foreign exchange earnings.
Whilst crude prices have staged a marked global increase in recent months,
the specter of declining oil production and relatively low prices remains.
Lack of success in making new oil discoveries, perceptions about
prospectivity, and limited international exploration budgets have caused a
downturn in levels of exploration activity. The high cost of exploration
activities due to limited infrastructure and poor development of local
support industries compounds the difficulty in attracting risk capital.
Access to land to conduct operations has become increasingly difficult on
account of land-owner demands for greater benefits arising from the use of
their land. Rights with respect to land access and use need better
explanation and understanding. The proper enunciation of law, policy, and
the rights and obligations thereunder of the State, its Licensees, and of the
traditional land-owners is therefore vitally necessary. To afford ease of
access to land, the Government has previously amended its policies with
regards the sharing of benefits with land owners and has defined these
provisions in the new Oil and Gas Act. Government strategy now is to
administer and implement these provisions with due diligence.
The Government strategy is to maintain the level of National oil production
by developing newly discovered fields thus mitigating production declines of
existing producing fields. However, with the paucity of fields awaiting
development this is at best a medium term solution. The gas resources,
currently estimated at 15 trillion cubic feet (TCF) i.e., 2660 million
barrels of oil equivalent, are equivalent to approximately eight times the
remaining recoverable oil reserves of 340 million barrels. Therefore, the
Government intends to develop the gas resource as a longer-term solution. The
Gas to Queensland project, which is currently being promoted, is an important
first step towards this strategy.
Objectives
The project has the objective to build the capacity in the Government for the
efficient management of gas sector development through: a) the strengthening
of ownership and regulatory policies; b) formulation and analysis of gas
- 2-



development schemes; c) promotion of investment opportunities in gas; and d)
enhancing of the monitoring and regulation capability to ensure optimal
development.
Description
The proposed project consists of the following components.
Enhancement of the Petroleum Division's expertise in gas resource evaluation,
market assessment, processing, transportation, distribution, utilisation,
development planning and promotion, license and agreement administration,
economic and policy analysis, development monitoring and regulation, as well
as to support mitigation of social and environmental impact of gas resource
development. Skills of the 34 professional staff of the Petroleum Division
will be upgraded through a needs-based training programme consisting of: i)
on-the-job training; ii) short courses; iv) attachments to industry; v)
formal courses; vi) post graduate studies; and vii) management training
which will include project management and execution. Secondees (up to a
maximum of ten) from other departments (Internal Revenue Commission, Office
of Environmental Protection and Department of Lands) will also participate in
relevant courses and training assignments. The involvement of other
Government Departments and Agencies in selected aspects of the training to be
achieved under this project will promote coherency of policy and
understanding of the industry and enable the Government to manage the sector
in a consistent and concerted manner.
Studies to be conducted in-house by the staff of the Petroleum Division under
supervision of outsourced experts as required, covering: a) LPG policy and
utilisation; b) gas-based industrial development; c) gas-based power
generation opportunities; d) LPG and CNG use in transportation; e) off-
take of gas from export systems for local industrial use; f) opportunities
for gas reticulation; g) gas resource evaluation; h) review of LNG market
opportunities; and i) standards and codes for LPG and natural gas quality,
storage and transport infrastructure, and user equipment.
Promotion of investment opportunities for gas export and domestic utilisation
involving presentations, promotional packages, exhibitions, seminars and
publications with assistance from out-sourced experts as required. Allied to
such promotions will be in-country awareness campaigns amongst affected
communities to make known to people the Government's law and policies for the
sector.
Equipment to support the above activities including: computer hardware and
software, specialist publications and applications, audio-visual facilities,
and office support equipment, etc.
Institutional Studies to assist in the development and establishment of
alternative arrangements for the Petroleum Division as an organisation to
include analysis and preparation for transition of the Petroleum Division
into a Statutory Authority.
Financing Plan
Estimated Costs          Local           Foreign          Total
-3 -



Base cost            0.4205          6.6875           7.1080
Contingencies        0.0246          0.3907           0.4153
Total Cost           0.4451          7.0782           7.5233
Financing Plan
Government of Papua
New Guinea               0.4451                           0.4451
IBRD                                     7.0782           7.0782
0.4451          7.0782           7.5233
Rounded to               0.5000          7.000            7.5000
Of the proposed Bank financing of US$ 7 million, a sum of US$ 0.3 million
will be required for retroactive financing of consultant services. These
funds will be used to advance the commencement of skills development in
areas related to the evaluation of the proposals for the Gas to Queensland
Project, associated community and land relation matters, and license,
agreements, and titles management.
Financing
Million US $
IBRD                             7.0
Govt.                            0.5
Total                            7.5
Implementation Arrangements
Implementation Period:    5 years
Implementation Agency: The Department of Petroleum and Energy will have the
overall responsibility for implementation of the project.
Institutional setting: The Department of Petroleum and Energy is organised
into three divisions namely, the Petroleum Division, the Energy Division and
the Support Services Division. The Petroleum Division is responsible for the
planning, promotion and management of PNG's petroleum resource development
(actual exploration and development of the resource is carried out by
international oil companies under license agreements with the Government).
With the capacity enhancement received under the ongoing project, the
Division has managed oil resource development effectively which is
particularly evident in the assessment of work programs, approval of
development plans, promotion of petroleum potential, evaluation of oil field
performance and monitoring of development costs. Also, substantial policy
development and strengthening of policies has been brought about culminating
in the introduction of new comprehensive legislation (Oil & Gas Act of 1998)
for the sector.
The Petroleum Division now needs to consolidate its institutional gains and
prepare itself for multiple developments not only of oil, but most
significantly gas. The opportunities to utilise gas domestically are worthy
of assessment, and warrant preparation and strengthening of the institution.
The preparations for large-scale gas development and the gestation of gas
production necessitate that the Petroleum Division prepares for a step change
in work due to the intricacies of gas development.
There are schemes and ideas for the Department to become an Authority funded
- 4 -



by levies on production, licence rents, and fees raised for services pursuant
to the Oil and Gas Act. The development into an Authority could help obtain
better staff remunerative benefits that are otherwise restricted in the
Public Service. This could mitigate staff losses and attrition to industry.
There is no negative impact for project implementation were the Division to
achieve Authority status. The Bank should consider making such a
transformation a condition of any financing. However, it must be remembered
that the process of transition to a Statutory Authority depends on specific
legislation being developed and passed by Parliament.
Project Execution: The proposed project will be executed by the Petroleum
Division. The Division is organised into five branches responsible for
exploration, engineering, policy, co-ordination and title management
(registry). Each Branch is headed by an Assistant Director and the Division
is headed by the Director.
Under the ongoing project the capacity of the Division to manage petroleum
matters as well as project implementation has been significantly enhanced.
The project management has been vested in the office of the Director. The
various aspects of implementation such as procurement, contracting, cost
control and disbursement are reasonably well understood. In the execution of
the proposed project there will, however, be a need to spread the
responsibility for project management on account of the enlargement of the
responsibilities of the Director due to the advent of gas development and in
order to generate a wider sense of project ownership amongst middle managers.
This will have the effect of training more managers down the line and will
thus establish a more robust organisation. It is intended that the Director,
Petroleum Division will be the Project Manager. Assistant Directors will
assist him in the enhancement of professional staff skills in their branches
and select committees will assist him to oversee procurement, finance and
project performance. The committees will be formed within the Division from
amongst the professional staff and will normally be limited to three senior
officers. Additionally, the Director will be assisted by Procurement Staff
and an Accountant.
The overall methodology of project implementation will involve needs-based
on-the-job training with responsible advice, courses and post graduate
programs, in-house studies and promotions.
Procurement Planning: The procurement capability of the Petroleum Division
will be assessed during pre-appraisal keeping in view the track record of the
implementation of Petroleum Exploration and Development Technical Assistance
Project (Ln. 3670-PNG). Lessons learnt will be matched against the findings
of CPAR. The guidance provided in the OCSPR memorandum of August 11, 1998
will be utilised in the preparation of the Procurement Capability Assessment
Report.
A procurement sequence will be developed for each generic type of activity
involved. Examples will worked through to yield a series of templates that
will form the body of the procurement plan to be agreed with the Bank by the
time of project appraisal.
Financial Reporting and Auditing: The financial reporting and accounting
system of the ongoing Petroleum TA Project (Ln. 3670-PNG) has been found
satisfactory to the Bank. It will be the basis for the proposed project. An
- 5 -



accounting firm acceptable to the Bank will be engaged, in accordance with
the terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to review and upgrade the
system to ensure compliance with the Bank's financial management requirements
including accounting procedures, internal controls and audit. The review will
be completed by the Board date and the system upgrade will be completed by
loan effectiveness. Annual audit of project financial statements, statements
of expenditure and Special Account will be conducted by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and audit reports will be furnished to the Bank not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation: The Petroleum Division will furnish the Bank with
quarterly progress reports on all project activities not later than 30 days
after each quarter. A mid-term review will be undertaken about two and half
years after loan effectiveness, which will provide detailed analysis of
project implementation, progress towards achievement of objectives and
performance vis-a-vis selected indicators.
Sustainability
The project is expected to make a significant contribution to sustain
effective development of PNG's natural gas resources and with it ensure
continued sizeable exchange earnings and fiscal revenues. It will ensure such
benefits beyond the resources generated by the declining crude oil exports.
The improved regulatory framework, the capacity developed in the government
agencies and the right ownership policies are expected to lead to greater
investments and government revenues from the sector.
The sustainability of the benefits derived from the project will be enhanced
if current attrition of professionals in the Petroleum Division are
significantly reduced. This is expected to be achieved with payment of
better salaries and compensation packages once the Division is converted into
a Statutory Authority.
Lessons Learned form Past Operations in the Country/Sector
In Petroleum TA Project (Ln. 3670-PNG) the responsibility for programming
staff skills upgrading and provision of expertise was entrusted to a single
reputable organisation under a technical collaboration contract. This
arrangement ensured timely implementation of the training programme and
studies. However, since then the professional staff have acquired greater
confidence in identifying their training needs and would like increased
participation in project management. The Petroleum Division, therefore,
proposes to distribute the implementation responsibility amongst the
professional staff. This would provide valuable experience for the individual
as well as for the Division as a whole in work programming and planning,
identification and outsourcing of expertise, and management of available
resources.
The proposed project contains an assemblage of different mechanisms for
skills upgrading than the previous project. In this project, on-the-job
training will be supported with post graduate studies, management training,
and industry attachments. This will provide the opportunity now for
professionals to anneal their experience gained during the tenure of the
previous project and subsequently focus on management of their areas.
Industry attachments will be used to gain valuable external experience for
- 6 -



both newer professionals and those who have not had the opportunity to work
in the industry. This formulation of skills upgrading is designed to create
well-rounded professionals. It is timely for the state of development of the
Petroleum Division and for the level of professional advancement achieved so
far.
Poverty Category
This project does not explicitly address poverty alleviation.
Environmental Aspects
This project will help to strengthen the social and environmental monitoring
and evaluation capacity of the Petroleum Division and of the Office of
Environment and Conservation. With the expansion of the petroleum industry
into natural gas, there will be abundant new infrastructure constructed, both
onshore and offshore. To advise the competent authority - the Office of
Environment and Conservation- , the Petroleum Division needs to gain a better
understanding of industry impacts on the environment.
Project supported clarification and improvement of the "rules of the game"
for environmental and social assessment, mitigation, monitoring procedures
and related staff skills will provide an incentive for companies to continue
investing in compliance with better environmental and social practices.
On the other hand, over the longer run the use of natural gas as a substitute
at consumer end of petroleum products and coal will have a very positive
impact on the local and global environment.
There is no industrial facility to be constructed, nor a field operation
funded under this Project. The activities proposed essentially comprise
technical assistance to the government agencies for managing in an
economically and environmentally sound manner the exploitation of PNG's gas
resources. Such activities in themselves have no environmental impact. The
project has, therefore, been allotted category C.
Social Aspects
Oil and gas operations are generally carried out on traditionally owned land.
Licensees and Government have to work closely with local communities to gain
access to fields and infrastructure sites. Whilst compensation is paid as
required by law, the communities have -in accordance to the 1998 Oil and Gas
Act- obtained additional benefits in respect to resource extraction. The
existing legislation includes procedures for the allocation of these
benefits. Nevertheless, exact delivery of benefits can often be confused due
to uncertainty of land ownership, perceived or otherwise. Studies and
legislative thrusts point to the importance of social mapping and community
involvement to help resolve this matter. Many problems arise from the lack
of clarity and poor understanding of policies and industry operations. The
Petroleum Division needs to significantly enhance its role as a mitigator of
such problems with sound policy and conflict resolution and consensus
building knowledge.
Program Objective Category: Institutional Development
-7 -



Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Task Manager
Salahuddin Khwaja
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-2869
Fax:        (202) 522-1648
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 21, 2000.
Note: This document contains a table (Project Costs) that cannot be converted
into a text file. However, if you have MS Word or Word Viewer on your computer,
you should be able to download the complete original version by going to
- 8-



