Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14656-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VOLUME 3 OF 3
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX II: EXPENDITURE AND PERSONNEL
ANNEX III: CUSTOMS MODERNIZATION
AUGUST 29, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Turkish Lira (TL)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Turkish Lira per US$)
Currency Unit           CY1990            CY1991          CY1992           CY1993          CY1994          CY1995
Jan-July
US$1.00 = TL              2,609            4,172           6,872            10,985          29.609          42,447
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES                     FISCAL YEAR
Metric System          January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AB           -           National Agricultural Bank (Ziraat)
CAS         -            Country Assistance Strategy
CBT         -            Central Bank of Turkey
CCC         -            Customs Cooperation Council
CCT          -           Common Customs Tariff
CET         -            Common External Tariff
CIT          -            Corporate Income Tax
Customs     -            Undersecretariat of Customs
EBF         -            Extra Budgetary Funds
EDI          -            Electronic Data Interchange
EDP          -           Electronic Data Processing
EU          -            European Union
FAD          -           Fiscal Affairs Department
FIB          -           Finance Inspectors Board
FLS         -             Financial Ledger System
GATT        -            General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
GDBFC       -            General Directorate of Budget & Fiscal Control
GDC         -            General Directorate of Citizens' Affairs
GDPA         -           General Directorate of Public Accounts
GDR          -           General Directorate of Revenues
GFMIS        -           Government Financial Management Information System
GFS          -           Government Financial Statistics
GIBOS        -           Customs Administration Integrated Automated System
ICB         -            International Competitive Bidding
IMF          -           International Monetary Fund
IT          -            Information Technology
LFA         -            Legal Framework Agreement
MERNIS      -            Merkezi Nufus Idaresi Sistemi (Central Citizens Registry System)
MOF         -            Ministry of Finance
PFMP        -            Public Financial Management Project
PIAL        -            Privatization Implementation & Social Safety Net Assistance Loan
PIT         -            Personal Income Tax
PMSS        -            Project Management Support Services
PMU         -            Project Management Unit
PSBR        -            Public Sector Borrowing Requirement
PSAL        -            Public Sector Adjustment Loan
RCs         -            Revenue ControHers
SAR          -           Staff Appraisal Report
SBA          -           Stand-By Arrangement
SEE          -           State Economic Enterprises
SOFIX        -           Systeme d'Ordinateurs de Fret International
SPO          -           State Planning Organization
TAB          -           Tax Accountants Board
TCA          -           Turkish Court of Accounts
TIN          -           Taxpayer Identification Number
TIR          -           International Transport Register
Treasury     -            Undersecretariat of Treasury
TL           -           Turkish Lira
UIN         -            Unique Identity Number
VAT          -           Value Added Tax



TABLE OF CONTENTS
ANNEX 2: EXPENDIrURE AND PERSONNEL COMPONENT
Annex 2a: Implementation Plan  ...................................  1
Annex 2b: Terms of Reference ...................................  33
Annex 2c: Detailed Cost Table ...................................  57
Annex 2d: Implementation Schedules .        ...............................  61
Annex 2e: Elements of the Government Financial Management Information System  . . . 69
ANNEX 3: CUSTOMS MODERNIZATION COMPONENT
Annex 3a: Implementation Plan  . .................................  79
Annex 3b: Terms of Reference ................................... 107
Annex 3c: Detailed Cost Table ................................... 135
Annex 3d: Implementation Schedules ............................... 141
Annex 3e: Simplified Customs Operational Procedures .................... 149
Annex 3f: Monitoring and Impact Indicators .......................... 161






Annex 2a
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Expenditure and Personnel Component
Implementation Plan






Annex 2a
Expenditure and Personnel Component
Implementation Plan
Table of Contents
I. THE EXPENDITURE AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT COMPONENT  ...                          ..... 1
A. Scope and Objective .
B. Project Description .2
Budgetary Procedures and Personnel Management.                      2
Government Financial Management Information System.                 7
C.  Project Costs and Financing Plan .13
D. Accounting and Audit Plans.                                                   15
11. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS .......                   ......................  17
A.    Responsibilities of the Implementation Agencies ................... 17
B.    Inter-Agency Coordination  .........         ....................... 19
C.    Role of World Bank Supervision  ............................ 19
Ill. IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES             .............. .................. 21
A.    Implementation Schedules .........         ........................ 21
B.    Procurement Arrangements and Schedules ....................... 21
C.    Disbursement Arrangements and Schedules ...................... 23
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS  ....................................... 27
A.    Benefits   ............................................   27
B.     Main Project Risks .       ................................... 27
C.    Other Factors Affecting Project's Success ....................... 28
V. MONITORING AND EVALUATION                ..............        ................. 29
A.  Actions to Monitor Project Objectives .29
B. Indicators .29
C. Reporting Arrangements .31
Tables:
1.  Costs Summary by Expenditure Accounts .14
2. Financing Plan.                                                               15
3.  Proposed Procurement Arrangements .23
4.  Procurement Implementation Plan .24
5.  Estimated Bank Disbursements .25
6 Impact Indicators .29
Figure:
1.    Architecture of Financial Management Information Systems.                  8






I. THE EXPENDITURE AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
A. ScopE AND OBJEcTIVE
1.    The primary objective of the Expenditure and Personnel Management component is to
improve the regulatory and technical framework for the central government budget--including:
(a) preparation; (b) revision; (c) execution; (d) monitoring; and (e) accounting--and the
information and payroll systems for management of personnel expenditure. Many of the
problems in government expenditure management are only the corollary of the 1994 financial
crisis and the practice of managing public expenditure from the financing, or cash, side rather
than through a well-conceived above-the-line budgetary program consistent with a sound
macroeconomic framework. However, independently of the spillover of the financial crisis, there
are two major structural weaknesses of the public expenditure management process. First, the
lax and erratic nature of budgetary policy in the 1980s led over time to a proliferation of special
mechanisms and a fragmentation of expenditure decision-making processes. Second, while the
bases and systems for budget preparation, monitoring and accounting remain workable, they date
back to a much earlier time, and now require substantial modernization--in order to update,
simplify, and streamline the budgetary and accounting framework.
2.    Reforms of budgetary procedures are to be targeted to: (i) strengthen the role of the
budget as an instrument of policy implementation; (ii) make the control more efficient and
reinforce budget discipline; and (iii) improve the flexibility of the budget execution, as stronger
budget discipline will permit greater delegation of budget execution responsibility to spending
agencies. To support the process, a comprehensive information system will also be needed.
3.    Computerization of financial transactions and the installation of computer systems in
major accounting offices will take some time. However, some reform measures can be
introduced early in the process and will generate immediate benefits. Moreover, the
implementation of a fully integrated management information system needs important preliminary
studies and development. Thus, a phased approach has been selected for the implementation of
the reforms.
4.    The first phase, financed under the present project, is intended to develop a sound
foundation for planning the larger investments envisaged in the subsequent phase. Phase I, to be
concluded in two and a half years, will encompass the following major activities:
a. Modernization of budgetary procedures, which will aim at strengthening the budgetary
control system and will update, simplify and streamline the budgetary and accounting
framework
c. Preparation of an integrated Government Financial Management Information System
(GFMIS) and of a personnel and payroll management information system, which will
include (i) the functional analysis of the intended system; (ii) applications development;
and (iii) the computerization of pilot sites.
The total cost of these activities is estimated at about US$11.1 million, including contingencies.



- 2 -
5.    The second phase of the program for modernization of Expenditure and Personnel
Management will cover the replication, throughout the country, of the systems designed and
tested under the first phase. About 1S0]accounting offices, which cover 90 percent of total
government expenditures, will be computerized, according to an implementation schedule that
will be defined in Phase I. Computer hardware and software will be located at the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) in the center, the 76 provincial headquarters and about 80 other Accounting
Offices. Non-automated Accounting Offices will forward documents to automated accounting
offices documents for processing. The payroll system will be fully computerized at the
provincial level. Thus, at the end of the second phase, processing and reporting of government
expenditure and personnel data will be fully automated and the implementation of an integrated
GFMIS will be completed. Phase II activities will include acquisition of needed hardware and
system software equipment, training to end-users and site preparation. The authorities have
requested Bank support for the Phase II activities through a follow-up investment loan.
B. PRojEcT DEscRimoN
1. Budgetary Procedures and Personnel Management
6.    Current Situation and Ma*or Weaknesses. As presently structured, the budget gives a
fragmented and incomplete picture of government finances. The budget is divided into 'general'
and 'annexed" budgets, while extra-budgetary funds (EBFs) and revolving funds include revenues
and expenditures that are planned and managed in separate processes. An inadequate integration
among budget components at the preparation stage, especially between investment and current
expenditure, impedes efficient expenditure programming. The structure of budget coding is not
conducive to economic analysis. There is no presentation on a functional basis (for expenditure)
and limited breakdown on an economic basis. As a result, the budget is not the predictable and
robust instrument of policy implementation that it should be.
7.    The overall expenditure management system has a number of serious weaknesses from
both a conceptual and organizational point of view: (i) the payment processing system is
completely manual, involving the functions of account control and verification, transaction
recording and payment; (ii) there exists a complex system of control/certification involving the
MOF and the TCA, and which contains both duplication of controls and confusion concerning
financial and accounting controls; and (iii) the system for data aggregation is largely manual,
involving substantial "double handling' of data, and is primarily oriented to financial report
production, rather than towards producing documents suitable for management information and
decision-making. While it would be possible to continue with the existing labor-intensive manual
accounting system for budget execution, demands by Government and institutions responsible for
economic management are unlikely to be satisfactorily met in the future without substantial
institutional modernization within the MOF. The cash management system is in effect a
centralized cash rationing system, required largely by the weak budget preparation process and
insufficient overall financing. While necessary in the current economic circumstances, this
system is cumbersome and, although utilizing computers for detailed calculations, relies on
manual intervention on a daily basis with little or no integration with the budget implementation
process.



S.    The civil service is characterized by substantial over-staffing. In large measure, this is
because the management and control system of personnel does not permit the identification and
prevention of increased expenditures in a satisfactory way. Several weaknesses in this system
may be identified including the following:
a.    The separation of personnel expenditures among different budgets and
extrabudgetary entities, which makes comprehensive analysis and management
difficult
b.    A management system of positions based on "cadres" that is ineffective for
efficient management of human resources within the government sector--the
system of position management has resulted in 20 percent more 'cadres' than
occupied positions
c.    A payroll system that is partly manual and partly computerized which makes it
difficult to manage and leads to redundant and cumbersome controls.
9.    Planned reforms. To strengthen budgetary decision making: (a) a more appropriate
budget code structure for economic and functional analysis will be prepared and the chart of
accounts will be revised; and (b) the budget coverage will be improved. In order to submit all
proposed expenditures to the same standards of comparative economic efficiency, the following
actions will be carried out:
a.    Elimination of all EBFs, except a very few "strategic" ones
b.    Elimination of revolving funds which have no specific justification for continued
existence
c.    Better integration of annexed budgets into a single consolidated budget.
10.   The relationship between planning and budgeting processes will be tightened and the links
between investment budget and current and transfer spending will be improved during the budget
preparation process. Thus, it will be necessary to:
a.    Implement procedures to ensure that recurrent expenditure generated by
investments projects is appropriately considered
b.    Formalize joint meetings between SPO and MOF during the preparation of the
budget, to ensure that current and capital budget of spending agencies are
scrutinized together.
11.   Improving the budget processes requires a strict definition of the role of core agencies and
spending agencies, to give more responsibility to spending agencies to allocate their expenditure
within their approved budget while enhancing budget discipline. To make controls more efficient
while avoiding cumbersome procedures, it will be necessary to: (a) correctly deflne controls
needed at the different steps of the control/certification process, namely financial control before



- 4 -
commitment is made, accounting control before payment is made and audit after payment; and
(b) review the responsibility of agencies in charge of budgetary control, to eliminate duplicate
controls and center their activities on their essential functions. In general, ex ante controls will
be reduced and ex post audit capabilities improved. Streamlined procedures to govern
commitment authorizations, including forward commitments for investment, will be installed.
The Accounting Offices network will be rationalized. Many of the current functions of Budget
Offices will be reduced significantly or reassigned elsewhere (notably, in order to make spending
agencies more accountable). The Budget Offices, as currently defined, will be restructured or
phased out.
12.   To improve cash management, banking arrangements must be reviewed with a view to:
a.    Centralizing all Government receipts in a single account at the Central Bank of
Turkey
b.    Rationalizing the system of government accounts
c.    Improving arrangements for payment of interest and charges.
13.   The ability to exercise effective control over civil service posts (positions) is fundamental
for control over civil service employment and personnel expenditures. Some principles must be
defined:
a.    The Budget must include the posts authorized
b.    Budget appropriations and authorized posts must be kept fully consistent during
budget execution
C.    Ministries may retain actual implementation responsibilities for personnel
management
d.    Procedures must be sufficiently flexible to allow the spending agencies to optimize
the allocation of their human resources.
14.   Implementation of the Reforms. Since February 1995, Working Groups, assisted by
consultancies financed under the Japan Grant, have been conducting detailed studies to: (a) define
a detailed reform strategy for improving budget coverage through the rationalization of
non-budget entities; (b) introduce a new budget and accounting chart of accounts more suitable
for economic and functional analysis, consistent with international classification structures and
which can be implemented on the proposed Financial Ledger System (and utilized for both budget
preparation and execution); (c) prepare an action program for rationalizing the current system of
controls over government expenditures, as well as the organizations involved in these processes;
(d) define new regulations and procedures for budgeting of positions in the public administration
and develop a detailed program for computerization of personnel information and payroll; (e)
deliver training to key staff in the Government Financial Statistics (GFS) methodology; and (f)
review banking arrangements and government accounts, this task will be coordinated with the



tdy of the potential role of banks in routine tax administration functions. These studies are
expected to be completed by September 1995. They will design a streamlined procedural system
and institutional arrangements that are needed for the implementation of a Government Financial
Management Information System. However, some reforms will be introduced before the full
computerization of government financial transactions and will generate immediate benefits.
15.   Based on the recommendations of these studies, the following actions will be carried out:
a.    The new budget code structure will be completed by September 30, 1995--it will
be used in parallel with the current code structure in 1996 and fully implemented
for the preparation of the 1997 budget
b.    A new chart of accounts will be prepared by June 30, 1996 and implemented by
January 1, 1997
c.    All EBFs, except a very few of strategic funds, will be consolidated into the draft
1996 budget that will be submitted to Parliament, by November 1995, with a view
to their progressive elimination
d.    New regulations and accounting methodology relating to the functioning of
maintained EBFs and revolving funds will be included in the draft 1997 budget
law
e.    Principles for streamlining budgetary processes will be defined by September 30,
1995 and a detailed action plan will be prepared by December 31, 1995
C.    Position ceilings will be introduced in the 1997 budget law.
16.   The program for streamlining budgetary processes will include: (i) a detailed design of
new control and preparation procedures to be implemented; (ii) related organizational
arrangements; (iii) identification of legal issues; and (iv) an implementation plan, including
ansitional arrangements for measures, for which full implementation requires computerization.
In the context of streamlining control processes and increasing responsibilities of spending
agencies in budget preparation, the functions of budget offices will be reduced and reassigned
elsewhere. Thus, the Budget Offices as an institution under revised arrangements must be
restructured or eliminated. The action plan will include provision for restructuring of Budget
Offices and reallocating their staff. The restructuring of Budget Offices will be achieved before
Janury 1, 1997. The action plan will also include a restructuring program for Accounting
Offices, which will be phased with other modernization measures (notably, implementation of the
new budget code structure and computerization).
17.   The actions for modernizing personnel management in this project will concern only the
budgeffzation of positions and the preparation of personnel and payroll management information
systems. However, the government intends to continue the actions carried out under the present
project with a broader reform of the civil service.



18.   It is important that the changes in organization structures, procedures and processes and
computerization be supported by Government personnel. Detailed studies on reallocation and
reassignment plans for affected civil servants need to be launched. Moreover, successful
implementation will require the planning and completion of a set of actions to explain and
disseminate the measures in order to gain active cooperation of the civil servants who will be
operating in the new environment, or who will face a change in assignment or residence due to
the restructuring of Budget Offices and accounting offices. In this respect, a particular emphasis
will be put on communicating the changes to and through middle management.
19.   Consultants external to MOF and a permanent advisor will assist in the
implementation of these reforms (47 consultant-months, estimated base cost US$940,000).
The In-House advisor (20 consultant-months) will
*     Provide technical guidance to staff in the conduct of the reforms, notably for the
implementation of the Budget code structure, new control processes and related
organizational changes and the finalization of the chart of accounts
*     Ensure the consistency between the outcomes of different studies, notably the
functional analysis of the information system and the design of reforms
*     Prepare progress reports and detailed programs for working groups
*     Identify needed additional studies and prepare detailed terms of reference for
these.
Other short-term consultants (27 consultant-months) will help to:
*     Finalize the chart of accounts.
*     Implement modernized control processes and related organizational changes.
*     Design reorganization plans for departments that will be subject to change.
*     Improve methods of budget preparation related to personnel expenditure.
*     Strengthen payment processes and cash management.
*     Review procurement arrangements and systems to ensure consistency with the new
control mechanisms.'
The terms of reference for these consultancies are contained in Annex 2b.
' Any investment requirements stemming from the review of government procurement would be
cosidered for inclusion in the second PFMP operation.



- 7 -
2. Government Fmancial Management Information System
20.   Current Situation and Major Weaknesses. Information systems currently in place in
the MOF produce a variety of reports, but they are lacking in coverage, integration and
flexibility. Information systems, where present, have been developed in response to specific
organizational requirements and needs and not along functional lines. This leads to duplication of
systems, inconsistencies in data, and a disparate set of segmented systems with no systematic data
sharing arrangements. Data flows between the core financial agencies are predominantly manual
and cross institutional access to data bases is very limited or non existent. This data is also not
amenable to cross classification according to other schema as necessary for further analysis. In
the absence of an automated accounting system, a cumbersome and often duplicate system of
checks and controls has been built up, and a disproportionate amount of manual resources is
expended on attempting to ensure that prescribed financial controls are applied to all transactions.
Information systems organizations at the MOF are particularly weak and fragmented and lack
adequate numbers of staff trained in current information systems technology and methodologies.
A major part of the hardware and software installed at the MOF would now be considered
out-dated and therefore, acquisitions of new technology are inevitable. However, no
ministry-wide or organization-wide standards are present, resulting in heterogeneous acquisitions
of hardware and software. This aggravates the data sharing problems and poses serious risks of
investing in information systems which may not be compatible with each other.
21.   Proposed Changes. A fully integrated new Government Fmancial Management
Information System or GFMIS, capable of meeting the demands of Government, economic
management agencies and line agencies is to be introduced in a timely and cost effective manner.
Demands on such a system will range from the requirement to carry out functional and economic
analysis of the implementation of government policy through the budget process, to the
processing of a payment order against a particular budget line item appropriation.
22.   The project will support the design and the development of information systems for
budget preparation, execution and monitoring, cash management, government accounting and
civil service position management, and the pilot implementation of these systems. A basic
underlying principle is that the systems be structured along functional rather than organizational
lines and provide support to all organizations involved in the expenditure management processes.
This approach has the advantage that it enables the creation of integrated systems and data bases
in which the primary responsibility for the timely provision of a particular sub-set of data resides
with the agency responsible for that function. However, all data in the system data bases is
accessible by all relevant central agencies (subject to appropriate security controls). Ihis
eliminates duplicate data gathering and enables all agencies responsible for financial functions to
work with the same set of data. Figure 1 shows the proposed information systems architecture
for the overall government financial management system.
23.   A financial ledger system (FLS) will be the core of the GFMIS and will be designed with
the two basic objectives of: (a) controlling the state budget and the assets and liabilities of the
government; and (b) providing comprehensive, reliable and timely information on the financial
position of the Government of Turkey to facilitate its financial management.



Function         Central    Treasury          SPO               MinistrydofFinance                                        Line                   MOF          Und.3ect.   Paying/Recv.  Courtdo
Bank                                  OD8FC                    GDPA    Accountanchs                  Agencies                 ODR           Customs;        Banks        Accounts
Legend             Arsso nfornlation reaws. Full lines irndicate
Systemsi to b deveto under PEM oomponenyt
Macro Econornk |            Systems for Macro-Economic Forecasting
Forecastitig                |                                                                                                           [S   Systems to be deebped under the other
AT                                  ,Componenh of the PFM project
Systems to be developed under the TDSP
2      |       Macro-Economic Framewok
Djata on                             v                                                                Lirne Agerncy              TxCutm
Budget Preparation previous                                                                                                     d Preiminary Drre Summary sug  |     Sys     s
arjl_______ cunent         ifSystems                                                                                   ol Jy}        {       JS                  Feed' beck
ye4 r     I           Budget Guidelnes              . . t.li~,................ ..  ........................... . .       ..........  .. L.L. .  fq
actualsle                                                                                            i                               i                                       Audit
-  Sy  trW                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to vahou
~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                       . .     ...... .........'.....................  ............ .........  .......  ...,,,,,......!;..;.
Basieledt II   Inv nt |i   Curre    ----- -----------~Re' F   mZt"+~~'-     ----  -i-------t-  ------^- -----i*--
; ion Investment                                                                                                               i
.    lwt    l   .............. ,ud   B    ..............uBU geedFie rm 0....... ..................... ............................ .
Accountin  an                        - Cashton RL'unii  .- .~'-~~-''-'' _=g                                            ieAec  
FbscaIReportin                         i                 an                     It,,   ""dure|- t':':'Syste     i   . m; ,iar ailrf  nti orrAaar                  Pav                          4
t       -  I --- --
........              ........Iing- -  :   rirP                , ,    ,, ................  . .......... ,, _.. ..........
'i   ;  Dab on Pro,iecls           l                 i                                    i       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ into   Reevn
xecutlan                     App~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bn
,~~~~~~~~~~. SyW s ; ma                                                         Eiti iSist
ClBudgement E:.                                                  .        =n                FiAn"_n____   a                                            i                                 -   4
UI5fl I                                                                                                             Uties,           Inties.  .                       !
Pers I>                                                                                                                                                                                    '    :'|konnel*4-
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... .......____. ......__..._i. . _..      ......... .......       ,,, Rwiti.....  ........  ....._.........
Accountinp an                                       Audit                                                                                                                                                          co
EsL 0   " np       ..FW"InRut to  udtmStassromVaiou Aea



- 9-
24.   The FLS will be used by:
*  The General Directorate of Public Accounts (including accounting offices) to perform
the basic accounting functions
*  The General Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control to perform the control functions
associated with budget execution and monitoring
*  The Cash Management Department of Treasury to obtain information for cash
management, and to implement funds allocations, as may be required
*  The SPO to obtain the status of actual expenditures on ongoing projects to update the
major projects data base
*  Spending units to obtain financial information in their respective areas.
25.   The system will be designed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
and standards, a double entry accounting model and policies and procedures developed as part of
the preceding consultancies.
26.   The FLS will be a fully automated accounting system, with data captured only once as an
accounting transaction progresses through the system. This system will be introduced along with
a modern budget classification system and an appropriate chart of accounts, and would enable
expenditures and revenues to be recorded at a detailed level and related to specific programs and
projects. Data recorded at this level will then be directly available for use for program and
project management. This data will also be easily amenable to cross classification for financial
and economic analyses. The introduction of an automated accounting system would ensure
completeness of data capture (that is, no transaction would be processed outside the system) and
rigorous application of all relevant financial controls to all transactions processed by the system.
The system will be structured in two levels, with a clear functional distinction between them: (i)
Level 1 will process and keep consolidated data, (the central unit will be located at the MOF);
and (ii) Level 2 will execute operational functions and keep detailed data (the units will be
operated at accounting offices). The linkage between the central unit and units in accounting
offices will be established through dedicated data transmission lines.
27.   The FLS will be designed to produce the Financial and Management Reports required by
the various users. This includes the monthly civil accounts, annual appropriation accounts and
combined finance and revenue accounts as well as individual accounts for the respective agencies.
The system will incorporate a reporting system to enable management to identify problems and
bottlenecks in a timely manner. The reporting capability of the system will address all matters
affecting the efficacy of the accounting function. In addition, the system will have facilities for
easy retrieval and reporting on data in the system data bases in a variety of formats. The system
will also enable user departments to download relevant data and perform required analysis and
reporting.



- 10-
28.   At present there are about 1,700 accounting offices (including about 400 joint tax/
accounting offices) within Turkey. They cover 76 provinces and 840 towns. The total number
of accounting offices in Turkey is expected to be reduced as a result of the financial reforms
introduced under this component. However, setting up computer systems for all remaining
accounting offices across the country, even with a substantial reduction in the number, would be
quite expensive. An analysis of the distribution of the volume of transactions by expenditure and
revenue indicates that about 90 percent of the expenditures are incurred through about 150
accounting offices. It is therefore appropriate to target these accounting offices for automation.
29.   Budget Preration. A set of systems will support the processes of Budget preparation.
These systems will receive from the various spending agencies the details of their programs and
projects, consolidate them and produce from them the documents that form the basis of
negotiations between the ministries and spending agencies and the central agencies. The system
will facilitate an iterative process of budget submission, consolidation, review/negotiation, and
documentation until the budget is finalized and approved. The systems will utilize the data base
established within the Financial Ledger System (see below) to provide accurate historical data.
This system would cover both the Investment and the Current Budgets integrated within a
common chart of accounts.
30.   The modules for preparation of the current budget will be managed by the GDBFC in the
MOF and that for the Preparation of the Investment Budget by the SPO. Both systems will
require extensive interaction with and regular data input from the various ministries and spending
agencies in Government, as well as with the Treasury, whose macroeconomic policy formulation
capability is being strengthened under the Treasury Data Systems Project, with World Bank
fuiancing. The preparation and subsequent monitoring of the investment budget would require
setting up a major projects data base in SPO. The Information Technology Working Group and
the consultants in charge of the design of the GFMIS will investigate whether the systems
recently developed by the SPO would be able to provide the functionality required in this area.
If so, the existing SPO systems would be integrated with the other systems envisaged in this
project.
31.   Personne  aMj     ent. The ability to exercise effective post/position control is
important to regain control over civil service employment. In addition, line agencies require
systems to effectively manage personnel on their rolls. To help achieve these goals, it is
proposed that the following systems be implemented:
* A Position/Post Management System to maintain records of the authorized
posts/positions for government agencies, of authorizations to fill vacant positions, and
of appointments to permanent positions.
*  A Personnel Information System to maintain the personnel data for which civil
servants and all personnel actions related to these civil servants; including retirements,
resignations, removals, deaths and transfers. It would also maintain information to be
able to produce manpower profiles including data on age, departmental distribution,
skill categories, compensation and tenure etc.



- 11 -
* An automated Payroll System, at the major accounting offices to cover salary and
related payments to civil servants.
32.   This last group of systems is essential for the Government to regain control over civil
service employment. Effective control will require a post management system that ensures that
all fresh recruitment is against appropriated and budgeted positions. Personnel actions for civil
servants on board will be recorded by the agency personnel systems and used to calculate the
payroll. The agency record of budgeted positions will be used to ensure that no personnel are
added to the payroll who do not have an authorized budgeted position. The payroll systems
would be fully integrated with the FLS--the Government Budgeting and Accounting system
described above.
33.   Information Technolofy Activities. The information systems defined above will be
introduced in a phased manner. Specifically, in Phase I: (a) the systems will be designed,
specifications will be developed for the required hardware and software; (b) application software
will be prepared; and (c) pilot systems will be implemented. Nationwide replication will occur in
Phase 11.
34.   Systems design and sDecifications for hardware and software. This task involves:
a. Studying the functional processes, including administrative procedures, transaction
documents, forms and information flows related to the budget preparation, budget
execution, accounting and reporting and payroll and position management;
recommendations for changes made by the preceding studies on budgetary reforms
will be taken into account.
b. Defining and developing information flows, procedures, transaction types and
associated documents and forms, and related organization required to operate the
proposed information system.
c. Defining reporting capacities to make reports available in a variety of formats to end
users and core agencies.
d. Developing a full functional design and systems specifications for the computer
systems required, including the specifications of the major data bases, output reports,
input formats, processing and controls, interfaces and data flows between the nodes of
the information flow network.
e. Drawing up specifications of the hardware, system software and DBMS (Database
Management Software) to be installed at various nodes and the mode of
interconnection of this hardware and software.
f. Investigation of alternatives for application software -- either packages will be
purchased and customized, or specific applications will be developed.



- 12 -
35.   Pilot systems implementation. Implementation of the country wide network of
information systems described above is a major long-term project. Under the present project, a
pilot implementation of the Financial Ledger System and the post management/payroll systems
will be carried out. This pilot implementation will be carried out at eight sites: the MOF, SPO,
Treasury, Turkish Court of Accounts, Ministry of Health, State Highways, Ministry of Interior
and a provincial center in the Eskisehir region. The pilot will test the links between the FLS and
systems implemented at SPO and Treasury and access to the central data bank of the system from
core agencies. Pilot systems implementation will involve site preparation, installation of
hardware, system software and DBMS, installation and testing of the application system and
training of local staff to enable them to operate and maintain the system and train end users. It is
expected that pilot sites will be installed by July 1997, and testing and training will be carried out
during the following six months (estimated base costs for site preparation, hardware, and
application development or customization of software packages: US$6.02 million).
36.   A consulting firm with extensive experience in the design and installation of such systems
will assist the Government to prepare the implementation of the GFMIS. The task of this
consultant will be the following: (i) preparation of the detailed design, systems specifications and
related manuals and procedures for the specified systems; (ii) design of the technology
architecture required to implement the information systems; (iii) investigation of alternatives for
application software (evaluation of existing packages and/or needed developments); (iv)
preparation of tender documents for acquisition (or) development of software and for acquisition
of hardware and system software that will be installed at pilot sites; (v) assistance to the
implementation of pilot sites (vi) training of users at pilot sites; and (vii) preparation of an
implementation schedule for the second phase of the program of computerization (estimated base
costs for advisory services, functional analysis and training: US$2.4 million).
37.   To overcome the shortage of technical staff required for the implementation and support
of systems: (i) a permanent local computer expert will assist the working group in charge of the
design and the implementation of information systems; and (ii) a pool of about 10 Turkish
computer experts external to MOF will be set up during the last year of component execution.
These experts will work with expatriate experts to implement the pilot sites. Subsequently, they
will assist the Government to replicate the system throughout the country in the second phase of
the program. The establishment of a pool of local computer experts will be a cost effective
means to ensure sustainability of the computerization effort (estimated base cost: permanent
computer expert and pool of computer experts--one year: US$510,000).
38.   The second phase of the program of modernization of expenditure and personnel
management will follow the implementation of pilot sites and will involve the replication of
information systems in other selected sites, according to an implementation plan to be defined
during the first phase. About 150 accounting offices will be computerized, as mentioned above.
Major cost items in Phase II will include: (i) hardware equipment and software defined in the
first phase; (ii) site preparation; (iii) training of end users; and (iv) maintenance contracts for the
hardware and software. At this stage, it is envisaged that the consulting firm responsible for the
pilot will assist with the first ten replications, then the implementation of other sites will be
carried out by the pool of local computer experts that will be set up in Phase I. Accurate design
and estimates of costs for the Phase II activities will be drawn under the present project.



- 13 -
C. PRojEcT Com  AND FINANCING PLAN
39.   Project Costs. The total cost of the Expenditure and Personnel Management component
of the PFMP is estimated at US$11.1 million equivalent, including contingencies, taxes and
duties. Project costs include goods and equipment, advisory services, civil works, training
services and materials, project management support services and a refund of that part of a US$2
million advance from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility allocated to this component. A
breakdown of costs by expenditure category is shown in Table 1. A more detailed presentation is
contained in Annex 2c.
40.   The total baseline cost is estimated at about US$10.4 million. Physical contingencies are
estimated at US$312,000, or 5 percent of the baseline costs of civil works and equipment. Price
contingencies are estimated at US$377,000 equivalent or 4 percent of overall baseline costs over
the two and a half years of component implementation. These are based on the assumptions of
an average local inflation rate of 51 percent in 1995-96, and 15 percent thereafter; and price
increases for foreign costs (estimated in US dollars) of 1.6 percent in 1995-96 and 2.6 percent
for the remaining years of project execution. Cost calculations assume an average exchange rate
of 62,000 Turkish Lira/US$1.00 for the project execution period. Foreign currency costs,
including contingencies, are estimated at US$8.6 million or 78 percent of total cost. Taxes and
duties are estimated at about US$1.2 million equivalent or 11 percent of total cost.
41.   Financing Arrangements. The proposed IBRD loan will finance US$8.6 million
(approximately 78 percent of the total cost of the component). It will cover 100 percent of the
foreign costs of the component. The Government contribution of US$2.5 million will finance a
variety of local costs, notably training and project support costs. The Government gave
assurances during negotiations that adequate budgetary provisions will be made to meet
counterpart funding requirements throughout the period of project execution. The financing plan
is set out in Table 2.



Table 1. Costs Summary Bv Expenditure Accounts
(IL bilon)                                                             (US SN0)
Of                                                                                               %
Which      % Foreig      % Toal                                        Of which        %       Tobl
LoCal     Foreign    Toal   Duties &    Exchange    Base Costs                                        Duties &     Foreig     Bas
Tax                                        LAl1  Foreip       TOtl    Tax          Excaa       Costs
Civil Worh                                           5            0       5           0           0             1           100         0       100           0           0       1
Equipment                                           55          230     285          56          81            57         1,146     4,773      5,919      1,162          S1      57
Training
Local Training                             19           10      29           0          33             6           400       200       600           0          33       6
International Taining                       0           5        5           0         100             1             0       100       100           0         100       1
Subtotal                                   19           15      34           0          43             7           400       300       700           0          43       7
Technical Assitance
Local Technicnal Aasitan                   25           0       25           0           0            5            510         0       510           0           0       51
Intenatonal TechnicalAsistance              0          147      147          0         100            29             0     3,040      3,040          0         100      29
Subtotal                                   25          147      172          0          86            34           510     3,040      3,550          0          86      34
Piject Support                                       5            0        5          0           0             1           100         0       100           0           0       1
BASE COSTS                                        19           392      501         56          78           110         2,!i6      8,113    10,369      1,162          78    101
Pbysicl Contingeies                                 4           11       15          2          78             3            44       268       312          35          78       3
Price Continencies                                 175          438      613         69          77           123           151       226       377          42          76       4
TOTAL COSr                                         25R 76    1429                   127          78           226          2,451      ,7      ii           1,239         78    107



- 15 -
Table 2. Financing Plan
(US$Million Equivalent)
Local          Foreign          Total         % of Total
EBRD                 0.0             8.6             8.6             77.5
Government           2.5             0.0             2.5             22.5
Total                2.5             8.6             11.1           100.0
42.    Preparatory activities for the PFMP as a whole have benefitted from a Japanese PHRD
grant in the amount of Yen 128 million (approximately US$1.3 million). The French
Government has also provided a grant of about US$132,000 specifically for preparatory studies
for the Expenditure and Personnel Management component. The Government has obtained an
advance in the amount of US$2 million from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility. These
monies have allowed the timely initiation of the most time-sensitive preparatory activities.
D. ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT PLANS
43.   A project account and special account will be established for each of the three
implementing agencies. Each PMU would prepare quarterly statements of expenditures,
consolidate component accounts, and prepare and submit disbursement withdrawal applications
for project expenditures (beginning from the date of Loan Effectiveness). The project accounts
and special accounts would jointly be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. The audit reports will contain a separate opinion on the use of Statements of Expenditure.
During negotiations, it was agreed that an annual audit of all project and special accounts would
be undertaken by an independent auditor in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank. (March 1982). Audit reports in
English will be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year
(December 31). Details of the schedule for project reporting and annual reviews are presented in
Table 4.7 of the Main Report.






II. IMPIEMENTATION AMANGEMENTS
A. REsrONS B es OF THE ImPEENTAToN AGENC1ES
44.   The borrower is the Republic of Turkey which is represented by the Undersecretariat of
Treasury. The Ministry of Finance will have overall responsibility for the Expenditure and
Personnel Component.
45.   The Undersecretary of Finance will have overall responsibility for supervision and
management of this component which involves a number of agencies. A high-level, inter-agency
Steering Committee has been appointed as an advisory body. The Steering Committee is chaired
by a Deputy Undersecretary of Finance and includes appropriate high-level participants from the
Ministry of Finance (General Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control and General Directorate
of Public Accounts), Treasury, State Planning Organization and Court of Accounts.
Responsibility for day-to-day coordination, management and monitoring of the component rests
with a Project Management Unit (PMU), led by a Head of Department from the General
Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control (GDBFC). The PMU includes the heads of four
Working Groups that are responsible for implementation of specific tasks, as well as other MOF
personnel with skills in accounting, procurement, contract monitoring and information
processing.
46.   The specific responsibilities of the PMU are the following:
* Ensure the movement of official documents and contracts through their usual approval
processes and undertake measures to expedite their release
*  Monitor the availability of Government funds
* Monitor project expenditures and costs (local and foreign), process loan disbursement
applications and track disbursements of the Bank loan and Government funds
* Ensure compliance with the Bank Procurement Guidelines in the acquisition of
equipment and software packages, administration of suppliers' and technical assistance
contracts
* Procure goods and services and works
* Prepare and distribute periodic reports to the Undersecretary of Finance (monthly) and
the Bank (quarterly), reflecting: (i) the status of implementation, progress, problems
encountered and corrective actions needed; and (ii) current costs and estimates of
completion
* Ensure the timely preparation and submission to the relevant government institutions
and the Bank of annual audit reports of project expenditure, including Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) and accounts
*  Liaise with the Bank and involved government agencies for project administration and
supervision matters



- 18 -
*  Ensure the placement and performance of staff receiving training and of consultant
hired under the project
*  Prepare a Component Completion Report within six months after the completion of
the component, which will be incorporated eventually into the overall Project
Completion Report.
47.   The specific responsibilities of the four working groups are:
(a)   Budget preparation and revision. This working group will:
* Study issues related to budgetary coverage
* Propose budget structure and coding
* Develop a program for training in the methodology of Government Financial
Statistics (GFS)
*  Study the integration of current and investment budget preparation procedures
* Design a new budget presentation and related procedures
* Coordinate with the working group in charge of information systems regarding
the design of the budget preparation system.
(b)   Budgetary control processes. This working group will:
* Study control process of Public Expenditures and role of TCA
3 Propose structure of Accounting Offices
* Propose structure of Budget Offices
* Propose cash management and banking arrangements
* Coordinate with the working group in charge of information systems regarding
the design of the FLS.
(c)   Personnel and payroll management. This working group will:
* Study issues related to post and payroll management and develop proposals
* Develop methodology for personnel expenditures forecasts
* Coordinate with the working group in charge of information systems regarding
the payroll and posts management systems.
(d)   Information systems. This working group will:
* Design, develop and implement computer systems related to the expenditure
and personnel component of the project in coordination with the three other
working groups
* Propose hardware/software standards for government financial management
* Coordinate with the ongoing or new information systems projects in the
government agencies, such as Tax Department, Treasury Undersecretariat,
SPO, Customs to ensure systems integration.



- 19 -
B. IR-AGE mCY COORINATON
48.   The successful implementation of actions carried out under the Public Expenditure and
management component will depend on close coordination among several agencies in the
government sector. Most of the reforms, and particularly the implementation of a new budget
code structure and the strengthening of the Budget coverage will involve spending ministries.
Their implementation will require close cooperation between core agencies and spending units.
The modernization of personnel administration must be carried out in close cooperation between
the MOF and the State Personnel Presidency. The design of new information systems must be
coordinated with the ongoing or new information systems projects. The steering group must play
an effective role in ensuring that there is coordination between the various agencies, while the
participation of the most concerned agencies in the working group will contribute to ensure a
good coordination at the technical level.
C. ROLE OF WORLD BANK SUPERviSION
49.   Bank supervision of project implementation will concentrate on the consistency of
component activities with agreements reached during appraisal, performance of the implementing
groups and assessment of emerging needs for adjustments to project parameters. The day-to-day
implementation and monitoring will be carried out by the PMUs. The basis for Bank monitoring
will be quarterly progress reports prepared by the PMUs. The reports will describe the status,
deviation, if any, from the implementation plans, reasons for deviations as well as corrective
actions being taken. The quarterly reports will be supplemented by substantive discussions with
the Working Groups implementing the various subcomponents and discussions with higher
echelon officials. Annual work and procurement programs will be required to be agreed with the
Bank each year, and will include quarterly benchmarks for monitoring and evaluating progress in
implementation.
50.   Implementation of the proposed project, and the extent to which it is achieving its stated
objectives, would be reviewed and evaluated annually and upon its completion. In addition, there
will be three formal joint Bank-Government reviews. The first of these would be conducted
early in 1996, about four months after Loan Effectiveness, to provide a basis for proceeding with
preappraisal of the proposed follow-up investment operation, and for making any early
adjustments as may be necessary in project parameters. The second (in FY1997) would cover
the formal assessment of the pilot implementation of the new Customs system, and the third
(FY1998) the assessment of the pilot GFMIS for the Expenditure and Personnel Management
Component. The evaluation criteria for the latter are described in Part V of this annex. The
proposed schedule of supervision and review missions is in Table 4.7 of the Main Report.






III. IMLEMENTATION AMIfTIES
A. ImrLz&iywAnoN59iwEuLFs
51.   There are no substantial requirements for coordinating the three components of the PFMP
at the implementation level and the three components would proceed according to separate
Component Implementation Plans--see Annex la for Tax Administration and Annex 3a for
Customs Modernization. However, overall responsibility for the supervision of the Tax
Administration and Expenditure and Personnel Management components rests with the
Undersecretary in the Ministry of Finance, who will ensure any necessary coordination within the
MOF, and with other entities involved in the tax and expenditure components. Any necessary
coordination between MOF and Customs will be effected at the ministry level by the
Undersecretaries of Finance and of Customs, with the assistance of the Treasury.
52.   Implementation of Expenditure and Personnel Management Component activities is to be
carried out over a period of two and a half years. Due to the constraints of the budget cycle, the
timeliness with which individual subcomponents are executed is critical, as delays in one
subcomponent may delay overall implementation by one fiscal year. Successful implementation
will depend on close coordination among several agencies in the government sector. Most of the
reforms, particularly the introduction of a new budget code structure and the strengthening of
budget coverage, will involve spending ministries. Thus, implementation will require close
cooperation between core agencies and spending units. The modernization of personnel
administration must be carried out in close cooperation between the MOF and the State Personnel
Presidency. The design of new information systems must be coordinated with ongoing activities
under a number of disparate information system projects. The Steering Committee must play an
effective role in ensuring that there is the required coordination between the various agencies.
Participation of most of the concerned agencies in the Working Groups is already contributing to
good coordination at the technical level.
53.   Studies to help for the preparation of reforms have been launched in February 1995.
Detailed terms of reference for short term consultancies to assist in the implementation of these
reforms will be prepared on the basis of the results of the initial studies. A rough indication of
the likely short term assignments is included in the terms of reference for a long-term In-House
advisor (see Annex 2b). Also included in Annex 2b are the terms of reference for an information
technology expert and for the functional analysis of the intended information system. Annex 2d
contains the schedule of implementation by activity. This schedule takes into account the work
carried out during project preparation (preliminary studies for the preparation of reforms).
B. P REmNT ARANGEN7s MD SCEEULES
54.   The executing agencies' capabilities and purchasing regulations and procedures were
reviewed during Appraisal. It was determined that the GDBFC and GDPA have staff with the
appropriate background (including training in Bank procurement procedures) to manage the
procurement activities of the Expenditure and Personnel Management Component.
55.   All procurement of goods and material to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds would
be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and



- 22 -
IDA Credits (January 1995) and procurement of services, including the selection of consultants
for technical assistance and training, would be in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August
1981). Project procurement would be limited to the purchase of goods, material and services,
including training. The former consists mainly of the hardware and software for the information
technology subcomponents (including substations, personal computers and peripherals).
56.   Contracts for goods and material with a value of more than US$300,000 equivalent per
contract will be arranged in accordance with the Bank's procedures for international competitive
bidding (ICB). In that event, goods manufactured in Turkey and procured through ICB may be
granted a margin of preference of 15 percent in accordance with paras. 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Bank's Guidelines and paras. 1-6 in Appendix 2 of the Bank's Guidelines. Direct contracting
(single source) of proprietary software may be followed to ensure compatibility with development
tools already in use in the MOF. Direct contracting will be permitted for contracts costing a total
of up to US$330,000 equivalent in the aggregate. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will
be used for all procurement under ICB.
57.   Contracts for equipment and material estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or more
and all direct procurement contracts would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation and approval of contract award. This would result in prior review of 94 percent
of Bank financed contracts. Other contracts would be subject to ex post review after contract
award.
58.   Procurement of services, including the selection of consultants, would be based mainly on
a shortlisting of firms. The services of individual specialists not to exceed US$50,000 per
contract may be contracted for diverse tasks of short duration (up to six months). Study tours
will likely be sole sourced. The total value of consultant services to be procured from firms
through shortlisting is estimated to be US$2.8 million, from individuals is US$580,000 and
through sole sourcing is US$210,000. Prior review of consultant contracts would not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract for firms and
US$50,000 per contract for individuals. However, the terms of reference for all contracts will be
pre-reviewed by the Bank.
59.   Items to be procured will be grouped into major packages to encourage competitive
bidding and permit bulk procurement. Major procurement categories include: about US$5.8
million equivalent to be procured through ICB; US$540,000 of proprietary software through
direct procurement; and US$3.6 million equivalent through shortlisting of consultant firms,
individual consultants and sole sourcing. Table 3 summarizes the procurement arrangements for
the major categories of the component. Further details of the procurement packages and the
relative timing of procurement actions are shown in Table 4.
60.   The PMU will furnish the Bank quarterly procurement reports indicating: (a) changes in
individual contracts' cost estimates, including best estimates for physical and price contingencies;
(b) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award and
completion time of individual contracts; and (c) compliance with aggregate limits on specified
methods of procurement. Further, the annual project operating plans would include any revisions



- 23 -
in the agreed implementation schedule regarding employment of consultants. Prior Bank review
of procurement decisions will result in a coverage of 100 percent of Bank-financed project costs.
Table 3. ProRosed Procuranent Anuiements
(US$million equivalent)
Item                            International    Other          N.B.F.w         Total
Competitive                                    Cost
Bidding
Civil Works                                                       0.10            0.10
I __________________________    _____________   ____________      (0-00)          (0.00)
Equipment/Goods                    5.78            0.54                           6.32
l ___________________________       (4.65)         (0.43)                         (5.08)
Training                                           0.32           0.43            0.75
l _______________________________  _______________  (0.32)        (0.00)          (0.32)
Technical Assistance/Advisory                      2.8S           0.55            3.43
Services                                          (2.88)         (0.00)          (2.88)
Project Management Support                                        0.11            0.11
Services                                                         (0.00)          (0.00)
PPP                                                0.35                           0.35
(0.35)                         (0.35)
Total                               5.78           4.09           1.19           11.06
(4.65)         (3.98)         (0.00)          (8.63)
a/ Other includes shortlisting of consultant firms (USS2.77 million); individual consultants (US$0.58 million); sole
sourcing (US$0.21 million); and direct procurement of proprietary software (USS0.54 million).
bl Not Bank Financed
Note: Numbers in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
Differences due to rounding.
61.    The procedure of procurement for DBMS, development tools and financial management
"off-the-shelf" packages will be reviewed with the Bank on the basis of the review and
recommendations of the study for designing information systems. Direct procurement with
property owners would be considered if compatibility with existing systems is needed for the
purchase of DBMS and development tools.
C. DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS AND SCHEDULES
62.    The Loan would be disbursed separately for each component. Table 5 shows the
disbursement forecast for the Expenditure and Personnel Management Component by semester.
Disbursements for this component are expected to be completed by September 30, 1998,
approximately 6 months after the end of component execution. Loan Closing will be June 30,
2000, allowing ample time for the processing of final withdrawal applications.



- 24 -
Table 4: Prournent Dln hmentation Plan
(USS million)
TOTAL                         Prepare
(Including    Procuremen      Tender         Bid       Award        CotrLct
Contingencies)    t Method     Documents   Invitation    Contract    Conlpetiom.
1 Hdand Syem Software                               3.11           ICB           12/96        2/97        4/97         3/98
2. DBMS and Appllaioa Development Tools \b          0.54             DP           9/96        10/96       11/96        11/96
3. ApplicatIo Softwae                               2.67            ICB           9/96        11/96        1/97         7/97
TOTAL                         Prepare      Letter
(ncluding     Procuremnen    Terns of         of       Award        Contract
Contingencies)       t         Reference    Invitation    Contract    Completion
Method
I. Study Tours                                      0.21             SS          TBD          TBD         TBD          TBD
2. Information Technology (Procured with
OFMJS)                                          0.11             SL           9/95         10/95       12/95        2/98
C. Tedl  ce
1 .Budgetary Reforis
a) In-House Advisor                             0.43             SL            5/95        9/95       10/95         9/97
b) Sbort Termi Consulants                       0.58             IC           5/95         9/95       10/95         3/97
2. Inonatioa Syatems
GFMIS Developnent and Pilot
i   bnplemuaiiona                            2.23             SL           9/95        10/95       12/95        2/98
j2MI                                                   9.38
luhdte duties and taxes ealmted at US51.24 tolln, whicb are to be financed by the Government
b Direct Procurement of propritory software nay be   cesary to ensure compatability with development tools curmntly available in the MOF.
9CB -  1    1wntios. Competitive Bidding               SL - Short Listing of Firms
DP - Dirct Procurment of propitary software            IC - bndividual Consultants
5S - Single Sourced                                    TBD - To be Deterrined
63.      In order to facilitate disbursements, the Bank's share of project expenditures for the
Expenditure and Personnel Management Component would be disbursed through a Special
Account which would be opened in the Central Bank, and managed by the PMU. The authorized
allocation for the Special Account would be US$930,000, equivalent to an estimated four months
of component expenditures under the Bank loan. However, initially this level of allocation would
not be allowed until the project has disbursed an aggregate amount of US$900,000. Until such
level of disbursements is reached, the Special Account deposit would be limited to US$470,000.



- 25 -
Table 5. Estimated Bank Disbursements
(US$million Equivalent)
IBRD Fiscal Year                      FY96       FY97       FY98      FY99
I    II    I    II    I |       I   II
Annual                                    0.4  1.0  1.1  2.  2.0  2.
0         1
Cumulative                                0.4  1.4  2.5  4.  6.5  8.
5         6
64.   To ensure that critical initial project activities are not delayed, provision has also been
made for retroactive financing of up to US$6.2 million for all eligible project expenditures (for
the entire PFMP) between September 29, 1994 and the expected date of loan signing.
Disbursements are expected to commence immediately at Loan Effectiveness with the initial
deposits into the Special Accounts along with the refinancing of the PPF advance. All
disbursements would be fully documented, except for expenditures on contracts for equipment
and material of less than US$300,000 and contracts for services of less than US$100,000/50,000
with firms/individual consultants. In these cases, disbursements will be made against statements
of expenditures, whose documentation will be retained by the PMU until at least one year after
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account is made.
65.   During Loan negotiations the Government confirmed its agreement to the following
specific conditions for the Expenditure and Personnel Management Component:
Condition of Loan Effectiveness
* The In-House Adviser for the Expenditure and Personnel Management Component
shall have been appointed on the basis of terms of reference agreed with the Bank.
Dated Covenants
*  By February 28, 1996, the new calendar and methodology for budget preparation
shall have been adopted for implementation in the preparation of the fiscal 1997
budget.
*  The general budget submitted to Parliament for the 1997 fiscal year shall be prepared
on the basis of the new code structure, which is to include functional and economic
classification of expenditures according to international standards (GFS and
COFOGE).



- 26 -
* The general budget submitted to Parliament for the 1997 fiscal year shall introduce the
full implementation of new guidelines agreed with the Bank for budgetary posts
management.
* The new chart of accounts shall be put into effect by January 1, 1997 on the basis of
guidelines agreed with the Bank.
* By December 31, 1997, the Ministry of Finance shall furnish the Bank a satisfactory
plan for the reorganization and rationalization of the budget offices and accounting
offices prepared on the basis of the new procedures, regulations and automated
systems.
* By December 31, 1997, the Ministry of Finance shall have conducted successful pilot
implementations of the Government Financial Management Information System and
Personnel and Payroll Management Information System, with the success of
implementation to be assessed on the basis of criteria agreed with the Bank.



IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEM
66.   If the major weaknesses in budget preparation and execution are not addressed,
computerization and technical assistance can do very little. Indeed, they could jeopardize the
functioning of the present system without putting a better one into place. If instead these
weaknesses are addressed--as the Turkish authorities have explicitly stated they are determined to
do--modernization of Turkey's information systems on a uniform basis for all key agencies of
government can produce the following benefits:
* Improvement in the efficiency of the substantial resources expended by the central
government--some US$25 billion equivalent at current rates
*  The concomitant regulatory and procedural improvements of the budget process should
contribute substantially to the Government's capacity to pursue successfully its fiscal
adjustment prograrn
*  By the time the fiscal and financial stabilization program has achieved its objectives, there
would be modern and sound systems in place to prevent a reoccurrence of the budgetary
fragmentation and loss of control that helped create the 1994 crisis
*  Modern processes and systems will improve the transparency of decision-making and
increase the credibility of, and the confidence in, the government apparatus
v  The new systems would generate information necessary for economic analysis and further
administrative reform--in particular, the rationalization of the civil service.
B. MAN PRojEcT RISKS
67.   Implementation of the proposed project must be undertaken on the basis of a
comprehensive, integrated package. There is a risk that some components, such as
computerization, will appear attractive, while other components involving hard decisions, such as
restructuring the Accountancy Offices, will be set aside. There is a danger of unbalancing the
proposed reforms and failing to realize their full benefits which should be recognized and
addressed up-front in the reform process. Timely action in implementing individual sub-
components will also be critical, as delays in a sub-component, such as budget coding, have the
potential to delay overall implementation by one year, since implementation must be in line with
the fiscal year.
68.   Implementation of new Information Systems, always entails risks. To avoid these risks,
the main requirements are:
(a)    Successfully setting up inter-agency group organizational arrangements to ensure
systems integration, avoid duplication and implement systematic data sharing
arrangements, and more importantly allay fears of domination by one agency;



- 28 -
(b)   Ensuring that the systems fully take into account user needs and requirements;
(c)   Extensive user training so that users can make full use of the implemented systems
for their day to day work and do not revert to manual methods;
(d)   Adequate numbers of trained technical staff available to implement and support the
network of systems; and
(e)   Assurance that the existing system is protected and continues to function until it
can be safely replaced by the new one.
C. OTHER FACTORS AFECTING PROJECT'S SucCEss
69.   The second phase of the project, which will concern the installation of information
systems throughout the country, must be engaged as soon as technical requirements have been
defined. Otherwise, studies on computerization that are carried out under this project may
become outdated.



V. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. ACTON TO MomrroR PRojEcT OBECTIS
70.    In addition to the milestones and actions identified as conditions of disbursement and
dated covenants, the tracking of key monitoring indicators is necessary to measure the impact of
the component and the implementation of reforms (see section B, below). The preparation of the
Phase II program, which will involve the implementation of the GFMIS and the payroll system
throughout the country, will be based on the review of these indicators.
B. INDIcATORS
71.    The major objectives of the Expenditures and Personnel component of the PFMP are
reflected in the system of impact indicators shown in Table 6. Input indicators will track planned
investments in terms of contracting assistance (consultant-months), enrollment and time in
training programs (staff-months) and procurement of goods, software and system  applications
(disbursements). Output indicators will track items such as: (i) the number of reports completed
by a given date during the project cycle; (ii) the number of staff trained; (iii) the software and
applications that have been procured; (iv) the hardware systems that have been procured; and (v)
the number of sites prepared for the pilot implementation of the information system.
Table 6. hngac Indicators
IMACT INDICATOR              1                            ASUREMBNT 
imrovem_n of the Budget Covere           Number of EBFs fully incoporaed into tle Budget.
Completion of the Rcview of annexed budget and revolving fiuds.
Number of revolving fuds coolidaed ito the Geeal Budget
Stremliued Budget Code Structure         New budgetay code sucur effcive for all governmn expeadiwre and reveeas.
Number of staff traied in OFS methodology.
plemnatio of a new chart of accounts.
Availability of fuctional sd economic anaysis of the Budget.
laovem  i of Budget preparation          Icree of responsibilities of Spending Agencies in tie budget prpration proces.
Bettr coolini  betwua_ the prepuation of the invesmet ad curt budgets
(forml joint circular and meetn  SPO-Budget, recurn costs of invetmen taken
ino account).
lmp _vemen of the effeicacy of the budgetary  Redution of deays for appriation r_el
Process                                  Budgetization of personne positioos.
Streamlining of Budget conrol: Introduction of effective controls on expenditure
commt.
Resructuring of Budget Offic  and Accounting Offic
72.    In addition to the above, the following specific criteria will be used to evaluate the
functional and technical success of the pilot management information systems applications:



- 30 -
1. Core Accunting Systems
FunctionalA2ct:
* New management processes for Budget execution (Cash allocation, Commitment,
payment, receipts) in place and functioning with a sufficient number of end users (at least
5) trained in these processes at each of the eight pilot sites.
* Necessary functional Manuals and procedures for the operation of the new processes and
procedures completed.
Technical As2pcts:
*  Hardware, Systems Software and application development tools successfully installed and
tested at the Pilot Sites and necessary interconnections between sites successfully made
and tested.
*  Inter agency coordination arrangements in place and functioning. In-house data
processing organization in place and staffed (with contractors if necessary) to replicate the
Pilot systems across other nodes of the network and for maintenance.
*  Application software for the Core Accounting applications installed and tested for the
following minimum functions:
-  Maintaining Budget appropriation data
-  Maintaining and processing Cash allocation transactions
- Maintaining and Processing Commitment Transactions
-  Maintaining and processing Payment transactions
-  Maintaining and processing receipt transactions
-  Producing Core financial reports required by the MOF and other agencies as required
- System has a capability to enable sharing of data between relevant government
agencies (MOF,Treasury, SPO etc.).
-  System has necessary security and selective authorization arrangements.
-  Full system functions tested and installed at Pilot sites. Full Technical and User
Documentation complete and available.
-  Training arrangements for End Users formalized and in place. End users at Pilot sites
trained and capable of using the system.
2. Post Management and PayroD Administration
Technical Aspect:
* Application software for Post and payroll management installed at Pilot sites and tested
for the following minimum functions:
- Maintaining a database of authorized positions for government agencies.
-  Producing the payroll for the selected sites



- 31 -
- Necessary Interfaces completed between the two systems to ensure that the payroll
system checks on the availability of positions before authorizing payment.
- Technical and user documentation complete
- End Users trained in the operation of the new system
- Technical staff in place to support the new system and for replication across other
sites.
C. REroRTING ARRANGEMENTS
73.   The PMU will be responsible for: (i) tracking the above indicators; (ii) tracking inputs
and outputs related to the project; and (iii) overseeing studies from consultants and working
groups. The PMU will prepare a quarterly progress report which, upon clearance by the
Undersecretary of Finance, will be submitted to the World Bank. The reporting schedule is
described in Table 4.7 of the Main Report.






Annex 2b
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Expenditure and Personnel Component
Terms of Reference






Annex 2b
Expenditure and Personnel Component
Terms of Reference
Table of Contents
Consultancy 1: In-House Advisor and Short Term Experts ...................... 37
Consultancy 2: Information Systems Expert ............................... 41
Consultancy 3: Functional Analysis and Pilot Management Information Systems ....        ..... 43






TURKEY
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
CONSULTANCY 1
Support for the Implementation of Reforms
(Residential Advisor and Short-Term Consultancies)
1. BACKGROUND
1.    The Public Expenditure Management component of the Public Financial Management
Project aims at modernizing the expenditure management processes of the national government.
New and revised concepts and practices of the expenditure management will be introduced,
building where possible on the existing system. The legislative framework underpinning the new
concepts and methodology are to be revised. In particular, the budget formulation process will
be modernized, with the integration of the current and investment budget, and budget
implementation and the related accounting framework will be streamlined and simplified, notably
through the introduction of computerized systems for government financial operations.
2.    The Undersecretary of Finance is responsible for overall management and supervision of
this component. A Project Management Unit (PMU), led by a Department Head from the
General Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control (GDBFC), is responsible for day-to-day
management. A Steering Group has also been set up to ensure inter-agency coordination and to
act as an advisory body to the PMU. This Steering Group is chaired by a Deputy
Undersecretary of Finance and includes high level participants from the Ministry of Finance, the
State Planning Office (SPO), Treasury and Turkish Court of Accounts. Specific tasks are being
carried out by four Working Groups, which include staff from the GDBFC and General
Directorate of Public Accounts (GDPA) within the MOF, as well as from the Treasury, SPO and
Turkish Court of Accounts. The heads of these Working Groups are members of the PMU.
3.    Currently, Working Groups assisted by consultancies financed with grants from the
Japanese and French Governments are carrying out studies to improve the budget preparation
process and the budget coverage, define a new budget code structure and the framework of a new
chart of accounts, and define modernized procedures for controlling expenditures and personnel
management.
2. OBJECI1VE OF THE ASSISTANCE
4.    Services from a residential advisor and short-term consultancies from specialized experts
are required to assist the Project Management Unit in the implementation of reforms that have
been defined by the working groups and studies financed under the Japanese and French grants
and in the coordination of activities to be carried out under the component.



- 38 -
3. TASKS
a) Residential advisor
5. The residential advisor will assist the GDBFC and GDPA to:
*  Identify needed studies to complete the design of reforms, draft their detailed terms of
reference and monitor them.
*  Supervise the implementation of reforms.
*  Prepare the overall program and detailed work plans for working groups in charge of
specific tasks.
*  Prepare quarterly progress reports, identify needed adjustments and ensure their
implementation.
*  Ensure the consistency between the outcome of studies, the design of reforms and the
functional analysis of information systems.
*  Provide technical guidance to staff in the conduct of reforms and supervise the
preparation of needed users' manuals.
b) Short-term consultancies
6.    Specialized experts will assist the MOF to complete the detailed design of the reforms and
to implement them. The following assignments have already been identified:
S  Budget Preparation. The consultants will assist to the implementation of the new
budget preparation process. They will notably help to improve methods of budget
preparation related to personnel expenditure and to introduce commitment
authorizations for investment expenditures into the Budget. They would assist to
prepare the methodology and guidelines for structuring the budget of spending
agencies by program and defining indicators to monitor them. They will contribute to
define and implement a program of work for developping progressively an approach
by program in the budget preparation and monitoring process.
*  Implementation of the budget code structure. The consultants will supervise the
preparation of a version of the 1996 Budget under the new budget code structure,
prepare a training program for budget users and assist to its implementation.
* Chart of Accounts. The consultants will contribute to finalize the Chart of accounts
and define accounting procedures for each category of expenditures. They will
prepare a training program for accountants and assist to its implementation. They will
assist to the implementation of the new Chart of Accounts.



- 39 -
*  Review payment processes and cash management. The consultants will carry out a
review of government banking arrangements with a view to developing
recommendations for strengthening cash management, including through centralizing
all Government receipts in a single account at the Central Bank of Turkey,
rationalizing the system of government accounts and improving arrangements for
payment of interest and charges.
*  Organization of the accounting offices network. The consultants will assist to
prepare a detailed plan for restructuring the accounting offices, including eventually
reallocation/reassigment plans for relevant civil servants.
*  Implementation of modernized control processes and relevant organizational
arrangements. In the context of modernizing budget preparation and execution
processes many of the current functions of the Budget Offices will be reduced
significantly or be reassigned elsewhere. Moreover, the introduction of new controls
on commitments for some categories of expenditures will need specific skills.
Consultants will assist in the preparation of a detailed plan for restructuring the budget
offices including reallocation/reassigment plans for relevant civil servants. They will
assist in the implementation of this restructuring program. They will identify skills
needed for operating budget execution procedures and will prepare a training program
for officials in charge of budget execution.
*  Personnel Management. The consultants will assist with the implementation of a
budgetary posts management system.
*  Procurement. The consultants will review procurement procedures and systems in
order to ensure their consistency with revised control mechanisms. Any IT
requirements will be identified for implementation in Phase II.
7.    These short-term consultancies will be engaged at the request of the project director, on
the basis of specific terms of reference to be agreed with the Bank. The residential advisor will
assist in the preparation of the required detailed terms of reference and program of work for each
consultancy.
4. TIMING OF ASSIGNMENT
In-House Adviser: October 1995-September 1997.
Short Term Experts: October 1995-March 1997.
5. REPORTING RESPONSIBILITY
8.    The residential advisor and short term consultants will be functionally responsible to the
deputy undersecretary of Finance, chairman of the Steering Group in charge of the supervision of
the project. The residential advisor will be a member of the Project Management Unit.



- 40 -
6. INPUTS
Residential advisor: 20 man-months
Short-term consultancies: 27 man-months
7. QUALIFICATIONS
Minimum requirements for the experts:
* Graduate degree in public finance or related field
* Ten years experience in government budget management
* A knowledge of information systems for public expenditure management is needed for the
residential advisor.



TURKEY
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
CONSULTANCY 2
Information systems Expert
1. BACKGROUND
1.    The Government of Turkey (GOT) is currently embarking upon a program to set up
modern fiscal management systems to enable it to improve the management of the government
sector. As part of the fiscal reform process the Government has decided to implement an
integrated Government Financial Management Information System (GFMIS). The Expenditure
and Personnel Management component of the Public Financial Management Project, financed by
the World Bank, supports the design and pilot installation of the GFMIS.
2. OBJECTIVES OF THE ASSIGNMENT
2.    The objective of the assignment is to assist the Ministry of Finance to design and
implement a set of fully functioning computer based information systems for Budget Preparation,
Budget Execution and Monitoring (for both the Current and Investment Budgets), Cash
Management and Government Accounting (including Payroll Accounting) and Civil Service Post I
Position Management for the Government of Turkey.
3.    To achieve this objective the Government has set up an internal working group on
information systems, will require services from consulting firms for the design and development
of applications and appoint a permanent information systems expert. The permanent information
systems expert will assist the project director for carrying out his tasks on issues related to
information systems.
3. TASKS
4.    The permanent information systems expert will assist:
* The working Group in charge of information systems to:
(i)       contribute to the design and implementation of computer systems related to
the Expenditure and Personnel component of the project in coordination
with the three other working groups;
(ii)      propose hardware/software standards for government financial
management; and
(iii)     coordinate with the ongoing or new information systems projects in the
government agencies, such as Revenues Directorate, Treasury
Undersecretariat, SPO and Customs to ensure systems integration.



- 42 -
* The project management unit and the project director to:
(i)      Follow up advisory services related to the implementation of information
systems
(ii)      Prepare and launch tenders for hardware or software acquisitions
(iii)    Coordinate the implementation of information systems at pilot sites
(iv)     Prepare detailed progress reports.
5.    A pool of about 10 computer experts external to MOF will be set up in February 1997.
They will assist the government with the installation of pilot sites and replication of the system
throughout the country. The permanent information systems expert will help the Ministry of
Finance to set up the pool of computer experts and will coordinate activities of this pool.
4. TIMING OF ASSIGNMENT
IT Adviser: November 1995-March 1998.
Pool of IT Experts: February 1997-March 1998.
5. REPORTING RESPONSIBILITY
6.    The permanent information system expert will be functionally responsible to the Head of
the PMU.
6. QUALIFICATIONS
Minimum requirements:
* Graduate degree in information system technology.
* Ten years experience in information systems management.
* Detailed knowledge of information systems for public expenditure management would
be desirable.
* Proficiency in English and Turkish languages.



TURKEY
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
CONSULTANCY 3
Consultancy Services for the Design, Development, and Implementation of Budget
Preparation Systems, Core Government Accounting Systems, Payroll and Civil Service
Position Control Systems for the Government of Turkey
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Turkey (GOT) is currently embarking upon a program to set up
modem fiscal management systems to enable it to improve the management of the public sector.
As part of the fiscal reform process the Government has decided to implement an integrated suite
of modern computer based information systems to support the core expenditure management
processes, namely those for Budget Preparation, Execution and Monitoring (for both the Current
and Investment Budgets), Cash Management and Government Accounting (including Payroll
Accounting) and Civil Service Post/Position Management (CSPM). It is expected that the
implementation of these systems would materially improve the efficiency of public resource
allocation and use, and assist economic policy formulation by:
(i)    Providing the core financial agencies namely the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the
Treasury, and the State Planning Organization (SPO), with a comprehensive
information base to better manage public resources and provide them the tools
necessary to support day to day operational processes and for longer term planning.
(ii)   Enabling the integration of Budgeting and Accounting functions of the MOF and
provide links with Cash and Debt management functions in Treasury.
(iii)   Providing the MOF senior management with the basic building blocks required for an
executive Management Information System (MIS), accompanied by necessary
reporting facilities.
2.    The Government has applied for a loan from the World Bank to undertake the preparation
of an integrated Government Financial Management Information System and a personnel and
payroll management information system, which work will include (i) the functional analysis of
the intended system; (ii) applications development; and (iii) the computerization of eight pilot
sites.
3.    These terms of reference provide a description of the technical assistance required by
GOT to design and implement on a pilot basis the intended information systems.
4.    The Government invites qualified agencies, with experience in the design and
implementation of computer based Government Fiscal Management Systems to assist in this
project. It is necessary that the agencies have extensive experience in the design and



- 44 -
implementation of similar systems for other government entities. It is considered that some of the
services required under this project could be satisfactorily carried out by local firms. International
agencies are accordingly encouraged to enter into partnerships with a local firm to deliver
services for parts of the project for which local expertise is available.
5.    The consultants will need to work closely with GOT officials in the various financial
entities of the government which have responsibility for fiscal management processes, including,
inter-alia, the various General Directorates of the Ministry of Finance and their subordinate
offices, (in particular the General Directorates of Public Accounts (GDPA), the General
Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control (GDBFC), and the General Directorate of Revenue
(GDR)), the Treasury, State Planning Organization, the Central Bank, the Under Secretariat of
Customs, and spending agencies, etc. The consultants will report to the Undersecretary of
Finance, through the Head of the PMU.
2. ASSIGNMENT OBJECTIVES
6.    The objective of the assignment is to develop and implement a set of fully functioning
computer based information systems for Budget Preparation, Budget Execution and Monitoring
(for both the Current and Investment Budgets), Cash Management and Government Accounting
(including Payroll Accounting) and Civil Service Post/Position Management for the Government
of Turkey. To achieve this objective the consultants will be required to:
(i)    Prepare a detailed functional design and systems specifications for each module of the
integrated Information System and develop related procedures and manuals
(ii)   Research possible alternatives for application software to set up these system modules.
Emphasis will be placed on the use of off the shelf software packages to the maximum
extent possible
(iii)   Develop Hardware and Software specifications for the technology platform required to
set up the Systems, and assist the Government in its procurement
(iv)   In the event that off the shelf application software is not available for a particular
application system, develop detailed system and program specifications and contract
with an appropriate software supplier to custom develop the applications and manage
this development
(v)   Implement the Systems at pilot sites and assist the Government to train trainers and
end-users at selected pilot sites.
3. INFORMATION SYSTEMS REQUIRED BY THE GOVERNMENT
7.    The suite of systems required to support the expenditure and personnel management
processes and planned for implementation under this project are described below.



- 45 -
A. Budget Preparation
8.    As the expenditure management reform progresses in Turkey and processes related to the
preparation and monitoring of the Current and Investment budgets are better integrated, the
Government will require information systems to support the preparation and monitoring of both
the Investment and the Current Budgets. This set of systems will support the processes of Budget
estimates preparation.
9.    These systems will receive from the various spending agencies the details of their
programs and projects, consolidate them and produce from them the documents that form the
basis of the negotiations between the ministries and spending agencies and the central agencies.
The system will facilitate an iterative process of budget submission, consolidation,
review/negotiation, and documentation until the budget is finalized and approved. The system
will thus provide a facility for tracking the budget preparation process from preliminary budget to
the final draft stage and produce the master copy in a form suitable for presentation to parliament
and ready for printing. After approval by parliament, the system will produce the approved
budget estimates in a format suitable for budget implementation and accounting purposes.
10.      In order to satisfy these requirements, the systems should be able to capture and
maintain the budgetary proposals and revenue estimates of all government agencies and to capture
any subsequent changes during the budget development and approval processes. The system
should be able to assist in the evaluation of the budget proposals by enabling an analysis of the
manpower costs, the maintenance and other operating expenses and capital outlays, by accessing
baseline data from previous periods for comparison. Examination of the capital budget will
require data on the status (physical and financial) of approved projects. The system should
therefore be able to access and generate baseline data from the relevant past year data bases. The
systems will utilize the data base established within the Financial Ledger System (see below) to
provide accurate historical data. Training would need to be provided to the MOF staff in how to
use the new models in the analysis of budget and expenditure policies.
11.   The modules for preparation of the current budget will be managed by the GDBFC in the
MOF and that for the Preparation of the Investment Budget by the SPO. Both systems will
require extensive interaction with and regular data input from the various ministries and spending
agencies in Government, as well as with the Treasury, whose macroeconomic policy formulation
capability is being strengthened under the Treasury Data Systems Project, with World Bank
financing.
12.      This system would cover both the Investment and the Current Budgets integrated
within a common chart of accounts. The preparation and subsequent monitoring of the investment
budget, would require the setting up a major projects data base in SPO. As part of this project,
the consultants would investigate whether the current systems recently developed by the SPO
would be able to provide the functionality required in this area. If this is so, then the existing
systems would be integrated with the other systems envisaged in this project.



- 46 -
B. A Financial Ledger System (FLS)
13.   The Financial Ledger System should be designed with the two basic objectives of: a)
controlling the state budget and the assets and liabilities of the government; and b) providing
comprehensive, reliable and timely information on the financial position of the Government of
Turkey to facilitate government financial management. The Financial Ledger System would be
the central element of financial management and accounting operations and would be the core
financial management information systems of the Government. It would be used by:
a.    The General Directorate of Public Accounts (including accountancies) to perform
the basic accounting functions
b.    The General Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control to perform the control
functions associated with budget execution and monitoring
c.    The Cash Management Department of Treasury to obtain the information it
requires for cash management, and to implement funds allocations, as may be
required
d.    The SPO to obtain the status of actual expenditures on ongoing projects to update
the major projects data base.
14.   A basic underlying principle would be that the system would be structured along
functional rather than organizational lines and would provide support to all organizations involved
in the expenditure and personnel management processes. This approach has the advantage that it
enables the creation of integrated systems and data bases in which the primary responsibility for
the timely provision of a particular sub-set of data resides with the agency responsible for that
function. However, all data in the system data bases is accessible by all relevant central agencies
(subject to appropriate security controls). This eliminates duplicate data gathering and, more
importantly, enables all agencies responsible for financial functions to work with the same set of
data, thereby removing chances of data inconsistencies which are inevitable in separately gathered
data.
15.   Thus, each of the departments mentioned above will be responsible for the integrity of the
information that they are responsible for, within the system. In return they will have access to
information provided by the other agencies. Thus all departments will jointly "own" the system
and use it for their day to day operational purposes while the MOF will "manage" the system
centrally.
16.   Such a system would need to be comprehensive in terms of a coverage and be a source of
reliable and timely data to become a credible source of information for users. The information
contained in the system data bases would provide the MOF and other central agencies with a
foundation for a comprehensive management information system related to the country's financial
resources. The information contained in the data bases would be available to other ministries and
government agencies on an as required/approved basis to enable them to better manage the
financial activities connected with approved programs.



- 47 -
17.   Specifically the FLS should have the capability to:
a.    Include core functional requirements for the execution components of the
government budget through an integrated accounting system. In general, this
would include recording of revenue collections, appropriations, commitnents,
verifications, and fund allocations leading to payment (covering accounts payable,
accounts receivable, general ledger options, and report generation).
b.    Cover all elements of expenditure and revenue for the central government of
Turkey (that is, including the general budget, annexed budgets, extra budgetary
funds and revoving funds)
c.    Record and report budget appropriations and distribution, as approved by the
legislature, to spending ministries and keep a record of initial budgets, revised
budgets, and budget transfers, for a typical government ministry/spending unit.
d.    During the course of a year, record distribution of appropriation and commitrnent
authorizations to ministries/spending units and to record commitments incurred by
a ministry against the approved limits and the appropriation.
e.    Record and report distribution of funds allocations to ministries/spending units and
keep a record of funds allocations against the appropriations.
f.    Record and report all relevant stages of the payments and receipts processes and
enable reports to be made on key variables, such as commitments, funds available,
bills outstanding and payments and receipts (both cash and accrual basis); for
individual agencies and at various levels of aggregation;
g.    Incorporate controls on any specified variable. The system should have the facility
to check availability of appropriation, commitment authorization and funds
allocation prior to approval of a payment.
h.    Record and report revenue and other receipts against appropriate account heads.
i.    Print consolidated payment instructions for actioning by the banking system.
j.    If required, print checks against payment instructions and/or initiate instructions
for the electronic transfer of payment information to an external paying entity.
(e.g. a Bank).
k.    Generate standard monthly reports and provide query facilities to determine the
budgetary position of agencies, and the Government budget. The information
contained in the system data bases would provide the MOF and other core
financial agencies a foundation for a comprehensive management information
related to the country's financial resources. MOF, Treasury and SPO would have



- 48 -
access to a full set of data base. Other agencies would have access to portions
relevant to their needs.
1.    Maintain data according to the budget classification for as many past years as
required, and allow projections of up to three years
m.    Facilitate reconciliation between Financial Ledger System accounts and banking
data by generating chronological lists of transactions in a form comparable to
those generated by the banks.
n.    Ensure compatibility of the system with other systems, e.g., the budget
preparation and management system, systems for tax and customs administration,
the debt management systems of the Treasury.
o.    Consolidate data at the Center and Provincial Accounting offices and other
sources.
p.    Consolidate data from all ministries/accountancies at a spending unit, town,
provincial or central levels, as necessary.
q.    Have facilities to restrict access only to duly authorized staff.
r.    The consultants should specify the security class the system will support.
18.   The system will need to be designed in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles and standards, a double entry accounting model and policies and procedures developed
as part of preceding consultancies.
19.   The FLS will be a fully automated accounting system, with data captured only once as an
accounting transaction progresses through the system. This system will be introduced along with
a modern budget classification system and an appropriate chart of accounts, and would enable
expenditures and revenues to be recorded at a detailed level and related to specific programs and
projects. Data recorded at this level will then be directly available for use for program and
project management. This data will also be easily amenable to cross classification for financial
and economic analyses. The introduction of an automated accounting system would ensure
completeness of data capture (that is no transaction would be processed outside the system) and
rigorous application of all relevant financial controls to all transactions processed by the system.
20.   The FLS will be required to specifically produce the Financial and Management Reports
required by the Government as well as meet the requirements of the various users. This includes
the monthly civil accounts, annual appropriation accounts and combined finance and revenue
accounts as well as agency accounts for the respective agencies. In support of expenditure
management the system will incorporate a reporting system to enable management to identify
problems and bottlenecks in a timely manner. The reporting capability of the system should
address all matters affecting the efficacy of the accounting function. In addition the system
should have facilities for easy retrieval and reporting on data in the system data bases, in a



- 49 -
variety of formats. The system will also enable user departments to download relevant data and
perform required analysis and reporting.
21.   At present there are about 1,700 accountancy offices (including about 400 tax
accountancies) within Turkey. They cover, inter-alia 76 provinces and 840 towns. The total
number of accountancies in Turkey is expected to be reduced as a result of the financial reforms
undertaken as part of this project. However, setting up computer system for all remaining
accountancies across the country, even with a substantial reduction in the number, would be quite
expensive. An analysis of the distribution of the volume of transactions by expenditure and
revenue, indicates that about 90 percent of the expenditures are incurred through about 150
accountancies. It would therefore be appropriate to target these accountancies for automation in
the project. This approach would optimize the deployment of hardware and software.
22.   It is therefore proposed that computer hardware and software will be located at the MOF
in the center and the 76 provincial accountancies and additionally at those accountancies which
fall within the 90 percent limit described above. The remaining accountancies located in the
provinces would continue to forward non-automated documents to the provincial or computerized
town accountancy offices for processing.
C. Personnel Management
23.   The ability to exercise effective post/position control is important to regain control over
civil service employment. In addition, line agencies require systems to effectively manage the
personnel on their rolls. To be able to implement the reform measures in the area of personnel
management it is necessary to implement the following systems:
a.    A Position/Post Management System to maintain records of the authorized
posts/positions for government agencies, of authorizations to fill vacant positions,
and of appointments to permanent positions.
b.    A Personnel Information System to maintain the personnel data for which civil
servants and all personnel actions related to these civil servants; including
retirements, resignations, removals, deaths and transfers. It would also maintain
information to be able to produce manpower profiles including data on age,
departmental distribution, skill categories, compensation and tenure etc.
c.    An automated Payroll System, at the major accountancies to cover salary and
related payments to civil servants.
24.   This group of systems are essential for the government to regain control over civil service
employment. Effective control would be possibly by the following steps: The post management
system would ensure that all fresh recruitment is against appropriated and budgeted position.
Personnel actions for civil servants on board will be recorded by the agency personnel systems
and used to calculate the payroll. The agency record of budgeted positions would be used to
ensure that no personnel are added to the payroll who do not have an authorized budgeted



- 50-
position. The payroll systems would be fully integrated with the FLS - Government Budgeting
and Accounting system described above.
4. SCOPE OF WORK
25.   The scope of work for this consultancy involves the tasks associated with the design,
development and implementation of the high priority application systems described above at
designated sites and with the procurement of related hardware and software for pilot site.
PnAsE I - SYSTEMS DESIGN AND ACQuISrrIoN OF
REQUIRED HARDWARE AND SoFTWARE
A. Preparation of the detailed functional design, systems specifications, related manuals,
and procedures for the specified systems.
26.   The tasks involved in this activity would include:
a.    Studying the functional processes including administrative procedures, transaction
documents, forms and information flows, (including data flow statistics), related to
the Budget Preparation, Budget Execution Accounting and Reporting, Payroll,
Position Control and Personnel Management currently in use, and
recommendations for changes made by any preceding consultancies.
b.    Developing and defining a new set of functional processes, information flows,
procedures, transaction types and associated documents and forms, and related
organization required to operate the proposed new systems.
c.    Developing a full functional design and systems specifications for the computer
systems required, including the specification of the major data bases and data
entities, the output reports, the input formats, transaction documents, input screen
designs, processing and controls for the systems required at various nodes of the
information flow network, the interfaces and data flows between these nodes and
with external systems.
27.   The functional analysis for the design of the various systems would need to be conducted
jointly by one or more functional specialists such as e.g. Finance and Accounting Specialists, in
the case of the Budget Preparation Systems and the FLS, and by Human Resource and
Compensation specialists in the case of the personnel related systems, on the one hand, who will
develop the functional design and define the overall system from the functional point of view,
and; systems development specialists, who will develop the systems specifications of the
necessary computer based software required to automate the systems. It is important to note that
the new systems may need to be operated manually at some sites for some time before the
computer based systems are designed an programmed, and implemented progressively across all
sites. A full set of procedures and documentation will therefore need to be developed to operate
the manual systems.



- 51 -
28.   The consultants will undertake this analysis in consultation with counterpart GOT officials
designated for this purpose by the GOT. The consultants may be required to be part of, and
advise, one or more task forces to be set up by the GOT to define the legislative, administrative
and operational aspects required by the new systems. On completion, the results should be
documented in a form that meets government approval.
29.   The primary deliverables for this activity will be:
*  Functional design documents for each of the Information Systems specified above
*  Complete set of specimen transaction documents, reporting formats and a description
of procedures and associated manuals required for the implementation and operation
of the systems.
*  Application systems design and systems specifications, including the data model and
the data flow diagrams
B. Design of the Technology Architecture Required to Implement the Information Systems
30.   This component would include drawing up specifications of the H/W and S/W to be
installed at various nodes and the mode of interconnection of this Hardware and Software. The
overall H/W, S/W strategy to be employed for implementation is determined by the fact that a
Government wide accounting system will require a multi-tiered network with modules at the
central, provincial and other accounts office levels. The system would require facilities for
generating, storing, and processing data at each level and for exchanging data between levels.
The data volumes encountered could vary widely across the nodes of the network, dictating the
size of the computer at each node. Application software should therefore be scaleable for small or
large computers and usable on a variety of H/W platforms. The system should utilize a
distributed computer architecture with computing power located at the various nodes of the
network. The software development environment should be portable to different platforms (UNIX
based) and use modern application development tools such as Relational Data Base Management
Systems (RDBMS), Fourth Generation Languages (4GLs) and Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs).
The system should have Turkish as a national language support (NLS). The consultants should
ensure that these aspects are kept in mind while developing the technology architecture the
systems.
31.   This task would include:
a.    The consultants will need to survey some sample sites. They will however work
on the basis of data provided by MOF. This data would cover the associated
transaction volumes (current and projected) and data requirements, to determine
sizes and configurations of the H/W, S/W to be installed at these nodes and the
mode of the interconnection of the nodes between the Center, the Province and
Towns to ensure accurate and timely data transfer between the nodes.



- 52 -
b.    Preparing the specifications for the hardware, systems software, application
development software and the application software package (based on the earlier
task), required at the various sites, for each phase of the project, for incorporation
in tender documents.
c.    Drawing up specifications for associated facilities required for the installation of
the system, such as power stabilizers, Uninterrupted Power Supplies (UPSs),
telecommunication interfaces, computer site requirements, for incorporation into
the tender documents.
d.    Preparation of an implementation schedule for the computerization of selected
accountancies.
32.   The Deliverables of this activity will be:
*  Specifications for Hardware and Software, Communications facilities and other
associated facilities required for the implementation of the Computer Systems.
*  Functional Specifications for the Application Software for each module of the required
system.
*  An implementation schedule for comupterization of accountancies.
C. Investigation of Alternatives for Application Software
33.   On the basis of the functional analysis carried out as above the consultants will investigate
alternatives for application software. This would include:
34.   Investigating and ascertaining whether one or more 'off the shelf' software packages are
available which can meet the functional requirements of one or more of the systems as defined
above. While conducting a review of software packages the consultants will ensure that:
a.    The software package provides the required functionality
b.    Local support is available for the package and it is possible to obtain and install
upgrades and/or changes to the packages in Turkey as they become available
c.    The vendor for the package provides customization assistance as may be required,
or alternatively the package source code is available for making changes as may
be required
d.    The costs associated with any customization are identified clearly in the total cost
e.    The package runs on a range of hardware and operating software which is
compliant with the hardware/software strategy proposed for MOF systems (above)
f.    Adequate documentation is available to enable package installation and use
g.    Potential licensing arrangements can accommodate the use of the package at
multiple sites in Turkey.



- 53 -
35.   In case it is not found feasible or cost effective to purchase an off the shelf package to
satisfy the requirements of a particular system, the consultants will be required to develop a plan
for the development of the application systems, and estimate the resources required to carry out
the development. In this case the consultants will also extend the functional and systems design
carried out above and develop the full systems and program specifications for the various
modules of the systems mentioned above. These would then be used as the basis for the contract
or in-house, development of the application software. These documents should be detailed and
specific enough to enable the software contractor to develop the software module without further
recourse to the end users.
36.   The deliverables for this activity will be:
*  The results of the application software package evaluation process with
recommendations for possible packages which could satisfy the functional
requirements of the proposed systems.
*  In the event that a package option is not found to be feasible, a full set of detailed
systems specifications and program specifications which could be used by MOF for
contracting the development of this software module by local software houses, or for
in house development.
D. Preparation of Tender Documents for and Acquisition/Development of H/W and S/W.
37.   During this activity, the consultants will assist the Government in the procurement of the
H/W and S/W for pilot sites.
38.   The consultants will:
a.    Investigate the possibility of using for the project existing equipment within the
MOF.
b.    Incorporate the hardware and software specifications prepared as part of earlier
tasks into an RFP for procurement of the hardware and software. These tender
documents should be prepared in accordance with the Wold Bank procurement
guidelines and procedures. It should be noted that it is proposed to procure the
Hf/W, S/W via a single integrated procurement package. The specifications for
procurement must include provision for maintenance and support of the hardware
and software for a period of 3 years, and for consumables for three years. HIW
requirements should also include associated facilities, such as UPSs, etc.
c.    Develop criteria for the evaluation of vendor proposals.
d.    Assist the government in the tendering process, in evaluating vendor proposals and
selecting a preferred tendered.
e.    Assist the government in the acquisition of the hardware and software.



- 54 -
f.     Assist the government in drawing up the specifications for, and monitoring the
installation and carrying out quality assurance during the suppliers testing of the
hardware and software procured for the project. In the case of procurement of
software packages (if this is found to be a feasible alternative) the consultants
would be required to assist the Government in monitoring and ensuring quality
assurance of the suppliers testing of the software to ensure that the packages have
the required functionality. In case a package requires customization to meet
specified functional requirements, the consultants will specify the changes required
and arrange for the changes to be implemented.
g.    In the event that some of the systems modules are to be custom developed the
consultants will assist the Government in contracting with a selected software
development firm and provide technical management and quality assurance and
plan and prepare for data conversion, user training and systems acceptance testing.
h.    In the event that in-house development is preferred, the consultants will assist the
government in supervising a team of local GOT staff in the programming, testing
and implementation of the system modules.
39.   The deliverables for this Activity will be:
* Specifications and RFP documents for the procurement of Hardware and Software for
the implementation.
* Specifications for the application software, taking into account the result of the
evaluation of the application software packages.
* Evaluation Criteria for Hardware and Software, including test data required to ensure
the proper functioning of the application software;
* Assistance to the Government in the tendering process, in evaluating vendor
proposals, contract negotiations, and in the acquisition of hardware and software.
* Technical management and quality assurance of the vendor's work in constructing
systems modules;
* Data Conversion Plan
* User Training Plan
* User Acceptance Test Plan
* Provide the supervision plan and acceptance plan for the software development phase.



- 55 -
E. Development/Upgrading the MOF data processing organization.
40.   The MOF will require the development/upgrading of its in-house data processing facilities
to maintain and operate the treasury and associated systems developed as part of this project. The
MOF computer has a staff of competent analysts and programmers. A team of about 8-10 staff
from this department will be designated by the government to work with the consultants on a full
time basis. This staff will need to be involved in all tasks associated with systems design,
software development, installation and operation. In the event that one or more software packages
are selected to satisfy the requirements of the Financial Ledger or other systems, the staff will
need to be trained in their use and maintenance. In the event that in-house development is
required, staff will be required to undertake the in-house development of the system, or manage
the work of the contractor if an outside contractor is selected (within the single H/W, S/W
procurement package) to carry out the development.
41.   The consultants will accordingly analyze the existing GOT/MOF EDP resources and
develop a plan to upgrade the DP organization. This would include assisting the GOT, in
developing a training program for its staff, including specialized training in the use of the various
tools such as operating systems, DBMSs application development facilities etc., and more general
training in EDP project management, maintenance and provision of end user support and training
for a country wide system treasury system, etc. The consultants will also assist the government in
the procurement of training services from specialized vendors and in setting up appropriate
structures to train end user department staff in the use of the system.
42.   The deliverables for this Activity would be:
* A human resources plan for the first 5 years, including a training plan for the new
hardware/software, training in EDP project management, end user support and
country wide systems training.
PHASE II - PILOT SYSTEMS IMPLEMENTATION
43.   Pilot Systems implementation will involve preparation of an implementation schedule,
installation of hardware and systems software DBMS, and Application Development tools etc.,
installation and testing of the application systems and training end users.
44.   The consultants will assist the MOF in managing the installation of the hardware, systems
software, application development and package software. Each of these tasks are discussed in
detail below:
a.    The consultants will develop a detailed implementation plan and schedule listing
all associate tasks and their logical dependencies. This schedule will show all tasks
associated with the procurement and installation of the hardware and software, a
plan for in-house systems development, as may be required, including the design,
development, programming, testing and implementation activities, training of local
personnel, and installation of the system at selected sites.



- 56 -
b.    Installation of hardware: The consultants will assist MOF in supervising the
supplier in the installation and testing of the hardware procured. This would
include supervision of site preparations for the hardware including electrical power
requirements, voltage stabilizers, telecommunications, and other elements as
required.
c.    Installation of software: The consultants will assist the MOF in installation and
testing of the software. In the event that case package software is identified,
assistance would include ensuring that any modifications required to the software
have been carried out, and installation of the software on the hardware acquired
above, including setting up any code structures, files and data bases that may be
required by the software package. The consultant will be expected to design and
conduct such tests as are necessary to ensure that the package provides the
required functionality.
d.    The consultants will assist the government in developing necessary technical and
user documentation for the application systems modules.
45.   Deliverables for this phase include:
3  Assistance to Government in the Installation and testing of the hardware and software.
*  Ensuring that the H/W and S/W supplied by the selected vendors meets the design
specifications.
*  Ensuring that tested systems modules, including the modules that will be implemented
at the HQ, Provincial and other Accountancies, are fully functional.
*  User manuals and other technical documentation to enable the full operation of the
systems.
*  Training manuals for end users.
*  Training of sufficient local staff to a level which will enable them to operate and
maintain the systems, and to provide necessary end user support.
*  All documentation will be in the English and Turkish languages.
*  The consultants will assist with procurement acceptance of the downstream hardware
and software.
5. LEVEL OF EFFORT ESTIMATES
46.   It is estimated that this consultancy will require a total of about 70 consultant-months of
effort.



Annex 2c
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Expenditure and Personnel Component
Detailed Cost Table






Turkey
Public Financial Management Project
Expenditure and Personel Component - Detailed Coal (USS'OOO)
OMWNI                      TOTAL
Bae Coa                         Due         Toal        O(ld4g
Usk t      Flonkdw        1995      1996      1997      1998      Totad   & Tazxe  Ceutluclu   Coetheand.)
A. ClI Weab
1. SitePuePaticn-F wocanstioSyutm                    bmyin          GOT             -       25.0      75.1        -      100.1          -          73           107.4
Subotal                                                                                25.0      75.1               100.1          -           7.3         107.4
B. Eqidpun
1. H14 i    and Syd    Sowta                         hmy            IBRD            -   1,499.2   1,417.4         -   2,916.6      608.9         193.8        3,110.4
Z DBMS aApica&. DevOm  TD11k \a                      bap -          3D              -      241.8     260.4        -      502.2      107.7         33.1          536.0
3. Appicatio So    ) bb                              b1y -      I     RD                 1,250.0   1,250.0         -   2,500.0      522.2        166.9        2,666.9
S ahttl                                                                         -   2,991.0   2,927.1         -   5,911.1    1,231.8         394.5        6,313.3
C. Tra_g
I. Budrtaryia                                           b r,yM       GOT            -      100.1     100.1        -      200.2          -         13.4          213.6
x s                                                       -    ~~~~~~~~~~2Qd.  150.           _0.            -          ZL1 
a) lAw C,,s                                       hmp muy         Gor                   100.1     100.1        -      200.2          *          13.4         213.6
b) SqputtoT..u'a                               4p      _nmu      MRD             -       50.0      50.0         -     100.0          -           6.7         106.7           a
3. StodyTown                                          2Oiaff        BRD             -      100.0     100.0         -     200.0          -          13.4         213.4
Scal                                                                            -     350.2      350.2        -      700.4          -         46.9          747.3
DL Taled Ama'   e
a) R3aWd    Advir                             20         p  IwoB 3RD          30.0     170.0      170.0     30.0     400.0          -          27.1         427.1
b) Shoat Tem Ce_                              27 paB medth       IRD          20.0     250.0     250.0      20.0     540.0          -          36.3          576.3
2.                                                                              465.0timaJM  9.0     960.      22M     2,610.0          -         17.          2)S0.
a) P _MIT_fl ut                               30peranmoods    GOT             15.0      60.0      60.0      15.0      150.0         *          10.3          1603
b) Pool of coqdap                             120   pon          GOT -a                          300.0      60.0     360.0          .          30.4         390.4
c) GFMI1 Devalo    t ad Pielo hpIamotio       701    Mcs    BRD              450.0     900.0     600.0    150.0    Z100.0                     129.7        2,22.7
Subtda                                                                      515.0   1,330.0   1,30.0    275.0   3,550.0             -        233.8        3,733.1
E Pejecd Suppot                                        bay -          GOT          20.0       40.0      40.0        -      100.1                     6.1          106.2
TOTAL                                                                       5350    4,7862    4,773.1    275.n   109.4    1,23M8             6S36        11,10
\s Died Proo      vib  Wevey oma may be aocy to p           a DBIW citble            delopoot toc cunily available i tiw MOF.
% Pitly Dimce p     c  ifam ideod adwa9 package m_eb fdioa  e m
\:STo be vo wue   waIh   bscai  am1lbm_






Annex 2d
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Expenditure and Personnel Component
Implementation Schedules






CIL~~~~~I
!! fX tit
*0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b1
I r1                                                    ''111t Xl
.............    ................................................................................................. ...... ..........................     ....................................................... 
.............. ..................................................................................................................................................................................................... _ _
_ C9 _






1 ii   |      i|  f0   i25;i aS S  :S      i           X
II I' 1-                                         iiiiItii 
Z Z . D f
S4~~I
..............
- S9 -
or
CO
C                  -                                       C~~~~~~~~9  






Publc Fiancial Mangreent Prct
Publi Expenditure Managemnt lemetbtIon Plan
1996                1996                 1997
ID   TaskNamne   _                                               Duratlon   Start FDuration   Start    Finish   Q1  Q2  Q3  04  01  Q2  Q3  Q4  01  02  Q3  Q4  01
45            Prepare functonal analysis                            194d    11296   9/27196
46            Prepare tender for application (or customization of packages)  23d   9/30/96  10/30/96
47            Procurement for appication (or packges and customization)  21d  10/31/96  11/28/96
4U       2. Application Development or Custonilzation of Packages   195d   11/1/96   7131/97
49            Financial Ledger System                                195d   11/1/96   7/31/97
50            Payroll and Post Management System                    195d   11/1/96   7/31/97
61            Budget Preparation System                             129d    2/3/97   7/31/97
62       3. Pilot site                                              435d    7/3/96    313/98
53            Prepare H/W and DBMS specifications                    20d    7/3/96   7/30/96
64            Prepare tender for HNV for pilt ie                     23d    23/97    3/5/97
65            Procurement for HAN and DBMS                           22d    4/1/97   4/30/97
PNot site preparaion                                   85d    2/3/97   5/30/97                                                                      C.,
57            PMot site installabon                                  65d    6/2/97   8/29/97
59            Conduct trainhg for user staff at piot sites          132d    9/1/97    3/3/98
59       4. Assistance to System Design and knpiementation          610d   11/1/96    3/3/98                                                                '
60           I.T. Advisor                                           610d   11/1/95    3/3/98                   ---: - ----
61           Pool of local experts                                  282d    2/3/97    3/3/98                                                     -
62   Ill. Project Managemt Support                                  653d    9/1/95    3/3/98
Task                                 Milestw                               Roled Up Tak                         Rold Up Progre
Progres                              Surm _      y                         Rolled Up Mlbstone O






Amex 2e
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Expediture and Persnnd Management Component
Elembuts of the Govement Fiancdal Management Information System






The Logical Operation of a Financial Ledger System
within a GFMIS
1. Presentation of a Financial Ledger System
1.    The objective of this annex is to illustrate the logical operation of the FLS concept, not to
define in detail the operation of the system. Full functional analysis and system definition would
be the principal component of a consultancy to be executed under the project.
Conceptual Overview of a GFMIS
2.    A broad indication of the modules or components involved in a fully integrated GFMIS is
at Chart 1. The core of the system is the Financial Ledger System (FLS), which is best
described as a set of self-balancing budgetary and proprietary (asset and liability) accounts
covering all central government financial operations. (This section only addresses the budgetary
accounts). Accounts would be formulated for consistency with the Government Finance Statistics
(GFS) functional and economic requirements and would be organized on an administrative basis
so that operations of different institutions could be processed without confusion of their various
transactions or statements within the system and, most importantly, so that automatic
consolidation of such statements could take place.
3.    The data bank constituting the GFMIS can also be viewed on a time line reflecting also
different levels of aggregation. Chart 2 shows this relationship based on year zero (YRO) as the
year of budget execution. The GFMIS data bank thus contains information relating to a number
of years: for historical analysis purposes, and for budget execution and preparation, including
estimates for future years. The FLS component used for Budget Inplementation is further
expanded to show key control fields used in the budget execution process.
4.    The proposed GFMIS would be structured in two levels, with a very clear functional
distinction between the level 1 that would process and keep consolidated data and the level 2 that
would execute operational functions and keep detailed data.
Information Ownership and Access
5.    It is essential that all Government financial operations be included in one Financial Ledger
System, so that the agencies responsible for financial management have access to the necessary
data for analysis and reporting purposes. That is not to say, however, that one agency should
control all the data. Indeed, the system should be designed such that sections of the Ledger
System are controlled by the most appropriate agency (for instance in the case of public debt
interest payments, Treasury would be the logical control agency) with the overall system
managed by one agency; in this instance the Ministry of Finance.



-72 -
Chart 1: Govwnuant FanaiS Managment Iormation Systn-Moduflee
Budget Implementation
Budget Execution
Budget         Economic Trend             - Appropriation
Preparation          Analysis                 - Commitment
- Verification
- Funds allocation
Inv-stment.                                    Financial Planning
Planning    -     lllllllllllllll              - Forecast of revenues
inancial Ledge                 and *xpenditure-
-        System                  - Forecast of debt
Fiscal             Data Bank                     servicing
Reporting                                     - Cash management
Financial Exocution
- Inflows to Banks
Debt Management             - outflows from Banks
Internal         - Internal                  - Payments
and            - External                  - Receipts
External
Controls
Accounting
- Chart of accounts
- Accounting rul-e
- Controls
Each niodue is a sa of opotins utilizing dh Financi Ledger Sydsm (Data Bank) (FLS) with
information flowng both to and from the FLS.



- 73 -
Chart 2: Govmnuent Flnancal Managunent Information Systu-Data
Aggregated               Financial                 Aggregated
Ledger                  Ledger                     Ledger
Systm
YR    -5   -4   -3   -2       -1      0      |      1            2         3
Budget
Historic Economic        Execution   Preparation  Forward Estimate
Trend Analysis
Financial Control Fields for Each
Budget Item
Expenditure Appropriation   Comimtment          Verification           Funds        Payment
Allocation
(a)             (b)               (c)                (d)
Revenues        Revenue          Not                 Not                Not         Actual
Estimate      Applicable         Applicable        Applicable    Revenues
and
Receipts
Ia) An appropriation is the maxirnum aount of pubic tund authorized by the Parwaent In the Dudget Law for *xp endl e on a
particuar purpose from the Governmnt Account.
(b) Commitment h the process of entering Into an arrangement that obigates the governmnt to make expenditures of pushl
funds.
(c) Vrifiation h the process of confirrnhg an obigation to pay.
(d) Funds aIocatiorn I the process of alocsthg cash amounts to Miitries and pending units for expnditure from the
Govrment's Account in the tme period designated In the alocatlon advice.



- 74 -
2. Execution of budgetary expenditures
Overview
6.    The various budget implementation activities (identified in Chart 1) are summarized in
information flow terms in Chart 3. The process begins with the recording of the approved
budget (and any amendments thereof) by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in the FLS, by
individual appropriation item or revenue estimate. Using this as a basis, commitment limits may
also be determined, against which spending units can make commitments (the commitment stage).
A funds allocation limit will be determined periodically on the basis of cash availability, and
entered by Treasury against an appropriate aggregation of appropriation items. (In the longer
term, once proper budgetary processes are in place this step may no longer be necessary) When
deliveries have been made or services rendered, and invoices received, the spending unit
acknowledges the fulfillment of the commitment and confirms an obligation to pay (the
verification stage). In this final stage, the spending unit also prepares the documentation for
making the payment, for forwarding to the Accounting Office, where the payment is initiated and
recorded in the FLS.
Information flow
7.    The General Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control (GDBFC) prepares and registers in
the FLS the detailed allocation of budgetary appropriations by ministry, and advises ministries
accordingly (flow 1). This should be done within the limits of appropriation approved by the
Parliament. The Directorate, in consultation with the General Directorate of Public Finance
(GDPF), Treasury, may also set and register quarterly limits on commitments by ministry
(flow 2) and by category of spending (at the level of aggregation deemed appropriate).
Ministries would then advise budgetary appropriations and commitment limits to their respective
spending units and enter the limits in the system (flow 3).
8.    Registration of actual commitments would be made by the ministries directly linked to the
system (flow 4), or by the spending units (SU) not linked in a parallel system through a
Provincial Accounting Office (PAO).' (flow 5). The SU will be periodically informed by the
PAO of their limits (flow 6). In the verification stage, once all the requirements for a particular
obligation have been met, the spending unit should confirm that the commitment is ready for
payment (Flow 4 and Flow 5).
9.    It should be noted that the process outlined above can be simplified for certain types of
expenditure, either administratively or by automated procedures in the FLS. For example, salary
commitments may be advised only once a year on an estimated basis and adjusted as necessary
during the year. The commitment (and verification) of small expenditures (up to a predetermined
limit) can be entered into the system simultaneously with the order for their payment. However,
1/ Accounting Offices will be established at a level below that of the Province and will be connected,
electronically or manually, to the Provincial Accounting Office (PAO). This description, for simplicity, only
addresses operations from the Provincial level.



- 75 -
the system must know in advance which appropriation items allow such simplification, to prevent
misuse.
10.   Commitment control for the current component of the budget can be operated
satisfactorily on a within year basis, primarily as an aid to sound cash management activities.
However, in the case of the Investment component, where many projects have a financial life of
more than one year, it is often useful to maintain an accurate record of the forward expenditure
commitment generated by undertaking the project. If this is done Government has a better
understanding of the flexibility available to it for future investment decisions. This process can
be accommodated in the FLS by extending the commitment control field against each investment
appropriation line item to cover 2 years beyond the budget year. As long term commitments are
entered the financial impact is recorded, for budget and 'out' years.
11.   To encourage advance planning of the larger expenditures, it may be appropriate for
Treasury to propose limits on cash availability against spending unit expenditure items. These
would be advised to ministries (flow 7) in accordance with the financial plan developed by the
General Directorate of Public Finance, specified by category of spending. Ministries would, in
turn, advise spending units (flow 7). The advance knowledge of indicative cash limits, as well as
of quarterly commitments limits, will allow agencies to make the best arrangements and to set
priorities in a situation of scarce resources, so that any necessary cuts in expenditures by agencies
can be made in a more orderly and effective way. (The proposed cash limits component of the
process (flow 7) is not shown in the FLS control fields in Chart 2.)
12.   After taking into account the balance in the Central and Agricultural Bank accounts and
the balance in spending units' expenditure items in the system, the GDPF would make funds
allocations (set cash limits) to ministries for each category of spending (flow 8), thereby allowing
them to distribute these financial releases (limits) anong their respective spending units and enter
the limits in the system (flow 9).
13.   Under ideal circumstances, the funds allocation would be consistent with the proposed
cash limits advised to ministries earlier (flow 7). Both proposed and actual cash allocation
quarterly limits would also be consistent with the quarterly commitment levels and budget
appropriation made on an annual basis, thereby minimizing the necessity to replan activities. The
degree of consistency in the process will largely depend on the quality of the budget initial
prepared, the initial financial planning process and the revenue collection outcome.
14.   Following the verification for a given expenditure, ministries directly linked to the system
would record the corresponding payment order in the system (flow 10). The system would
automatically check that the order falls within the funds allocation limit set for that Ministry.
The spending units would process a payment order through the Provincial Accounting Office
(flow 11). The latter would check the payment order issued by SU and register it in the FLS
(flow 12).



- 76 -
Chart 3: Logical Flows-Budget Expenditures
Treasury
.~~~~~7                    .
:             Spefding
GDBFC                                                              u Unit
HOF                                                 : v
.... 3....
Budget                            |    3
MDirector-         ...    Ministry   . 9 .
s    rate1
M4OF
FLS~~~2                         L
Level 2  12 ~ ~ ~ eve FLS
Level 1
6 :5 :11                                                        Central Bank/
(Central Unit)                  Agricultural Bank
Spending                             ~~     ~      ~~~~~~13  |Govern-|
Spenkding16                                                        mn
Unit                             -=
Commercial
15     Banks
Si.LWiers
Govt public
.......s.......
Legen:
I Information flow.
Financial flow.
System Registration (SR) or information provided by the system.
Entities Linked to the system
_   Entities not Linked to the system.
(SR- System Registration)
1. SR--Budget appropriation limits per ministry.
2. SR--Quarterly Limits on commitments.
3. SR--Budget appropriation and commitment Limits per spending unit, by quarter.
4. SR--Actual comitments and verifications of ministries directly Linked to the system.
5. Actual comitments and verifications of spending units indirectly Linked to the system, in a paraLlel
systm.
6. Information on the budgetary and financial limits to the SU.
7. Indicative cash Limits for subsequent months, specifying the main expenditures groups.
8. SR--Financial releases (funds allocations) to the ministries, for each expenditure group, taking into
account the balances in the Government account  nd in the ministries' expenditure items.
9. SR--Financial releases to the SU accounts.
10. SR--Payment order (PO) to pay expenditures, subject to prior committment and verification.
11. PO to pay the SU expenditures, subject to prior committment and verification.
12. SR--POs Issued by the SU.
13. Daily fiLe of the payments of Ministries and Spending Units.
14. Credit to commercial banks of the amount authorized by the SUs for payment to central goverrment creditors
(suppliers, pubic employees, etc.)
15. Credit to central government creditors' accounts.
16. SR--Information on debits/credits made to the Government account.



- 77 -
Payment Arrangements
15.   At the same time as payment orders are registered in the FLS, the banking system must be
advised in order to make the necessary payment (that is to transfer funds from a Central
Government account to the creditor). In a fully developed system this can be done automatically.
At the end of each day, the FLS would structure a file with complete information on the creditors
and payments to be made, as advised by ministries and spending units. This file would be sent to
the Central Bank or,by the Provincial Accounting Office to the Agricultural Bank, which holds the
Government account (flow 13). The applicable Bank would transmit the relevant information (and
funds) to each commercial bank (flow' 14), to credit to the appropriate account (flow 15), and debit
the government account. The appropriate Bank would confirm to the FLS (through the PAO) the
debits in the Government account (flow 16).
16.   Alternatively, and until banking arrangements have been reformed and the final structure of
the Government account settled, the applicable Accounting Office could forward to the appropriate
bank a consolidated listing of the registered payment orders requiring payment. Action by the
banking system would be as described earlier, but confirmation to the Accounting Office would be
manual.
17.   One category of payment is worthy of special mention - namely Civil Service salaries. In
theory each payment of each civil servant could be treated as a discrete payment and processed in
the manner already described. However, given the number of individual payments involved, the
similar structure of each payment, the regular occurrence of payments, and the addition personnel
issues which need to be considered, it is preferable to develop a separate sub-system for processing
salary payments -- usually referred to a payroll system -- in a manner compatible with the overall
expenditure process.






Annex 3a
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Customs Modernization Component
Implementation Plan






Annex 3a
Customs Modernization Component
Implementation Plan
Table of Contents
I. The Customs Modernization Component  .............                      ................ 83
A. Objectives and Scope  ......................................    83
B. Description . ...................................... 84
C. Project Costs and Financing Plan ................................... 0
D. Accounting and Audit Plans .....................................  92
II. Implementation Arrangements .................................... 93
A. Responsibilities of the Implementing Agencies ........            .................. 93
B. Inter-Agency Coordination ...................................... 95
C. Role of World Bank Supervision  ...............................  ..                          . 95
111. Implementation Activities .......................................  97
A. Implementation Schedules  ..................................... . 97
B. Procurement Arrangements and Schedules  .............  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  .   . 97
C. Disbursement Arrangements and Schedules ...........  ..  ..  ..  .           ..  ..  ..  .  .    .  101
IV. Benefits and Risks .........................................   103
A. Benefits  .......................  .....  .....  .....  ....  .....                         .  103
B. Main Project Risks  .........................................  103
C. Other Factors Affecting Project's Success  ...........  ..  ..  ..  .        ..  ..  ..  .  .    .  103
V. Monitoring and Evaluation .................................  ...                              .  105
A. Monitoring and Evaluation ....................................   .  105
B. Indicators.. ........................................  105
C. Reporting Arrangements  ......................................  106
Box
1: Customs Modernization Component--Major Tasks .........  ..  .              .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .    . 85
Tables
1: Costs Summary by Expenditure Accounts  .............  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...                . 91
2: Financing Plan.. ......................................  92
3: Proposed Procurement Arrangements ..................  ...  ...  ....  ..                      . 99
4: Procurement Implementation Plan  ...................  ....  ....  ....                      .  100
5: Estimated Bank Disbursements ..........................  ......  .   .  101






I. THE CUSTOMS MODERNIZATION COMPONENT
A. OBJEcTIvEs AND SCOPE
1.    The Turkish Customs Administration is reorganizing its operations with a view to
modernizing its administration to become more efficient. The primary impetus for the change is
the entry of Turkey into a customs union with the European Union (EU) in 1996. At the same
time, the administration, is facing the same issues and problems of other customs administrations
including: increases in the volume of trade; changes in the types of goods being traded;
application of complex regulations of other government departments; and, more sophisticated
means of smuggling.
2.    As a first step towards modernization, the administration was removed from the Ministry
of Finance in July 1993 and created as a separate Ministry of State. Several other measures have
also been undertaken, including the implementation of anti-dumping legislation, introduction of
the GATT Valuation Agreement, and the review of the current Customs Law to identify areas
where it is necessary to introduce amendments to bring it in line with EU requirements. One of
the most important requirements of the customs union is the requirement for the Customs
Administration to apply the EU common external tariff to goods originating from outside the EU.
In this regard, the administration will be required to apply not only the rates of duty in the tariff
but also its commercial policy provisions (e.g., EU quotas). '
3.    The Customs Administration is now developing the changes in legislation, procedures,
organization, and computerization that are necessary to support modernization. These changes
will enable the administration to both comply with the EU legislative and procedural requirements
and provide support to the Turkish trade commnunity to compete in the customs union. This is
very important as the trade regime has already been liberalized significantly and importers and
exporters are facing, already, increased competition. It will even more important after Turkey
joins in the customs union, as importers and exporters will become more and more concerned
with the costs of doing business. Through simplification and automation, Customs has the
opportunity to reduce these costs while, at the same time, to increase the effectiveness of its
control and revenue collection responsibilities.
4.    The major outcome of the Customs Modernization Component will be to shift the
Customs organization from its present costly and inefficient ex ante, full coverage, sanctioning
approach to a more efficiency-seeking stance, supportive of the trade community yet still capable
of gathering appropriate revenues and enforcing relevant national and international laws. To
achieve the desired results, the objectives of the plan are to:
* Implement modern, up-to-date customs legislation.
* Simplify and automate customs procedures.
* Introduce greater reliance on post release controls.
' The Customs Administration received technical assistance from the EU to identify the legislative and
procedural changes required by Customs to implement the customs union requirements (the program began
in September 1993 and included experts visiting Turkey to assess the needs and Customs sending officers to
the Community members to review customs procedures).



- 84 -
* Provide good service to the trade community.
* Delegate increased responsibilities to regional and local offices.
B. DESCRIPrlON
5.    The Customs Modernization Component will take almost four years to develop and
implement at a total cost of approximately US$68 million. It will require a major investment in
information technology (about US$56 million) which will be complemented by investments in
advisory services, human resource management and training, site preparation and project
management support services.
1. Principles for Development
6.    The Customs Modernization Component will be developed based on the following
principles: self-assessment; selectivity for physical inspection and document review;
strengthening of the post release review function; simplification of procedures as a pre-requisite
to automation; reduced reliance on physical controls (more trust in the trade community to
comply); and, rationalization of controls of other government departments.
7.    The modernization plan has been developed by responding to the following questions:
what procedures are to be simplified to benefit from automation; how are the systems to be
developed; what are the priority components of the system; and, how are the benefits of
modernization to be delivered to the trade community.
2. Major Subcomponents
8.    In order to develop and implement the Modernization Component, four subcomponents
have been identified: (i) legislation and procedures; (ii) computer systems development and
implementation; (iii) human resource management and training; and (iv) advisory and project
management support services. Box 1 provides a breakdown of the major activities to be
undertaken within each of these subcomponents.
9.    Legislation and Procedures. For the most part, laws and procedures related to customs
administration are governed by international rules, conventions, and codings. For Turkey, with
the entry into a customs union with the EU, the customs administration must not only be able to
apply the usual international standards but, at the same time, they must also apply certain EU
legislation. In addition, the customs procedures must be similar to those applied in the EU.
Consequently, the automated systems must be able to support administration of certain EU laws
(e.g., application of the common external tariff) and procedures.
10.   Drafting of the Customs Law is complete and awaits passage through Parliament. Many
parts of the required new legislation are being promulgated expeditiously through decree laws.
The Customs Tariff Legislation is being modified to ensure that it conforms to EU common
external tariff and is scheduled for completion in September 1995. New regulations would be
published once the legal framework is in place.



- 85 -
-
;-,,.... ..... .'': :: :m-mm ::. X::;':i': :i: i; i. : :.' ::::.: : : , ::7" 1: .. :. ... .
.. ..-i:-..l--.--.-'-.l.-.-l- .'.-.: ... :- .  -. 11.. . .m.. ,... . ... ....
... ....:x:j.':: ,:.:!,  .'- :: -.:... ,... .. .....'.. ...
.., e! .... !:. : 1.:...: :.:': :-::::: . : ::: ' --i. . . .. .... % ...:... ....
':, ", ' , '',..... .. ... ... . ....... . . . ..
..:." , " ,-.:. m.: : .:..:. .. ::.:. ::.:::....
. .--.: , --.j: :... - , :. ::;j" :i. ..:: :].: .::- . .: :. :'... ' :
: ::: - .....-...' '' '' '.. ..
..-.... . ....::: - mr::,., ..:::,: :: : ::.
... . .. .'... .. -'-..-*--.- -'..' - .. .' - i: i: .'. ..::: :: ..... . .....'. .
I.... .... ..I........:.: :-::m... : :,:: :..'.
..:m.:. . sw t c ":' ro-O op.':'....
.. .. .. -ml.I.' ,
"o.... ......
::......
-:.:-:....... ...,.::. -:::-:.....m::: : ": .. ..:-.....
.:.:: - :..:.,.. .. .. . .. ..... I..;:: .:I
.::::::::::::::::::::::.:..
.. -. . . .. . ...... :::.:: :: .:::: ::::::,..:.:::.::.::.:::::..;..'..::;,.:.:.::::..:::;:,;::;::,,.
I.....,...'."..'....,.,..i:,:,::,:: ' :..:_" .:::::.:
.... .e. .- . . .... -............. ......... .: : . : .'. .::.. ...... .... .. .. .. .. ... ...:.-. :::
:: :.,.,.:.:.:. .: ....: : :.. : ...:-:.. . .-.-...- ..... .. . .... ..... ..,.:.......: :' .:..: :..: .. ........:. :: .
.. .... . . ....:::.. .::::. . ::. :..: :: :... :: ::: : :. : ::.:: :: :.:.. ..:: : .:.. : :. .. .. .. - . .. .. ... - ::.
.:...... . . .... ..-. ... .:" .:.::. .. .. .. .--
.. .. ..-- .: - .:,:-..:: .... . .': V.: .: ..m....
.1?**::m:,:m:.  i.-..-'. ::i"-.-'-.::! :: !i j : "-.::'--.:.:
.. . .. ...I.I..:. ...............i....
.. im ...... :a:-....-:..-. ..... ...-. . .......... .....
:. .. .... X. ... m ::..: ..... . . ... ...-::..::...-.-.
.. .. . .".:.:.::.'':''.. .. ...................
.. . . . .:::: -'--. ... .. .. ... ...
... .. ....::..: 1:m. ,: .::::::'.:-%.:. -:-
. .---...... ... : :,'-: ::::'.
.. . .. ... . ...... . .
...-..luvt: wkw: "w': ,.: ::: : :::.::::i.::':..:....
...:.... ...:..-..:.::i:.i:.ii::::::
.. :co . ....
':.:.: :.:.: :.:::.:..::..-.. . . .:. . . .:.'
i*!:i*: ::::..:..::::::' :: i :.: ::: ,...:.::,. : . .. ]-- l..'...:: :-::. . - : : :' , .'..:.::.:.::::
.... . ... .. . ..... ... :.. ....%...:.
:.... .. ... ...
.q... ....-..
":-::'::::;:j:::j:::;;. .. i6:644":Tigjrfuw .:.. :.:.:.:.:..::--. ,%::::: . :-.-...........:.. . -.:.. ........... ..
........... .......... . ........ ........ .: -.:.:.--: r. ... ...................
... ............. -i iim -.!'. .. --...
......... . . ."
.. .:...:........ .. ... ........... .. .. ..........
.:::::.:--:::::'::j:::i ..'.:. :]:'' : --- -.il:!'. .":.:..' :::... " ' ' '': ....
... :.: ::..:::.:::::. :.,.:,:.::: -::'--::::::::-.:::.-...:
X.:........... ................. .. ... . .:.. I-
-..I: 1: 1: ::'...
...............-. ..... .. .......'""
.. ... ......e;- .- ... .. .
... ti...............- ..: . :::.-::::'- -'..:.: : : .: .. :. . :: :. . ... ....; ::,..::.::...:::.,.
. .:::::::::::::j:j': . Su............e....: , .... ....
.... .. ... .. .. ..:: ': .::. ': .... .... . ..
.:..%... ........ . .... .a....: . :...... .. ... ..........-... , ::: ..::..: ..:..
..'''''.. ......
.. ........ ....::: :..'''"..: .. ...............
... :::...... ..
.. :46W..pmw4i4.::.... .: .. ::' . ..... . .1,
.. .::.:.-::....: .::...:::.:
.:::.::::::: ::::::..::: :. ........:...'.:. . .
..t:..':m ::.: --. .'. e...  ':
.. . .... .twosaiI*..... : :r:.::,!:.;:I.::.................
... .... 0.:......... ..:..::.:-'.':!.
..... ..I. ..::: ''. : .::: '.:.:..............................:::.. :::.,::: ..'--..... . -
..i6:....... .. -...: . .......
::..:. .!:-.'---'.:...-
..1101..... . .... .: .. . ,:::.. ':.:.:: : .
....:::: :T -and..:.::::::..:...::':.: ::.:::..:.:.::: :.:.:: .:.::::,...:.:
...cal!so: repg ns.::...:...:.:..
.. ... . ....... ..:.;: .. .. . .. ..........-.:... ...: ::..I... :....... . .,:::.::... .....
. ..... ... . . . ..... . . .'%.........
.. ... ................: ..-..... . .. . ........ .::: ..
.... . ........... ..:.. :m :::::.: - '. :. ..:.,..... ..... .......
...'..... . .- .::.::..:..: ..:...::.. ...........
.. :... .. . I.....' .... . .... ......: ...... .... ..... - -
,...-. . ..M.... ...,..... .. . ...... . ... :: ........ .. ...
.....: .. . ..; :. ......
.. ...........:.: .. .. ... . . .... ..... -.-..:::::.:: :::: .:. ... .. -
m: 4: ::.:Dwunooll ptwea4t:.'. :.:. .. ... ..... ... . . .... ::..:::..:
..... ... ..... ...-....... .... . .:.:: ... .. e.
:'.' ... . ... .. . . . .......... ... . m....:: :::::::.:.:,:: :::: : .:: ..:.::: . ... .... . ....... . ... ..:-. ., ,.,-
.. .. .. ..... .... . ..... .......... .::,'..... .. . .. ... .. .......::,: : ......... ..
.-. ....... .. . .. ..... ........ .. .... :: ...
...'...'... .:..... .. ... ....:e.... ... .. ... .. ...
::M:.::Ph ucxHu (I .: ::.:.:::. ::- .::.
.. Y. . mpp.c. on::.:: m.. .: . . .... ::. .. .. ..:,: -.::::... : ..
.. ............ ... . :'.:::':::'..-:.: . .::.,::',:::,. -.:::':.:::::.::::::.:- -:.--:-'.:'-'_ :'..::: ..-.%
.... ......... ... ... ... ......... . ... .. . ... .. .. ... .......:::..' ....!.
:. .... ....-.... -: .. .. .... ..
..,... .. .................-
.....:.: . . ... . ... , :.... ,.::.........
.. ::'Y::::..m:'f66dx ' '::' . :....!:::: '"...... .. -......... X .. ' '.'...
..Nail 0 and'release.'o 'g. : -- ..: ....:.. :. . -...:.:.m:.:..'. .......... ..................,.:,.:::. ....
...Y=....':.::i.: '%..':..",.
..... ..* .. .6... .. X. :. -m.:.--.:-.-m.....:
....::: ::..:.::: :1
... .......... ... ::::.:.::.:::: :..'.%....'...
.... ....... . .. .:.... . .. : .:.........,: .....
....:::..- .... .. .......
.. :..:..:''.-.: - - -.: ::.., -:.... . ..... ... :.i::: - - .......
... :Y..:. : :otat obooics : '. 1: .:. :.: - -'m .:::.:. -...',. ....':.. :.. . .... .....
.. ...:.: llon:ol.. . ........, .. ....... ... . ...: ::::.-:.i: --:'.--.:'.!!'--!.-:.... .... . ......
.:.. . .%.... ......... .. ... ............... .: . .......... .. .. ...'..., ..
.... ...... .. .....%.:. :..: .........
. .. ..I ... ....m..' ..:.:, : .. .. :,..:".:..:.:-:;: -., ..
.... m ..,,.. ::a::...:' . ....--. ..::%..-. ... ...:....,...
...%:... 1::. .::: %- . -.:::.:.. ..   v i.....-..m:..:-..-.:::-.:'.. .:: '..'..'.: ... . ...........
... ...'4m.niolA..... .....- .. ...... . ....................
.... .. ..::.. :.-...:
:.... WOV66....... ...............'..'..... ...,:",:. -::.jx:j.::.::::.: .................
....................mm-..::.:.:::::: .'
'.. :.' ....: .. .. .... .. .... .... .. .: ........ ... ... . -..... . .:..:.: .. ...... .
..........& .:.:.: . :... ,.......... . ......... ,:: . . ........ .. .- %. .: ..: .:
.. .... . .. .... .. ....:...:.  .:: : :::j%'.-a... .. .. e....... .... I. ..
:...  P. lww'o - .to#..::., : :.. :..:. ::. ''' ''' . : ': .:..:..:.::: : %X::..'::::.::'::::::.m': .:.. ..
...- %.:. .- %
'''
X. ..VolCptow"!n9.pwcp.,.. --'i: ::.:.-..:.. ......
m.... .......... .... ........ ...:.:.::m::::..: :.: .. .....
...m-... q-.. ... ..:i. : .r
.. ....... ....''.. - . . : i.'.':i.'...::: -.'-: -'.-.-.'--'.--,.:...: ..-
............'.. -  !'. -.'.:: ....-..:::...:.. ....
.. ........ ... ........:::: :'.: ..-:: ...'.'.........!'..-.':'.' . .. .. ...
...... .. ... .... .. ......... ....:::: .::::: : :: "::::
... ...... 1:.. .. .. . ......... .. ... .. ...... .. . .. ...... ... .. .. .: ':':""::"':'.' ..::..: :...:.:...' ......:::
"... .... ..... ..........: -.m. '- . ..:. . .,,. .. .....
..4.:..: ... ... .............. I M.. :. :::::. ::.. ..:::
..::::'' ''::::::.: :..
. :.. ...:::::..:.: ..m: :::::::::.
;.. ..............:::::::::::. ::: - ',.,. . ::-.:'.:*:::'-. "
.. SymmoDeveloptIMM and bnple 'OoootiQu..... -... . ---%....% %.
:.. .. .... :::..: :::.: -...: :.. :::.:: .,.:: i...-:i:...:. i.,.'....'...... ". -' .::.:..: ... - ''
.- .. .. .. ........1 :::: . .. ....... .......... :::::::i..,:. - - - ..
.:y..''. .:V....... .. .:.:. -.:...
.. :::::... .%. ..:-:.
.. SW . ....... .::. ..:::... .::::.:, .:..... :.... . . -..%
.:O*w Oystow:to support OAN-1,. .... . M::: :.:.: ..::,-.. -:::'.. : ":] ,.,,.:i...i.-'.'.'.':..i.'..i-'.:'..:i:i...:::.'.'..'..i....,:,..,..
...:... :.-:::.:*'.-'.:::]:. .. ....
..... . .. . ..... .. .....Y... ...
....lgw.. ....- .............. . ........ . ... ... .. .::.--
,..m..... . ......... . ........-
...... ..... .. . . ..:. som-... ... . ..:...... .... ... .. ... .:.. .:.. .. .., .. . ......... ...
..-.... ..: %... .... .. "' ' '-
aamevoldo And impUment. pildt systo . a....... ....... ..: : .: :...:: -'..i:.'. m::i]::: : i:..:...'.::.:i. '.......-%:
:j...m Ulu... %..:::. :. ..: ...Y.: - .:.:."
US.. .. .. .-.--.. I.. .. . .... --o% ... --'--. -.'-..'--.'--.
................... ..... ...... . ...............%.m
m. ..,..::.-:::..j:-. .,  .... . . .... ..
. ... .... ' ... : . .. :: . -.  : .. . .:..... ........ ... ... i..
:.. .:...... .... ..... . ..... -...
.. -i.. (btain Alreenient. tD. Uw:.96FX.:. . ... ......'. . '.. . . . . ... .. ...... :.::::
... .. ... ........ ..:::: .::.:..:::.:::-----
:::,:, .. ... .....' -:
... %..I.. ... .:::: .::.. -. _.: .. .::. .: .. .... :... ..:%. .: -: ..:. ..
.:::.. .....::: . :.:.::%::... ................. . .:,%:.:.
-..... .:.. ..........
:m .... - - , - -....
:. .-....:.'' ... . . ... -..
.-.... ... ......-...:.... ........
:.:.: : A::: : ::AcOiroui insta 40yol,. ..:. ::. ...: ..::........ .. . .. ...... .........
-... :...... . ppnwot':$':... .:... .. .: - .:::. .:.:.:.:.:. i. i:.i::: r: :'::: ]'.':::.'.:.'..'.:jij:- .:::::..:..:.::. ..' :..-.:.:.:.
.... .. . ..,.%....
......- :. .. . . .: ... ... .... ..: ..
:'-p -:..... . . :: :.::: .:. :. ... .I... . ..:.-'..
...
::: :: ::.Ifj::..:..on 4quarte'-.:......... . - ..:,..%,: .., ::%..:..' .::.-:. ::'
-S'.- ..::. ....... .... .-..
... . ...Ito pftp.krati be& . . ..-
:... ........ :...I%:....
.io ot.. ..... .. ............... ..
.;1s: 64toucct6qpjj SItc;x...... ...: .. ..........
..-......... .. ... .: " ..  ... ... ............ .: :.:.:::::::..:i.:.,.:::,..,..: ]:: -.: i: ..:.:,:.:.: . .
.-.:,:, .:,: .: :. .-.::
.. :...: . l.........
.:'. : :::..:...: ::...:..: ..: ..-... : - ...
.:: :: blifta poot: sit6(s) do ..... .. . .:.::.. . .',,.::..;:
..: ....::. .JV..opeP q.: ...... ...:... ..:],....
.. ... ... .. .
.::m... .. . .......:.......:.:....... ......
.....:.... ..........a.- .. :.-- - - :.'-:-.-  i ...........
...........i : :.i:-'.-'--:'-. -'--."-. .:.-;--'.:. ........ ...........
.:. ::... ii . j..:: ..: ::: .. -.:%:%... :.:..::::. ... '...
...:.. .... ......... ..... . .-r - % -..:.
..:.;:: :... .. .:..:v :::: .:' Am)11....... .. .... . .::. ...... ......:.: :::::: .'e.-.'...... .. ...
.-.. v OMOMPI ix.. .. .... .:m. .. .. . .r: : :...... .: ...:. -:.: Xe..
-.. ..... ..... . ....... .. ..... ........ : .: :..:.:: .
...:. .............. ... ...... ............ ... . .. ..
:.. . ... .. ... :': :.::..:::... ..:. ... V.. .. ..
...............:. ...... ..
......I.1...... ..... .:.:. .:: .-'.::' ::,.:::. I %.:..
:Dt:dmtibnd svstem..:....:::::".:. .... . :.::.:
.... mem...... .::....... .. - .. . ... ...... :... . .. .. %...... :.......: ..:.:::
X. ...... ....'.......... .... : :.:.: .X
........... .... i... .::: ,; : :. .:. .::.: :...' :::::::::m.::..::::.:-. ::..:.. .
... ....... .. .'::: ..::. %:.
......... ... ... ..........
........ .. ....-.. .: .. a ::.%..:::- ..........
... . ... ''- ',
...pv co. ha)o.**: Stid.-...
-::.aLle is ::::-, - - ...:. .. ...: ...i. ..:i ... ... ....
..... . ... .M.. . *iw , .0114. lea to v ,Iolhva i:.: I  i:m 1. : .......... . .::: .'...::.. .... .. . ... .--...
. .q.....: .... %:...........-
... .. .......... ......... ........
............. .. .......PMIP .. .. .. .....I ..:::..,..:.,...:.:::....,.:::..:.:...::.'......:.j..... ': -....................
-'.::.:: ::.,::.::.': .:: .:::.:: ::.::::.:::: .......... .... ... ::'.'::'. .:..'.:.-.
...'... :..::.::: ......
...::::- BkluotaUds tW awAorc.o;igqo::. . ..'.. ......!-"::'..-
% .. ...... .. .. ....: ....''...
....... .:::. ::. :.:..,:. ' '..." .. , ", .. :
.. . ... .. ..- :..--::.. - .. ......,.:
....... . . ...... .X .-,..:.:.
........ ..:. .: .::.:.: ..: . :: .:: .. .. ......
.. .... ......
.. ... . .....-.-.....
.:. ...-....:!:.: :: ,. .. .. ..........i...........
...... ::.::.:.::...: :.: ... ''. - -".:. . .... ............... .... ..-
.. .: .:::..::::,:.: :: .Q'.-.:.'..-:--. ........
: .::;:tiii:: i: .:: -... :..::::: :.. ::..:. .......
....... ::. xwloimld BY 16 i.mliklow ..::::.:.. .:.:.:. - :::.m.::.::::.. ::. :::::::-::....:::::::::::::: ..':::::.
... :.: .... ::: .:::::::::. :: .. ... .. ... .::..'
...I..::.::.'..-: ....r... ...: :..:.::..: '' ..
.. ........ Iltdin. n . r.. '"""'"'
::.... ....... ..
:':...::.'.... .....::
..I1: : '.:. ::." . ..... .. .. . ..... ..... .e..
:::;.......... . .. ...... .. -.--....%......: :..' '..::... ....... :......:..........
.. ..r::..:. . ... :.' .. :::....' -::.:.:.i.::.'.':-'.: -''
. '' - ..:...::::::::, m: - ..' .: I .... - ..q. ... . . . ....
........I.. ... . ..:.: m ..::::::::::-:.::::.. .....
..... .....MPPOK.Sovi:. .::: :..: :.. .:.
,h4rmoiopn tochrology M) ....::m.. .. .."....,
... .0.:::-::....:::: ... .1 ......
..... ..... . . ....
..'e% ...........-: ::. . .-...:.. .....
....... ....a...:.. .:: . .::. ' .: .::.:: .. .... .....
..:::: ..::...*-... ......... .. .....:. :.::..  ..-' ''''
:::... . .. ... ... ... ....-
.: .. .... .:.::... ...... ... ... .... - .:.. .m. -.: ... ....... ... ..
:-.: :: j.:,:..:...',i:...' -, ,.,.,. ... . .. ' ,
. ..l. :..--.-mi --':.:iz:'.':';---:.-' ..'
1,...Emiabliah: KauftW aLdd6..m .. ... ..-... :1, ....::
... .... ... ... .........
-....... . ..Ow .Uok.: :. ... . :.- -- -.. . .. ......... .: ..i'. --'... ..'.'. : - ':
:::.. .. ... . . ... .... .. ........
;.--.::.::... : I: :-:-:..:: 01.7 : .. ... .. .. .. ::: ...... ...........
". .:.. .. .::. . ..... . ... ..:". .-.: .:::.:.: ....... - - - - ... ...'...
.. ...:.::.. . .. . .... ......,,..........%. .. . ..
.. . .4..looelop. W: irviement vvlntee 1A : :': ..:.:::... ... , "'--." - '::'
............ ..........
q.:'.-....-.:.
...........-.-:.: --.. .. :.-. . ..... ........
..... -.. .......I P.!I:::.... :.. ... ... .... ... ...... :..: ].. ---'..-: .. - :- - :..: ..;,.:.:.:.
.e,:.:..:.:........ . ... -. , -:'  :',...
..............I.
...'- ,:...e..::.:..:.. ..:.:..... ......:::::::.::...::.: .:::::.: ]:::.-...'.::.. ..:....: .: . ..: .: ..: -:.::.. ..:
...:.. X%. :q. '.:..:::.. .....-..i.."..... ...:,.:. i i'.-'..i i::::: ::i::::'.'::'.: .........I..... ..._'..
.... . %.. .::. ... .... . ..r ,.
... ............................ . ... . ... .......... .....: .. .::: ...: ... .-.'.m:;"..%.'%.:..::::: .:::.-
................ .... ..........
...... .... ............. ... ....... . ........ :::.: ::: :.. . .,.:: ... ..:,::::;.,.:::.::.:.:::.:.:.:.:::.:.,. ..
... . ....... .. .. ... ....... ..-. :. .. ....-:: :: .:.::...........................
... ..... :.. -:.:...: ..... :. .. .. ' 'li.'...]-.. -',...:...'..: .. . ................................
......[-  ........l. ... .. .. .. ... ..
..:..:::. m... .. ..... ....: : -.':-.:.'-.. . ..:..:: .::.''
... ...%i............. ........... . .. .i:.  j ; ...:.. :-:X.......... -e.:
.."umm N Od 'ituns.::. ......r.. . ...............
.... . ...... . .. . ..... . ... -'......:..::.:::.::.:l...-
...         ....... . . . . . . . . .   .   . .      ..... ...                     .  : .  : - .  -   ...  :  .:  :  : - :   -   .....         .  ....   ... .    -        - . .......   .. . ...- :   ::: ,
.. .............. .. . ... .... .. -:.-.:.-:..::::-, - -,
...... .'. .. ........ .....:..........
...............::.. ::..: .m:..-.:::::'- -:'.::::...... ::::.: - - %.-. ..
.... .: .. % .: .: ...... .. .. ..
............-:........
..ro ' -.. ::: :::.:..: %:::........................ ..mm. .. . ..... . .:
...bewo 6 muctu..... ... ......--::: ..%..... .''
... . . .::.: .:::.......::. : ::. :: ..:: .. ...... ......... ..... .. :'.'.:.-.:ii]-'.-'.:::'. .. ..
.. .. ......:. :.::::..::.... . a.. .... .. -il .*...'. .... ....-...... 
.......--....... ...
.'.. ............ .:..::: .. .......
...-.%....... ... . ... .. .. ..: .:::::::::]:.' ..... .......
...... ... ..m..-..... . :.:. ...::
...:lw ... 1... .:..:. ' :- '. ... .....:::::.::,::::..::::::,:::i:::.."%. ......
. :.clioml MO- bmAdquaftm *.. ......... :m]:-.].-'..-'.-x-'-'...'-:;- .. ......:......'s.. e...' .'.''
.. .... .: :k:::::: ' R, .................:.:........ .... .......
... .. .. ... . .:.'
... pagAug *W4twm-..:..:.;:.: . .:..,,, '.'
.... .... ........... .. .. :: ::.:..:..: . ..... ............... .... , .":..::.: ...... --.:..'.--.
.r .::. .: rr.: .. .... M. . .. - .. t. a r t.u:.:-..:''':.::.::,--:-:::...: '.:::.'.-.Zm::::
...mcilx mainw :..::: X.: .:.:.- :" -'" - ''... .:.'
... ..... :::.'.".:..:'.:.m:.'.:::.:::: :: ] :i.'-:ii'.
Am-naw'q a .0mu ... M:-..
....... . .. ... ......I.... .. pmtlotla.W.........: ... ..... ..... .,%::: :::,: :;::::.
..... ..:::: -::.:: :... . . .. -. '.
.19...... , .m:: i : .::.:...::::::...::::::::::.::::::m .........
:.% . .:...:t'i41.. ..... . - ..: ..... .... . . ......... .. ..: .: -...:: .: . ::.... .::. .m:.:.:....%..
..Ilftt4:'''...... . . . . .. .. ........ .. ........:. . .. .... .... ..
......... m. ..: -... . ... . ... ''........W.
%. ww .:'...... ..... ....... .. .... .. .. ...
........m::....-..:: ...... .: .: - - .. ::: :.: :::: ..::.,. %,..:.::...
.......-: .:: : .'...:i:' . ii::::'.'.--.] . ............
-. ......- ..::...:... .....'.K. _ X.:
......... ......:.::-:..'... m. ......i........ . ...
..... ..... .. ...... . .... ..... ... ::. .. .: .:.:. .: - ............................ ......
.tili :1  mQuiromenwawArwel timkk4 pliin -:: ' '.'-...... -:. .::.:,.:.::: m::.:.::::..::.::::::.:.::::::.:::.::.:::.: %....::.....::::-'.
.. ..... ::.:::: .::: %-.:..... ...
.... .....
........: ... .
...."..I..... ....:.:.:: .:: ..: .. . ........ .. .. ::,::.:i::!:i,.ii:..,.",:,.:.-...,.: .. ...
..,..: :::.:::::.:::;::..::.....:.:...-...::::
........... ..... ...
:......:. .. .. ...........:: :.:: .. .....
... .:! r: ::: :..: ::: .i. ..:-:.:::.. .....:.-.:.. ...i:::.
.............:::: .: .:: . .. " ;. ... ..
.:::I.:::.Open..... ....m.. ... :e:..'::.% :::::::.'.'...,::,......::::....:.":m
tA-V.nd:OToeedUl;6$:for:: ' .. ..::-:.m...
........ . .:. " ..... .::.
. . . .
...'11166611 el donal, -siiiff :: . .. ::' .,.::.: :... .. . ..
. .. :... .:.
. ..:.... ::::::..'.::::.
... ... .. . .::........:. .. .:::.. :.-.::..... ...:. :::. -.::..'::.::::.:::::;m..
......... .......,.:::.j: .: i:;:i::'-.-'. i'.......:,.......:...;,....,....:"...
.:V':.:.. ... . ...... . .... .. ...
... ........
..:.::.: . :::.:. : :. .... ... .:::::::.. . ., ,.'--. ..:.,. ", ''
:'..... .. ... .....lillu fowclu6wl. .. .: mm. ...:::.:.:. .:.. . -: :.. .. . ..
.... . ...... ....... ... ... : :. - :  -;i:.'.::]:i::::]  ''. ... ...
:....... %... ... ..... .. . . .. %. ... .... ...... . . ...... .. . ....
... ... ....r.................
... .... . ...........:... : .:...... %. %
-... .....
.,-;lll_:l :... . -:.:. -.. .. -..::.. :.:....j: ''.':::.::i -': :;.:.:.'--. - -, .,.: '.. ....
........ ... ... .....:. ..........
.... . .. -:m.:.:i: :.::::
........... ,;:::: .::
... -:: M ::: : ..:: ififoitafibn ukhnoll?gy...... .... ...
.:%.: -.'.--''. .'..:.. : .. ......:: . ..... . ... .. ..:. ..-.'::'.]i-.;'.:-'..'.::.. ...... .
.:: .. ...... : ...:- . . - ........ ............ ... ... ::.. . ::::i::".:......;............:::., .:,...:..
...aI... ::: .... .. .a . ........ . ..... . .. . ...'..':.
-........ . ... ... .' . ..-.: .. .... ...'''
....Iraw ............ .. .. . ... ...-.::
...:'wo tw:..:::: :..:: :'. :::::
...:.w:::.,.........:. . .....
m.... rimseme..... ...... '...:... . .:,'."
.. ..... ........ .. ........::.... ......... ... .: .. E- - - .'.... ---"-.
........ .............. .. ......... ... ...........:::. : .: m ..:'.::r:::-:.::::...:.:..:.:: .:::..::::..-;,. o:i.'-". ..
:::          ....  ..  .    :  .::.                                                       .,   . .  .  .  ..  .   . . . ..  . ..::  :  : :   . :: : .: ::  .:.           . ... .   ...  .....   ... . . . . .. . . :..  .-   : .- ': ..  ....   . _   -   . ..   ..
.1           .:     alionalizzw k igu m     fion    : ;   ,     .   .    .. . . .                  . . . . .   ..:..   .   .. V ::.  ::  .   x   .m.. . . . . . . . . .  .. .   ..... ..... ... M .::.::.:...
.::. ::: -. .........::.: :::.:.:.:. .. . .. ..... .. ..
...: . .: . -. .............:.:-:..'.:. ...: ::.:::.:::.:..::. - .::.: ....: ....
......... .....m. ::.: :.... .. ..... :::x'...-.:m:....'.:-...:.:::. '.
......''... ' '' ...
... ..... ............' ' ", . . '-::%'.:-
:.......... :.
..::'......... . .... ... .-''
.... i " DOvelop publk.lurphrAdon pm,pm...........:..: -::-'-.:.'.
.....:::.:.............:: :: '' ... :::I,. ::::: :.:,
..... ...... ...;.--. M.,..........:. ......... .... .... .... ::.:.. .::.
.... .. . . ........ .... ..... .......... .......... . .....: .: ...:::, .:.:.::. ..:.:...:. ..:::.::::::,:. :'
......... ..... ..... ............. .... .. .. ,'
,..... . . .. .. ............'.... ..-
. ............ . . .. .-
.. -'.-:.:..:.........: .'...-....... ...'-.". -, : .-: - -- 
...... ..: : -:.::. . .... .. ..... .......:'. - .. ...... ... . ..- ..... %:..:....
-.............:.:..... .... ::i:: ' i,.,.:::..:i:!::'.-...'.-;I: --i ..: .: --i'..'..'. ...
.. ...............m .. .:::::.:::; :.:,::: ,''. .- -.. - ' - ...'.....
.:. ....... .....:............. ....... .. .. .. . . ..:...........
............... ... ..: .......... ... . ....... .. .1
..:......:... .. .... .. ...
....................... ... ...... ..... . ....::..:...:::%: ::: ..........
...::.."-.::..:::..j.'..:::.:. -:- ..... .-
.:%:::. .... ..:.: :r.. ..:::..: .. .
aDd pro* M'cfii setvk0c. ..' .::: ::.": , .... l.. :.. ...:.:.. .. . ...--.
.:.:, . .A=PM ... ............ ...: .. ..
.... . ...... ...,':j:::....m:: .:.: :.....:::::. '::m::'.-.::...:...:
.. . ... .. ''i: .. "
....... .. ..:..:'.... I.:..:. ..... ......
.......''....:. .::::::: .::.. ....::.:....-%.:.::.:..:...:::::.::...::.:.::.:-.:- -
.. e.'-..' ".i]:j'i:i.:. 1: '.:m:::...!:.. ..:::.:. '..... ...: .:-':.:.:: .::::.
............ .. .. ....::....... ..'.. ...'...:..... .. ............ :::::..::.
'..... . . ..... ... . ...........:: :: , ''.:"
....::....... ....IM)" 4mo ibr txs sixnca
.. .. .. . I .......:..:.:::..... ...... ...... .:.::.:,:. ::: -, .": - .:.
... .. ..... . .. ....... .. .. i:m   .. .. i:--.:i:::::3'..'-':-.. .*:: : ..:
.. ... ... .::::.: .: .. .. .r:...:....:....:..:.::::..::...::.:.- ...:..
...: ''-..:''-. ..:::. ... .......... ..-
... :: ..... ...... .... ...
........ ... V:::.... u&Aioo. wbwtog..:::. . :::. ::.::.e .'.
....::-: X. -.:.-.: ....:. .:::: ": ,.:... ..... .::::.::....' -r -.: .:.]::..:.::::::]:::iii::.,........
....... .. .. .. YjmAdvioo:: ... ............:.:..:::::,..::.::::,::::i::::,.... ;:_'-:!::e..-.:
...... ..... -... I. ... 11i:...::,:::......... .. . .. .. .: ::.:..:.:
';::  : %.:..:...... ........ ., :::..: ':.:... ...
:..::::m.w iciiwarii *ibi6i......m. ::.: :.:...:: .:.. ..:.:.:.::: :::m...:.:.:::-'. :..::..:.:::::.::::::.:.::::.:::::.,....".-..
. :...:::...:.. . :.:.-:::Ij..: :. .;: ..... ........
........ ....... .. .... ............. : :.,::::..::,.:::m::.-.. :::: '. ,.:.'.'. .'.. .:: :: j.:.:::::..-:::::: '.:%.::'.'.:.::::..:
...''..... . .............. . . ..... .. ... . .:. ....... ......... ......: '.... j:.:.'...., ,,. ............. ..... ...........
..... : .,.,. , '- ia.. ...:.''''''': .......... .... , :...' ....
:.:'.:.'--m.'.'-m.:'.--. .....:.: :.:. : .::. .. ': --.. ..... -.. : :.: .:... -
..Oct nianagemens........ .:.:..:: :.::.:: - .:
-- :wtv-.... ..::::..::::................
... I".-.- .. .:!::....': ..:
.--.:.:. ....' -'. -.. .t gumrt .lci MO )'' .'. . ... .... . .. .-
..... .. .... .... .. m ::.
.:.. ... ...... . ... .... .. . .....
... .,.., .:.:::.:::..::: - .. .. .. ..
-............:. r.I.: . ......... . .. ..::::.::.:% ::: ' . " ..:.
....... ......b...... iiiii.w......m.. ....!   .::-:
....... .nu:. -.... ...:. ...... ......... . ...... ......... ..:..e:.:.:l..:%.... .... -..'-
...::m:;.::.: .:. ..:..........: . .:..:: :.:: . ..... ......: .. . ... ... ......'..... .. ... : .. ..
I... . .. .. ....... .. .. ... ..::::::: .:. . . ., ,.....:......
-.. .. . ....-.:ii::.
.... ....... ...........:.m.m.-......
.'.P.Wasults . .... ..
.:.....:... ....... ......... ....:.... ....... .. ... ... :: . .. i'. ... .. .
..... ...... '' :.e. ..
::::............ :.: ...... .::. ....._.....':.  
.... --. .'
.. :.; '. .... ";---...... ::. ..::.::
.::'nIplime ion pqan',.. -:::..... . .'. :.%:, ' "' :..........
. ..P.-Yelp .::. ::. %. . ;....:..::.:::.-.m  ''.. :::::i::::.;.::.::.::::::::::::::::::.::.......:: .:::: :::..::. .: :.::.::.::..' -...:.: . ..... ;..:...::..:.:.;. :.......
*: . . .p detsiW11 aTat-..-.m :: -.:.: ......



- 86 -
11.   As part of the process of developing the plan for modernization, with the assistance of the
Bank, a review of the customs procedures was undertaken (using the principles for development
described above). The new procedures meet both international and EU standards. The
procedures, when implemented, will simplify significantly the import and export customs regimes
and will lead to successful implementation of automated systems. Procedures have been
developed for:
*  Import processing
- Transit and cargo reporting
-  Declaration processing
- Physical inspection
- Payment of duty and release of goods
- Post release checks
* Export processing
A detailed description of these procedures is provided in Annex 3e.
12.   Computer Systems Development and Implementation. Headquarters, 18 regions and 45
customs offices will be automated over a three and a half year period. The 45 customs offices
account for 90 percent of workload and 90 percent of revenue (non-automated offices will
forward documents to automated offices for processing). The following subsystems will provide
automated processing at the customs offices:
*  Import declaration processing
*  Export declaration processing
*  Revenue accounting
*  Manifest
*  Transit
*  Warehousing
*  Management information
*  External interfaces.
13.   Automated support will be provided to headquarters to produce management information
and trade statistics, perform analyses, and receive and distribute updates to the EU integrated
tariff. The regions will be supported by automation to perform post release reviews and monitor
local office activities. In addition, headquarters and the regions will be supported by office
automation.
14.   After implementation of these subsystems at the automated customs offices, a second
automation phase will extend automation to other customs offices and the following additional
subsystems will be developed:
* Enforcement analysis
* Passenger processing
* Appeals, refunds, and rulings



- 87 -
Although these sub-systems are not included in the scope of the component, the design of the
system includes provision for their future development and implementation.
15.   Automation is to be based on the "community system" approach. It is to be developed
using an open computer architecture to permit ease of interconnection with members of the trade
community and other government ministries using electronic data interchange (EDI).2 The
objective of these systems is to provide the opportunity for all participants in the trade system to
submit and receive informnation electronically. Verification activities are carried out prinarily
through the use of automated selection criteria to determine which goods require physical
inspection, documents requiring review, and audits of the books and records of enterprises.
16.   The proposed system is comprised of a three-tier (headquarters, region, and local office)
network of computers with higher organizational levels containing a subset of lower level
databases.3 To support this approach, a UNIX operating system is recommended to operate with
a relational database. Initially databases will be updated daily by file transfer using an X.25
network and on-line access to databases will be by dial-up. After implementation of the new
system, a feasibility study will be performed to determine whether on-line updating of the
headquarters database would be cost effective.
17.   The information technology (IT) department has limited experience with the recommended
UNDX environment and with data base management systems. In addition, the system must be
developed in a short period of time to support administration of the EU legislation and
procedures. Therefore, developing application software 'from scratch" is not a practical option.
In recognition of this fact, the Customs Administration has entered into a bilateral agreement with
French Customs to acquire the SOFIX application software which is based on French Customs
automated system software.4 By using this software, the customs administration will be assured
that the tariff and supporting procedures are compatible with EU requirements. The software
will operate in the recommended architecture. In addition, SOFIX is supported by French IT and
customs administration experts who will assist in adapting the software to Turkey's specific
requirements, the pilot implementation and with initial IT training. Even before the signing of
the formal protocol in July 1995, significant joint preparatory activities was being carried out by
the two customs agencies for the pilot.
18.   Human Resource Mananement and Training. Customs modernization involves not only
new systems and procedures and the integration of automation into the work place but also
implies increased delegation and responsibility for regional and local management. It will have
2 Information regarding imports and exports by enterprise will be shared with the Revenue Directorate
for tax enforcement purposes. This collaboration would be facilitated considerably by the use of the secur
Taxpayer Identification Number that is being developed by the General Directorate of Revenues.
3 Thirteen regional computer systems will support the eighteen regions (smaller regions will share a
computer system).
4 The acronym for the software is based on the French Systeme d'Ordinateurs de Fret International
(S.O.F.I.).



- 88 -
an immediate, significant impact on human resource management and training within the
organization.
19.   The key human resource management issues to be addressed as Customs undertakes the
modernization effort are:
*  Orgfanization structure. The new organization structure must be designed in a way that
will best deliver the new program. The principles envisaged in the new structure include:
decision making delegated to the lowest possible level to support better service; strong
monitoring at the regional level; and, policy formulation, monitoring and internal audit at
headquarters.
*  Number of staff required at headquarters. regions. and local offices. The relative size of
headquarters, regions, and local offices will change to reflect increased delegation, the
introduction of effective post release controls, and the use of selectivity. It is also
anticipated that much fewer total staff will be required in the administration once the new
systems and procedures are in place.
*  New skills. The systems and procedures introduced to support modernization will require
staff with skills not now present or in short supply in Customs (e.g., computer systems
development, audit, and analysis).
3  Training. The training requirements of the organization are multi-dimensional. Re-
training of all customs professional staff will be required to support the new systems and
procedures resulting from changes in legislation, simplification of procedures, and the
introduction of computerization. In addition, training will be necessary to support entirely
new requirements (e.g., audit) and new approaches to supervision and management. The
major training requirements are, as follows:
- Local offices--systems and procedures related to cargo manifests, TIR transit, import
and export declaration processing, tariff classification, valuation, and physical
inspections.
- Regions--systems and procedures related to analysis of information to develop
selection criteria for physical inspection and for detailed documentary checks and
audit. Training is also required to develop the technical expertise required for in-
depth tariff classification and valuation review and for the audit of the books and
records of enterprises.
- Headquarters--analysis skills related to using information from the computer system to
help identify problem areas, develop national selection criteria, monitor staff
performance, and identify areas for staff re-allocation.



- 89 -
- IT--use and operation of 4th generation languages, UNIX operating systems, relational
databases, CASE tools, and EDI. In addition, IT staff will require training related to
the modification and maintenance of the application software (SOFIX).
20.   Advisory and Project Management Services. Technical assistance requirements have been
identified for four major areas: customs administration; information technology; human resource
management; and project management support.
Customs Administration Adviser. Technical assistance is required from a variety of
sources and it is important that it be coordinated to ensure that it supports the overall
modernization plan. For this reason, Customs will appoint an in-house Senior Customs
Administration Advisor (SCAA) to provide specific advice related to customs
administration and to coordinate all technical assistance. The responsibilities of the
SCAA will also include: (a) the development of detailed implementation plans and the
ability to monitor progress against these plans; (b) identification of other technical
assistance needs; and (c) developing and implementing evaluation criteria. This advisor
will be selected and supervised by the IMF. The terms of reference for the SCAA are
described in Annex 3b.
Information Technology Adviser. Similar assistance would be provided by the IMF
through an Information Technology Adviser (ITA) to coordinate the automated systems
development, including the writing of software, acquisition of equipment, and site
renovations. Specifically, the support would include: reviews and assessment of existing
information systems; assessing the skills of the IT staff and recommending training;
establishing the IT structure and organization; writing tender documents for acquisition of
hardware and software; and, evaluating tender bids. The terms of reference for the ITA
is also contained in Annex 3b.
Short Term Advisers. In addition to the SCAA and ITA functions described above, other
technical assistance would be required to support: (a) development and implementation of
simplified regulations and procedures; (b) use of risk analysis and development of
selection criteria for physical inspections and documentary review; (c) use of automation
for valuation and tariff classification post release reviews; (d) improved enforcement with
the introduction of mobile inspection teams and in-depth inspections; (e) rationalization of
inspection procedures with other government departments; and (f) development of a
public information program for the trade community. The detailed terms of reference for
these advisers will be developed by the SCAA in consultation with Customs and the IMF.
Human Resource Management. Technical assistance would also be provided to support:
(i) training of managers to operate in an automated environment; (ii) development of
staffing plans related to the new procedures; (iii) development of training plans;
(iv) development of a new organization structure; and (v) identification of the approaches
to rationalize staff requires. The detailed terms of reference for these advisors will be
developed by the SCAA in consultation with Customs and the IMF.



- 90 -
Project Management Support Services. A project of the size and complexity being
undertaken by the Customs Administration requires full time project management support.
A Project Management Support Services (PMSS) contractor will be procured to assist
Customs with the following requirements: (a) development of the detailed implementation
plan, including identification of interdependencies among key milestones and integration
of the automated system into the operation; (b) the writing of tender documents and
component reports; (c) the evaluation of bids, negotiations and contracting; and (d) the
tracking of component budget and financial expenditures. The terms of reference for this
assignment is contained in Annex 3b.
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FiNANCING PLAN
21.   Cot. The total cost of the Customs Modernization Component is estimated at about
US$68.3 million equivalent, including contingencies. Project costs include goods and equipment,
advisory services, civil works, training services and materials, project management support
services and a refund of that part of the US$2 million advance from the Bank's Project
Preparation Facility allocated to this component.
22.   The total baseline cost is estimated at US$62.3 million. Physical contingencies are
estimated at US$2.7 million or 5 percent of the baseline costs of equipment, software, other
materials and public works. Price contingencies are estimated at US$3.3 million or 5 percent of
total baseline costs over the period of component execution. These are based on the assumptions
of an average local inflation rate of 51 percent in 1995-96, and 15 percent thereafter. Price
increases for foreign costs (estimated in US dollars) are assumed at 1.6 percent in 1995-96, and
2.6 percent each year thereafter. Cost calculations assume an average exchange rate of 66,000
Turkish Lira to US$1.00 for the 1995-99 component execution period. Foreign currency costs,
including contingencies, are estimated at US$49.7 million or 73 percent of total cost. Local costs
are estimated at US$18.6 million equivalent, and are mostly for civil works and local training.
Of the local cost amount, taxes and duties are estimated at about US$10.9 million or 16 percent
of total cost. A summary breakdown of costs by expenditure category is shown in Table 1. A
more detailed presentation is contained in Annex 3c.
23.   Financing. The proposed Bank loan would finance US$44.4 million of the costs of the
Customs component, 65 percent of total component costs (see Table 2). It also would meet 89
percent of foreign exchange requirements. The Government's contribution (US$18.6 million)
would finance the acquisition and pilot implementation of the SOFIX customs software, as well
as a variety of local costs, notably site preparation. Assurances were received from the
Government during negotiations that adequate budgetary provisions will be made to meet
counterpart financing requirements throughout the period of project execution.



- 91 -
Table 1. Costs Summara By Exnenditure Accounts
(CL bl_s)                                                                  (US $ 'oe)
Of Whikh                                                                  Of Whh    % FoNrsi
Do". &    % Forcim        % Total                                         Du". &       Echmpge        I ToWa
Lal   Foreip    Total          Tx        Fxchane   Bes Cos               LocIa    Foreiga    Total       Tax                     Bm Cein
Civil Works               264          0      264            0           0             9           5,471         0    5,471             0           0              9
Equipum-M                  47S     1,992    2,470         478           Sl            82           9,905    41,272   51,197         9,897          81             82
Vehiclna                     1         3        4            1          81             0              14        60       74            14          81              0
Training
alAr.                  86         0       56            0            0            3           1,775         0    1,775             0            0              3
hErndomlod              0        38       33            0          100            1               0       778       773            0          100              1
Suueald                86        33       124           0           30            4           1,775       778    2,553             0           30              4
TechalAl Azdoame
htanotlbYm              0        75       75            0          tOO            2               0     1,560    1,560             0          100              2
Projea Support               0        72       72            0           0             2              0      1,500    1,500             0          100             2
BASE COSTS                a1s      2,180    3,M           479           72           10           17,165    45,170   62335          9,911          72            109
Phyd  Caomitqm             32         96      123          22           75             3            666      1,917    2,653           449          75              4
PGce C t_tamias          1,101     3,424    4,525         753           76           149            765      2,550    3,315           567          77              5
TOTAL COSTS              1,961     5,749    7,1          1,25           74           25S          13,I9%    49,707   6             10,927          73            I1



- 92 -
24.    Preparatory activities for the PFMP as a whole have benefitted from a Japanese PHRD
grant in the arnount of Yen 128 million (approximately US$1.3 million). The French
Government has also provided a grant of about US$132,000 specifically for preparatory studies
for the Expenditure and Personnel Management component. The Government has obtained an
advance in the amount of US$2 million from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility. These
monies have allowed the timely initiation of the most time-sensitive preparatory activities.
Table 2. Customs Modernization Component: Finandi PIan
(US$ million equivalent)
Local    Foreign      Total      % of Total
IBRD                   0.00       44.4       44.4         65.0
Government             18.6       5.3        23.9         35.0
Total Financing      18.6   |  49.6   |   68.3           100.0
D. ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT PLANS
25.   A project account and special account will be established for each of the three
implementing agencies. The Project Management Unit of each of the implementing agencies will
prepare quarterly statements of expenditures, consolidate component accounts, and prepare and
submit disbursement withdrawal applications for project expenditures (beginning from the date of
Loan Effectiveness). The project accounts and special accounts would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports will contain a separate opinion on
the use of Statements of Expenditure. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that an
annual audit of all project and special accounts would be undertaken by an independent auditor in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed
by the World Bank., March 1982 . Audit reports in English will be submitted to the Bank not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (December 31). Details of the schedule for
project reporting and annual reviews are presented in Table 4.7 of the Main Report.



IL IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. REsroNsi      Es OF IMPLEMENTNG AGENCIES
26.   The borrower is the Republic of Turkey which is represented by the Undersecretariat of
Treasury (Treasury). The Undersecretariat of Customs (Customs) in the Prime Ministry will
have overall responsibility for implementation of the Customs Modernization Component of the
PFMP. The Customs Undersecretary has established a Project Management Unit (PMU), headed
by a Deputy Undersecretary, to supervise and coordinate implementation of the Modernization
Component. Actual implementation is being carried out by seven Working Groups.
27.   The Deputy Undersecretary will be responsible for the day-to-day management and
supervision of the Customs Modernization Component of the PFMP. Specifically, the Deputy
Undersecretary will oversee, guide and approve the requirements, specifications, operational and
organization proposals and other changes that result from the study, analysis and design activities
conducted as a part of the Customs component. The Undersecretary will establish such review
committees as he deems appropriate, or may be recommended by the State Minister for Customs,
to review and evaluate the results of work done in component activities. Through this process, it
will be ensured that the activities conducted under this component remain consistent with the
objectives that have been established and with Government intentions. The responsibilities of the
PMU as a whole are as follows:
*  Ensuring the training, assignment, and placement of Customs staff and consultants as
required by activity work plans.
*  Providing liaison with the Bank and involved Government units for project administration
and supervision.
*  Assisting Working Groups in the preparation of procurement strategies, plans, and tender
documents, and ensuring compliance with Bank procurement guidelines in the acquisition
of products and services.
*  Preparing and distributing quarterly reports to the Undersecretary and the Bank, and (as
required) to other Governmental units covering the progress, problems encountered and
corrective actions needed, and activity and financial status of tasks.
*  Ensuring the movement of official documents and contracts through approval processes
and undertaking measures to expedite their release.
*  Supporting component activities by providing necessary translation and administrative
support.
*  Monitoring availability of funds, project costs and expenditures, processing loan
disbursement applications and tracking disbursements of the Bank loan and GOT funds.
*  Preparing a Component Completion Report within six months of the completion of the
component, which will be incorporated eventually into the Project Completion Report.



- 94 -
The PMU will be assisted in the above tasks by the PMSS contractor.
28.   As noted above, the Undersecretary of Customs has established seven Working Groups
that are responsible for carrying out component activities with the assistance of contracted
technical advisors. Additional short-term teams may be formed from time to time to assist with
the preparation of tender documents and with the evaluation of proposals. The specific task
responsibilities of the main Working Groups are as follows:
*  Tariffs Working Group. After completion of the preparatory work for the integrated
tariffs by the Directorate General of EU Affairs and Foreign Relations and the Directorate
General of Customs, members of this Group will redesign the Turkish Tariff Schedule.
A format will be prepared of the tariff schedule to be used in the Customs Automation
System. This format will include tax (tariff) rates, special permissions that will apply to
organizations, and all explanations.
*  Trade Documents Harmonization and Standardization Working Group. This Group will
develop a Turkish version of the Single Administrative Document (SAD), which will be
used as from January 1, 1996, the scheduled date of entry into the Customs Union, and
any other documents that may be required as a result of the new Customs Regulations.
*  Customs Procedures and Organization Working Group. The work to adapt the Customs
Law and the Customs Regulations to the Customs Legislation of the EU is being
conducted by this Group. Upon completion of this work, the same Group, in
collaboration with the information technology Working Group (see below) will determine
the process, workflows and the user needs for future automation, consistent with the
envisaged simplified procedures and organizational changes.
* Information Technology Working Group. This Group, consisting of information
processing staff only, will carry out work to specify the computer hardware and software
requirements that will be established as a result of the user needs and analysis work
undertaken by the Procedures and Organization Group. The work of this Group will take
the form of research and feasibility studies, culminating in the drawing up of the
specifications necessary for issue of tenders.
* Technical Assessment Group. This group, consisting of information processing staff, will
deternine the criteria necessary for tenders to be held and assessed in accordance with
World Bank guidelines.
* National Implementation Working Group. This Group will be responsible for
coordinating the nationwide implementation of the organizational and IT changes that will
be defined and piloted by the foregoing groups.
*  Training Working Group. Two subgroups will be responsible respectively for training of
IT personnel and for end-user training in the new procedures and systems.



- 95 -
B. INTER-AGENCY COORDINATION
29.   Components are essentially independent of each other and will proceed according to
separate component implementation plans. The implementation of the Customs component will
be undertaken solely by the Undersecretariat of Customs. Consequently, there are no substantial
requirements for coordination with the other agencies implementing the other two components.
Any necessary coordination among the organizations will be effected at the ministry level by the
Undersecretaries of Customs and Finance.
C. ROLE OF WORLD BANK SUPERVISION
30.   Bank supervision of project implementation will concentrate on the consistency of
component activities with agreements reached during appraisal, performance of the implementing
groups and assessment of emerging needs for adjustments to project parameters. The day-to-day
implementation and monitoring will be carried out by the PMUs. The basis for Bank monitoring
will be quarterly progress reports prepared by the PMUs. The reports will describe the status,
deviation, if any, from the implementation plans, reasons for deviations as well as corrective
actions being taken. In addition, Bank supervision missions will hold substantive discussions
with the Working Groups implementing the various subcomponents as well as higher echelon
officials. Annual work and procurement programs will also be required to be agreed with the
Bank each year, and will include quarterly benchmarks for monitoring and evaluating progress in
implementation.
31.   Implementation of the proposed project, and the extent to which it is achieving its stated
objectives, will be reviewed and evaluated annually and upon its completion. In addition, there
will be three formal joint Bank-Government reviews. The first of these would be conducted
early in 1996, about four months after Loan Effectiveness, to provide a basis for proceeding with
preappraisal of the proposed follow-up investment operation for the Ministry of Finance
components of the PFMP, and for making any early adjustments as may be necessary in project
parameters. The second (in FY1997) would cover the formal assessment of the pilot
implementation of the new Customs system, and the third (FY1998) the assessment of the pilot
Government Financial Management Information System (GFMIS) for the Expenditure and
Personnel Management Component. A proposed schedule of supervision and review missions is
provided in Table 4.7 of the Main Report. During negotiations, the Government agreed to a
joint-Bank review of project implementation in October/November of each year for assessing
progress toward achievement of agreed policy, institutional, financial and physical targets and for
determining and agreeing on needed budget resources (both local funds and Loan proceeds) to be
requested for the next fiscal year.
32.   The Bank's supervision efforts concerning the Customs component will be substantially
enhanced by the fact that Customs has decided to engage the IMF to help it implement the
technical components of its modernization plan. An agreement to engage the IMF's Fiscal
Affairs Department (FAD) to provide this technical assistance is to be arranged through an
exchange of letters between Customs, the Bank and the IMF, and financed under the loan. FAD
will supervise the Customs Administration Adviser and Information Technology Adviser that will
be appointed under the agreement as well as short term advisors appointed to provide specific



- 96 -
technical assistance. As a result of this arrangement, the PMU's quarterly reports will be
supplemented by monthly reports from the Technical Advisers to FAD, copies of which will be
provided to the Bank. There will also be regular inspection visits by FAD (approxinately every
six months). The assessment of the pilot customs operation will also be assisted by FAD.



III. IMPLEMENTATION ACVIT
A. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES
33.   The three components of the PFMP are essentially independent of each other and would
proceed according to separate Implementation Plans--see Annex la for Tax and Annex 2a for
Expenditure and Personnel. There are no substantial requirements for coordinating the
components at the implementation level. Any needed coordination among the organizations will
be effected at the ministry level by the Undersecretaries of Customs and Finance, with the
assistance of the Treasury. Annex 3d shows the major activities to be undertaken in this
component, including the tasks related to each subcomponent.
34.   The Customs Modernization Component will be implemented over a period of almost four
years. The schedules in Annex 3d take into account the work that has been carried out during
project preparation. In particular, new legislation and regulations are already under preparation,
as is the pilot customs operation using SOFIX. Terms of reference for major consultancy and
other technical assistance assignments to be financed under the loan have also already been
prepared (see Annex 3b).
B. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS AND SCHEDULES
35.   Procurement arrangements and schedules have been prepared independently for each
component. The executing agencies' capabilities and purchasing regulations and procedures were
reviewed during Appraisal. It was determined that the Customs Undersecretary would benefit
from the services of a professional procurement specialist familiar with the Bank's procurement
guidelines. This support is to be provided under the PMSS contract.
36.   All procurement of goods and material to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds would
be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (January 1995) and procurement of services, including the selection of consultants
for technical assistance and training, would be in accordance with the Guidelinesfor the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August
1981). Project procurement would be limited to the purchase of goods, material and services,
including training. The former consists mainly of the hardware and software for the IT
subcomponents (including substations, personal computers and peripherals).
37.   Contracts for goods and material with a value of more than US$300,000 equivalent per
contract will be arranged in accordance with the Bank's procedures for international competitive
bidding (ICB). In that event, goods manufactured in Turkey and procured through ICB may be
granted a margin of preference of 15 percent in accordance paras. 2.54 and 2.55 of the Bank's
Guidelines and paras. 1-6 in Appendix 2 of the Bank's Guidelines. Contracts below US$300,000
equivalent per contract will be procured under the Bank's procedures for international shopping.
The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will be used for all procurement under ICB.
38.   Contracts for equipment and material estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or more
and any direct procurement contracts would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation and approval of contract award. This would result in the prior review of 99



- 98 -
percent of Bank financed contracts. Other contracts would be subject to ex post review after
contract award.
39.   Procurement of sgvices, including the selection of consultants, would be based mainly on
a shortlisting of firms. The exceptions are the advisory services contract with the IMF and
proposed study tours, which are to be sole sourced. The services of individual specialists not to
exceed US$50,000 per contract may also be contracted for diverse tasks of short duration (up to
six months). The total value of services to be procured is estimated to be US$4.01 million.
Prior review of consultant contracts would not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent per contract for firms and US$50,000 per contract for individuals.
However, the terms of reference for all contracts will be pre-reviewed by the Bank.
40.   Items will be grouped into packages to encourage competitive bidding and permit bulk
procurement. Major procurement categories include: about US$49.8 million equivalent to be
procured through ICB; US$230,000 equivalent through international shopping; US$2.2 million
equivalent through shortlisting of consultant firms; and US$1.81 million through sole sourcing.
41.   Customs will furnish the Bank quarterly procurement reports indicating: (a) changes in
individual contracts' cost estimates, including best estimates for physical and price contingencies;
(b) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award and
completion time of individual contracts; and (c) compliance with aggregate limits on specified
methods of procurement. Further, the annual project operating plans would include any revisions
in the agreed implementation schedule regarding employment of consultants. A summary of the
procurement arrangements for the major categories of the component are shown in Table 3.
Details of the procurement packages for the Customs Modernization Component, by category and
showing the estimated costs, procurement method and relative timing of different procurement
actions are shown in Table 4.
42.   There are several procurement actions in the Customs Modernization Component that
must be effected by Customs. The most important of these is the acquisition of the SOFIX
software and related equipment and technical assistance for the pilot implementation. As noted
earlier, the entire pilot package is to be procured through a bilateral arrangement between the
Governments of Turkey and of France. This includes the equipment for the pilot. The Bank will
review the hardware system design of the pilot both prior to installation of pilot equipment and
upon completion of the pilot installation in order to ensure the strictest standards for competitive
bidding on the downstream equipment procurement for nationwide replication.
43.   A study has already been conducted to define the functional and information requirements
of new systems that will meet EU customs administration requirements, the required overall
systems architecture and technology architecture (including hardware, systems software,
identification of already developed software application to be used, and data networking
communications requirements). It is envisaged that, in order to complete the required automated
information systems in a timely manner, and to obtain early benefits from the envisaged
Customs' automated systems, the main IT elements would be procured, as much as feasible, in
turnkey contract arrangements through international competitive bidding with the contractor
responsible for delivering a working network of systems.



- 99 -
Table 3. Customs Modernization Component: Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Item                         International   Other '    N.B.F.'          Total
Competitive                                 Cost
Bidding
1.Civil Works                                              5.76             5.76
(0.00)          (0.00)
2.Equipment/Goods             49.76             0.23        6.51          56.50
(40.14)           (0.04)     (0.00)         (40.18)
3.Training                                      0.64        1.91            2.55
(0.64)     (0.00)          (0.64)
4.Technical
Assistance/Advisory                             1.67                        1.67
Services                                       (1.67)                      (1.67)
5.Project Management                            1.00                        1.00
Support Services                              (1.00)                     (1.00)
6. PPF                                         0.85                          0.85
(0.85)                       (0.85)
Total                          49.76           4.39         14.18          68.33
(40.14)         (4.20)       (0.00)         (44.34)
a/ Other includes intemational shopping (US$0.23 million); shortlisting of firms (US$2.2 million); and sole
sourcing (USS1.81 million).
b/ Not Bank Financod
Note: Numbers in parenthesiB are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
Differences due to rounding.



- 100-
Table 4: Procurement Im0lementation Plan
(US$ million)
TOTAL                         Prepare
(Including     Procurement     Tender         Bid       Award       Contract
Contingencies)     Method       Documents   Invitation    Contrct   Completion
1. Information Technology                  49.76            ICB           11/96        2/97        5/97         6/99
a) Hardware and System Software
b) Auxiliary Equipment
c) Initial Consumable Products
d) Hardware nd Software
Maintenance
e) Office Automation Equipment
2. Office Automation Equipment &
Supplies for PCU                    0.15             IS            9/95         10/95      11/95        3/96
3. Vehicls                                  0.08             IS            4/96        7196        9/96        12/97
TOTAL                         Prepare       Letter
(Including     Procurement    Terms of        of        Award       Contract
Contingencies)     Method       Reference    Invitation   Contract   Completion
B. T
1. Information Technology                   0.16             SL           12/96        2/97        4/97        6/99
2. Translation of Training Material
(Multi Media)                         0.54             SL            12/96       2V97        4197         6199
3. Cutono   Operations & Study Tours        0.14             SS           TBD          TBD         TBD         TBD
C. Thnkal    ace
1. In-Houwe Advisor                         1.67             SS           8/95         8/95        9/95        5/99
a) Customs Administration Advisor
b) I.T. Advisor
c) Short Term Consultants
D. Priwt MaRmeumi SuaiWort
PMSS Contractor                             1.50             SL            8/95        10/95      12/95        6/99
low                                             54.00
a/ Includes duties nd taxes esimated at US$9.66 million, which are to be financed by the Government
ICB - lwnstional Competitive Bidding
IS - hiernatioal Shopping
SS  o Sle Sourced
TBD - To Be Determined



- 101 -
C. ISBURSMENT ARRANGEME              Am ScREDuLs
44.   The Loan would be disbursed separately for each component. Table 5 shows the
disbursement forecast for the Customs Modernization Component by semester. Disbursements
for this component are expected to be completed by December 31, 1999, approximately six
months after the end of component execution. Loan Closing will be June 30, 2000, allowing
ample time for the processing of final withdrawal applications.
Table S. Estiuated Bank Disbursanents
(US$million Equivalent)
IBRD Fia Year          FY96      FY97        FY98       FY99         FYOO
I   II   I |I    I    I         I  |        I  I]
Annual                -   0.9  1.1  1.2  4.5  4.8  8.0  8.0   9.0   6.9
rumulative            -   0.9  2.0  3.2  7.7  12.5  20.5  28.5  37.5  44.4
45.   In order to facilitate disbursements, the Bank's share of project expenditures for the
Customs Component would be disbursed through a Special Account which would be opened in
the Central Bank, and managed by the PMU. The authorized allocation for the Special Account
would be US$1.3 million, equivalent to an estimated four months of component expenditures
under the Bank loan. However, initially this level of allocation would not be allowed until the
project has disbursed an aggregate amount of US$8.7 million. Until such level of disbursements
is reached, the Special Account deposit would be limnited to US$650,000.
46.   To ensure that critical initial project activities are not delayed, provision has also been
made for retroactive financing of up to US$6.2 million for all eligible project expenditures (for
the whole PFMP) between September 29, 1994 and the expected date of loan signing.
Disbursements are expected to commence immediately at Loan Effectiveness with the initial
deposits into the Special Accounts along with the refinancing of the PPF advance. All
disbursements would be fully documented, except for expenditures on contracts for equipment
and material of less than US$300,000 and contracts for services of less than US$100,000/50,000
with firms/individual consultants. In these cases, disbursements will be made against statements
of expenditures, whose documentation will be retained by the PMU until at least one year after
dte Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account is made.



- 102 -
47.   The Government has agreed to the specific loan conditions for the Customs Modernization
Component described below (see also Main Report, paras. 6.4 b. and 6.5 c.):
Condition of Disbursement
*  The Customs Administration shall have entered into a technical assistance agreement with
the IMF, including the customs administration adviser and the information technology
adviser, both of whom shall be assigned permanently in the Customs administration.
Dated Covenants
*  By December 31, 1996, the Customs Administration shall issue new and/or revised
customs regulations.
*  By December 31, 1996, the Customs Administration shall have conducted a successful
implementation of the pilot customs operation, with the success of implementation to be
assessed on the basis of criteria agreed with the Bank, including: (i) simplification of
procedures; (ii) reduction of release times from customs control; (iii) improvement in the
accuracy of duty and tax calculations; and (iv) reduction in the rate of physical
inspections.
* By June 30, 1997, the Customs Administration shall furnish the Bank a satisfactory plan
for the reorganization of the Customs Administration (headquarters, regional and local
offices) prepared on the basis of the new regulations and automated systems.



IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
48.   A modem Turkish Customs Administration will be based on up-to-date legislation, a new
streamlined organization, and simplified, fully automated customs procedures developed in
partnership with the trade community. The benefits to be expected from modernization include:
*  More efficient revenue collection
*  More effective customs controls
*  Better service to the trade commnunity
*  Uniform application of customs laws
*  Better use of personnel resources
*  Efficient production of trade statistics.
B. MAIN PROJECT RISKS
49.   The main project risk is that a final agreement between Turkey and the EU related to the
customs union may be delayed, with a consequent loss of momentum for reform. Nevertheless,
modernization of the Customs Administration, including computerization, is still necessary to
support the trade community and to meet the Government's revenue effort. Consequently, even
if agreement on the customs union is delayed, the project should proceed. Nevertheless, a
protracted delay would mean that implementation of the EU common external tariff will not take
place and development of the tariff module of the automated system will take longer than
currently planned (i.e., the SOFIX tariff module will require significant modifications). The
project development and implementation schedule will have to be revised substantially and it is
likely that there would be extensive delays in implementation of the pilot site and the national
system.
C. O1WR   FACTORS AFFEcTING PRoJEcT's SuccEss
50.   Other factors affecting the success of the project include:
*     Coordination of the advice and assistance being provided to the project is
extremely important in order to ensure that it supports the overall implementation
plan. To ensure that all activities are coordinated, the SCAA, supervised by
FAD, will provide advice directly to the Deputy Undersecretary responsible for
the project on all matters related to the project. The SCAA will be responsible
for coordinating the activities of the other consultant groups providing assistance
in this component.
*     Resistance to the strategy to simplify significantly the regulatory and procedural
regime--The simplification of the trade regime is key to reducing costs for
importers and exporters to enable them to compete in an environment where tariff
barriers are being eliminated with a significant number of Turkey's trade partners
(i.e., the EU). For this reason, it is believed that the Customs Administration is
committed to this aspect of the Project. Nevertheless, if there is a perception that



- 104-
control is being sacrificed or jobs are threatened by simplification, there may be
resistance. One of the most important activities of the SCAA will be to ensure
that simplification is pursued rigorously.
*     Lack of support from the Government for organizational change in the Customs
Administration. including staff reductions, where warranted--The Customs
Administration realizes that a modem administration must include a streamlined
and rationalized organization. However, its efforts must be supported by the other
government agencies responsible for civil service rules and regulations.
*     Technical risks associated with implementation of a large national computer
network--Risks associated with implementation of a nation wide computerized
system will be minimized through the 'turnkey" approach to hardware and
software acquisition and implementation. The Customs Administration, with the
assistance of the IT adviser and PMSS contractor, should be able to manage this
contract successfully.



V. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
51.   To assess progress and to determine whether or not the project is achieving the intended
results, objective and measurable project evaluation criteria are needed. Furthermore, it is
important that the criteria be agreed upon before development and implementation of the project
and that certain information be gathered prior to any changes being made. This will ensure that
valid comparisons can be made following implementation of the changes. The intended results of
the project are to provide more efficient revenue collection; more effective customs controls;
better service to the trade community; uniform application of customs laws; better use of
personnel resource; and, efficient production of trade statistics.
52.   The following specific criteria will be used to evaluate the functional success of the pilot
customs operations:
*     Declaration processing procedures are simplified based on the principle of self
declaration by the importer and exporter (or their agent). The number of forms
and processing steps are reduced to a minimum and are similar in most respects to
those in operation in the European Union.
e     Customs formalities are completed for 90 percent of shipments within 24-48 hours
from arrival of the shipment
*     A physical inspection rate of no more than 20 percent for imports and 1-2 percent
for exports for which there is no duty drawback
*     Appropriate and adequate information is made available to the trade community so
as to enable it to comply with the required changes in a timely manner
*     90 percent accuracy rate in tariff classification and valuation at time of declaration
processing.
B. INDICATORS
53.   The intended results of the overall project component which will be used to determine its
long term success are:
*     90 percent of shipments are released within 24-48 hours from arrival of the
shipment.
*     Reduce the physical inspection rate to no more than 20 percent for imports and 1-
2 percent for exports for which there is no duty drawback.
*     Trade community is well informed about the changes being introduced and is able
to comply with the required changes in a timely manner.



- 106-
*     Workload per officer is similar to customs administrations in the EU.
*     Staff is reduced to match workload.
*     Reduce the number of refunds to no more than 10 percent of declarations
processed.
*     Achieve 95 percent accuracy in tariff classification and valuation at time of
declaration processing.
*     Staff at the local offices are able to administer the legislation in a manner that is
acceptable both to Turkey and to the EU.
*     Improve the ratio of re-assessments to declarations reviewed.
*     Increase the ratio of detections to physical inspection.
*     Increase the detection of serious infractions.
*     Complete and accurate information is data entered.
*     There will be no degradation in the accuracy or timeliness of the trade statistics.
54.   Annex 3f provides details of the evaluation criteria, key indicators related to the current
sitation, the method of measurement and the intended results.
C. REPoRN  ARRANGENSEr
55.   Based on the methods of measurements described in Annex 3f, reports will be prepared
for each site that has been implemented on a quarterly basis to determine actual performance
against the intended results. A major review will be undertaken four to sixn months after
implementation of the pilot site operation to determine if the criteria have been met. Some
adjustment to the criteria may be required, at this time, prior to national implementation.



Annex 3b
Public Financial Management Project (PFMP)
Customs Modernization Component
Undersecretariat of Customs (Customs)
Terms of Reference






Annex 3b
Customs Modenization Component
Undersecretariat of Customs (Customs)
Terms of Reference
Table of Contents
Consultancy 1:    Introductory Information Technology Training  ............ 111
Consultancy 2:    In-House Advisory Services ......                           121
Consultancy 3:    Project Management Support Services .......  127






Republic of Turkey
Prime Ministry
Undersecretariat of Customs (Customs)
Department of Data Processing and Communication (DPC)
Public Financial Management Project (PFMP)
Customs Modernization Component
Terms of Reference
CONSULTANCY 1:
PROVISION OF CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) INSTRUCTOR(S)TO CONDUCT
IN-HOUSE INTRODUCTORY TRAINING SESSIONS
BACKGROUND
1.    The Government of Turkey (GOT) has received a grant of approximately US$1.3 million
from the Japanese Government to help finance preparatory activities for a modernization and
reform program in the area of public financial management sector, including Customs, Tax
Administration, and Public Expenditure and Personnel Management.
2.    As part of the Customs modernization program, GOT intends to finance from the
proceeds of the Japanese grant a four-week generic training session of Customs' existing ADP
staff in the following four major subjects of modern computing:
- Introduction to Relational Data Base Management System (RDBMS)
e UNIX Operating System
i Introduction to Client/Server Computing
e Telecommunications and Wide Area Networking (WAN).
3.    At present the Customs is carrying out a plan to replace its existing computer systems
with modern computer systems nation-wide utilizing the Client/Server computing as well as
LANs and WANs. In order to prepare the existing and new ADP staff to participate in this
modernization program, Customs would like to proceed with the basic training program as soon
as possible. There are currently 15 ADP staff programmed to attend the above generic training
courses. 25 additional ADP staff will be recruited in July 1995. If time permits, some of the
new ADP staff may also be assigned to attend the training sessions. The existing Customs' ADP
staff are very familiar with the application systems development methodology under the third
generation computer systems and programming tools as well as the use of office automation
software products under DOS and Windows environment. They will need to upgrade their
technical skills in order to be productive in the modem computer system environment. It is
anticipated that all initial training sessions will be conducted in-house with all training facilities
and related equipment to be provided by the Customs.



- 112 -
SUMMARY OF OVERALL REQUIREmENTS
4.    This terms of reference outlines the required technical assistance to carry out the generic
training sessions of the above subjects. It includes the scope of training, deliverables, timing and
level of effort, and qualification of the IT instructor(s). The successful bidder's participation in
this project will be limited to this activity. However, this assignment can be extended by mutual
agreement between the contracting parties. Specifically, the successful bidder is prohibited from
bidding on procurement of equipment and software products under this project.
SCOPE OF TRA1NNG REQUIREMENTS
5.    Based upon the above general background, the Customs seeks the service of IT
instructor(s) with a broad experience in providing technical training classes and seminars in
Turkey and elsewhere. The IT instructor(s) are expected to work closely with the Director of the
Customs' Data Processing and Communication Department and conduct training sessions
according to the schedules, priority order, and locations to be established by the Director. This
assignment is estimated to required about four weeks duration.
6.    For this particular training assignment, the required topics to be covered by the IT
Instructor(s) for each of the four subjects are listed in the Attachment. At a minimum, the IT
Instructor(s) must cover all topics listed.
DELIVERABLES
7.    The major deliverables of this contract is the presentation of detailed technical materials
in the form of IT professional short courses or seminars as being provided in the computing
industry.
S.    Specific deliverables of this engagement are:
a.    All required training subjects will be presented to trainees in sequential order as
specified in the Attachment
b.    All required training materials will be given to each trainee for future references
c.    If training equipment and related software products are provided for some selected
topics by Customs, then the IT Instructors must also provide workshops/hand-on
exercises for the trainees.
REPORTING AND COMMUNICATIONS
9.    The Instructor(s) will work closely with the Director of ADP. At the completion of this
training assignment, in consultation with the ADP Director, the Instructor(s) will evaluate each
trainee's technical skills and make recommendations for further training to be provided to each
trainee in various advanced subjects at a later stage.



- 113 -
TIMNG AND LEVEL OF EFFoRT
10.   The first training subject is expected to start as soon as possible and no later than August
1, 1995. It is anticipated that four weeks of instructions, average one week per subject, would
be required from the IT Instructor(s).
QUAL;IFCATIONS
11.   The IT Instructor(s) to be selected for this training assignments are expected to have the
following minimum qualifications:
a.    Comprehensive technical knowledge and training experiences in the required
subjects stated above with a minimum of 5 years training experiences as a
professional IT instructor
b.    A sound technical knowledge of various type of application software systems
development with emphasis on modern RDBMS-based client/server architecture
suitable for use in a centralized Customs environment
c.    Demonstrated relevant experience in training of IT personnel operating and
supporting information systems utilizing X.25 PSDN and other data
communication facilities nationally and internationally
d.    All IT Instructors must offer fluency in Turkish language.
ATTACHMENT (1)






A LiST oF REouTRED Topics To BE CovEREPD By Suimmr=
1.    Introduction to the Relational Data Base Management System (RDBMS). Ihis subject
should be designed to provide the trainees with the knowledge to:
*  Work confidently in a Relational Data Base environment
*  Develop a data model to describe and application's data
* Design a relational data base using data modeling and normalization
*  Use SQL to access data in a relational data base
*  Work with a relational data base in a Client/Server environment
*  Evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of RDBMS.
Content:
(i) Introduction
*  An overview of DBMS technology
* Three-level information architecture (external, conceptual, and internal schemes)
*  DB server/user toolkit architecture (query languages, report writers, 4GLJapplication
generators, data-modeling CASE tools
(ii) How a relational DBMS works
3  Relational technology fundamentals
3   Components of a relational DBMS
3  Comparison with hierarchical and network data bases
(iii) Designing relational data bases
*   A step-by-step approach and techniques
3  Entity-relationship modeling
*  Normalization techniques
*   Physical data design
(iv) Accessing a relational data base
*  Using SQL to access the data base
*   Programming vs. interactive access
(v) Data base directions
*  Data bases in a client/server architecture
*  Distributed data bases



- 116 -
* Evolution of SQL
*   Impact of object-oriented technology
*  Review of representative DBMSs
(vi) Trends
2.    UNIX Operating System. This subject should be designed to provide the trainees with the
knowledge to:
*  Apply key services and utilities of UNIX operating system V
*  Employ the system V shell, the korn shell, the C shell, scripts, pipes and filters
*  Use the X Windows system, Motif, OpenLook and applications
*  Perform key maintenance functions (backup/restore)
*  Use UNIX mail and UNIX network commands
*  Browse and search online documentation.
Content:
(i) Introduction and overview
* The UNIX operating system: understanding and using features
* Present versions
* Standards
(ii) Commands, files and filters
* Commands, arguments and options
* Using UNIX files
* UNIX filter programs
* Reading online documentation
(iii) The UNIX file system
* Organization of data in UNIX files
* Directory hierarchy
(iv) The UNIX shells
* System V (Bourne) shell
* C shell
* Korn shell
(v) X Window system and application
* X Window system concepts
* Window managers and applications



- 117 -
(vi) Shell and filter programming
* Advanced filters, regular expressions
* Shell programming
(vii) The programming environment
* The C programming language
* About the programmer's workbench
(viii) Local and network communication
* Mail, write, and talk
(ix) UNIX system administration
3.    Introduction to Client/Server Computing. This subject should be designed to provide the
trainees with the knowledge to:
-  Eevaluate the benefits of a client/server approach vs. traditional data processing
3  Migrate legacy applications to client/server
-  Compare major client/server architectures
3  Adapt software design approaches to the client/server model
3  Apply the client/server model to the distributed computing environment (DCE)
3  Test and tune client/server applications
3  Identify the key client/server vendors and their products.
Content:
(i)  Attribute of client/server systems
- Defining client/server systems
* Benefits
(ii)  Client/Server architecture
* Distributed processing architecture
* Client/Server technology
(iii) Designing successful client/server applications
* Segmenting and allocating functions
* Design considerations



- 118 -
(iv) Client/Server connectivity
* Client/Server communications
* Client/Server protocols
(v)  Implementing client/server applications
* Programming support
* Testing strategies
* Migration strategies
* Performance and optimization
(vi) Client/Server system management
(vii) DCE and the client/server model
*  Distributed computing environment (DCE)
* DCE services
(viii) Vendors and visions
3 Traditional platforms
3 Client/Server software
(ix) Emerging trends
4.    Telecommunications and Wide Area Networking (WAN). This subject should be
designed to provide the trainees with the knowledge to:
*  Relate fundamental voice and data concepts to real-world wide area networking
*  Make sense of current and future WAN/telecom technologies
*  Select analog and digital transmission options for cost, performance, and reliability
*  Use WAN services to interconnect LANs
*  Benefit from open standards such as ISDN, TAPI, TSAPI, X.25, TI/El, V.34, and
V.42bis
*  Evaluate cost-saving approaches including frame relay, ATM and voice/video/data
compression.
Content:
(i)  Getting started
* The drive towards WAN/telecom integration
* Basic telephony
* Basic data communications



- 119 -
(ii)  How WANs work
* WAN system components
* Transmission basic
* Switching approaches
* Multiplexing
(iii) Voice services
* Assessing your needs
* Telephony APIs for PCs
* Carriers
(iv) Network signaling and routing
(v)  Impairments and error control
(vi) Circuit-oriented data services
* Leased lines and private lines
* International links
X Dial-up standards
* Switched digital services
(vii) Optimizing bandwidth
* Sharing services
* Compression approaches
(viii) Packet-switched data services
* Profile of packet services
- Frame relay
* X.25
* Other packet services
(ix) Summary
* Building and managing networks
* Application examples and product review






Republic of Turkey
Prime Ministry
Undersecretariat of Customs (Customs)
Public Financial Management Project (PFMP)
Customs Modernization Component
Terms of Reference
CONSULTANCY 2:
IMF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
IN-HOUSE AND SHORT-TERM ADVISERS
1.    In response to a request from the Turkish authorities for technical assistance in improving
customs administration, the Fund would provide advice to the authorities to assist in the
implementation of the plans put forward in the World Bank Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of
7hurkey: Public Financial Management Project, Annex III: Customs Modernization. The
principle areas for which advice would be provided are: legislation and procedures; computer
systems development and imnplementation; and human resource management and training. This
advice is to be provided through the recruitment and supervision of a long term Senior Customs
Administration Advisor (SCAA), a long term Information Technology Advisor (ITA), and other
experts responsible for advising on specific technical and organizational topics. The technical
assistance is to be delivered over an 18 month period, beginning in November 1995.
BACKGROUND
2.    The Turkish Customs Administration is reorganizing its operations with a view to
modernizing its administration to become more efficient. The primary reason for the change is
the entry of Turkey into a customs union with the European Union (EU) by the end of 1995. At
the same time, the administration, is facing the same issues and problems of other customs
administrations including: increases in the volume of trade; changes in the types of goods being
imported and exported; application of complex regulations of other government departments; and,
more sophisticated means of smuggling.
3.    As a first step towards modernization, the administration was removed from the Ministry
of Finance in July 1993 and created as a separate Ministry of State. Several other measures have
also been undertaken, including the implementation of anti-dumping legislation, introduction of
the GATT Valuation.Agreement, and the review of the current Customs Law to identify areas
where it is necessary to introduce amendments to bring it in line with EU requirements. One of
the most important requirements of the customs union is the requirement for the Customs
Administration to apply the EU common external tariff to goods originating from outside the EU.
In this regard, the administration will be required to apply not only the rates of duty in the tariff
but also its commercial policy provisions (e.g., EU quotas).
4.    The Customs Administration is now developing the changes in legislation, procedures,
organization, and computerization that are necessary to support modernization. These changes
will enable the administration to both comply with the EU legislative and procedural requirements
and provide support to the Turkish trade community to compete in the customs union. This is



- 122 -
very important as the trade regime has already been liberalized significantly and importers and
exporters are facing, already, increased competition. It will even more important after Turkey
joins in the customs union, as importers and exporters will become more and more concerned
with the costs of doing business. Through simplification and automation, Customs has the
opportunity to reduce these costs while, at the same time, to increase the effectiveness of its
control and revenue collection responsibilities.
OBJECTIVES
5.    The major outcome of the Customs Modernization Component will be an organization
that is flexible and capable of responding quickly to the needs of the government. To achieve the
desired results, the objectives of the project are to:
*  Implement modern, up-to-date customs legislation
*  Simplify and automate customs procedures
*  Introduce greater reliance on post release controls
*  Provide good service to the trade community
*  Delegate increased responsibilities to regional and local offices.
6.    The advisors would assist the authorities to implement the plans put forward in the IBRD
Staff Appraisal Report 'Republic of Turkey: Public Financial Management Project'. More
specifically, the advisors would provide project management advice to the Undersecretariat of
Customs and overall direction to the modernization project. The advisors would ensure that the
components developed and implemented at the local offices, regions, and headquarters in
Customs are compatible and that all technical assistance is coordinated (e.g., ensure that the plans
for the implementation of the SOFIX system are integrated with the total plan for modernization).
Specific responsibilities are as follows:
*  The SCAA would work directly with the Deputy Undersecretary responsible for the
modernization project and provide advice related to the overall direction to the
modernization project. This would include: directing the advice being provided by all
IMF advisors; ensuring that a detailed project plan is in place to provide for the
monitoring of progress on the project; identification of types and timing of other expert
assignments; and developing and implementing project evaluation criteria. The advisor
would also ensure that the components developed and implemented at the local offices,
regions, and headquarters in Customs are compatible and that all technical assistance is
coordinated (e.g., ensure that the plans for the implementation of the SOFIX system are
integrated with the total plan for modernization). The SCAA would work closely with the
IT expert(s) to ensure that the plans for development of the computerized system support
the simplified procedures. The expert would assist the authorities to identify suitable
training both in country and overseas.
* The IT advisor would work directly with the Head of the Electronic Data Processing
Department responsible for the computer systems development to support the
modernization project and provide advice related to the overall IT strategy. This would
include reviewing and assessing: the existing and proposed information systems;



- 123 -
implementation plans and schedules; IT organization; staffing and training; IT standards
and procedures; and the preparation and completion of Bidding Documents. Particular
attention would be paid to the development and operation of the automated system, using
the SOFIX software, to support the pilot office operation. The Advisor would review the
technical specifications for the hardware used for the pilot and ensure that the
International Competitive Bidding requirements are met for procurement of the hardware
for implementation of the system on a nationwide basis.
* The other technical assistance, to be provided through short term expert assignments,
would cover specific areas, such as:
(a) Development and implementation of simplified regulations and procedures
(b) Use of risk analysis and development of selection criteria for physical inspections
and documentary review
(c) Use of automation for valuation and tariff classification post release reviews
(d) Improved enforcement with the introduction of mobile inspection teams and in-depth
inspections
(e)  Rationalization of inspection procedures with other government departments
(f) Development of a public information program for the trade community
(g) Development of a detailed IT migration plan
(h) Preparation and completion of Bidding Documents for all ICB procurement
packages.
(i) Development of the office automation systems for regional and headquarters users
0)  Training of managers to operate in an automated environment
(k) Development of staffing plans related to the new procedures
(l) Development of training plans
(m) Development of a new organization structure
(n) Identification of approaches to rationalize staff requirements
STRATEGY AND PLAN OF ACTION FOR MODERNATION OF THE CusTOMS ADmriITRoN
7.    The strategy for modernizing the customs administration includes: legislation and
procedures, computer systems development and implementation, and human resource



- 124 -
management and training. The SCAA will ensure that a plan of action is in place for each one of
the major project components.
1. Legislation and Procedures
8.    The laws and procedures will be based on international rules, conventions, and codings
and will be compatible with EU requirements. As part of the process of developing the plan for
modernization, a review of the import and export procedures has been completed and an outline
of the new procedures was developed. It will be used by the SCAA as a basis for developing
new detailed procedures for the following:
*  Import processing
- Transit and cargo reporting
- Declaration processing
- Physical inspection
- Payment of duty and release of goods
- Post release checks
* Export processing
2.. Computer Systems Development and Implementation
9.    Headquarters, 18 regions, and 45 customs offices will be automated over a three and a
half year period. The 45 customs offices account for 90 percent of workload and 90 percent of
revenue (non-automated offices will forward documents to automated offices for processing).
The following subsystems will provide automated processing at the customs offices:
*  Import declaration processing
-  Export declaration processing
-  Revenue accounting
*  Manifest
*  Transit
*  Warehousing
*  Management information
*  External interfaces
10.   The SCAA and ITA will work closely together to ensure that the plans for development
of the computerized system support the simplified procedures. Of particular importance will be
the review of the SOFIX pilot operation and the changes that are required in the software to
support the procedures being developed for Turkish customs.
3. Human Resource Management and Training
11.   The SCAA will provide advice related to the key human resource management issues to
be addressed as Customs undertakes the modernization and, in particular, the following:



- 125-
* Organization structure
*  Number of staff required at headquarters, regions, and local offices
* New skills
* Training
FIELD VISITS
12.   The advisers may, when necessary, visit customs offices outside Ankara. The consultants
will notify the Fund in advance each time they plan to be out of the capital for 48 hours or
longer.
COORDINATION
13.   The advisers will work in close cooperation with the Deputy Undersecretary of Customs
and other senior officials in the Customs Undersecretariat, as well as with other governmental
units whose work relates to the assignment. The advisers will also cooperate with Fund and
World Bank missions at their request, and maintain contact with the other agencies involved in
technical assistance.
CoNsULTATIoN AND CORRESPONDENCE WITH FUND HEADQUARTERS
14.   The advisers will submit a work plan at the end of the second month of the assignment,
and report monthly thereafter to the Tax Administration Division. Copies of these reports will be
sent by the Tax Administration Division to the World Bank, and formal reviews and assessments
of the progress achieved will be made on an annual basis.






Republic of Turkey
Prime Ministry
Undersecretariat of Customs (Customs)
Public Financial Management Project (PFMP)
Customs Modernization Component
Terms of Reference
CONSULTANCY 3:
PROVISION OF CONSULTANCY
FOR PROJECT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT SERVICES
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Turkey (GOT) is embarking upon a program that will modernize
substantially its Customs administration system. This process is fairly advanced, and a number
of seminal studies, conducted under the auspices of a grant from the Government of Japan, have
made extensive recommendations for modernization and reform (see Annex le). Implementation
is to be funded by the GOT as one part of an omnibus project--the Public Financial Management
Project (PFMP). The PFMP consists of the following major components:
L.   Customs Administration
1I.  Tax Administration
Ill. Expenditure and Personnel Management.
BACKGROUND
2.    The customs administration in Turkey is in the process of reorganizing its operations with
a view to modernizing procedures and becoming more efficient. The primary reason for the
change is the entry of Turkey into a customs union with the European Union (EU) by the end of
1995. As a first step, the administration was removed from the Ministry of Finance in July,
1993 and created as a separate Ministry of State. Customs is now developing the changes in
legislation, procedures, organization and computerization that are necessary to support a modern
administration that will be able not only to administer the EU common external tariff but also
provide support to Turkish importers and exporters as they compete in the customs union. In
addition to the requirements for change related to the entry into the customs union, Customs in
Turkey is facing the same issues and problems of other customs administrations including:
increases in the volume of trade; changes in the types of goods being imported and exported;
application of other government department regulations; and, more sophisticated means of
smuggling.
3.    In preparation for entry into the customs union, several measures have already been
undertaken including the implementation of anti-dumping legislation; introduction of the GATT
Valuation Code; and the review of the current Customs Law to identify areas where it is
necessary to introduce amendments to bring it in line with EU requirements. One of the most
important requirements of the customs union is the administration of the EU common external
integrated tariff and, in this regard, Customs will be required not only to apply the rates of duty



- 128 -
in the tariff but also its commercial policy provisions (e.g., EU quotas). To address this need,
Customs received technical assistance from the EU to identify the legislative and procedural
changes required by Customs to implement the customs union requirements. (The program began
in September 1993 and included experts visiting Turkey to assess the needs and Customs sending
officers to the Community members to review customs procedures).
PRoECT OBJECTTVES AND DEscRIPToN
4.    The objective of the component is to assist in introducing a modern customs system based
on up-to-date legislation, a new streamlined organization and full automation of customs
procedures in partnership with the trade community. To achieve the desired results, subsidiary
objectives of the project are, as follows:
* Technology supported customs procedures
* Greater reliance on post release controls
* Service orientation and good relations with the trade community
* Delegation of authority and responsibility to regional and local levels.
The benefits to be expected from modernization include:
- More efficient revenue collection
* More effective customs controls
- Better service to the trade community
* Uniform application of customs laws
* Better use of personnel resource
* Efficient production of trade statistics.
5.    While modernization requires automation, it is not enough to introduce the most
sophisticated technology as this alone will not guarantee successful modernization. All of the
components of the modernization program must be in place, including the legislation and needed
operational procedures; organizational structure and management systems; and human and
financial resources. Substantial technical assistance will be need to ensure that the necessary
coordinated action plan is carried out.
6.    The main customs procedures to be automated are cargo inventory control; import and
export declaration processing; customs enforcement; revenue accounting; and, external trade
statistics. The key components of the future modernized system are:
* Improvement of legislation and procedures
* Computer system development and implementation
* Human resource management and training
* Project management support.
7.    The total cost of the Customs component is about US$72.9 million, of which US$47.5
million is to be financed by the World Bank. A fuller description of the Customs component is
given in Annex 3a of the Staff Appraisal Report.



- 129 -
8.    The project will be implemented by the relevant departments of the Undersecretariat of
Customs, under the overall management and coordination of a Project Management Unit (PMU).
Project implementation will be phased over three and a half years, including initial technical
design, implementation of a pilot project, and then extension nationwide. The PMU will need to
be staffed with personnel with skills in project management and planning, accounting,
procurement, contract monitoring, information processing, and other relevant fields. External
assistance will be provided as required. These terms of reference describe an assignment to
provide professional project management support services to the Customs PMU.
PROJECT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT SERVICES
9.    The Undersecretariat of Customs has decided to procure support project management
services during the implementation of defined activities of this component under the following
categories:
*  National and international consultants
*  Subcontracts
*  Local training activities
*  Overseas study tours
*  Operational support services
AcTIvIiEs AND EXPECTED OUTPUTS
10.   The responsibilities of the contractor in relation to the five categories of activity under the
Project Management Support Services (PMSS) are described below.
11.   National and international Consultants. This category covers the recruitment and
remuneration of national and international consultants and project support staff. Specifically, the
PMSS contractor will be responsible for undertaking the following activities, all in consultation
with the Head of the PMU.
a. Negotiating and determining contractual arrangements and signing contractual
documents with international and national consultants approved by the General
Director. The terms of reference for each consultant will be prepared by the PMU
and approved by the World Bank
b. Undertaking all kinds of administrative tasks such as regular payment to the
consultants, insurance and relevant taxes
c. Undertaking all kinds of administrative tasks for the staff of the PMU, both GDR
officials and consultants, such as travel arrangements, payments and per diems; in
relation to project related field trips and attendance to national and international
meetings, seminars, etc.
d. Keeping financial and accounting records and regular reporting to the Head of the
PMU and Director General.



- 130 -
12.   Sntracts. This category covers the contract management of planned studies and
researches to support the changed procedures, new technology acquisition and implementation,
and institutional development of the Customs' modernization program; supervision of training
programs, including management training; development and production of public information
materials and other project services as may be required. Specifically, the contractor will be
responsible for undertaking the following activities, all in consultation with the Head of the
PMU.
a. Issue of Requests for Proposals (RFPs) to the selected firms according to the Terms
of Reference (TORs) and the shortlist of firms proposed by Customs and approved by
the World Bank
b. Undertaking necessary activities related to the evaluation of bid proposals,
amendments in TORs as requested by Customs upon the approval of the World Bank;
and negotiating and contracting with the successful bidder upon the final approval of
the Deputy-Undersecretary of Customs
c. Undertaking all kinds of administrative tasks such as payments to the subcontractor(s)
based on the payment plan agreed in their contract and upon the final confirmation of
the Deputy Undersecretary of Customs
d. Keeping financial and accounting records and reporting to the PMU regularly.
13.   Training Programs. This category covers the management support services for the
implementation of all training programs to be organized for Customs personnel under this
component. Specifically, the contractor will be responsible for undertaking the following
activities, all in consultation with the Head of the PMU.
a. Undertaking all kinds of administrative tasks such as advance payments, reconciliation
of advance payments and final payments to the regional and local staff and also to the
PMU, as the case may be, based on the global training program to be prepared by
Customs and approved by the World bank
b. Keeping financial and accounting records and reporting to the Head of the PMU
regularly.
14.   Study Tours. This category covers the management support services to the
implementation of overseas study tours, which will be provided for management and technical
personnel.
a. Undertaking all kinds of administrative tasks such as travel arrangements and
payments for each of the fellow and the host institution(s) selected by Customs and
approved by the World Bank
b. Keeping financial and accounting records and reporting to the Head of the PMU
regularly.



- 131 -
15.   Operational Support Services. This activity covers the procurement of translation
services, office equipment, furniture, and supplies for the PMU to facilitate project activities.
a. Undertaking procurement procedures for translation services, office equipment,
furniture and supplies according to the technical specifications and itemized list of
requirements prepared by the PMU and approved by the World Bank, and contracting
with the successful bidder upon the final approval of the Head of the PMU
b. Undertaking necessary activities related to the evaluation of bid proposals,
amendments in technical specifications as requested by the Head of the PMU upon the
approval of the World bank, and negotiating and contracting with the successful
bidder upon the final approval of the Head of the PMU
c. Undertaking all kinds of administrative tasks such as payments to the subcontractor(s)
based on the payment plan agreed in their contracts and upon the confirmation of the
Head of the PMU
d. Keeping financial and accounting records and reporting to the PMU regularly.
INPUTS FROM UNDERSCRETARIAT OF CUSTOMS
16.   The Project Management Unit (PMU) of the Undersecretariat of Customs as the
implementation agency is charged with the responsibility to carry out necessary administrative
and support activities including the preparation of Terms of Reference, short lists, obtaining no-
objections from the World Bank, and any other official clearances as required, approval of
contracts, technical review of consultant's performance, and outputs as per the relevant rules and
regulations established by the World Bank.
17.   Customs will provide adequate funds in a timely manner from the proceeds of the IBRD
loan and its own budget to meet component costs, including the PMSS contractor's administration
fee.
CONTRAcToR's ADMINsIRATIoN FEE
18.   The contractor shall indicate, in its proposal, the fee for services such as accounting,
payroll, financial reporting, computer time, secretarial and other assistance to be provided. The
'administration fee' must be justified by the staffing plan. Any increase or decrease in the
amount of administrative costs resulting from increases or decreases in the amount of the services
to be provided will be mutually agreed by Customs and the contractor.
REviSIONS
19.   The following types of revisions may be made to these TOR upon the mutual agreement
of both Customs and the contractor:



- 132 -
a. Revisions which do not involve significant changes in the immediate objectives,
outputs or activities of a project, but are caused by the rearrangement of inputs
already agreed to or by cost increases due to inflation
b. Mandatory annual revisions which alter the delivery of agreed project inputs or
increased expert or other costs due to inflation.
20.   In the event of any other changes in the Loan Agreement that cause a significant change
in the type and amount of services to be provided by the contractor, the administrative fee may
be rearranged upon the mutual agreement of Customs and the PMSS Contractor.
REPORTING, REVIEW, AND EVALUATION
21.   The consultants will report to the Head of the PMU. The lead consultant would serve as
an ex officio member of the PMU. The assignment will also require close liaison with the Senior
Customs Administration Advisor. The consultants will be required to assist the PMU to prepare
period reports covering procurement, disbursement and audit issues to be submitted to the World
Bank. The PMSS arrangement would be subject to annual review. Extension of the initial
contract (for one year at a time) would be subject to a satisfactory review.
TIMNG AND LEVEL OF EFFORT
22.   This consultancy will be conducted in the capital city of Ankara, in the Republic of
Turkey. A team of two-three professional project management specialists, equipped with the
knowledge and skills-to ensure the timely provision of support services for the successful
implementation of project activities, is required to assist Customs throughout the period of
component execution. Short term consultants would be added on an as needed basis, e.g.,
translation services.
23.   The assignment is expected to start by September 1, 1995 and will last until April 30,
1999, through a series of annual contracts.
QUALIFICATIONS
24.   Bidders will be required to submit qualification profiles for the consultant who will carry
out the assignment. The profile will form an important part of the bid evaluation. The
consultants must be fluent in both the English and Turkish languages. Prior experience with
World Bank projects is an advantage. The selected consultants would be able to demonstrate
superior professional and technical capacity, as well as experience in:
a. Managing and coordinating complex projects of similar magnitude, preferably in the
financial complex of large organizations
b. Undertaking large volumes of financial transactions with several different entities
within a limited time period.



- 133 -
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS
25.   The Project Management Unit of the Undersecretariat of Customs (PMU) has overall
responsibility for the management and coordination of the customs component of the PFMP.
However, all of the activities covered under the component and described in this document will
be implemented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the World Bank and within the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement. In case of conflict between rules and
regulations of the contractor and the World Bank, the latter shall prevail.
26.    Since the project aims to improve the quality of customs administration including
services provided to the public and to other Government agencies, contractors are expected to
give special consideration to the development of an institutional capacity in project management
and implementation, at the central, regional and local office levels of the Undersecretariat of
Customs. Timely provision of services and flow of resources by the contractor will be very
critical for the successful implementation of the Project, since training on changed procedures,
improved facilities and technology, will be implemented in a large number of locations through
the life of the project (headquarters, 18 regional offices and 45 customs offices to be automated.)






Annex 3c
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Customs Modernization Component
Undersecretariat of Customs (Customs)
Detailed Costs Table






Turkey
Public Flncil Managem nt Project
Cuftm. Modemnzaton Cmnpont - Detailed Cotad (USS'OOO)
O(XWM                        TOTAL
BD    Cod                                 De            TobI         (Iuadudg
Ult          Rb_dw           199f        19W        1997       199S       199       TOW      * Tam    C          _geodu   Ca _dnmdm)
A. CMl Wwb
1. Sim Bm,m                                                                                                                                 9s L471 50311  602  Q Q
s) H.dqii1.                                            haws=            GOT             189        337         65          0          0        591            0             31             621
b) Rq*muuOffi                                          huVmm            OOT             125        223         43          0          0        390            0             20             411
c) LolOffim                                           hmsp ,OOT                        476    U    47        163          0          0      1,4g7            0              77          1564
d)         C40W                                        hmp mm           OOT            961       1.712        330          0          0      3003             8             156          1159
SuMawl                                                                                1,751      3,118        602          0          0      5.471           0             2g5           5,755
L Iu    Teeoskg 3qpm._
. fin. omQ g                                                                                              7        13472     Li             Q      1sS            1.113467
a)DwaopmmtSyd-                                             I           MlRD               0         37        149        186          0        372           79              34            406
b)C _ummkaoS Sw                                            I           3RD                0         74        298        372          0        744          157              67            8II
C)B aqf Syi                                                I           MRD                0         37        149        186          0        372           79              34            406
d LAN                                                     4            IRD                0          4          17        21          0         42            9               4             46
e) PaUmmIC qWs                                            150          mRD                0         56        223        279          0        558           S               50            60S
f) Ta                                                    300           3RD                0         37        149       16           0        372           79              34            406
g) I_Prhim                                                50           11RD               0         12         50         62          0        124           26              11            135
1) k Pixpribm                                            100           MRD                0         12         50         62          0        124           26              11            135
) LinePthauu                                              2            IBRD               0          4         16         20          0         40            8               4             43
j) Cammuic         25 - k ,X255 w        4Mo  )        h u              IBRD              0         62        24S         310         0        620          131              56            676
Q      2.07       IOS28    I123u            Q     27 071         ,              2.45
s) Syp_o Type A                                            7            3RD                0        434       1.736      2,170         0      4.340          916             392          4,732
b) Syiim Typ B                                             15            3RD               0        651       2604       3,255         0      6.510   1,374                  588          7.091
C) SN  T> C                                                34            3RD               0       1.054      4,216      5.270         0      10,541       2.220             952         11.492
4 Sy    Typ D                                             600            3RD               0        m          293       1.116         0      2.232          471             202          2,434
G)).tPri.iuu                                               700           IBRD              0         87        347        434          0        i68          133              78            946
)L1_Pkim                                                  100          IBRD               0         25         99        124          0        248           52              22            270
d) Lin Pim.                                                 5            IBRD              0         10          40        50          0         99           21               9            IOt
h)Tetnih                                                  1.00          3RD               0        223        t93       1,116         0      2.232          471             202         2434
3. 0p_Spt         :                                                                                       M131                   2           0      I615  Q        2 m            119 
a)Cs.(25616 U-)                                             1            BRD               0          4          16        20          0         40            a               4             43
b)LI-rRmgmu(128t.U)                                         a            3RD               0         23         91         114         0        228           48              21            249
c) Mt&CaS.ARa(64tha)                                       14            3RD               0         33         132    165             0        330           70              30            360
dS=IIWR^ia(32 U-)                                          20            IRD               0         37         149       16          0        372           79              34            406
e)S _IIRc1kw(I6U-)                                         16            BRD               0         26         103        129         0        25t           54              23            281
O)CAwDOS?IOVLL alidmmD                                     2             3RD              0           1          4          5          0         10           2                1             11
S)Cui  UNIX                                                 2            3RD               0          1           4          6         0          11           2               1             12
h)Co- &Ro--Sp-S tAd                                        10            BRD               0          1           3          3         0          7            1               1              7
i)Cua&Rjio - W ordPt                                       20            BRD               0          1           4          5         0         10            2               1             11
j)Cer& Re-DiaCommt                                          10           3RD               0           1          5          6          0         12           3               1             14
k) C w - C Cc      r                                        I            MRD               0          0           0          1          0          1           0               0              I
1)Ca  - OCBOI C       _Ci                                   I            IRD               0          0           0          I          0          1           0               0              1
u)C-X h Whmou                                               I            mm                0          0           1          1          0          2           1               0              3
n CaasW-dawWukCfr            i(p                           30            3RD               0          2           7          9          0         19           4               2             20
o) OdwA fflmSdwuPi                                        1mp             BRD              0          1           5          6          0         12           3               1             14
P1
W.






OftWm                       TOTAL
B_ Cod                                   Do"           Tow         aI._*g
Ul.         Ea1                         199        1997       1996      199       TaI   A Tar    Csubpudsa    C_d.ma)
4     B   Sa uinu                                                                             Q        ZL        2J. LA                   9 A  Q 5L.2                                      5
a)Pff&a:ii(I61hUa)                                        15           IRD               0         44        176       219          0        439          93              40            473
b) Pto&mA(32 U-)                                          20           3RD               0        109        435       543          0       1.0t7        229              93          1,1t5
C)PM&Knim(64 Ut )                                         14           BRD               0        143        573       716          0       1.432        302             129          1,561
d)Prod.imQ2ltU )                                          3            am                0        164        654       333          0       1,636        345             148          1.784
s)Pftxbcnm(S12Ut=)                                        I            13RD              0         62        24        310          0        620          131             56            676
f  a.a3q (32Lhm)                                          I            BRD              0          13         S2        65          0        130          2               112           142
g)P mduiia~sLAN-16 Ua)                                    3            BRD               0          7         27         34         0         6t           14              6             75
bh)D-kp.W(PCSLAN- 16 U )                                  I            mm                0          5         1I         23         0         46           10              4             50
134        914         9           Q         Q       LS27          376                         L41
a) 30 KWA                                                 2             3RD             37         37          0          0         0         74           15              3             77
b)20KWA                                                  t            D3RD            147        147          0          0         0        294          60              14            30t
c) SK KWA                                                 Is           EIRD              0        254        254          0         0        509          105             34            543
d)1OKWA                                                   33           3RD               0        455        455          0         0        911   It     3               61            971
a)PCsLANUPS                                               4              wRD             0         20         20          0         0         40            3              3             42
6AWinyEq          t                                         hmp  m3RD                         0         12         50         62          0        124          26              11           135
7. hiICwtwmblePmdu&a                                        l.p  m           3RD              0         12         50         62          0       124           26             11            135
t."Ndmv&So*wu.1.km           a                              lp*  m          I3RD              0          0          0      5.196          0      5.196       1,172           1.410        64723
9. Ofca Awwt&im   Eqwhpt & &wba for PCU                     hup  am         BRD               0         50        193        243          0       496          105             45            541
10. SaxPi1g Siadw          & Sot_w                          kw*             OOT           2.046      4,154          0          0         0      6.200        1.259            305         64506
Sd                                                                                      X2230      3.63      15,911    24,173          0     51.177       10.912          5.257         56.551
C2 V                                                                           R /aD2m          0         37         37          0          0        74           15               5            79               w
L_L_                                                                                          Q    2               1 9                   27    m                 Q
c) Ahinl Iu frb         ff                              13sff           3RD              0         56         38         33        19        150           0              13            163
b) TaM1b adfk.hm(mhu1d. Ami)                           hum       I     BRD               0        133        125        125        63        500            0             42            542
c) Comm,   imumdAUPin wII, 13                                          3BRD              0         48         32         32         16       123            0             11            139
_         eMAIMWM                                                                             Q        IM         444        444          Q      if75            9            11           I"
a) Om"      lir flof                                                   G ',       OOT    0        1352        76         76         0        303           0              22            326
b) Cog-,         u        On Rm&W(3   . 4 wm           hm              GOT               0        736        368        363          0      1.472           0            109    1,580
S lbWW                                                                                   0       1,179       63t       638         97      X553            0             196          2.749
K Tk A,m
1.H.o m Ad,ow                                            12puo              3BRD             20        160         30         30          0       240            0             15            255
2. LT. AM,i                                              12pm -rA           IERD             20         140        30         30         20        240           0              17           257
3.9Shut TaCm        a                                       h    _wm        3MRD              0        601        270        210          0      1.030           0              77          1,157
S   l3                                                                                 40        901        330        270         20      1.560           0            108          1.663
F. F,    Mmq.ind kpph.t                                       hB mm           3RD              50         400        400       40         250  I,SOO               0               0          1.500
TOTAL                                                                                4S71       14,49      17,91U    2548          367     63356       1f7               WIt51 
/ a For       purp
*J 






Annex 3d
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Customs Modernization Component
Undersecretariat of Customs (Customs)
Implementation Plan



I



.*    U4        *                          -&    &                                        
W ,    i , ,, ts , 0 j ,  !    , !                                                     y j~~. 0 O
't'1'   111t1111 ]j   I 
I~~~~Id
C   ..   ......... .. .............. ............ . . . . ........r  W.o-8
II  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
.....................          .....  .........  ......................... ........ ........................................  ...  ..................  
-~~~ tt1 -
El~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
Ii    *                I.ii* IIJ   I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
.   .   .   .   .   .   . .. .. -    - -- --. .   .. .. .. ..  . . ..  . .. .. .   .. .   . .. ..   . .. .
I. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .        . . .   . . .     . .   .       .   . . . . .   . . . . .
.. . .. . . ..   .   . .   .   .   . . .. . .. . .  . . .. . . ..   .. . . .. . .  . .   .   .   . .   .   .   . . .. . .. . . .   . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . ..   . .. .   . . .
C                                                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
..    . . . . . . . .     . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .   . .. . .   . .   . . . . . . . . . . .. . .-. .   . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . .
I~~~~~~~~~~C7 -






.-                                   V                        F:                            -        0 
.~L  Ij    X     jfI
~~~~~~i                                                                                    1                                                  es!Es    3.    X*      
-& I I C   t lV  S1 iLLXLg.I 1                                                                                              0 II
ii                                             _ 11_11 'k1
l.           |.|.     . .   ...   .   . .   . .   . ............ .. .  - -   ......... . .  .. .   . ..  ......  ... ...   ........                           .   ...   . .     .   ....   .. .D._
C                                                                                                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
...........................    ...    ..........    ..    ..    ..................    ... .....    ........... .......    ....  .    ..    .. ....    ......    . ..    .....................    ........... ............................    . a_
I~~~~~~~~l                                                                  8 






Public Financial Mpnagement Project
Customs Impmnentation Plan
1995         1996         1997         1998          1999
ID   Task Name                                                    Duration   Start   Finish  0Q2Q3 Q4 01 1Q21030Q4101 JQ2 Q30Q4JQ1 IQ21Q3104Q01 |Q20Q3104101
39       d. Develop public information program                        849d   1/1/96    4/1/99
40   4. Advisory ServIces                                           191.8w   9/1/95    6/5/99
41       a. IT advisory services                                       57w   9/1/95   10/3/96
42       b. In- House customs T.A advisor & s. term customs advisors   90w  11/1/95   7/22/97
43       c. Develop detailed implementation plan                       57d  11/1/95   1/18/96
44       d. Develop and inplement the project evaluation criteria   174.6w    1/1/96    5/5/99
46           i. design evaluation crfteria and data colltion techniques  86d   1/1/96   4/29/96
46           ii. colect data In plot site prior to implementation of change  65d   3/1/96   5/30/96
47           iii. colct data duing operation of the piot              1 32d   7/1/96  12/31/96
, . ~H
48           lv. redesign evaluation criteria & data collection as necessary  588d   2/N97    5/5/99  .   
49   6. Project Management Support Service                          191.2w  11/1/95   6/30/99
Task                                  Summary                               Rolled Up Progres
Progress                              Roled Up Taok
Mlsats                                Rolled Up MWstons






Anoe3.
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGMENT PROJECT
Customs Modernization Component
SimpUfled Customs Opertional Procedures






Customs Modernization Component
Simpliried Customs Operational Procedures
IMPORT PROCESSING PROCEDURES
1.     The import processing system has been developed based on procedures that are in line
with EU operations.
Transit and cargo reporting
TIR carnet
2.     The proposed system relies on: use of the TIR carnet data for reporting cargo; computer
matching of data; increased responsibility of customs officers; local and regional responsibility
for investigations and legal proceedings; and, increased managerial responsibilities for deputy
directors.
*  Upon arrival of the truck, the driver presents to Customs the carnet, attached
documentation, and an identity document.
*  Customs keys the carnet data into the computer system.
*  A team headed by an officer, assisted by examining officers. carries out the physical
controls. '
*  Based on information available in the computer (e.g., previous cases against the
carrier/driver, intelligence reports, etc.) the officer decides (a) to verify the seals and
replace them and/or (b) inspect the goods. Cab checks can take place at this time.
e  The officer signs/endorses the carnet, detaches the entrance counterfoil, and the driver
proceeds to the exit gate.
*  The officer enters the findings (e.g., new seals, and seal number) into the computer.
*  A customs guard checks, at the compound exit, that the carnet is properly stamped,
and the truck exits.2
'Physical control is a generic expression covering the activity of Customs when the goods am under cutom
control. It may not include physical inspection.
2 Further monitoring could be achieved through a computerized ticket, delivered by Customs at the etry gte mdn
retrieved at the exit gate of the compound. However, this system is only rocommended when there is a lr
amount of traffic, and when several customs 'regimes" are mun in paralll (transit, outright clearnco for domedic
con_mption, etc.)



- 152 -
* The entrance counterfoil is filed in batches by date at the customs office.
At te point of destination:
* The driver presents the carnet at the office.
* The carnet number is entered into the computer system and the system verifies the
number and displays the carnet data. The officer compares the hard copy carnet
information with the computer data.3
*  The officer decides whether or not to inspect the truck or attend the unloading at the
warehouse (e.g., an inspection may be necessary if there is a discrepancy between
entrance data and the carnet). The inspection findings are entered into the system.4
* The discharge copy of the carnet is filed locally. This will be used for cases
requiring legal proceedings. Copies are destroyed at the end of the legal retention
period.
In order to ensure that all TIR's are accounted for and to follow up on those that are outstanding:
*  The system generates daily printouts of unmatched transactions after a predetermined
delay (e.g., the authorized duration of transit, which can be set by the computer) at
the office of initial report of the goods.
*  The deputy directors initiate investigations. This action takes place at the office
where the goods were allowed into the country as this office is responsible for
following up on their own actions.
3  The deputy directors set profiles for checks and examinations (e.g., firms with a
record of poor compliance and/or certain countries of origin).
* A record of outstanding carnets is maintained by the computer, so that whenever a
truck belonging to the same carrier enters the country, Customs can hold the shipment
until the outstanding query is satisfied.'
3 A printout, serving as a nmifest, could be geneated at this stage, allowing for transition between prosont
legiation and a future paper free environment.
Altbnatively, the driver proceeds diretly to the warehouse, whero there is a computer terminal and a customs
tem (inspector, clefk and examining officers). All operations ua  handled from this unit in the me manner
described for the customs office. The advantage of this system is that Customs have closer control over the goods,
ad the driver saves time.
S This is a very efficient way of ensuring proper compliance.



- 153 -
3.    Regional Headquarters receive reports of unmatched transactions, and monitor the tracing
carried out at local level. The Region initiates legal proceedings where the tracing action has
been unsuccessful. Headquarters (Directorate General of Audit) receive reports of outstanding
cases, and are in charge of (a) foreign contacts, and (b) initiating action against the guarantee
held by the Chamber of Commerce.
4.    The advantages of this system are, as follows:
* Increased responsibility to staff at lower level, and effective monitoring by
management
*  Faster flow of goods
*  Reduced headquarters operational workload
*  Compatible with the European Union Community Transit scheme.
Cargo Reporting-Seaports
5.    It is the responsibility of the captain of the ship to report the arrival of the ship to
Customs. These reports are supported by regular reports from the harbor master's office which
should be verified on a regular, random basis by visits to the office.
*  Unloading--enforcement teams are present when ships are unloaded (these teams may be
present on an unannounced, planned basis). These teams should receive a copy of the
manifest or any other shipping document listing the cargo, and, on a random basis,
compare the packages to the reported cargo as they are taken into the warehouse.
* Documentation--the initial report is the ship's manifest (submitted in a customs approved
format) from which data is entered into the customs system (manifest module). The
shipping agent could key the information into the customs computer or provide the data to
customs on diskette (automatic data transmission would follow).
*  Manifest clearance--relies a match between manifested and declared goods. Daily reports
of outstanding manifest items (i.e., goods not declared within the legislated timeframe)
are produced and traced by Customs, at the initial office of report.
*  Inventory contr1l--enforcement teams carry out random inventory control checks, to
ensure that goods not declared are still in warehouse. 6
' Under present operations, the Istanbul Port Authority gives Customs a list of continers and their location,
however, there are frequent difficulties in locating containers. Closer monitoring of warehouse movements by
Customs would increase the reliability of this data.



- 154 -
Declaration processing
Presentation of declarations
6.     All declarations are completed based on the principle of self-declaration whereby they are
fully completed, including the tariff classification and value, by the importer or agent. This
approach: reduces the workload of Customs; ensures responsible for the accuracy of the data;
complies with European Union standards; and, allows declarations to be prepared before the
arrival of goods.7
7.     The computer system carries out the required validity checks (e.g., means of transport
and port of entry). To ensure good quality information, importers and agents making frequent
errors would be informed, warned, and eventually fined. A fining policy should, therefore, be
drafted, and operated at local level for minor cases, and at regional level for more serious or
repeated offenses. 8
Declaration processing and controls
8.     The system would provide assistance to the customs officer by providing information in
the following areas.
9.     Tariff classification--access to the integrated tariff will enable officers to detect, for
example, adjacent tariff lines with higher rates of duty, thus pointing out possible misdescription.
10.    Valuation checks--declared values can be checked against a valuation data base showing
previously recorded transaction values for identical or similar goods. This data base should be
organized according to tariff headings and importers.
11.    Risk analysis and selectivity--the computer system can provide the officers with:
e Sensitive goods that have been previously identified in fraud cases, or likely to be
smuggled or mis-declared
* Countries from which sensitive goods are likely to be exported
* Importers and/or agents with a delinquent record with Customs
7 The declarations can be presented to Customs when the agent is aware when the goods will arrive, and stored
in the system. The declaration would be automatically validated when the goods are reported to Customs. Using
this process there is no need for a hard copy of the declaration, although some supporting documentation would have
to be submitted to Customs (invoice, certificates, bill of lading). Alternatively, the importer and/or clearing agent
could be requested to keep a signed copy.  These procedures require legislation, to establish clearly the
responsibility of the agents in the absence of a signed document.
7 In more serious cases, the agents' licenses could be suspended or even canceled.



- 155 -
* Carriers known for not properly discharging transit documents
* Newly established importers whose reliability has not yet been dek2rmined
* Container registration number checks.
12.   This data can be processed to establish risk profiles. When a declaration matching these
profiles is processed, the system can select it for further scrutiny. The system must also select
declarations at random to ensure that all goods not otherwise selected have an equal opportunity
for close scrutiny.
Physical inspections
13.   At present, declarations are allocated to individual officers by the deputy directors who
are responsible for ensuring that the workload is evenly divided. Deputy directors provide
inspection instructions after scanning the declaration. It appears that deputy directors often
request physical inspections that they know are unnecessary because the current rules state that all
goods must be inspected. Officers may ignore these instructions if, for example, similar goods
from the same importer have already been inspected on the same day.
14.   When an inspection takes place, it is often limited to checking quantities, marks, and
numbers. No serious inspections of the goods for tariff classification purposes take place, due to:
D Poor inspection facilities
* Too heavy reliance on laboratory analysis to validate tariff classification
* Officers doing routine inspections not knowing what to look for.
They may also not have the necessary technical skills to determine the declared tariff heading.
15.   Present inspection reports are limited: customss and/or examining officers simply state
on the declaration form that they have inspected the consignment according to instructions, and
that their findings are satisfactory.
16.   Customs now inspect all goods inside the Customs compound, when they first arrive.
This is not always convenient, because there may not be enough space, working conditions may
be unsatisfactory, all the goods come in simultaneously and, in some cases, inspections require
special care and equipment.
17.   The objective of changes in the physical inspection system is to have fewer but more
productive inspections. When an officer does an inspection, it should be done thoroughly, with
the assistance of examining officers and possibly enforcement staff.
* The officers decide whether or not to inspect a consignment based on: the
documentation; their experience; and, information about the importer, commodity, and/or
agent.



- 156 -
* Deputy directors set the inspection guidelines based on risk profiles. Computer selection
criteria may be based on national guidelines as updated based on knowledge of local
situations. These local criteria should be updated regularly using, for example, risk
analysis conferences with officers. The underlying principle is that physical inspections
should never be routine. They should only take place when there are good reasons to
suspect the importer and/or agent has made a mistake or is committing fraud or there
have been problems with the commodity.
18.   An estimated one in three declarations are currently referred to the Customs laboratory.
This figure is high by other European Union standards and contributes to slow release times.
Many of the laboratory analysis are for the same goods from the same importers. Laboratory
analysis should be limited to case where there is:
* Insufficient information from the physical inspection and documents to determine the
exact tariff classification
* A legal requirement for an analysis (e.g., under European Union or other regulations)
* A dispute between Customs and the importer.
19.   In most cases, the analysis should take place after the release of the goods (in certain of
these cases, it may be necessary to secure additional revenue). Customs could also accept the
analysis by approved private facilities (e.g., importers' laboratories).
20.   The inspection report is an essential element of the declaration and clearance process,
because it certifies that the declaration to Customs is correct (or incorrect). It can be used in
subsequent court proceedings, and is an important part of mutual assistance procedures (i.e.,
information provided by one customs service to another).
21.   The inspection report should provide the marks and numbers of identified parcels, the
ones that have been opened and the number of individual items inspected, with their serial
numbers, if applicable. The reports should be coded and data entered. One of the roles of
deputy directors would be to review selected reports, to make sure that the instructions were
understood and carried out. From time to time, deputy directors could recheck consignments that
have already been inspected.9
22.   Many customs administrations carry out a substantial part of physical inspections at the
importer's premises. This has several advantages, for example, containers are entirely emptied at
the premises, so Customs officers can have a close look at the full consignment, and inspect the
container (e.g., to detect false walls) and comprehensive inspections at this stage do not impede
the commercial process. The opportunity to inspect goods on the premises should be offered to
importers, provided certain conditions were met. A case by case study of importers' needs, and
9 This is to prevent collusion between tho inspector and the agent/importer, and to ensure that inspection reports
are correct.



- 157 -
the facilities they can provide, should be carried out and customs and importers would enter into
a written agreement related to the inspection procedures.
Payment of duty and release of goods
23.   Customs has two responsibilities, (a) making sure that the goods are released after
payment is made, or secured, and (b) making sure that the funds are properly credited to a
government account.
24.   Currently, importers and their agents must pay by certified check or cash, for each
transaction. This system lacks flexibility and does not support fast release of goods. The new
payment procedures, as detailed in the draft legislation, provide for periodic payment. To
support this new method of payment, the operational procedures should provide for:
* Agents opening an account with Customs, supported by a bank guarantee, for a
"release credit'
* Goods are released as they are cleared with one payment for all transactions at the end
of the approved period (e.g., thirty days).
25.   The credit is calculated by the clearing agent based on the average transactions and
approved by Customs. It is incremented after each transaction, and the available balance
recalculated by the computer. When the balance is insufficient to permit release of a shipment,
the agent is informed, and pays according to present procedures or increases the credit.
Customs could charge a fee for this service (for instance, a percentage of the used credit).
26.   Another significant simplification would be to allow credit worthy importers and agents to
pay by uncertified check. This would be supported by a bank guarantee (should the check be
unpaid, the bank would agree to cover it).
27.   Under current procedures, when the clearance process is completed, importers or agents
receive three documents: a copy of the entry, a release note and a receipt from the Treasury
cashier. These should be combined into one document, preferably a computer generated copy of
the entry endorsed by Customs and the cashier. Under a computerized system, the warehouse
keeper and Customs guards would receive electronic notification of release and would enter a
message into the system when the goods are removed.
Post release checks
28.   Many of the checks carried out by Customs can take place after the goods have been
released. Data on the declaration and associated documentation can be investigated, and
compared to other sources of information. Post release verification, including audit, is
particularly useful for:
* Verifying tariff classification and the quantities imported (e.g., reviewing the
manufacturing process and the quantities used)



- 158 -
* Valuation checks as; verification can be lengthy (Mutual Administrative Assistance
procedures take time), the inspection of goods is not essential, and an audit of the
accounts of the importer can show how much was paid for the goods.
29.   All declarations should be sent to the regional post release unit, or reported through the
computer system. Specific selectivity criteria should be established by regions. Transactions
meeting those criteria would then be reviewed, and supporting documents kept at the local
customs offices would be retrieved.
30.   The other use of post release checks is to monitor that Customs field personnel apply the
laws, and regulations correctly.
Export processing
31.   The current system for exports is similar to the import procedures:
*  Declarations are lodged and registered
*  A deputy director provides inspection instructions
*  The goods are inspected
X  The officer signs the certificates of origin when necessary
*  An examining officer seals the consignment
X  The declarations are keyed in the statistical computer system
*  Declarations are registered, stamped, and separated in the manifest section
  Declaration number and manifest are matched following presentation of the manifest
(within 48 hours).
32.   Simplified procedures and tighter security are required and can be attained by
implementing the following changes:
*  The number of copies of the declaration presented varies from one exporter to
another. Sometimes, exporters hand in up to twenty copies of the declaration, and
supporting documentation, although the legal requirement is much lower. There is
always a risk of fraud when Customs stamp unnecessary copies of documents. 10
Customs should, therefore, only accept the legally required number of copies, and
reduce that number to two (one for Customs and one for the exporter), or possibly
three if the export declaration is combined with a Community transit export
procedure.
*  Some containers are loaded in the warehouses, under Customs control while others
are loaded at the exporters premises (with prior authorization from Customs and in the
presence of an officer). Approved exporters should always be allowed to load
containers on their premises, provided they give Customs advance notice of their
10 There have been cases when exporters took advantage of extra copies to claim additional export refunds.



- 159 -
intention. Customs would make a decision when to attend the loading. Occasional
spot checks within the harbor area would suffice to ensure compliance.
*  Customs requires an export manifest in a specified format. This duplicates the
commercial manifest and serves no purpose. It should be eliminated.
*  In ports, the declarations are stamped before evidence of the ships departure is
provided. There is, therefore, no guarantee that the goods were actually taken out of
the country. Customs should only certify the export of the goods (e.g., for VAT
refund purposes) when an official or commercial document (shipmate's receipt, or
notice from the Harbor Master's office) certifles that the goods were taken on board
and the ship has sailed. This is particular important for European Union procedures,
as many commercial or fiscal measures are determined by the date of sailing.
* Customs do not monitor the loading of ships. There should be occasional spot checks
by enforcement teams.






Annex 3f
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGMENT PROJECT
Customs Modernization Component
Monitoring and Impact Indicators






Customs Modernization Component
Monitoring and Impact Indicators
EVALUATION CRITERIA: SERVICE
Key Indicators        |            Method of            |       Intended
Current Situation                  Measurement                    Result
Release time survey--Before and
Release Time--the most significant  after implementation of the
improvement that Customs can     automated import declaration      90 percent of
introduce is the reduction in the  processing, measure the time taken   shipments are
time it takes to release goods from   (a) from arrival of the goods to  released within 24-48
customs control. These           presentation and processing of the    hours from arrival of
reductions will lower costs to   manifest (b) from presentation of    the shipment.
importers, thereby, improving    the declaration to customs until
their competitive position.      release of the goods (c) total time
for (a) & (b)
Physical Inspections--100 percent   Physical Inspection Rate--     Reduce the physical
l of import and export shipments  Determine the physical inspection    inspection rate to no
ofipr.  n  xpr  hpet           rate for imports and exports before    npcinrttoo
are inspected by customs,       ran afr introtond .o a ehsia    more than 20 percent
resulting in delays and additional   inspection program based on   for imports and 1-2
costs to the trade community.    selectivity.                      percent for exports.
Trade Community Information--
Today the trade community
receives little information other
than the legislation (tariff and
customs code). Introduction of   Provision of Information to the   Trade community Is
new legislation and procedures   Trade Community--Determine the   the changes being
resulting from entry into the   type and frequency of information   the    anges    able
customs union and the            provided to the trade community    todc d ais abe
introduction of a self declaration    before and after the introduction of  to coreply with the
system supported by automation    the public information program.  timely manner.
will require significant changes on
the part of the trade community
which should be supported by an
effective information program



- 164 -
EVALUATION CRITERIA: EFFICIENCY
Key Indicators                      Method of                    Intended
Current Situation                   Measurement                     Result
Workload--In comparison with      Determine the Workload Per         Workload per officer
other customs administrations,    Officer--For key indicators       is similar to customs
Customs produces less outputs per  including declaration processing;  administra-
officer. With full automation of    physical inspections; and manifest   tions in the EU.
the customs procedures, it is     processing before and after
expected that even less staff will   implementation of the new       Staff is reduced to
be required for routine processing   procedures.                     match workload.
functions.
EVALUATION CRITERIA: EFFECTIVENESS
Key Indicators                      Method of                     Intended
Current Situation                   Measurement                     Result
Revenue Collection--With the      Refunds--Measure the number of    Reduce the number of
introduction of the common       refunds before and after           refunds to no more
external tariff for the EU, rates of  implementation.               than 10 percent of
customs duty in Turkey will be                                      declarations
reduced and other charges on                                        processed.
imports will be eliminated.
However, revenue from imports    Import Declaration Processing --   Achieve 95 percent
will still be important and       Sample declarations and review to   accuracy in tariff
assessment and collection         determine if the correct tariff   classification and
procedures should be improved to  classification and valuation       valuation at time of
ensure that the proper amounts of   provisions have been applied.   declaration
revenue are collected.                                              processing.
Post Clearance Review--Measure    Improve the ratio of
before and after implementation the  re- assessments to
number of re-assessments and the    declarations
significance of change, including  reviewed.
uplifts in value, through post
release review.



- 165 -
Key Indicators                       Method of                      Intended
Current Situation                    Measurement                      Result
Implementation of European         Passage and Implementation of       Staff at the local
Union Requirements--Significant    Legislative Requirements            offices are able to
changes in legislation and                                             administer the
procedures will be introduced      Trained Staff--Staff are able to    legislation in a
which must be effectively          understand and apply the new        manner that is
administered.                      requirements.                       acceptable both to
Turkey and to the
Aassessment of Implementation--     EU.
Review, on a sample basis at 3, 6
and 12 months for the first year
and, annually thereafter,
declaration and transit procedures.
More Effective Physical            "Hit" Rate Measurement--            Increase the ratio of
Inspections--The type of physical   Implement a new program of         detections to physical
inspections today are cursory in   physical inspections based on      inspection.
nature and produce little in terms    selectivity and intensive
of, for example, additional       inspections. Measure the number    Increase the detection
revenue                            of infractions and revenue          of serious infractions
assessments per inspection before
and after implementation.
Rejection of Incomplete or         Declaration Reject Rate--All agents   Complete and
Inaccurate Declarations--Under     must meet a 95 percent accuracy     accurate information
present procedures, declarations   rate for declarations keyed into the   is data entered.
are not self-assessed and no       system. This will be measured by
declarations are returned to the  the system on a daily basis.
customs agent for correction.
Trade Statistics--Produced by a    Trade Statistics Will Meet or       There will be no
separate system and are timely     Exceed Today's Standard for         degradation in the
and accurate. Customs provides    Accuracy and Timeliness--At each    accuracy or timeliness
the raw data to the national       office, the trade statistics system  of the trade statistics.
statistical agency.                will continue to operate, in
parallel, until there is agreement
that the operational system meets
the accuracy and timeliness criteria
at that office.









I MACI NG
Report No:          14656 TI!
Type: SAP



