Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6645-TU
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED U.S. DOLLARS SINGLE CURRENCY LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO US$62.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
AUGUST 29, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of July 31, 1995)
Currency Unit   =  Turkish Lira
TLI   =  US$0.00002
US$1   =  44,889
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
per US$1
CY 1991   CY 1992   CY 1993   CY 1994   CY 1995
Jan-July
4,172      6,872      10,985      29,609     42,447
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          -          Country Assistance Strategy
Customs      -          Undersecretariat of Customs
EU           -          European Union
FLS          -          Financial Ledger System
GDBFC        -          General Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control
GDPA         -          General Directorate of Public Accounts
GDR          -          General Directorate of Revenues
GFS          -          Government Finance Statistics
IMF          -          Intemational Monetary Fund
IRS          -          Internal Revenue Service (United States)
IT           -          Information Technology
MOF          -          Ministry of Finance
PFMP         -          Public Financial Management Project
PMSS         -          Project Management Support Services
PMU          -          Project Management Unit
PSAL         -          Public Sector Adjustment Loan
SBA          -          Stand-by Arrangement
SEE          -          State Economic Enterprise
SPO          -          State Planning Organization
TCA          -          Turkish Court of Accounts
Treasury     -          Undersecretariat of Treasury
TURKEY - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Republic of Turkey
Implementing Agencies:      Ministry of Finance and Undersecretariat of Customs
Beneficiaries:              Ministry of Finance and Undersecretariat of Customs
Poverty Category:           Not Applicable
Amount:                     US$62.0 million equivalent
Terms:                      The loan is proposed to be a fixed rate single currency loan in U.S.
dollars, with a maturity of up to 15 years. Each semester's
disbursements would have a maturity of nine years from the rate
fixing date, including three years' grace. The interest payment dates
are March 15 and September 15, with the first expected rate fixing
date on March 15, 1996.
Financing Plan:             Local        Foreign      Total
---------- US$million -----------
Government           23.0         9.2          32.2
IBRD /a               0.1         61.9         62.0
Total Financing      23.1         71.1         94.2
/a Excludes taxes and duties
Economic Rate of Return:    Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:     14656-TU
Map:                        IBRD No. 24903R
Project ID Number:          TR-PA-35759
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwisc be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$62.0 million to help finance the Public Financial
Management Project. The loan would be a fixed rate single currency loan in U.S. Dollars, with a maturity
of up to 15 years. Each semester's disbursements would have a maturity of nine years from the rate fixing
date, including three years' grace. The Republic of Turkey is eligible for single currency loans as it has
no unconverted VLR82 loans. The proposed loan of US$62 million represents 19 percent of the FY96
lending program of US$327 million for the Republic of Turkey.
Country/Sector Background
2.    During the last few years, there has been a resurgence of high fiscal deficits and inflation in Turkey
that has overshadowed the gains attained through the broad-based liberalization of the economy in the
1980s. In 1993 the internal imbalances spilled over into the external accounts, culminating in a severe
currency crisis during the early months of 1994. There were successive downgradings of Turkey's credit
rating by the international rating agencies, and access to external financing virtually severed.
3.    The Government's Reform  Program.  The growing macroeconomic imbalances led the
Government to introduce some reform initiatives in late 1993, notably in the area of tax. However, an
overall approach to the country's economic problems was adopted only in April 1994, when the
Government launched a broad program of stabilization and reform measures. The main objectives of the
April 5 Program are to: (a) achieve a substantial and durable reduction in the fiscal deficit and inflation;
(b) reduce the external payments deficit and restore foreign exchange reserves; and (c) establish a structural
framework for more sustainable rapid growth, chiefly through a considerably reduced role of government
in economic activities. Early support for the Government's program was provided by the IMF, which
approved a 14-month Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) for SDR509.3 million (approximately US$715 million)
in July 1994.
4.    Some of the initial results of the April 5 Program have been very encouraging. The budget deficit
was reduced substantially in 1994, largely through a number of special taxes and real cuts in spending on
personnel costs and subsidies. As a result, the overall public sector borrowing requirement fell from 12.6
percent of GNP in 1993 to 8 percent in 1994. The external current account registered a sizable surplus
of about US$3 billion in 1994 and foreign currency reserves are now well in excess of the levels prevailing
before the crisis. Despite these achievements, there has been slow and uneven progress in implementing
the structural reforms that would provide the basis for a durable adjustment. While important reform
measures have been introduced to strengthen tax policies and administration, and some areas of government
expenditure policies, reform in the rest of the public sector is lagging. Inflation is still running at an
annual rate of over 100 percent and real interest rates remain very high. Recovery from the deep economic
recession in 1994--real GNP declined by an estimated 6 percent--is apparently underway, but its
sustainability is uncertain. The situation is complicated by persistent political uncertainty and difficult
national security issues.



5.    Challenges for Public Sector Reform. The primary economic challenges facing Turkey at this
juncture are to establish the foundations for a sustainable fiscal adjustment and to bring about a rapid and
durable reduction in inflation. Fundamental reforms of the public sector are urgently needed for both,
including: (a) privatization or closure of state economic enterprises (SEEs); (b) a substantial rationalization
of the public administration; (c) reductions in the costly government interventions in investment, production
and marketing decisions; and (d) action to stem the financial losses of the main pension funds, followed
by comprehensive medium-term reforms of health and social security financing.
6.    These policy reforms need to be complemented by a variety of institutional reforms to strengthen
public financial management and to enhance the framework for efficient private sector activities. The
domestic tax system remains characterized by a relatively narrow base. This situation is largely due to
deficiencies in the tax system and administration that preclude a broadening of the income tax base,
effective collections and compliance activities, and better taxpayer service.  Notable among these
shortcomings is the authorities' limited ability to identify potential areas of non-compliance through
cross-checks of information relating to financial transactions and asset holdings. Expenditure management
and control is severely hampered by the complex and outdated budgetary framework and systems, the
plethora of agencies and funds that are effectively outside the budgetary process, and deficiencies in cash
management and public sector accounting. As a result, general government expenditures have exceeded
targets by large margins in recent years, and fiscal policy has been driven by the short-term financing needs
of the government. The management of personnel expenditures presents a particular problem. The public
administration in Turkey is characterized by considerable over-staffing due to poor information on and
controls over personnel expenditures. There are also serious problems of staff quality and performance
due to the inadequate wage structure, weak career incentives and inefficient procedures. Finally, the major
liberalization of external trade achieved during the 1980s has not been matched by corresponding changes
in customs administration. The present customs regime is costly and inefficient and detracts from the
competitiveness of Turkish exports and the country's attractiveness as a site for investment. A major
impetus for change in this area stems from the requirements of the customs union with the European Union
(EU) that is expected to take effect in 1996.
Project Objectives
7.    Since late 1993, the Government has consistently stressed its desire to introduce important changes
to overcome institutional and systemic problems in public financial management, for which it urgently
requested Bank assistance. The proposed Public Financial Management Project (PFMP), a technical
assistance project, would help to address such problems in taxation, government spending and customs
administration, and in related personnel management functions. The specific objectives to be pursued in
the three components of the PFMP are summarized below.
8.    The Tax Administration component would be directed at modernizing the organization and systems
of the tax administration in Turkey, with a particular focus on strengthening the compliance enforcement
and policy formulation capabilities of the tax authorities, and improving conditions progressively for
taxpayers who comply. The underlying goal is to broaden the tax base in order to increase tax revenues
while ensuring a more equitable distribution of the tax burden.
9.    The Expenditure and Personnel Management component would attempt to enhance the
government budget's usefulness as a fiscal policy instrument, and as the tool for managing public finances,
by reducing the number of sources of government spending that now operate outside budgetary channels,
and by introducing budgeting of public administration positions and payroll. It also aims to modernize the
complex and outdated budgetary and accounting control procedures and systems that impede effective and
efficient control over government finances.



10.   The Customs Modernization component is directed at shifting the customs administration's policy
from its present costly and inefficient ex ante, full coverage, sanctioning approach to a more ex post and
efficiency-seeking stance, still capable of gathering appropriate revenues and enforcing relevant national
and international laws, and at advancing the changes in the national customs organization required to enable
Turkey to enter into a customs union with the European Union (EU) in 1996.
Project Description
11.   Project activities for the three components of the Public Financial Management Project can be
grouped under five common heads: (a) studies to complete the details of the programs for reform and
modernization; (b) advisory services and training in new procedures, organizational arrangements and
analytical techniques; (c) design studies and modeling activities to determine the specifications of
information technology investments; (d) pilot and nationwide information technology investments and
associated training and civil works; and (e) project management support services.
12.   Due to differences in the state of readiness of the various components for major investment
expenditures, the time sensitivity of certain elements and the complexity of administrative arrangements,
the authorities have adopted a "time-slice" approach to Bank financing of their overall public financial
management reform program. The PFMP would be the first of two proposed Bank loans in support of
institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and other agencies dealing with taxation and
expenditure management and control. For these entities, the PFMP (Phase I) would involve advisory
services, training, and information technology (IT) design studies and pilot activities. This would lay the
foundations for a second phase (Phase II) of activity focusing on a broader program of IT investments and
training. However, due to the urgent requirements of the forthcoming customs union with the European
Union, and the relatively favorable sector policy environment and simple design issues involved, the PFMP
would provide complete support to the modernization program of the customs administration. Specific
project activities are summarized below for each component.
13.   Tax Administration Component (base cost US$14.2 million). As noted above, the Ministry of
Finance's plan is to reach its goals in two partially overlapping phases of activity. In the case of the tax
administration component, the first phase is to be accomplished in approximately eighteen months. There
are three basic thrusts to the activities planned for Phase I of the tax administration reform program. First,
an organization study will be undertaken to provide assistance in the restructuring of the General
Directorate of Revenues (GDR) in the MOF and the development of revised legislation, regulations and
manuals defining the organization and its personnel administration in areas affected by restructuring and
re-engineering. Three additional, smaller, studies will be conducted during the early stages of Phase I to
fill known information gaps. They will report on: (a) strengthening compliance enforcement through the
use of modern third-pay information sources and processes; (b) enhancing the role of the banking system
in collections and other routine tax administration processes; and (c) the requirements for performing all
collecting and processing of withholdings (including social security) within the GDR organization. The
results of these latter studies will be fed into the main organization study, as well as the
information/process modeling activities--see para. 14 below.
14.   Second, a comprehensive information/process model for the tax administration system will be
developed for modernizing the core business processes of audit, collections and returns processing, as well
as overall management of the GDR. The modelers will draw upon information already available through
the reports of a number of recent studies, as well as the results of the proposed new studies mentioned
above. A development laboratory will be established in Ankara, which will provide the facilities required
to: (a) model and demonstrate new/changed processes, local tax offices and regional office concepts,
including proposed tax intelligence centers; (b) model the centralized intelligence research operation;



(c) test computer configurations and communications interconnections; and (d) develop and conduct
demonstrations and training sessions for IT specialists and operational staff.
15.   Project-specific technical training of GDR IT staff will also commence under the PFMP, so as to
be ready for the intense development efforts planned for Phase II. Using the completed model, noted
above, a small and highly technical group of IT specialists will develop the IT Framework for Phase II.
This will consist of: (a) a strategic planning section, which will select the set of technologies that are
appropriate to meet the business needs of the organization, building on already installed technologies; and
(b) technical specifications that support the procurement of the hardware, software and communications
infrastructure for Phase II activities.
16.   Finally, the tax policy formulation capability of the GDR would be strengthened through: (a) the
design and establishment of a Policy Analysis Unit within the GDR, including a detailed training program;
(b) analysis of the current tax system with a view to providing recommendations for legislative change that
would broaden the tax base and enhance the fairness and efficiency of the tax system, notably through the
rationalization of deductions, exemptions and other preferences; and (c) development of a set of tax policy
models suitable for the design of tax policy changes and for revenue forecasting and monitoring, with
appropriate training for a small team of GDR staff in the manipulation and maintenance of the new tools.
17.   Implementation of component activities would be facilitated by an in-house technical advisory team,
who will assist the GDR in the planning, coordination and monitoring of the other activities proposed to
be carried out under the component. The GDR has selected the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of the
United States to provide the in-house advisory services, in order to continue a technical assistance program
initiated in 1992. In addition to the foregoing, the IRS advisors will assist the GDR to carry out a number
of initial reforms that can be introduced within the existing organizational and IT constraints. In view of
its limited experience with project implementation, the GDR has also decided to contract for professional
project management services to help its project management team to negotiate and determine contractual
arrangements, effect payments, maintain financial accounts and to give other administrative support to the
full range of consultants employed under the component.
18.   Phase II (1996-2001) would see an expansion of the advisory services program, notably in the areas
of audit, collections, returns processing and modern tax administration management. As has been noted,
a number of the Phase I studies will establish the detailed requirements for hardware, systems software,
and communications design and the choice of appropriate hardware, systems software and application
development tools for the GDR. At this stage, it is envisaged that Phase II activities in the IT area would
cover the introduction of a comprehensive national taxpayer identification system (building on an ongoing
effort to modernize the citizens' registry in the Ministry of Interior), upgrading of existing central and
regional IT assets of the GDR, acquisition and installation of IT products at a number of new regional
offices, development and delivery of a broad-based training program for GDR staff and computers and
ancillary equipment for a restructured and rationalized local tax office network. The main remaining cost
elements for Phase II would be: (a) site preparation; (b) a management consultancy to assist the GDR in
its reorganization and the rationalizing of the network of local offices; and (c) expanded project
management support services. World Bank support for the Phase II activities is envisaged through a
follow-up loan.
19.   Expenditure and Personnel Management Component (base cost US$10.4 million). Activities
in the Expenditure and Personnel Management Component would be targeted to: (a) strengthen budgetary
system control by reducing substantially the number of off-budget spending entities, tightening the
relationship between planning and budgeting processes, and improving the links between current and
investment budgets; (b) make spending agencies more accountable and rationalize the Budget and



Accounting Office systems, and remove ex ante controls while improving ex post audit capabilities;
(c) strengthen budget decision-making by introducing a more appropriate budget code structure for
economic analysis; (d) install streamlined procedures to govern commitment authorizations and monitoring
and a simplified model compatible with the proposed computerized Financial Ledger System (FLS);
(e) modernize budgeting and accounting functions, payments processes and treasury management;
(f) integrate management of public administration personnel with financial management through initiation
of position ceilings, a centralized data base on the civil service and establishment of a payroll system
confining personnel expenditures to authorized positions; and (g) enhance capability of core agencies to
perform their expenditure management responsibilities through upgrading information systems and staff
skills, and realigning the systems on a functional basis in an integrated financial management system for
budget, accounting and payroll transactions.
20.   As in the case of tax administration, the activities listed above are to be carried out in a phased
manner over the course of the next five years. Phase I, which is to be supported by the PFMP loan,
involves the definition and introduction of new processes. procedures and organizational arrangements for
bud2eting. accounting and pavroll. as well as the development and testing of a prototype for the proposed
FLS. This phase is expected to last for about two and a half years.
21.   Preparatory studies for Phase I are either ongoing or planned to be conducted by inter-agency
Working Groups with the assistance of external consultants. These studies will variously: (a) define a
detailed reform strategy for improving budget coverage through the rationalization of non-budget entities;
(b) introduce a new budget and chart of accounts more suitable for economic analysis, consistent with
international classification structures and which can be implemented on the proposed Financial Ledger
System (and utilized for both budget preparation and execution); (c) prepare an action program for
rationalizing the current complex and inefficient system of controls over government expenditures, as well
as the organizations involved in these processes; (d) define new regulations and procedures for budgeting
of positions in the public administration and develop a detailed programn for computerization of personnel
information and payroll; and (e) review banking arrangements and government accounts, with a view to
developing a program for strengthening government cash management.
22.   Most of the preparatory studies in the foregoing areas are expected to be completed by the time of
loan effectiveness, and project activity will focus on implementation of the proposed changes, including
broader dissemination of the Government Finance Statistics (GFS) methodology for which initial training
has already been completed. The working groups responsible for implementation will be assisted by an
in-house technical advisor. A number of short term consultancies will also be executed to help the MOF
complete the detailed design of the reforms and to implement them. Training for IT staff is also planned
to be carried out during this phase as a prerequisite for the substantial information technology investments
to follow in Phase II.
23.   Also as part of Phase I, a major design study will be conducted to establish the overall functional
and information requirements of the information systems, the overall systems architecture and the
technology architecture (including the hardware, systems software, and communications design and choice
of appropriate hardware, systems software and application development tools). It is proposed that this
study be carried out by a firm with extensive experience in the design and implementation of such systems.
The contractor would be required to provide not only the detailed design of the FLS, but also develop
related procedures and manuals as well as modules for budget preparation, the post management system,
personnel information system and payroll system. Finally, the contractor would be required to test the
proposed systems, applications and systems software in eight pilot sites.



- 6 -
24.   Phase II would involve the installation of the hardware and systems and applications software across
the nodes of the network; training of operational staff in the use of the system and commissioning the
system at the different nodes; and training technical staff in the maintenance and operation of the system,
and in the provision of ongoing end-user support throughout the life of the system. In Phase II, audit
related activities would be separated out as a distinct component, focusing on strengthening ex post audit
techniques and systems in the Turkish Court of Accounts and relevant MOF entities.
25.   Customs Modernization Component (base cost US$62.4 million). Activities in the Customs
Modernization Component would be geared to: (a) rid customs procedures of their present duplication,
excessive paperwork and physical controls, to be replaced by self-assessment methods, selective physical
inspections and document checks, stronger post-release reviews and simpler import controls; (b) upgrade
present computerization to full automation of customs procedures and the capacity to enforce legislative
and other EU requirements; (c) consolidate responsibilities for development and maintenance of automated
information systems; (d) restructure and downsize the customs organization in line with the new operational
procedures, complemented by decentralization of operations; and (e) support these changes with staff
training, facility renovation, public information programs and pilot tests with brokers and other affected
groups and stakeholders.
26.   The work required to establish a reform/modernization strategy is largely complete.  Some
legislative aspects are pending the results of ongoing negotiations between the Government and the EU.
A study has also been conducted to establish the functional and information requirements of the information
systems, the overall systems architecture and the technology architecture.
27.   The Customs administration has selected the French SOFIX system as its choice for the main
(customs) application software, since it can be adapted readily to meet Turkish and EU requirements. The
entire package of the SOFIX software and required technical assistance and equipment for adaptation,
training and pilot implementation is being procured directly from French customs under a bilateral
agreement. The contractor for the nationwide replication of the pilot, however, would be selected through
a process of international competitive bidding. The contractor would be responsible for delivering a
fully-functional network involving 18 regional and 45 local offices as well as training of operational staff
in the use of the system, and training technical staff in the maintenance and operation of the system and
in the provision of ongoing end-user support throughout the life of the system.
28.   Major remaining cost elements are: (a) site preparation and other civil works; (b) development of
simplified, modern procedures and training of staff in the new procedures and processes and of managers
in change management with the assistance of externally-recruited advisors, including in-house advisors for
customs administration and information technology who will work under the supervision of the IMF;
(c) recruitment of additional IT staff and redeployment of redundant personnel; and (d) professional project
management services.
Project Cost and Financing
29.   The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 94.2 million equivalent, including contingencies,
taxes and duties. Foreign currency costs, including contingencies, are estimated at US$71.1 million or 75
percent of total cost. A summary breakdown of costs by expenditure category is shown in Schedule A.
The proposed Bank loan of US$ 62.0 million, which excludes taxes and duties but includes the repayment
of a US$2 million advance from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility, would finance 66 percent of total
project costs, and meet 87 percent of foreign exchange requirements and 0.4 percent of local costs. The
Turkish Government will contribute US$ 32.2 million, covering 34 percent of total project cost. The
Government's share of PFMP financing is much higher than that for other recent Bank-financed projects



in Turkey (24 percent in FY94-95), reflecting the importance that the authorities attach to the objectives
of the project.
30.   As noted above, the Government has obtained an advance in the amount of US$2 million from the
Bank's Project Preparation Facility. Preparatory activities for the PFMP have also benefitted from a
Japanese PHRD grant in the amount of Yen 128 million (approximately US$1.3 million). The French
Government also provided a grant of about US$132,000 specifically for preparatory studies for the
Expenditure and Personnel Management component. These monies have allowed the timely initiation of
the most time-sensitive activities.
Pro3ect Implementation
31.   The borrower is the Republic of Turkey, represented by the Undersecretariat of Treasury
(Treasury) in the Prime Ministry. The implementing agencies and beneficiaries are the Ministry of Finance
and Undersecretariat of Customs in the Prime Ministry. Any necessary coordination between the MOF
and Customs will be effected at the ministry level by the Undersecretaries, with the assistance of the
Treasury.  Management and implementation arrangements for each of the three components are
summarized below.
32.   Overall responsibility for the supervision of the Tax Administration and Expenditure and Personnel
Management components rests with the Undersecretary in the Ministry of Finance, who will ensure any
necessary coordination within the MOF, and with other involved entities. However, the Director General
in the GDR is responsible for the management of the Tax Administration Component. A Project
Management Unit (PMU) headed by a Deputy Director General is responsible for coordinating component
activities on a day-to-day basis. Specific tasks are to be carried out by Working Groups comprised of
Ministry of Finance staff, assisted by external consultants. The Heads of the Working Groups are the
members of the PMU. A professional project management support services (PMSS) consultant will assist
with procurement and contract monitoring, disbursements, accounting and other administrative issues.
Implementation of Tax Administration Component activities for the PFMP is expected to be completed in
eighteen months. Initial activities will center on the efforts of the IRS advisory team and the PMSS
contractor. These two consultancies will commence about two months before any others begin, in order
to allow for appropriate planning and preparation.
33.   The Undersecretary of Finance is directly responsible for management of the Expenditure and
Personnel Management Component which involves a number of agencies. A high-level, inter-agency
Steering Committee chaired by a Deputy Undersecretary of Finance has been appointed as an advisory
body.  It includes appropriate participants from the Ministry of Finance, Treasury, State Planning
Organization and Turkish Court of Accounts. As in the case of the Tax Component, responsibility for
day-to-day coordination and monitoring of component implementation rests with a PMU. The Expenditure
and Personnel PMU is led by a Head of Department from the General Directorate of Budget and Fiscal
Control (GDBFC). The PMU includes the heads of four Working Groups that are responsible for
implementation of specific component tasks, as well as other MOF personnel with skills in accounting,
procurement, contract monitoring and information processing. Execution of Expenditure and Personnel
Management Component activities is to be carried out over a period of two and a half years. Successful
implementation will depend on close coordination among several agencies in the government sector. The
Steering Committee must play an effective role in ensuring the required coordination. During preparation,
participation of most of the concerned core agencies in the Working Groups contributed to very good
coordination at the technical level.



- 8 -
34.   Responsibility for the Customs Modernization Component rests with the Undersecretariat of
Customs. The management and coordination of component activities is being effected by a Customs PMU,
headed by a Deputy Undersecretary. Actual development and implementation activities are being carried
out by seven Working Groups. The Customs Administration has decided to engage the IMF to help it
implement the technical components necessary to support the modernization plan. Central to this agreement
is the appointment of two in-house technical advisers, for customs administration and information
technology, who will provide specific advice related to the restructuring and modernization of the customs
organization and coordinate all technical assistance. The Fiscal Affairs Department of the IMF will
supervise the in-house advisers that will be appointed under the agreement as well as short term advisers
assigned to provide specific technical advice. The Customs Modernization Component will be implemented
over a period of three and a half years. Key upfront activities for the next few months are: (a) the drafting
of new regulations and design of new customs procedures; and (b) the development and implementation
of the pilot customs system.
Project Sustainabilitv
35.   The Government's commitment is reflected in the considerable time, resources and high-level
participation that it is investing in the project, as well as in a variety of upfront actions. These have served
to promote ownership at both the managerial and technical levels. Government officials have worked
intensively with Bank staff and consultants to prepare detailed programs for reform in all three component
areas. A number of studies have already been completed and follow-up action taken, including important
changes in tax legislation and customs regulations. Implementation risks will be mitigated by: (a) the focus
on the "component" as the basic unit for management and implementation, including Bank disbursements;
(b) the assignment of permanent technical advisors, notably from the IMF and IRS, and professional project
management experts to the implementing agencies; (c) the strengthening of the technical capabilities of
government staff early in the project in order to allow for fuller participation in downstream activities; and
(d) the attention given to change management, including study tours abroad for key stakeholders. Finally,
and perhaps most importantly, the sustainability of the project is likely to be enhanced by the fact that the
project deals with issues for which there is widespread support in Turkey--a more equitable tax burden,
improved management and control over the Government's finances and closer economic ties with Europe.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement
36.   Reviews of recently-completed Bank-supported public sector management projects suggest a few
important lessons for the PFMP. Attempts at public sector management reform need to be focused in areas
where there is a strong commitment at all levels (political, managerial and technical). Clearly identified
outputs and expected impact must be incorporated in design. Successes can then serve as the basis for
future assistance and reforms. Supervision by the Bank and the Borrower on a continuous and intensive
basis is paramount in public sector technical assistance efforts.  More specific to Turkey, project
implementation is frequently constrained by weak project management capacity, rapid turnover of key
officials, complexities in the Government's decision-making processes, and cumbersome and lengthy
Government procurement procedures and inadequate understanding of Bank procurement guidelines.
Another important constraint in recent years has been budgetary cuts.
37.   In recognition of these lessons, the PFMP's development and design places emphasis on:
(a) promotion of government ownership and development of effective means of gaining broad support,
including through the focus on the "component" as the basic unit for management and implementation;
(b) slicing of the Ministry of Finance program into two partially overlapping projects so that upfront
technical studies and follow-up institutional reform decisions and pilot operations can be carried out before
major investment commitments are made; (c) provision of in-house technical advisors and professional



- 9 -
project management support specialists to minimize the risks associated with the borrower's implementation
capacity; (d) provision for intensive supervision activity, including a formal review in each of the first three
years of project execution in order to benefit from experience on the ground and facilitate any required
course corrections; (e) evaluation and monitoring criteria tied directly to the objectives sought by the client;
(f) use of annual work programs, and procurement and financing plans; and (g) use of World Bank
standard bid documents together with translations.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
38.   This project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as discussed by the Board
of Directors during the presentation of the Bursa Water and Sanitation Project, Report No. P-5897-TU,
on March 11, 1993.
39.   The Government's Economic Program of April 5, 1994 provided the Bank with an opportunity to
enhance its support of efforts to address the underlying causes of Turkey's growing fiscal imbalances.
During the past year, the Bank has engaged in an intensive dialogue with the Government on the major
issues in areas such as SEEs and social security, with a view to providing support through a comprehensive
Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL). Unfortunately, the implementation of key reforms has been
extensively delayed, largely as a result of the lack of a clear political mandate for the government.
Meanwhile, as noted above, Turkey's external payments situation has improved considerably. Given this
situation, the Government requested the Bank to suspend preparation of the PSAL. In view of the weak
state of the domestic economy and likely continued slow progress in the implementation of key reforms,
the Government also requested the IMF to extend the SBA for six months to March 1996 and, in this
context, to augment Turkey's access to Fund resources in order to allow for a more gradual adjustment.
These requests were approved by the IMF Board on April 21, 1995.
40.   Although Bank support through adjustment lending is not judged appropriate at this time, the
Government's ongoing stabilization program does provide a framework for Bank assistance to strengthen
the core agencies responsible for macroeconomic management. Specifically, in keeping with the priorities
and graduated Bank response outlined in the March 1993 CAS, the Bank's current approach is to maintain
a constructive role in the economic policy process by using more narrowly-focused lending operations like
the PFMP to strengthen the institutional framework and administrative capacity for public sector
adjustment. Several of the studies proposed to be financed under the PFMP are also geared to improve
the understanding within Turkey of the policy issues that must be addressed eventually when the political
situation clarifies. The PFMP would also complement other Bank-supported projects aimed at enhancing
the infrastructure for public sector management and reform--e.g., the FY92 Treasury Data Systems Project,
which is helping to improve the Government's debt management and macroeconomic policy formulation
capacity, and the FY94 Privatization Implementation and Social Safety Net Loan, which aims to strengthen
the capabilities of the Privatization Administration and Treasury to manage and implement privatization
and an effective social safety net program for displaced workers.
Agreed Actions
41.   During negotiations, the Government confirmed its agreement to the following specific conditions:
Condition of Loan Effectiveness:
Expenditure and Personnel Component. The in-house adviser for the Expenditure and
Personnel Management Component shall have been appointed on the basis of terms of
reference agreed with the Bank.



- 10-
Conditions of Loan Disbursements:
Tax Administration Component. The General Directorate of Revenues shall have
appointed an in-house tax administration adviser and a project management support
contractor, with terms of reference agreed with the Bank.
Customs Modernization Component. The Customs Administration shall have entered into
a technical assistance agreement with the IMF, including for the provision of a customs
administration adviser and an information technology adviser.
Dated Covenants:
Tax Administration Component.
(i)    By December 31, 1996, the Ministry of Finance shall present the Bank with a
satisfactory plan for the reorganization of the General Directorate of Revenues
(headquarters, regional and local offices) prepared on the basis of appropriate
legislation and regulations, and the proposed new automated systems.
(ii)   By December 31, 1996, the Government of Turkey shall have communicated to the
Bank its decision concerning the collection of social security, health and
unemployment contributions by the General Directorate of Revenues.
Expenditure and Personnel Management Component.
(i)    The new chart of accounts shall be put into effect by January 1, 1997 on the basis
of guidelines agreed with the Bank.
(ii)   By December 31, 1997, the Ministry of Finance shall furnish the Bank a
satisfactory plan for the reorganization and rationalization of the budget offices and
accounting offices prepared on the basis of the new procedures, regulations and
automated systems.
(iii)   The general budget submitted to Parliament for the 1997 fiscal year by January 1,
1997 shall be prepared on the basis of the new code structure, which is to include
functional and economic classification of expenditures according to international
standards.
(iv)   The general budget submitted to Parliament for the 1997 fiscal year by January 1,
1997 shall introduce the full implementation of new guidelines agreed with the Bank
for budgetary posts management.
(v)    By February 28, 1996, the new calendar and methodology for budget preparation
shall have been adopted for implementation in the preparation of the fiscal 1997
budget.
(vi)   By December 31, 1997, the Ministry of Finance shall have conducted successful
pilot implementations of the Government Financial Management Information System
and Personnel and Payroll Management Information System, with the success of
implementation to be assessed on the basis of criteria agreed with the Bank.



- 11 -
Customs Modernization Component.
(i)    By December 31, 1996, Customs shall issue new  and/or revised customs
regulations.
(ii)   By December 31, 1996, Customs shall have conducted a successful implementation
of the pilot customs operation, with the success of implementation to be assessed
on the basis of criteria agreed with the Bank.
(iii)   By June 30, 1997, Customs shall furnish the Bank a satisfactory plan for the
reorganization of the Customs Administration (headquarters, regional and local
offices) prepared on the basis of the new regulations and automated systems.
Environmental Aspects
42.   The project is classified as Environmental Assessment Category C, as defined in O.D. 4.01. It is
not expected that there will be any issues related to the environment.
Program Objective Category
43.   The proposed loan would improve public sector management.
Participatory Approach
44.   The project is the culmination of an extensive joint review of the Government's needs and
requirements in the area of its financial management. Preparatory activities have fully involved technical
staff as well as senior managers of the implementing agencies. Project rmanagement and implementing
arrangements have been designed to try and ensure that this high-level oversight and participation continues
throughout project execution.
Project Benerits
45.   Past adjustment programs in Turkey have foundered because of failures to tackle key institutional
problems. The proposed Public Financial Management Project would assist in addressing such problems
in taxation, government expenditures and customs, and related personnel management functions. In these
areas, the project would seek to restructure and otherwise rationalize the central agencies, upgrade their
planning and controls, and modernize their processes. The envisaged changes would help deepen and
enhance the sustainability of the fiscal stabilization initiated in 1994 and facilitate Turkey's successful entry
into the customs union with the EU. Satisfactory progress with this project would lay a solid base for
future investments to strengthen administrative capacity in the financial management agencies and for future
fundamental policy reforms, for which some thorough studies are needed.
46.   In addition, the project will have a financial benefit to the Republic of Turkey. Turkey's foreign
exchange receipts and non-debt capital inflows are denominated predominantly in U.S. dollars.
Consequently, the Government anticipates that the U.S. dollar single currency loan will help improve its
external portfolio management by creating a better balance in the currency composition of its external debt
liabilities and foreign exchange inflows.



- 12 -
Risks
47.   The major risks relate to: (a) the large overall agenda for stabilization and reform facing the
Government, which may lead implementation of institutional reforms to be given lower priority; (b) the
institutional diversity and complexity of the project, which may strain the administrative capacity of the
Government and lead to bottlenecks in implementation; and (c) failure of the technical assistance for any
of a number of systemic reasons despite the clear ownership of and political support for the project.
Considerable effort will be required to ensure that the proper pace and sequence of implementation is
achieved in each of the involved agencies. It is hoped that the considerable time and resources invested
in elaborating the design of the various components with the project entities (including the slicing of the
overall Ministry of Finance program into two projects) and the implementation arrangements will mitigate
these risks. Ultimately, however, as highlighted by past Bank experience with similar operations in other
parts of the world, the only way to deal with this complex of risk factors is through intensive supervision
efforts by both the Government and the Bank as provided for under the PFMP.
Recommendation
48.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and
recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Richard H. Frank
Attachments: Schedules A - D
Washington, D.C.
August 29, 1995



- 13 -
Schedule A
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
(UN$mflilon)
Local       Foreign       Total
ESTIMATED PROJECr CosTs:
Tax Administration Component
Civil Works                                      0.0          0.0          0.0
Goods/Equipment                                  0.3          4.8          5.1
Training                                         1.4          0.4          1.8
Advisory Services                                0.0          6.7          6.7
Project Support                                  0.2          0.4          0.6
Subtotal                                     1.9         12.3         14.2
Expenditure and Personnel Management Component
Civil Works                                      0.1          0.0          0.1
Goods/Equipment                                  1.2          4.8          6.0
Training                                         0.4          0.3          0.7
Advisory Services                                0.5          3.0          3.5
Project Support                                  0.1          0.0          0.1
Subtotal                                     2.3          8.1         10.4
Customs Modernization Component
Civil Works                                      5.5          0.0          5.5
Goods/Equipment                                  9.9         41.3         51.2
Training                                         1.8          0.8          2.6
Advisory Services                                0.0          1.6          1.6
Project Support                                  0.0          1.5          1.5
Subtotal                                    17.2         45.2         62.4
Total Base Costs                            21.4         65.6         87.0
Total Physical Contingencies                 0.8          2.4          3.2
Total Price Contingencies                    0.9          3.1          4.0
Total Project Costs                                23.1         71.1        94.2



- 14 -
Schedule A
Page 2 of 2
(US$million)
Local        Foreign      Total
FINANCING PLAN:
Government                                     23.0           9.2        32.2
IBRD /a                                         0.1          61.9        62.0
Total Project Cost                                23.1         71.1         94.2
/a txciucles taxes ana auties



- 15 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements and Disbursements
(US$million)
A. Procurement
Procurement Method
Project Element               ICB        Other       NBF         Total
Civil Works                      -          -           5.9        5.9
-          -          (0.0)       (0.0)
Equipment/Goods                57.1         0.9         9.9       67.9
(46.0)      (0.5)       (0.0)     (46.5)
Training                         -          1.5         3.7        5.2
-         (1.5)       (0.0)      (1.5)
Advisory Services                -         11.0         0.5        11.5
-        (11.0)       (0.0)     (I 11.0)
Project Support                  -          1.0         0.7         1.7
-         (1.0)       (0.0)       (1.0)
Project Preparation Facility     -          2.0         -          2.0
-         (2.0)        -          (2.0)
TOTAL                       57.1        16.4       20.7        94.2
(46.0)     (16.0)       (0.0)     (62.0)
Note: Numbers in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IBRD loan.
NBF Non-Bank Financed
Other Includes sole sourcing, shortlisting of consulting firms and individual consultants (US$15.2
million), international shopping (US$0.33 million) and direct contracting (US$0.57 million).
Differences due to rounding.



- 16 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 3
B. Disbursements
Percent of
Amount of Loan               of Expenditures
Category                  in US$ equivalent              to be Financed
(1)    Tax Administration Component
(a) Goods                   1,190,000          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures, (ex-factory cost) and 85% of
local expenditures for other items procured
locally
(b) Training                 500,000           100%
(c) Consultants' services  6,000,000           100%
(2)    Expenditure and Personnel Management Component
(a) Goods                  4,680,000           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures, (ex-factory cost) and 85% of
local expenditures for other items procured
locally
(b) Training                 300,000           100%
(c) Consultants' services  2,690,000           100%
(3)    Customs Modernization Component
(a) Goods                 35,250,000           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures, (ex-factory cost) and 85% of
local expenditures for other items procured
locally
(b) Training                 580,000           100%
(c) Consultants' services
(advisory)           1,560,000          100%
(d) Project management
support services     1,000,000          100%



- 17 -
Schedule B
Page 3 of 3
Percent of
Amount of Loan               of Expenditures
Category                  in US$ equivalent              to be Financed
(4)    Refunding the Project
Preparation Advance   2,000,000         Amounts due pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of
Loan Agreement
(5)    Unallocated                6.250.000
TOTAL                     62.000.000
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
FY96       FY97        FY98        FY99        FY00
Annual                    2.1          7.0       18.8        18.1       16.0
Cumulative                2.1          9.1       27.9        46.0       62.0






- 19 -
ScheduleC
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a) Time taken to prepare:               Fourteen months - February 1994 to April 1995
(b) Prepared by:                         The Government of the Republic of Turkey with
Bank assistance, and consultants financed under
grants from the Governments of Japan and France
(c) Appraisal Mission Departure:         April 1995
(d) Negotiations:                        July 1995
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness:       November 1995
(f)  List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:    Turkey: Technical Assistance Project for State
Economic Enterprises (Loan 2400-TU) PCR, Report
No. 10326 date February 11, 1992






- 21-                                           Schedule D
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
The Status of Bank Group Operations in Turkey
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of June 30, 1995)
Anount (Smillion)
Fiscal                                                                               (lc8 cancellations)
Loan No.       Year   Borrower                        Purpose                                 Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Ninety-nine loans, six B-loans and 14 credits are closed,                                   7843.60  196.15        21.29
of which SECALs, SALs and Program Loans: a/
Ia. 1515-TU    1980   Republic of Turkey              SAL                                     200.00                 0.00
Ln. 1915-TU    1981   Republic of Turkey              SAL                                      75.00                 0.00
Ln. 1987-TU    1981   Republic of Turkey              SAL D                                   300.00                 0.00
Ln. 2158-TU    1982   Republic of Turkey              SAL I11                                 304.50                 0.00
Ln. 2321-TU    1983   Republic of Turkey              SAL IV                                  300.80                 0.00
Ln. 2441-TU    1984   Republic of Turkey              SAL V                                   376.00                 0.00
Ln. 2585-TU    1985   Republic of Turkey              ASAL                                    250.19                 0.00
La. 2714-TU    1986   Republic of Turkey              FSAL I                                  300.00                 0.00
Ln. 2964-TU    1988   Republic of Turkey              Financial Sector Adjustment D           299.64                 0.00
La 2856-TU     1987   Republic of Turkey              Energy Sector Adjustment                311.97                 0.00
La. B0160-T    1987   Republic of Turkey               B-Loan for FSAL I                       32.90                 0.00
Ln. B0190-T    1987   Republic of Turkey              B-Loan for FSAL I                        20.00                 0.00
La. B0220-T    1988   Republic of Turkey              B-Loan for ESAL                          30.10                 0.00
LA. B0240-T    1989   Republic of Turkey              B-Loan for FSAL 11                       29.85                 0.00
Subtotal       2830.95                 0.00
Ln. 2776-TU    1987   Republic of Turkey              Non-Formal Vocational Training           58.50                32.50
Ln. 2818-TU    1987   IZSU                            Izmir Water & Sewerage                  116.00                36.91
Ln. 2888-TU    1988   ISKI                            Istanbul Water Supply                   218.00                43.18
Ln. 2922-TU    1988   Republic of Turkey              Industrial Training U                   115.80                32.04
Ln. 3057-TU    1989   Republic of Turkey              Health 1                                 75.00                47.62
La. 3067-TU    1989   Republic of Turkey              Small- & Medium-Scale Industry 11       204.50                66.99
Ln. 3077-TU    1989   Republic of Turkey              Agro-Industry                           150.00                99.09
LA. 3151-TU    1990   ASKI                            Ankara Sewerage                         173.00               151.06
La. 3177-TU    1990   Republic of Turkey              Second Agricultural Extension            63.00                27.78
La. 3192-TU    1990   Republic of Turkey              National Education Dev.                  90.20                79.21
Ln. 3296-TU    1991   Republic of Turkey              Technology Development                  100.00                80.93
La. 3324-TU    1991   Republic of Turkey              State & Provincial Roads                250.00                87.52
Ln. 3345-TU    1991   TEK                             TEK Restructuring                       300.00               219.98
La. 3346-TU    1991   Republic of Turkey              Private Investment Credit               200.00               171.66
Ln. 3472-TU    1992   Republic of Turkey              Agricultural Research                    55.00                52.56
LA. 3477-TU    1992   Republic of Turkey              Treasury Data Systems                     9.20                 3.22
Ln. 351 1-TU   1993   Republic of Turkey              Earthquake Reconstruction               285.00               144.63
Ln. 3541 -TU   1993   Republic of Turkey              Employment & Training                    67.00                58.99
La. 3565-TU    1993   Bursa Water Supply & Sewerage    Bursa Water & Sanitation               117.00               111.13
La. 3566-TU    1993   Bursa Metropolitan Municipality    Bursa Water & Sanitation              12.50                10.95
Ln. 3567-TU    1993   Republic of Turkey              Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehab.        77.00                70.65
La. 3728-TU    1994    Republic of Turkey             Privatization Implementation            100.00                95.25
La. 3802-TU    1995   Republic of Turkey              Health Ut                               150.00               149.04
La. 3893-TU    1995    Antalya Water Supply Auth.     Antalya Water Supply                    100.00               100.00
Subtotal       3086.70              1972.89
Total                                10930.30  196.15      1994.18
Of which has been repaid             5026.47   63.16
Total now outstanding                 5903.83  132.99
Amounts sold                   3.55
of which has been repaid      3.55
Total now held by IBRD                5903.83
Total undisbursed                                          1994.18
a/ Approved during or after FY80
* SECAL



- 22 -                                             Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
Status of Bank Grout Operations In Turkey
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of June 30, 1995)
Amount ($millioe)
(less cancellaions)
Date                      Borrower               Purpose                             Loan  Equity     Tot
1966/69nin2               Sifas                  Textiles                           3.15    142       4.57
1973                      Akdeniz                Tourism                            0.34    0.27      0.61
1974                      Aka                    Textiles                           10.00    0.00    10.00
1975                      Aslan                  Cement manufacturing                5.60    0.00     5.60
1975                      Kartaltepe             Textiles                            1.30    0.00     1.30
1975                      Sasa                   Resin & Plastic manufacturing      7.50    0.00      7.50
1974M                     Bonman                 Iron & Steel                       3.60    0.50      4.10
1976/79                   Asil Celik             Machinery & equipment              12.00    4.00    16.00
1979                      Ege Mosan              Motorcycles & bicycles              2.15    0.00     2.15
1980                      Mens                   Textile                             4.00    0.00     4.00
1982                      Man Motors             Mtor Vehicles                      7.89    0.00      7.89
1964167169fl2n3r75n6778 TSKB                     DFC                                15.00    4.74    19.74
s969nons182183            Viking                 Paper manufacturing                2.50    0.82      3.32
1975sns818113             Dodtas                 Iron & Steel                       7.50    1.53      9.03
1984                      Pinar Et               Slaughtering                       10.90    0.00    10.90
1985                      Manas                  Motor Vehicles                      6.47    0.00     6.47
79/80/82/83/84185         Iass                   Metals & motor vehicles             8.00    3.19    11.19
1986                      Cam Elyaf              Glass mAnufacturing                7.94    0.00      7.94
1987                      Guney                  Textiles                           16.48    0.00    16.48
1988/91192                Uluslarrasi Endustri ve   Financial Services             25.00    0.00    25.00
1988/93                   Elginkan               Mfg. Non-Metalic Minieral PR      30.85    0.00    30 85
1989                      Coats Iplik            Textiles Wearing Apparel & Leather    7.72    0.00   7.72
1989                      Turk Dis Ticaret Bankasi Capital markets                 12.50    0.00    12.50
1989                      Duss                   Textiles                           17.00    0.00    17.00
1989                      Isko                   Textils                           33.24    0.00    33.24
1989                      Sanko (SKST)           Textiles                           6.37    0.00      6.37
1988/89                   Sariville              Restaurants & hotels               2.66    2.15      4.81
1981/89                   Kitareli               Clas manufacturing                3147    0.00    31.47
1986/89                   ESaka Turizm           Tourism                            9.08    0.00      9.08
1990                      FSP (Kamelya)          Restaurants & hotels               1218    0.00    12.18
1990                      Mersin                 Restaurants & hotels               6.50    0.00      8.50
1990                      Simplot                Food products                      9.40    0.00      9.40
1990                      Turkish Invest. Fund    Merchant bank                     0.00    8.86      8.86
1990/94                   Yeditepe Beynelmilel Otld Tourism                        25.63    4.00    29.63
71n6183189                Nasas                  Metal manufacturing                 8.58    1.55    10.13
1986/90                   Silkar                 Tourism                           14.37    4.92    19.29
1989/90                   Kiris Hotel            Restaurant & hotels               13.03    0.00    13.03
1991                      Kepez Electric         Utilities                         25.00    0.00    25.00
1991                      Kula                   Textiles                          19.40    0.00    19.40
1979/83/84/89/91          Trakya Cam             Class manufacturing               55.49    9.58    65.07
1970/86/87/90/92          ACS Glass             Class Manufacturing                17.50    2.25    19.75
1992                      Elbo                   Steam&IHotWaterSupply             19.33    0.00     19.33
1992                      Finansbank             Small- & Medium-Scal Enterprises    10.00    0.00    10.00
1992                      Heller Factoring       Export Finance                     0.00    0.50      0.50
1992                      Korfezbank             Small- & Medium-Scale Enterprises  8.00    0.00      8.00
1992                      Mis Sut Sanayi         Dairy Products                    10.00    5.00    15.00
1992                      NASCO                  Textiles                          15.00    2.50    17.50
1989/92                   Ram Dis Ticaret        Other                             18.25    0.00    18.25
1990/91/92                Koy Tur                Slaughtering                       8.60    4.13    12.73
88/90/93                  IGFK                   Leasing                            5.00    0.94      5.94
1993                      Caveli Bakir           Non-ferrous ore mining            30.00    0.00    30.00
1993                      Eldor                  Radio/TV Communication             4.00    1.00      5.00
1993                      Sise ve Cam            Class manufacturing                10.82    0.00    10.82
1993                      Medya                  Printing, Publishing & Allied Ind.  12.13    0.00    12.13
1994/95                   Globe Securitie       Investment & Merchant Bank Securiti  0.00    1.34     1.34
1994                      Demirbank             Sals & Export Finance Leasing      15.00    0.00    15.00
1994                      Pinar Sut              Manufacturer of Dairy Products     7.50    0.00      7.50
1994                      Turkiye Garanti        Securities Mkt Financing bIsti.   20.00    0.00    20.00
1994/95                   CBS Holding            Mfg. of paints, varnishes &  cq.  15.00    0.00    15.00
1994                      Aytac                  Mfg. of food, beverages & tobacco  8.00    2.00    10.00
1994                      Cerrahogullari        Transport & storage                10.00    0.00    10.00
1994                      Assan                  Non-ferrous metal basic industry   15.40    0.00    15.40
1995                      Caranti Leaing AS.    Capital market                      7.00    0.00      7.00
1995                      Turk Ekn Bnk-CL        Commercial banks                  20.00    0.00    20.00
Total Gross Commuitments                                786.32   67.19   853.51
Less Cancellations, Termination Exchanges
Adjustments, Prepayments and Sales                   347.95   29.66   377.61
Total Commitments now held by IFC                       438.37   37.53   475.90
Total Undisbursed IFC                                    33.34    0.03    33.37
Total Outstanding IFC                                   405.03   37.50   442.53



IBRD 24903R
'. BULGARIA                30'                                  3-   S0                                                 40                            GEORGIA                 Z
5 _,~,0 d a                       -                                                                                                  ..z                 < 
-B -')UL- ' ,    SZONGUuDAK  "  AMONOU    .    {,    ,    ,,    5   2 ARIAMENIA --
GREECE-           v     _ 1*-=as                                --                           MAAtA _
_NISeffu-N  ,_,   r  1,2D  _ s         //XA\_>o_;                                     _                   i) -           _                     d!>I
-5     -                                                              sRAP
NATIONAL CAPITAL
-a-    MAJOR ROADS
-  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
MILES     50      10W      50                                                                               -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
f>. W   K bI ffuD ar^- .......rLoMETERS f  50   00  150  200  250           s                                                               Province noames Cre   - soat  prnovce capith.s
T2r                                            305-                     30
MARCH 1994












