Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14656-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VOLUME 1 OF 3
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MAIN REPORT
AUGUST 29, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Turkish Lira (TL)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Turkish Lira per US$)
Currency Unit           CY1990           CY1991           CY1992           CY1993          CY1994          CY1995
Jan-July
US$1.00= TL              2,609            4,172           6,872             10,985          29,639          42,447
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES                     FISCAL YEAR
Metric System          January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AB          -            National Agricultural Bank (Ziraat)
CAS         -            Country Assistance Strategy
CBT         -            Central Bank of Turkey
CCC         -            Customs Cooperation Council
CCT         -            Common Customs Tariff
CET         -            Common External Tariff
CIT         -            Corporate Income Tax
Customs     -            Undersecretariat of Customs
EBF         -            Extra Budgetary Funds
EDI         -            Electronic Data Interchange
EDP         -            Electronic Data Processing
EU          -            European Union
FAD         -            Fiscal Affairs Department
FIB         -            Finance Inspectors Board
FLS         -            Financial Ledger System
GATT        -            General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
GDBFC       -            General Directorate of Budget & Fiscal Control
GDC         -            General Directorate of Citizens' Affairs
GDPA        -            General Directorate of Public Accounts
GDR         -            General Directorate of Revenies
GFMIS       -            Government Financial Management Information System
GFS         -            Government Financial Statistics
GIBOS       -            Customs Administration Integrated Automated System
ICB         -            International Competitive Bidding
IMF         -            International Monetary Fund
IT          -            Information Technology
LFA         -            Legal Framework Agremnent
MERNIS      -            Merkezi Nufus Idaresi Sistemi (Central Citizens Registry System)
MOF         -            Ministry of Finance
PFMP        -            Public Financial Management Project
PIAL        -            Privatization Implementation & Social Safety Net Assistance Loan
PIT         -            Personal Income Tax
PMSS        -            Project Management Support Services
PMU         -            Project Management Unit
PSBR        -            Public Sector Borrowing Requirement
PSAL        -            Public Sector Adjustment Loan
RCs         -            Rcvenue Controllers
SAR         -            Staff Appraisal Report
SBA         -            Stand-By Arrangement
SEE         -            State Economic Enterprises
SOFIX       -            Systeme d'Ordinateurs de Fret International
SPO         -            State Planning Organi7ation
TAB         -            Tax Accountants Board
TCA         -            Turkish Court of Accounts
TIN         -            Taxpayer Identification Number
TIR         -            International Transport Register
Treasury    -            Undersecretariat of Treasury
TL          -            Turkish Lira
UIN         -            Unique Identity Number
VAT         -            Value Added Tax



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY  ....................................  i
I.    INTRODUCTION ........................................... 1
II.  CHALLENGES FOR PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT .............                                                           3
A. Tax Administration   .               .......................................  3
B. Expenditure and Personnel Management  ..........................  12
C. Customs Modernization   ....................................  22
III.     RELATIONSHIP  TO  BANK  ASSISTANCE  STRATEGY   ..... ..                                        ..........  31
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement  ...............................  31
B. Lessons of Experience  .....................................  31
IV.      THE  PROJECT   .................. ..                              .......................  33
A. Objectives ............................................. 33
B. Description  .            ...........................................  34
C. Management and Implementation  ...............................  40
D. Costs and Financing Plan   ...................................  45
E. Procurement Arrangements  ..................................  47
F. Disbursement Arrangements   ................................. 51
G. Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision   .......................... 53
H. Accounting and Audit Plans ..................................  54
V.       BENEFITS  AND  RISKS                 ..................                   ....................  57
A. Benefits ............................................... 57
B. Risks ................................................ 57
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ......                                                     .......... 59
A. Required Actions and Undertakings  .............................  59
B. Recommendation .                   ........................................ 61



Boxes
2.1.  Structure and Performance of Taxation in Turkey .6
2.2. Directions for Future Change in Tax Policy .9
2.3.  Turkey's Customs Union with the European Union .23
Charts
2.1.   Accounts Arrangements at the Central Bank ........ .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
2.2.  Government Financial Management Information System  .21
4.1.   Public Financial Management System Organization Structure  .43
Tables
4.1.   Summary of Costs ....................  ....  ...  ....  ....  ....                         .  46
4.2.   Financing Plan ........................  .....  .....  .....  ..                          .  47
4.3.   Summary of Procurement Arrangements  ........  .              ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 49
4.4.   Procurement Implementation Plan  .5.0.......  ..  .         .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .    . SO
4.5.   Bank Financing Shares of Foreign Costs ........  .            ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 51
4.6.   Estimated Bank Disbursements ...........  ..  .             ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .    . 52
4.7.   Supervision and Reporting Schedule .........  ..  .           .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..    .  55



THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Turkey
Beneficiaries:     Ministry of Finance (MOF) and Undersecretariat of Customs (Customs)
Loan Amount:       US$62.0 million
Terms:             The loan is proposed to be a fixed rate single currency loan in U.S.
dollars, with a maturity of up to fifteen years. Each semester's
disbursements would have a maturity of nine years from the rate fixing
date, including three years' grace. The interest payments' dates are March
15 and September 15, with the first expected rate fixing date on March 15,
1996.
Project Objectives:   The overarching objective of the Public Financial Management Project
(PFMP) is to enhance the ongoing fiscal consolidation and reform efforts
initiated by the Government of Turkey in 1994 by improving the efficiency
and effectiveness of tax administration, expenditure and personnel
management, and customs operations. The Tax Administration
component would be directed at modernizing the organization and systems
of the tax administration in Turkey, with a particular focus on
strengthening the compliance enforcement and policy formulation
capabilities of the tax authorities, and improving conditions progressively
for taxpayers who comply. The underlying goal is to broaden the tax base
in order to increase tax revenues while ensuring a more equitable
distribution of the tax burden. The Expenditure and Personnel
Management component would seek to enhance the government budget's
usefulness as a fiscal policy instrument, and as the tool for managing
public finances by reducing the number of sources of government spending
that now operate outside budgetary channels, and by introducing budgeting
of public administration positions and payroll. It also aims to modernize
the complex and outdated budgetary and accounting control procedures and
systems that impede effective and efficient control over government
finances. The Customs Modernization component is directed at shifting
the customs agency's policy from its present costly and inefficient ex ante,
full coverage, sanctioning approach to a more ex post and efficiency-
seeking stance, still capable of gathering appropriate revenues and
enforcing relevant national and international laws, and at advancing the
changes in the national customs organization required to enable Turkey to
enter into a customs union with the European Union (EU) in 1996.



- ii -
Project Description:  Project activities for the three components of the Public Financial
Management Project can be grouped under five common heads: (a) studies
to complete the details of the programs for reform and modernization;
(b) advisory services and training in new procedures, organizational
arrangements and analytical techniques; (c) design studies and modeling
activities to determine the specifications of information technology
investments; (d) pilot and nationwide information technology investments
and associated training and civil works; and (e) project management
support services. Due to the differences in the state of readiness of the
various components for major investment expenditures, the time sensitivity
of certain elements and the complexity of administrative arrangements, the
authorities have adopted a time-slice approach to Bank financing of their
public financial management reform program. Specifically, the PFMP
would constitute the first of two proposed Bank loans in support of
institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and other
public agencies dealing with taxation and expenditure management and
control. For these entities, the PFMP would involve advisory services,
training, and information technology design studies and pilot activities.
This would lay the foundations for a second phase of activity focusing on
information technology investments and training. Due to the urgent
requirements of the forthcoming customs union with the EU, and the
relatively favorable sector policy environment and simple design issues
involved, the PFMP would provide complete support to modernization
program of the Undersecretariat of Customs, including information
technology investments and training for its national office network.
Benefits:           The project's aim is to tackle some of the key institutional problems that
have hindered past adjustment efforts in Turkey by addressing systemic
deficiencies in taxation, government expenditures and customs, and in
related personnel management functions. In these areas, the project would
seek to restructure and otherwise rationalize the central agencies, upgrade
their planning and controls, and modernize their processes and systems.
The envisaged changes would help deepen the fiscal stabilization effort
initiated in 1994 and facilitate Turkey's successful entry into a customs
union with the European Union in 1996. Satisfactory progress with this
project would lay a solid base for future investments to strengthen
administrative capacity in the financial management agencies and for
fundamental policy reforms, for which some thorough studies are needed.
Turkey's foreign exchange receipts and non-debt capital inflows are
denominated predominantly in U.S. dollars. Consequently, the Borrower
anticipates that the U.S. dollar single currency loan will help improve its
external portfolio management by creating a better balance in the currency
composition of its external debt liabilities and foreign exchange inflows.



- iii -
Risks:               The major risks relate to: (a) the large overall agenda for stabilization and
reform facing the Government, which may lead implementation of
institutional reforms to be given lower priority; (b) the institutional
diversity and complexity of the project, which may strain the
administrative capacity of the Government and lead to bottlenecks in
implementation; and (c) failure of the technical assistance for any of a
number of systemic reasons. Against these risks must be set the fact that
the key economic agencies that would be affected, the Ministry of Finance
and Undersecretariat of Customs, are firmly committed to the project. In
large measure, this reflects the fact that the project deals with issues for
which there is widespread support in Turkey--a more equitable tax burden,
improved management and control over the Government's finances and
closer economic ties with Europe.
The Government's commitment is reflected in the considerable time,
resources and high-level participation that it is investing in the project, as
well as in a variety of upfront actions. These have served to promote
ownership at both the managerial and technical levels. Government
officials have worked intensively with Bank staff and consultants to
prepare detailed programs for reform in all three component areas. A
number of studies have already been completed and follow-up action taken,
including important changes in tax legislation and customs regulations.
Implementation risks will be mitigated by the assignment of permanent
technical advisors and professional project management experts to the
beneficiary agencies. Finally, in keeping with the lessons of past Bank
technical assistance lending in the area of public sector management, the
supervision arrangements provide for frequent and intensive supervision,
including a major review of implementation progress in each of the first
three years of project execution.



- iv -
Estimated Proiect Costs:        Foreign          Local           Total
--------------- US$ million -------------------
Tax Administration               12.3             1.9             14.2
Expenditure and Personnel         8.1             2.3             10.4
Customs Modemization             45.2            17.2             62.4
Total Base Cost                  65.6            21.4             87.0
Physical Contingencies            2.4             0.8              3.2
Price Contingencies               3.1             0.9              4.0
Total Project Cost               71.1            23.1             94.2
Financin2 Plan:                Foreign           Local          Total
- ---------------USmillion-
Government                       9.2             23.0             32.2
IBRD'                           61.9              0.1            62.0
Total Financing                 71.1             23.1            94.2
i' Excludes taxes and duties
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year           FY1996    FY1997   FY1998   FY1999   FY2000
---------------------------- US$ million -------------------------
Annual                       2.1b      7.0       18.8      18.1      16.0
Cumulative                   2. 1"     9.1       27.9      46.0      62.0
Includes repayment of US$2.0 million advance from World Bank Project Preparation Facility.
Net of duties and taxes.
Differences due to rounding.
Economic Rate of Return:           Not applicable.
Map:                               IBRD No. 24903R



1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    During the last few years, there has been a resurgence of high fiscal deficits and inflation
in Turkey that has overshadowed the gains attained through the broad-based liberalization of the
economy in the 1980s. In 1993 the internal imbalances spilled over into the external accounts,
culminating in a severe currency crisis during the early months of 1994. There were successive
downgradings of Turkey's credit rating by the international rating agencies, and access to
external financing virtually severed.
1.2   The growing macroeconomic imbalances led the Government to adopt some reform
initiatives in late 1993, notably in the area of tax. However, an overall approach to the country's
economic problems was not defined until April 1994 when the Government initiated a
comprehensive program of stabilization and reform measures. The main objectives of the
April 5 Program are to: (a) achieve a substantial and durable reduction in the fiscal deficit and
inflation; (b) reduce the external payments deficit and restore foreign exchange reserves; and (c)
establish a structural framework for more sustainable rapid growth, chiefly through a
considerably reduced role of government in economic activities. The Program is being supported
by a fourteen-month IMF Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) for SDR 509.3 million (approximately
US$715 million) approved in July 1994. In April 1995, the IMF Board approved a 6 month
extension of the SBA to March 1996, and enhanced Turkey's access to IMF resources under the
SBA by SDR 75 million (approximately US$110 million).
1.3   Some of the initial results of the April 5 Program have been very encouraging. The
budget deficit was reduced substantially in 1994, largely through a number of special taxes and
real cuts in spending on personnel costs and subsidies. As a result, the overall public sector
borrowing requirement fell from 12.6 percent of GNP in 1993 to 8 percent in 1994. The
external current account registered a sizable surplus of about US$3 billion in 1994 and foreign
currency reserves are now well in excess of the levels prevailing before the crisis. Despite these
achievements, there has been slow and uneven progress in implementing the structural reforms
that would provide the basis for a durable adjustment. While important steps have been taken to
strengthen tax policies, and some areas of government spending, progress with reform in the rest
of the public sector is lagging. Access to external credit remains constrained. Inflation is still
running at an annual rate of over 100 percent and real interest rates remain very high. Recovery
from the deep economic recession in 1994--real GNP declined by an estimated 6 percent--is
apparently underway, but its sustainability is uncertain. The situation is complicated further by
persistent political uncertainty and difficult national security issues.
1.4   The primary economic challenges facing Turkey at this juncture are to establish the
foundations for a sustainable fiscal adjustment and to bring about a rapid and durable reduction in
inflation. Fundamental reforms of the public sector are needed, including: (a) privatization or
closure of state economic enterprises (SEEs); (b) a substantial rationalization of the public
administration; (c) reductions in the costly government interventions in investment, production
and marketing decisions; and (d) action to stem the financial losses of the main pension funds,
followed by comprehensive medium-term reforms of health and social security financing.
1.5   These policy reforms need to be complemented by a variety of institutional reforms to
strengthen public financial management. The domestic tax system remains characterized by a



-2-
relatively narrow base. This situation is due in large part to deficiencies in the tax administration
that preclude a broadening of the income tax base, as well as effective collections and compliance
activities, and better taxpayer service. Notable among these shortcomings is the authorities'
limited ability to identify potential areas of non-compliance through cross-checks of information
relating to financial transactions and asset holdings. Expenditure management and control is
severely hampered by the complex and outdated budgetary framework and systems, the plethora
of agencies and funds that are effectively outside the budgetary process, and deficiencies in cash
management and public sector accounting. As a result, general government expenditures have
exceeded targets by large margins in recent years, and fiscal policy has been driven by the
short-term financing needs of the government. The management of personnel expenditures
presents a particular problem. The public administration in Turkey is characterized by
considerable over-staffing due to poor information on and controls over personnel expenditures.
There are also serious problems of staff quality and performance due to the inadequate wage
structure, weak career incentives and inefficient procedures. Finally, the major liberalization of
external trade achieved during the 1980s has not been matched by corresponding changes in
customs administration. The present regime is costly and inefficient and detracts from the
competitiveness of Turkish exports and the country's attractiveness as a site for investment. A
major impetus for change in this area stems from the requirements of the customs union with the
European Union (EU) that is expected to take effect from the beginning of 1996.
i.6   The proposed Public Financial Management Project (PFMP) would assist in addressing
institutional and systemic problems in taxation, government spending and customs administration,
and in related personnel management functions. In these areas, the PFMP would seek to
restructure and otherwise rationalize the central agencies, upgrade their planning and controls,
and modernize their processes. The envisaged changes would help deepen and enhance the
sustainability of the fiscal stabilization initiated in 1994 and facilitate Turkey's successful entry
into the customs union with the EU. Satisfactory progress in these areas would help lay a solid
base for future fundamental policy reforms, for which some thorough studies are needed. Such
advances would complement the public administration strengthening measures of the Privatization
Implementation Assistance and Social Safety Net Loan (PIAL), Ln. 3728-TU. In considering the
Government's request, another important factor has been the fact that past adjustment efforts in
Turkey have foundered because of failures to tackle key structural problems at the roots of
institutional and other frameworks. On these accounts, the Bank began to help the authorities
organize the proposed project in February 1994, which task was completed in April 1995. The
proposed Bank loan would provide support for the first of two phases of the Government's
medium term financial management reform program. The Government has requested Bank
support for the latter phase through a follow-up loan.



II. CHALLENGES FOR PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
A. TAX ADMINISTRATION
1. Background
2.1    Overall, Turkey's tax effort appears reasonable for its level of development and economic
structure (see Box 2.1). Nevertheless, there are important deficiencies in both the policy and
administrative frameworks for taxation. The most important issue is the coverage, and
consequently the equity, of the income tax system. Withholding applies to 5.5 million wage
earners and no return is filed by these individuals. There are two million registered taxpayers,
85 percent of whom are assessed under the minimum living standard system. In addition, there
are approximately 1 million taxpayers who are subject to "lumpsum" (presumptive) assessment.
Based on the number of registered voters in the country (35 million), there are at least 10 million
potential taxpayers that are currently not covered by the income tax system. There are no
effective tools being used today to increase compliance from the excluded groups of taxpayers.
2.2   Policy Framework. The tax base has been heavily eroded by the complex system of
incentives granted through special rates and exemptions to the corporate income tax (CIT),
combined with uneven adjustments for the persistent high inflation. Practically nothing is known
about the impact of the tax incentives on the size or composition of economic activity and
whether or not they are achieving their objectives. To the extent that such incentives succeed in
directing resource flows, it is unclear whether resource allocation is thereby made more or less
efficient. As the number of activities benefitted grew, the differential impact of individual
incentives has probably diminished, but the combined cost of higher tax rates on non-benefitted
activities probably encouraged evasion and had an increasingly adverse impact on budgetary
revenues. Between 1988 and 1993, collections from the CIT declined from 2 percent of GNP to
barely 1 percent. The progressivity of the personal income tax (PIT) system has also been
eroded by the high levels of inflation--through bracket creep and reduced value of basic
exemptions--while the extensive reliance on lump-sum assessments for lower income levels
facilitated tax evasion.
2.3    Organization and Procedures. Currently tax administration functions in Turkey are
performed without an articulate organizational approach. The main responsibility lies with the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), and within the Ministry with the General Directorate of Revenues
(GDR). GDR staffing totals more then 55,000 positions with the vast majority located in about
1000 local tax offices.' The local tax office system consists of 400 pure tax offices with the
balance being combined with other functions of the regional government. The GDR headquarters
staff have many of the normal national office duties associated with collection of revenue.
However, since the headquarters is not organized by function, many of the oversight activities of
tax administration are not present. The GDR specializes in advising the Government on tax
policy, interpreting the tax laws and producing statistics. There is no deliberate organizational
design to provide taxpayer services, and insufficient attention is paid to internal performance
monitoring or evaluation. Salaries are highly uncompetitive relative to the private sector. As a
consequence, there is a scarcity of skilled personnel in key areas such as audit and automation.
There are currently about 46,000 filled positions.



- 4 -
2.4    Other organizational fractures include dual lines of authority between the Ministry of
Finance and the Ministry of Interior over regional and local tax administration matters and staff,
and multiple tax audit groups within the MOF. A regional administrator, the Defterdar, controls
the local office network through the regional financial office. The division of oversight
responsibility weakens coordination between the national (central) and subnational units of the
GDR, and compromises both the effectiveness and accountability of the tax administration.
2.5    Administrative procedures are extremely complicated. Systems employ far more steps to
accomplish goals than is strictly necessary. Although tax payments through banks and the postal
system are allowed under the current regime, over 80 percent of tax payments are made at local
tax offices despite considerable inconvenience to taxpayers. This is because: (a) the banks
routinely avail themselves of a lengthy float, despite a 12 percent penalty per month for late
transfers to the central bank; (b) there is only a manual system of passing the information back to
the tax office for reinput (greatly increasing the risk of late or incorrect posting); and (c)
taxpayers must still go to the tax office each month to file their tax return and secure their
assessment document. Much of the problem seems to stem from the state banks, which have
traditionally had exclusive rights to the business. The mails are reportedly so unreliable that
virtually no confidence is placed in the postal route by taxpayers.
2.6    The lack of a unique (national) identification number for taxpayers, combined with an
apparent legal requirement that tax returns be pre-assessed prior to payment, means that
taxpayers must visit the local offices where their (manual) records are kept. Collections are
highly concentrated in a few offices and regions in the country. It is estimated that less than 10
percent of the roughly 1000 tax offices collect about 85 percent of the tax revenues. This
concentration of yield and the crowding of certain offices has encouraged the GDR to focus its
collection efforts on the expansion and computerization of its network in particular regions and
cities.
2.7    The focus on revenue collection has resulted in a neglect of other compliance-enhancing
activities, notably audit, and most tax returns are judged to greatly underreport income. Audit
coverage is very inadequate--for even the 24,000 largest companies. The audit staff is currently
composed of 4 very different groups each supervised by a different organization and having a
different status within the Ministry of Finance.
2.8    The two most highly trained groups are the Tax Accountants Board (TAB) and Finance
Inspectors Board (FIB), which report directly to the Minister of Finance and traditionally audit
the larger and more complex cases. The TAB allocates most of the time of its 325 staff to tax
audit activity. The FIB, with 120 staff, concerns itself with tax audits only as a spillover of its
mandate to review the management of government resources. The FIB spends about 70 percent
of staff time on internal audit functions and about 30 percent on tax audits. A third group, the
Revenue Controllers (RCs), 470 staff, spend about 60 percent of their time on tax audits and
reports to the General Director of Revenues. Finally, there are 2100 Tax Control Officers
deployed at the provincial and local levels, who carry out "compliance checks" and assist other
(central) audit groups with their field work. The Tax Control Officers are GDR staff, but their
day-to-day activities, including audit programs, are determined by the Defterdar.



-5-
2.9    There is limited coordination between these audit groups. Audit plans are based on
discussions within the Ministry as to what sectors of the economy should be targeted for the
coming year and then the different audit staffs aim in those general areas. Audit selection lacks
systematic informational support and relies on staff perceptions of evasion. The lack of an
appropriate information infrastructure precludes smart uses of information that would guide the
auditing process, as well as effective management of auditing performance. Public accounting is
a relatively new profession in Turkey. This makes it difficult to depend on the accounting
profession to take responsibility for a greater degree of auditing. Other major problems for
compliance enforcement in Turkey include the application of grossly inadequate penalties to
evaders, the frequent extension of tax amnesties and a reluctance to advertise to the public the
results of audit activity so as to encourage wider compliance with the tax laws.
2.10  Information Systems and Management. There are 91 computerized local tax offices
online to one of three regional computer centers located in Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir. The 80
computerized local tax offices have antiquated equipment and additional expansion is not
possible. The regional computer centers possess state-of-the-art IBM mainframe systems. A
fourth mainframe system is located at the national data center in Ankara. Currently, local office
computerization is limited to taxpayer identification numbers (TIN) registrations, assessment
transactions, and payment transactions. Only the tax return information needed to issue a notice
of assessment is captured at the local tax office. National masterfile (database) online
information is limited to taxpayer entity information and payments by type of tax. Universal
assessment of each return and payment related information for each taxpayer, by type of tax has
been computerized. However, error processing rates are very high and there is little confidence
in the computerized system. Even the computerized local tax offices continue with duplicate
manual systems.
2.11   A major shortcoming of the existing TIN (and masterfile) is that the local tax office
number is part of the TIN. This ties taxpayers to specific local tax offices. When a taxpayer
moves from one local tax office jurisdiction to another local tax office jurisdiction, s/he must
visit the old tax office and cancel the old TIN and visit the new tax office to obtain a new one.
Since the process does not have appropriate controls in place, multiple TIN cards are issued and
used by taxpayers. In this way, the national masterfile is hopelessly compromised, and all local
offices maintain a parallel manual system to conduct day-to-day business. In its current state, the
national masterfile also cannot form a platform for third party data-matching and other strategic
compliance enforcement activities.
2.12   Summary. The Turkish tax system has evolved into one where tax effort relies heavily
on withholding from current transactions--notably, the value-added tax (VAT) and withholding
from wages and financial transactions--and presumptive taxation. As the private sector has
increased the range and sophistication of its activities, non-compliance has become widespread.
Recent re-alignments in VAT rates and inadequate adjustments for (rapid) bracket creep have
resulted in a growing tax burden on wage earners and low income groups. On the other hand,
provision of a wide range of tax exemptions and full deductibility of nominal interest payments
have reduced the burden for the corporations and private business. This has enhanced an
inequitable tax incidence and encouraged non-compliance. Overall, administrative procedures are
far too complicated and inflict a heavy burden on taxpayers. There is limited use of modern



- 6 -
Box 2.1. Structire and Perfornance of Taxation in Turkey
The ratio of tax revenues to GDP averaged 18 percent in 1991-93, with roughly three-quarters of this accruing to
the national government. By comparison, the tax ratio was 19% in Chile (1991-92); 21 % in Malaysia (1991-92); 14% in
Mexico (1989-90); and 18% in Thailand (1989-90). Consolidated budget tax revenues in 1993 amounted to 13 percent of
GDP. The main taxes are: personal income (40% of revenues), value added tax (30%) and corporate income (7%). All
taxes are collected by the central government, and the local role and capacity is very underdeveloped. Currently about 11%   l
of tax revenue collection is transferred directly to local governments and is not included in the budget. In recent years, there
has been a growing reliance on ad hoc levies imposed thorough extra-budgetary funds--3 percent of GDP in 1993.
Turkey: Consolidated Budget Tax Revenues
Percentage Shares
1985     1990      1993
i. Taxes on Income                   46.9      52.1      48.6
Personal Income Tax             34.6      41.0     40.4
Corporate Income Tax             11.7     10.2       7.2
Taxes on Wealth                  0.6       0.9       1.0
ii. Taxes on Goods and Services        43.6     40.5      45.7
Value Added Tax                 24.8      27.2     31.0
Domestic                      14.8      16.8      19.3
Imports                       10.0      10.4     11.7
Other                            18.8     13.3      14.7
iii. Taxes on Foreign Trade              9.5      7.3       5.8
Memo:
Total Tax Revenues/GDP CX)             13.1     16.2      18.4
Source: MOF, Treasury and SPO
The personal income tax (PIT) is obtained through withholding, income declaration and lump-sum methods.
Marginal tax rates range from 25% to 55%. Withholding taxes amounted to 84% of total PIT revenues in 1993. The main
element of withholdings is wage and salary income, which currently corresponds to 55% of total PIT, up from 30% in
1988. This trend is partly due to a steep increase in real wage rates during this period, combined with bracket creep. Taxes
are withheld for around 5.5 million employees, of which 1.7 million are in public sector. A number of income categories
(other than wage income) are also subject to withholding, and have varying withholding rates--2.5% to 10%. Wage earners
whose taxes are withheld are not required to file a return unless they have incomes above TL 225 million. The same
threshold applies for other income sources. The Government derives a relatively small part of its revenue from the
corporate income tax (CIT). There are about 230,000 corporate taxpayers, most of which (190,000) are joint stock
companies, including state enterprises. Despite high nominal CIT rates (46% in 1993), the share of the CIT in budget tax
revenues is low (7%) and has been declining in recent years. This decline is due to the fact that, until the recent reforms,
the high posted CIT rates were accompanied by a large number of exemptions and incomplete adjustments for the effects of
inflation. In 1993, the legislature eliminated most of the tax exemptions, introduced partial inflation adjustments and reduced
the basic corporate tax rate to 25% (minimum 20%). A supplementary income tax of (10% for listed companies, 20% for
unlisted) was added to the new basic CIT. In net, this implies a reduction of 14/6 percentage points for listed/unlisted
companies, from the prior common 46%. To help deal with the erosion of the value of collections by persistent high
inflation (the Tanzi effect), 70% of the assessed CIT is collected in monthly advance payments.
The VAT is broad based, covers services and has relatively few exemptions. Turkish VAT rates and schedules are
roughly in line with European Union practice. There are two low rates (I % and 8%) for basic foodstuffs, a base rate (15%)
and a luxury goods rate (23%). About I million lump-sum income taxpayers pay their VAT according to a presumptive
calculation. Another 1.4 million pay according to the credit method, with exports zero rated. Imports account for 40% of
VAT receipts. The VAT is paid monthly, according to a uniform schedule. Due to the requirement for physical presence in
local tax offices to effect payment, this constitutes a major burden on tax payers.



information technology in the tax administration. In particular, current computerization does not
allow classification and selection of returns by norms, past audit results, third party information,
general profiles or screening functions, with a view to selecting those returns for audit and other
compliance checks, nor a management system that monitors the tax system and through a
scientific method targets areas of non-compliance or systemic problems.
2. The Tax Reform Agenda
2.13   Recent Policy Reforms. Recognizing the deficiencies of the tax system, the Government
has introduced a number of major tax reforms during the past eighteen months. New legislation
has reduced by an estimated two-thirds the value of tax exemptions available under the CIT.
This closing of "loopholes" permitted a substantial reduction of nominal tax rates, while
increasing projected tax collections--the effective CIT rate was increased from 28 percent to 30
percent. Other changes to the CIT code effectively lengthen the "tax life" of fixed investments
(reducing currently generous annual depreciation deductions) and introduce inflation correction
into the valuation of inventories. The current full deductibility of nominal interest costs is being
partially corrected for retail and wholesale businesses. The new legislation also removes the
insulation of SEE and municipal government assets and makes it possible for the tax authority
and the social security institutions to exercise claims against arrears. Municipal revenues are also
being increased through a real estate tax and a tax to fund environmental improvements.
2.14  The personal income tax base has also been broadened to include interest and dividends
and the top-bracket rate raised from 50 to 55 percent. The Government has also been authorized
to move a large number of taxpayers from the lump-sum system to the income declaration system
of taxation, and has begun implementation of this for groups believed responsible for a major
part of tax evasion within the lump-sum system. A decree has recently been passed to transfer
lumpsum (presumptive) taxpayers in the 13 largest metropolitan areas to the income declaration
system. This would cover some 200,000 out of the estimated 1 million lumpsum taxpayers. The
authorities plan to transfer about 90-95 percent of lumpsum taxpayers to the declaration system
during the next few years. In the area of indirect taxes, significant further progress has been
made to rationalize Turkey's external tariff rates in line with the requirements of the forthcoming
customs union with the EU. The number of VAT rates has also been reduced from five to four
and the average rate increased by 2-3 percentage points. The general VAT rebate system has
been eliminated (except for pensioners), reducing by an estimated two-thirds the revenue losses
from this source.
2.15  With the above policy and related legal and regulatory changes advancing, the
Government's reform program is keyed to the idea that much of the potential revenue and
efficiency gains are to be obtained from changes in tax administration to allow for an effective
expansion of the tax base and to improve compliance, including through improved taxpayer
service. In this connection, the strategy takes into account the fact that the impending expiration
of the April 1994 package's one-time measures and desirable reductions in tax rates will erode
the returns from this short term betterment. These make urgent the need for further changes to
bring about more permanent revenue mobilization improvements. A number of important steps
have already been taken.



- 8 -
2.16   The GDR has recently signed a contract with Is Bankasi, the largest private sector bank,
allowing for tax payments and other public monies to be paid at any Is Bankasi branch. The
GDR plans to effect a wholesale transfer of tax payments to the banking system in 2-3 years, as
well as possibly some routine tax administration processes. These changes are expected to
reduce substantially the current tedious process for taxpayers in paying their taxes and filing
returns, and permit a rationalization of the local tax office network.
2.17   Penalties for late payment and for nonpayment have been increased. These need to be
vigorously enforced so as to promote a change in attitude towards compliance with Turkey's tax
laws. The new legislation permits the use of third party information to detect non-compliance
and mandates the introduction of a unique identifier system for taxpayers. Other compliance
enhancing initiatives include: a new requirement that certified accountants co-sign certain large
individual and all corporate returns, and be held jointly liable for evasion; and more stringent
definitions of tax evasion, gross default and other faults with correspondingly increased penalties.
2.18   Although, there are a number of areas where further policy action would be desirable (see
Box 2.2), the recent and proposed changes in tax policies and administration constitute the most
substantive effort at fiscal reform by the Government to date, and will bring major benefits to the
public finance adjustment process and enhance the competitiveness of the Turkish economy. The
main challenge facing the authorities is to implement the changes expeditiously and forcefully.
An important aspect of this challenge stems from the deficiencies of the tax administration noted
above, which limit the ability of the GDR to carry out its mandate. The GDR's reform activities
will also be directed at improving the policy or legislative framework, so as to ensure that the tax
structure itself does not erode the tax base, and to strengthening the tax policy analysis capability
of the GDR more generally. The medium-term program of institutional reforms and investments
required to address these deficiencies is described in the next section. This program is envisaged
to be supported by two partially overlapping lending operations from the World Bank. The
proposed PFMP is the first of these.
2.19   Tax Administration Reform. As noted above, the authorities have recently embarked
upon a program that will revitalize substantially the tax administration system. A number of
studies and reviews have been carried out since 1992, which provide extensive recommendations
for modernization and reform, and the process of change and modernization is already fairly
advanced.2 The basic thrust of the program is to broaden the tax base in order to increase tax
revenues while ensuring a more equitable distribution of the tax burden. Proposed activities will
be directed chiefly at. strengthening the compliance enforcement and policy formulation
capabilities of the tax authorities, introducing a more aggressive and coherent strategy for
compliance enforcement and improving progressively conditions for taxpayers who comply. The
tax administration reform program also will seek to ensure the sustainability and predictability of
2 The initial review in 1992 was carried out jointly by the GDR and the Office of Tax Administration
Advisory Services, U.S. Internal Revenue Service under bilateral funding. A number of follow-up studies
were conducted during the preparation of this project under the auspices of a grant from the Government
of Japan.



- 9 -
the expected revenue increases through the modernization of organizational arrangements,
procedures and computer based systems.
2.20   A multi-year program of activities is proposed that combines technical assistance with
significant technology transfer initiatives, and with investment in the supporting information
technology (IT) environment for tax administration processing. The authorities' plan is to reach
their objectives in two partially overlapping phases of activity. The first phase, to be
accomplished in approximately eighteen months, will be directed at completing several key
activities--analyses, studies, modelling and training--that will begin the process of administrative
reform in the GDR and lay a solid foundation for a restructuring of the organization and major
investments in new information technology and human capital across the national office network
during a second phase lasting about 4-5 years. The medium term program is summarized in the
remainder of this section. Additional detail is provided in Annex la.
Box 2.2. Directions for Future Chanse in Tax Policy
During the next few years, priority on the policy front should be given to:
(a) moving a large number of tax payers from the lump-sum system to the
income declaration system of taxation; (b) incorporating the EBF system's
levies and surcharges into more efficient budgetary taxes; (c) expanding
inflation-adjustments for interest deductions to the manufacturing sector;
(d) harmonizing specific incentives in the tax code with practices prevailing in
the EU; (e) equalizing the tax on different forms of financial savings; and
(f) reducing corporate and personal income tax rates to levels in competitor
economies.
2.21   Restructuring and Modernization of the General Directorate of Revenues. The three
basic goals of the GDR are: (a) to restructure its management and administrative organization so
as to reduce fragmentation of managerial authority and achieve a more functional and strategic
orientation in the directorate; (b) to introduce modern automated systems for core tax
administration and management functions, to allow for an expansion of business and more
effective and efficient operations; and (c) to enhance substantially the policy-making capability of
the GDR, including through the establishment of a permanent Policy Analysis Unit to replace the
currently diffused and somewhat ad hoc process.
2.22   A three tier organizational model is envisioned with a solidly developed managerial
infrastructure at each level, oversight responsibilities invested in each higher level, with ultimate
command at the central level of GDR. The restructuring is based on establishing new regional
offices under the supervision of the General Director of Revenues. These centers will provide a
regional focus for a substantially enhanced audit function, as well as providing managerial
oversight, training and IT support for a restructured and automated local office network.



- 10-
2.23 Introducing Modern Automated Systems for Core Tax Administration and
Management Functions. The objective in this area is to develop and implement modern,
automated systems in GDR to allow for an expansion of business (including withholding functions
for social security and unemployment insurance) and more effective and efficient operations. It is
anticipated that the major processing of tax returns will be done at regional processing centers
located in Ankara, Istanbul, and Izmir. IT capabilities will be significantly improved at all three
sites. During a transitional period of 2-3 years, taxpayers will still file tax returns at local
offices, and the local office will continue to have the primary responsibility for interface with the
taxpayer. By the end of this period, it is envisaged that the assessment receipt requirement will
have been eliminated--removing the main rationale for taxpayers to visit local tax offices--and the
role of the banking sector in payment collections will have been increased considerably. The
GDR would also like to introduce direct mailing of returns to processing centers as well. The
removal of major returns processing responsibilities from the local offices, as well as an
enhanced IT capability, will provide the framework for improved taxpayer service.
2.24   Strengthening Tax Policy Capability. The authorities understand that broadening of the
tax base has an important analytical or policy dimension. Specifically, there is a need to ensure
that the tax structure itself does not erode the tax base through excessive deductions, exemptions
or other preferences. Attention also needs to be given to the fairness or equity aspect of the
system, which currently places a heavy burden on wage and salary earners and lower income
groups. Currently, projections of revenue are carried out using aggregate data from tax returns.
None of the secondary economic effects of tax policy changes nor the incidence of taxes is
captured. These issues are important. For instance, the ongoing debate over the replacement of
extra-budgetary fund (EBF) levies by less distortionary budget taxes is complicated by the lack of
information about the likely incidence and other effects of the proposed replacement taxes. It is
also not possible to simulate the effects of changes in the macroeconomic environment on tax
revenues. The GDR plans to establish a Policy Analysis Unit, with appropriate training for staff
selected to serve in the Unit. In addition, a family of analytical models and databases will be
developed suitable for the design of tax policy changes and for revenue forecasting for the
budget. The envisaged models would be used to carry out a comprehensive review of the tax
system, with a view to generating recommendations for change, as well as providing an ongoing
capability for revenue forecasting and monitoring.
2.25 Developing Enhancements for Compliance Enforcement Capability. The main goal in
this area is to develop and implement a third party tax information system that will progressively
permit the broadening of the tax base and the growth of revenues through improved audit and
other compliance checks. This effort will be coordinated with the ongoing citizens' registry
computerization project (MERNIS) of the General Directorate of Citizens' Affairs (GDC) that is
intended to result in the assignment of unique identity numbers (UINs) to all citizens.3 The third
party information system will feature prominently in the GDR's efforts to improve compliance,
and will eventually be a driving force for the proposed tax intelligence centers, as well as provide
information-based resources for all audit boards and local offices engaged in collections and other
3 The current identity number is tied to local GDC offices and is not practical for national financial
ffanagement purposes.



- 11 -
functions. In addition to the benefits to tax administration and policy to be derived from the
MERNIS, the UIN will allow for the introduction of other reforms related to social security and
health financing contributions and entitlements. A UIN would also reduce substantially the
current burden on citizens who are required to visit the Citizens' Affairs office in their father's
place of birth to obtain certifications for a range of transactions and documents.
2.26   The GDR has almost completed a major cleansing of its taxpayer database and has begun
to assign taxpayer identification numbers (TIN) to existing taxpayers. Some expenditures for
local office equipment have already been made using budgetary resources in order that this key
task not be delayed. TINs will be assigned first to business taxpayers, and later to individual
taxpayers. It is expected that the GDR will take affirmative steps to begin a manual cross
checking of available sources of information for under-reported income. One such information
source could be custom ledgers associated with import/export activity that could be used to match
VAT records to other GDR records.
2.27   Since authority to collect and analyze third party information has already been granted to
the Ministry of Finance, it is anticipated that legislation will be issued in the coming year
requiring citizens to obtain a TIN to conduct specified transactions. The GDR will process all
newly issued TIN's through the tax intelligence centers when they become available. In the near
term, the GDR will conduct manual analyses to match specific groups or business sectors. One
group can be derived from new vehicle purchases. The names of the purchasers can be
cross-checked against the current taxpayer name file for tax return filing, and appropriate
enquiries generated where there is evidence of non-filing. Other examples include real estate
purchases or sales and rental property ownership. To the extent that the required information is
available or known, the Phase I study will address the method of eventually cross-referencing
TINs to UINs.
2.28   Most computerized audit enhancements are planned for Phase 11, since much of the
improvements in the audit function are dependent on the modernization and re-structuring needed
to establish tax intelligence centers and related computer based information and procedures.
Building on an ongoing effort to introduce computer-assisted audit techniques, which is being
supported by the German Government, selected auditors from each of the audit boards will be
trained in computer auditing techniques. They will then train a selected group from their
respective boards. After training, this group of auditors will make up a cadre of computer audit
specialists. This unit will be engaged in specialized audits employing a market segmentation
approach, and targeting business sectors and individuals who fit an identified profile.
2.29   At the start of Phase II, a coordinated audit development plan for the four audit groups in
the MOF will be formulated under the direction of the DGR and approved by the Minister of
Finance. This plan is expected to outline audit strategies and goals designed to increase
efficiency and subsequent yield. Guidelines for an audit management information system will
also be developed during this formulation to determine the criteria for computerized audit
selection, to be implemented in Phase 1I. It is anticipated that while computerized audit systems
are being developed, all audit boards will aggressively pursue manual audit leads such as land
use, real estate and other pertinent information that is available through existing manual and
automated government and other public data bases.



- 12 -
2.30  Improve Taxpayer Service. The purpose of this initiative is to increase voluntary
compliance with tax regulations by increasing the role of private banks and the postal service in
routine tax procedures, eliminating steps in filing and payment procedures, simplifying forms and
staggering present monthly deadlines. Working groups will be established within the GDR
during Phase II to implement the tasks that are defined in the Phase I studies. Their
responsibilities will include the proposal of legislation for the changes necessary to extend the tax
return filing period. An extended filing season would ease the burden on taxpayers and spread
the workload in local. offices over a longer period of time. One of the working groups will
redesign all tax returns and related forms to conform with the restructuring effort, and will
continue to monitor the need for changes in forms on an annual basis during the second phase.
2.31   Strengthen Human Resources in the GDR. The purpose of this effort is to undertake
the training and other human resource investments needed to implement and sustain the initiatives
discussed above, including the redesign of career paths and re-deployment of staff in the GDR.
In Phase I, priority will be given to training GDR IT staff, who will be responsible for much of
the development work in Phase 11.
2.32   On completion of the analyses for workload distribution and re-deployment of resources
in local and regional offices discussed above, the GDR's central training division will develop
training packages for the re-training of staff, as will be necessary because of new IT, process re-
engineering and/or staff redeployment. This will include the selection and training of a basic
instructor cadre, course design and instruction. In addition, training packages for management
will be developed for entry, middle and executive level managers. Key managers will be
encouraged to visit overseas tax administrations for study tours.
B. EXPENDITURE AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
1. Background
2.33   To a large extent, Turkey's current fiscal problems are the result of the practice of
managing public expenditure from the financing, or cash, side rather than through a well-
conceived above-the-line budgetary program consistent with a sound macroeconomic framework.
Furthermore, there are two major structural weaknesses of the public expenditure management
process. First, the lax and erratic nature of budgetary policy in the 1980s led over time to a
proliferation of special mechanisms and a fragmentation of budgetary decision-making processes.
Thus, basic regulatory changes are important and urgent to undo the results of this involution.
Second, while the bases for budget preparation, monitoring and accounting remain workable,
they date back to a much earlier time, and now require substantial modernization--in order to
update, simplify and streamline the budgetary and accounting framework. Largely as a result of
these two weaknesses, budget preparation has lost credibility at the same time as budget
execution has weakened.
2.34  Budget Preparation and Coverage. By and large, the various "blocks" of the budget are
assembled by the central economic agencies in Turkey (MOF, State Planning Organization and
Undersecretariat of Treasury) in a technically-correct manner and in accordance with standard
practice. However, there are some major problems:



- 13 -
(a)   Incomplete budgetary coverage. As presently structured, the budget gives a
fragmented and incomplete picture of government finances. The budget is divided
into "general" and "annexed" budget, while extra-budgetary funds (EBFs) and
revolving funds include extrabudgetary expenditures that are planned and managed
in separate processes. There are at present 77 EBFs, of which 18 are completely
outside the budget, and more than 3,105 revolving funds. Together, they account
for an estimated 7.5 percent of the total government expenditure. In 1992, the
Government achieved a partial consolidation of 59 EBFs into the budget. The
measures taken serve to contain the cash outlays of the affected EBFs, but not
their expenditure commitments. Thus, large arrears and future claims exist. The
link between earmarked revenue and allocated expenditure also remains,
exempting a significant portion of government spending from the opportunity cost
scrutiny (and discipline) to which all other expenditures are submitted.
(b)   Insufficient integration among budget components at the preparation stage -
especially between investment and current expenditure.
(c)   Systematic underestimation of expenditures, which averaged 9 percent in 1988-93
and 21 percent in 1991-93. The underestimation is related mainly, on the
investment side, to the increase in the cost of imported equipment from the
depreciation of the lira, and, on the current budget side, to the increase in the
wage bill from a consistent underestimation of the inflation rate.
(d)   Structure of budget coding not conducive to economic analysis. The data
aggregation and disclosure determined by the existing budget nomenclature and
structure has limited value for economic analysis purposes. There is no
presentation on a functional basis (for expenditure) and limited breakdown on an
economic basis (by contrast, revenue reporting is quite detailed and broadly
consistent with international reporting requirements).
2.35  As a result, the budget suffers from lack of credibility among spending agencies, is not
the predictable and robust instrument of policy implementation that it should be, and it is
extremely difficult to know actual expenditure on any program that involves more than one
spending agency.
2.36 Budget Execution and Accounting. The expenditure management system, while
cumbersome and involving many participants in the process, function relatively effectively. This
is evidenced by the fact that consolidated financial information can be produced at the central
level 15 days after the end of each month and a comprehensive statistical bulletin published
within six weeks of the end of the month. However, the existing system has a number of
weaknesses from both a conceptual and organizational point of view:
(a)   The payment processing system is completely manual, involving the functions of
account control and verification, transaction recording and payment. Agencies
rely on the accounting office for data relating to their expenditures and revenues.



- 14 -
(b)   There exists a complex system of control/certification involving the MOF and the
Turkish Court of Accounts (TCA), and which contains both duplication of controls
and confusion concerning financial and accounting controls.
(c)    The system for data aggregation is also largely manual, involving substantial
"double handling" of data before final data entry into the General Directorate of
Public Accounts Data Processing System, which is primarily orientated to
financial report production, rather than towards producing documents suitable for
management information and decision purposes. The current system produces a
lot of data and little information.
2.37  While it would be possible to continue with the existing labor-intensive manual accounting
system for budget execution, demands by Government and institutions responsible for economic
management are unlikely to be satisfactorily met in the future without substantial institutional
modernization within the MOF, including major human resource investments. This
modernization will also need to address the re-orientation of the accounting structure to one
amenable to meaningful economic analysis, the modernization of working methods, and the
computerization of the financial management information system.
2.38 Cash and Debt Management. Cash Management is the responsibility of the Treasury.
Each government accountant holds a current account at the Central Bank of Turkey (CBT) or the
Ziraat or National Agricultural Bank (AB). At the provincial level weekly cash adjustments are
performed through a process involving local branches of the Agricultural Bank and the Central
Bank. At the central level, the information flows between the Treasury and Central Bank allow
daily management of central cash operations. The Treasury has an overdraft facility at the
Central Bank, which is limited to 12 percent of the balance between current year budget
appropriation and the budget of the previous year (Chart 2.1 describes accounts arrangements at
the Central Bank). In 1994 a system of cash rationing was introduced in the provincial system.
Accounting Offices are instructed to release only 50 percent of demands against appropriations,
with the remainder released over the following two months in equal installments.



- 15 -
Chart 2.1. Account Arrangements at Central Bank (simplified)
ADVANCES4
CST Advance
Account
Credit
as required             Repayment
RECEIPTS                               PAYMENTS
Tax                                         Ministry Accounts
Account           Annexed Budgets
NonTax                      410             SEE
Borrowings                                  Domestic Debt T Bills
T Bills
Domestic Borrowing
(G. Bonds)
External                Account 411/416           External Debt Service
Borrowing
Foreign Grants                Foreign Currency           Domestic Debt G.
Bonds
2.39 The following are characteristic of the cash and debt management system:
3     The cash management system is in effect a centralized cash rationing system,
required largely by the weak budget preparation process and insufficient overall
financing.
*     While necessary in the current economic circumstances, this system is
cumbersome and, although utilizing computers for detailed calculations, relies on
manual intervention on a daily basis with little or no integration with the budget
implementation process.
4 The credit limit of 15 percent of current year general budget appropriation is to be reduced progressively to
3 percent by 1998.
5 After conversion to TL, funds can be transferred to Account 410 if required for cash management
purposes.



- 16 -
*     Efforts to manage cash distribution between the central (CBT) operations and the
provincial (AB) operations are apparently hampered by other demands on the AB
and its overall liquidity position.
*     There is an overall lack of integration of government cash assets as ministries hold
their own accounts at the CBT, with funds transferred daily from the Treasury
Account 410, as required.
*     There is no automatic transfer mechanism between accounts at the CBT and at the
AB. Accounting Offices hold bank accounts in the AB, operated autonomously by
the Accounting Office, but within a Unified Treasury Account maintained at the
AB. At the highest level of aggregation cash surpluses are often available in the
AB, but cannot be transferred to the Treasury account 410 in the CBT because of
other demands on the AB and its overall liquidity position.
*     Account balances are not netted for calculation of interest on the CBT advance
account.
e     Emergency cash controls at the Provincial level frustrate the smooth operation of
the system.
2.40  Personnel Budget Management. The Turkish civil service is characterized by
considerable over-staffing due to poor information on and controls over personnel expenditures.
There are also serious problems of staff quality and performance due to the inadequate wage
structure, weak career incentives and inefficient procedures. In 1994, the total number of
employees in the Central Government was about 1.7 million--a 40 percent increase in staffing
over ten years. In 1993, personnel expenditures accounted for about 55 percent of total
expenditures, excluding debt service. By contrast, goods and services expenditures accounted for
only 10 percent of total expenditures, excluding debt service. During the period 1989-93,
personnel expenditures exceeded original appropriations by substantial amounts (about 27 percent
per year on average). From the personnel costs control perspective, the following are the most
important deficiencies:
(a)    The use of extra-budgetary funds and of revolving funds to grant bonuses or to
hire employees (about 72,000) hampers budget preparation and monitoring. The
separation of the procedures for preparing the current and investment budgets
creates loopholes for additional recruitment and makes it difficult to optimize the
allocation of civil servants to priority areas.
(b)   The methods of budgetary preparation do not permit clear identification of the
different components of projected appropriations (actual wage bill, effects of
inflation, promotions, recruitment, etc.). Under these conditions, spending
agencies may get funding which will allow more recruitment than expected.
(c)    The budget does not contain specific caps on state employment. The control of
posts is based on "kadros" (cadres). These cadres, when consolidated, give a



- 17 -
distribution of personnel by service, title, class and grade. They are revised by
law. The revisions of cadres do not fully take into account the budgetary
constraints. The number of positions in the cadres is generally higher than the
number of occupied posts by about 15-20 percent. In 1993, the cadres include 1.7
million positions of permanent employees in the consolidated budget, while the
number of corresponding occupied posts was less than 1.5 million.
(d)    Budget revisions lead to substantial increases in appropriations for personnel
expenditures. The total number of positions in the cadres is steadily increased by
specific laws. The preparation and the vote on these laws, which result in
increasing public expenditures, are disconnected from the budgetary process.
However, in light of the control over requests for recruitment that the MOF
carries out, these laws do not have an automatic impact on personnel expenditures,
but they give strong justifications for increasing appropriations and recruitment,
and amplify pressures from spending agencies. According to the rules on
transfers between budgetary items, transfers from goods and services expenditure
items to personnel expenditure items are easier than transfers in opposite direction.
This system aggravates, during the budget execution, imbalances in the
distribution of public expenditures and circumvents budgetary constraints.
(e)    Budgetary controls are numerous and redundant. However, as they are not
implemented at the appropriate level, these controls do not allow adequate
regulation of the wage bill. The cadres are not appropriate tools to reach the
objective of stabilizing the number of civil servants and the wage bill. Their
implementation in full would lead to an unsustainable growth of public
expenditures. To circumvent this difficulty, about 3 percent of cadres have been
frozen and the Prime Ministry controls the release of the other cadres. The MOF
also carries out an additional control, which is based on budget appropriations.
However, this control is insufficient to complement controls based on the cadres.
As recruitment is done through the year, one may estimate roughly that the
financial effects of recruitment, made in a given year, will be twice as high in the
following year. The Budget Officers verify that recruitment have been authorized,
when preparing payment orders. The other controls from the Budget Officers on
the payroll generally duplicate the controls carried out by accountants.
(f)    The replacement of an existing employee is systematically authorized. There is no
systematic program of functional review examining the inputs and outputs required
to produce particular government outcomes. This system of management and
control is insufficient for implementing structural reforms, which would include,
for example, the redistribution of personnel between sectors.
(g)    The payroll is prepared by spending agencies. Accountancies record in an
"Individual Earning Book" data on personnel, related to the calculation of salaries.
A manual control of the payroll based on this book, is carried out by the
Accountancies. Several accountancies use computers for the payroll preparation,
but with various systems. In the absence of a common payroll information system,



- 18 -
the control by accountancies remain manual even when spending agencies have
computerized its preparation. The manual treatment of the payroll is the main time
consuming and detailed activity carried out at accountancies.
(h)   The monitoring of budget appropriations and the monitoring of positions are
carried out in separate processes. The monitoring of personnel expenditures is
included in the system of monitoring of budget expenditures. The General
Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control and the State Personnel Presidency,
which is attached to the Prime Ministry, both monitor the occupied and vacant
positions of the cadres through a form provided quarterly by spending agencies.
These departments produce several statistical analyses. However, this system of
monitoring is not linked with the monitoring of budget appropriations and is not
done position by position. As a consequence, it does not provide an adequate
base for sound policy formulation.
2. The Reform Strategy
2.41   As noted above, budget preparation has lost credibility at the same time as budget
execution has weakened. Improvements in budget preparation would facilitate stronger budget
execution and that, in turn, would lead to still better budgets thereafter. It is therefore important
to approach both sides of the problem: stronger guidance of the budget-making process by the
central economic agencies (MOF, Treasury and SPO) goes hand in hand with greater delegation
of expenditure management responsibilities to the spending agencies--within the approved budget.
In turn, in the context of a fully-financed ex ante budget within a consistent overall
macroeconomic framework, cash management and liquidity problems should lessen substantially,
thus contributing further to improvement of the overall public expenditure management process.
To support the process, a comprehensive information system will also be needed. Thus the
component aims to build over time a budgetary system that combines the best of both worlds--
preserving the advantages of its traditional methods and arrangements while building-in greater
flexibility and efficiency than is found in several European countries. In pursuit of these goals,
Turkey will benefit from the advantage of its long-standing administrative tradition.
(1) Budgetary Procedures
*  Budget coverage. The central government budget should include all expenditure by public
agencies financed from general revenue, in order to have a clear picture of all central
government spending and, more importantly, to submit all proposed expenditures to the
same standards of comparative economic efficiency. Thus, the objectives should be:
(a) elimination of all EBFs except a very few "strategic" ones; (b) elimination of
revolving funds not financed mostly by revenues internal to the agency in question; and
(c) integration of annexed budgets into the single consolidated budget.
*  Budget Integration. The determination of investment, current and transfer spending should
be made concurrently and within a single decision-making process (although, of course,
the initial preparatory and technical work would be entrusted to the competent agencies).
For this to occur, it is necessary among other things to operate within an explicit



- 19 -
macroeconomic framework that corresponds both to government goals and to economic
realities. In operational practice, such a framework would also alleviate the separate
major problem of systematic expenditure underestimation.
*  Budget Discipline. In addition to respecting a sound macroeconomic framework, also
needed would be: (a) refusal by the Ministry of Finance to recommend increases above
the budgeted amount, except in unusual circumstances (e.g., an earthquake destroying a
water supply system); (b) totally non-discretionary quarterly appropriations release in the
context of a projected cash plan; (c) corresponding cash availability from Treasury; and
(d) routine approval by the Ministry of Finance of intra-program transfer requests by
spending agencies. Stronger budgetary discipline permits (and, in the long-term,
requires), greater delegation of budget execution responsibility to the spending agencies.
* Controls. To make controls more efficient while avoiding cumbersome procedures, it will
be necessary to: (i) correctly define controls needed at the different steps of the
control/certification process, namely financial control before commitment is made,
accounting control before payment is made and audit after payment; and (ii) review the
responsibility of agencies in charge of budgetary control, for eliminating duplicate
controls and centering their activities on their essential functions. A shift in emphasis
from formal controls to monitoring of results and performance will be made.
* Flexibility. Improvement of flexibility in the budget process will need to strictly define
and delineate the role of core agencies and spending agencies in the budget process, to
give more responsibility to spending agencies to allocate their expenditure within their
budget, while enhancing budget discipline.
(2) Government Financial Management Information System
2.42   Many of the modernization measures proposed, and the expenditure management system
developed for this project incorporate revised, efficient, and non-redundant control/certification
steps which help to simplify and streamline the expenditure management process, whether
computerization proceeds or not. Nevertheless, the complexities encountered in meeting this
simple objective dictate that an automated system be employed whereby all necessary data can be
captured, analyzed and reported in a variety of ways, depending on user requirements. The
system must also ensure completeness of data capture (no transaction should be processed outside
the system) and contain rigorous, but not repetitive, relevant financial controls for all
transactions. The Turkish expenditure management system in operation now does provide a firm
basis upon which to carry out reforms which will, in essence, upgrade the system from one
involved predominantly in manual data processing to one which introduces modern accountability
mechanisms and produces information useful for analysis and decision making purposes.
2.43  The project will support the implementation of a fully integrated Government Financial
Management Information System (GFMIS) capable of meeting the demands of Government,
economic management agencies and line agencies in a phased and cost effective manner.
Demands on such a system will range from the requirement to carry out functional and economic
analysis of the implementation of government policy through the budget process (aimed



- 20 -
particularly at enhancing expenditure policy formulation), to the processing of a payment order
against a particular budget line item appropriation. A system to meet such diverse demands will
take time to implement fully, although there is every indication that some components and
concepts can be introduced quickly in Turkey and yield early benefits. The essential elements of
a GFMIS are described in Annex 2e.
2.44   A broad indication of the modules or components involved in a fully integrated GFMIS is
shown in Chart 2.2. The core of the system is the Financial Ledger System (FLS), which is best
described as a set of self-balancing budgetary and proprietary (asset and liability as appropriate
for central governments) accounts covering all central government financial operations. (This
section only addresses the budgetary accounts). Accounts would be formulated for consistency
with the Government Finance Statistics (GFS) functional and economic requirements and would
be organized on an administrative basis so that operations of different institutions could be
processed without confusion over their various transactions or statements within the system and,
most importantly, so that automatic consolidation of such statements could take place.
2.45  It is essential that all Government financial operations be included in one Financial Ledger
System, so that the agencies responsible for financial management have access to the necessary
data for analysis and reporting purposes. That is not to say, however, that one agency should
control all the data. Indeed, the system should be designed such that sections of the Ledger
System are controlled by the most appropriate agency (for instance in the case of public debt
interest payments, Treasury would be the logical control agency) with the overall system
managed by one agency; in this instance the Ministry of Finance.
(3) Personnel Management
2.46   The authorities recognize the need for reducing the size of the public administration and
concentrating it more on essential public functions. They appreciate that changes in these
directions could contribute more to lasting fiscal deficit reduction than the continuation of further
wage restraint of civil servants and public enterprise employees.  There is general appreciation
that the latter is essentially a "holding" device, and that the desirable goal is the creation of a
more effective administrative apparatus at considerably smaller employment levels.
2.47   However, the authorities also know that a major administrative reform designed to
successfully reorganize and downsize the public service requires an analytic base for
comprehensive revisions. That does not now exist. Therefore, until it is developed, the strategy
calls for a phased approach. The immediate first steps involve the introduction of personnel
budgets for all budget agencies, and increasing the transparency of personnel costs in the budget
and accounting systems. These would make it possible--as cannot now be done--to identify and
prevent increased staff expenditures, currently being accommodated by faulty personnel
management controls. Specific employment caps could then be imposed.



- 21 -
Chart 2.2
Government Financial Management Information System--Modules'
Budget Implementation
=Budget Execution=
Budget         Economic Trend              - Appropriation
Preparation           Analysis                - Commitment
l                    ~~~~~~- Verificationl
- Funds allocation
Investment                                     Financial Planning
Planning            ___                        - Forecast of revenues
[Financial Ledger                 and expenditures
System                  - Forecast of debt
Fiscal             (Data Bank)                    servicing
Reporting            l                        - Cash management
Financial Execution
- Inflows to Banks
Debt Management             - Outflows from Banks
Internal          - Internal                  - Payments
and             - External                  - Receipts
External
Controls
Accounting
- Chart of accounts
- Accounting rules
- Controls
Each module is a set of operations utilizing the Financial Ledger System (Data Bank)
(FLS) with information flowing both to and from the FLS.



- 22 -
2.48   The ability to exercise effective posts control is fundamental to regain control over civil
service employment and personnel expenditures. Although the final design of a new procedural
system requires careful studies (these are ongoing), some principles may be defined: (a the
Budget must include the posts (positions) authorized; (b) budget appropriations and authorized
posts must be kept fully consistent during the budget execution; (c) Ministries may retain actual
implementation responsibilities on personnel management; (d) the procedural system must be
sufficiently flexible to allow the spending agencies to optimize the allocation of their human
resources. Other measures, concerning transfers of appropriations and classification of personnel
expenditures will contribute to the control and the monitoring of the budget.
2.49   Once tools to control personnel expenditures are designed or in place, the objective will
be to develop a modern and efficient civil service. To achieve this objective, it would be
necessary to reform the regulatory framework and the system of compensation, to carry out
functional analysis of required personnel level and distribution, to streamline and reduce the size
of the civil service and to introduce incentives for improving the efficiency of civil service.
None of these issues, which are the essential ones, is addressed directly in Phase 1. However,
regardless of the eventual civil service reform that is adopted, the system will require the ability
to control employment and wage expenditure. This is the main objective of the proposed project
in this area. Simultaneously, the reform strategy envisages the elimination, restructuring and
retrenchment of selected organizations within the Government's financial management complex
(e.g., the budget, accounting and local tax offices).
C. CUSTOMS MODERNIZATION
1. Background
2.50   Policy and Legal Frameworks. During the last fifteen years, Turkey has steadily
liberalized its external trade regime. The liberalization process involved an initial shift from non-
tariff import barriers to a greater use of tariffs, followed by a gradual reduction in the average
level of tariffs (the average import-weighted tariff rate is estimated at less than 8 percent at the
start of 1995) and flexible exchange rate policies. Overall, there has been a substantial shift from
import substitution towards a more export-oriented trade strategy.
2.51   Recent changes in the trade policy regime have been driven largely by the requirements of
Turkey's international trade treaty obligations, notably the customs union with the European
Union (EU) that is scheduled to begin in 1996 (see Box 2.3).6 Required actions include the
elimination of the special levies on imports used to finance the activities of extra-budgetary funds,
as well as rationalization of the export incentive regime.
6 The EU is already Turkey's largest trade partner. Turkey is the EU's 10th largest partner. The trade
volume with the EU reached $20 billion in 1993. The EU's share of Turkey's imports is about 44 percent ($13
billion in 1993). The EU absorbed 45 percent of Turkish exports in 1993 ($7 billion). Imports from the EU
are concentrated in machinery, equipment and consumer goods. Textiles and garment are the leading Turkish
exports to the EU.



- 23 -
Box 2.3. Turkey's Customs Union with the EuroDean Union
The various framework documents and protocols for the customs union cover: (a) adoption
of EU external trade policy; (b) competition and state aid; (c) intellectual property protection;
(d) harmonization of standards and industrial regulations; (e) customs procedures; (f) liberalization
of services and public procurement; (g) decision making; and (h) special provisions for trade in
coal, iron and steel, agricultural and processed agricultural products.
The most recent Legal Framework Agreement (LFA) for the customs union was approved
by the EU Association Council in March 1995. The European Parliament is expected to ratify the
LFA in September 1995. The LFA defines the time table and other conditions for the elimination of
customs duties and charges, and of quantitative restrictions and measures having equivalent effect.
In line with this provision, Turkey needs to fulfill the following obligations by the end of 1995: (a)
elimination of remaining custom duties applied to the EU; (b) adoption of the Common Customs
Tariff (CCT) against third country imports; (c) elimination of the Mass Housing Fund levy; (d)
approximation and implementation of the EU's commercial policy regulations including, procedures
for administering quantitative quotas, anti-dumping rules and procedures for officially supported
export credits; and (e) elimination of customs duties on processed agricultural products not covered
by agreed lists. Turkey is also to retain customs duties higher than the CET in respect to third
countries for automotive products and spare parts until January 1, 2001. For its part, the EU will
remove textiles and clothing product quotas as soon as Turkey has passed an intellectual property
law and a competition law (both have been approved), and has adopted the EU's textiles and
garments agreements with third countries.
The LFA reaffirms the parties' conmnon objectives to move towards the free movement of
agricultural products between Turkey and the EU. The harmonization of agricultural policies is
required before free circulation of agricultural products can take place, and it is appreciated that this
will take several years. Taking account of this, the Association Council notes that an additional
period (10 years) is required to put in place the conditions necessary to achieve free movement of
agricultural products. The LFA also identifies the customs provisions that Turkey should adopt in
the following fields: (a) origin of goods; (b) customs declarations; (c) release for free circulation;
(d) customs debt; and (e) right to appeal.
The LPA lists the rules for competition and provisions with respect to state aid
(incentives). The following incentives are compatible with the functioning of the customs union: (a)
aid to promote the economic development of areas where the standard of living is abnormally low
or where there is serious underemployment; (b) aid to facilitate the development of certain
economic activities without adversely affecting trading conditions between the EU and Turkey; and
(c) aid to promote culture and heritage conservation. The LFA also establishes a time table for the
approximation of Turkish laws to the EU legislation in the areas of competition, government
procurement, direct and indirect taxation. Finally, the LFA attempts to determine the conditions,
rules and timetables for the abolition of the existing restrictions on freedom of establishment and on
freedom to provide services.



- 24 -
2.52   Organization and Procedures. Changes in organization and procedures have lagged sorely
behind the policy liberalization, and the present administrative system is costly and inefficient and
detracts from the competitiveness of Turkish exports and the country's attractiveness as a site for
investment. Consequently, there is considerable demand from the trade community for
modernization and change of the customs administration. The Undersecretariat of Customs
(Customs) in Turkey is also facing the same challenges for modernization as other customs
administrations including: increases in the volume of trade; changes in the types of goods being
imported and exported; application of other government department regulations; and, more
sophisticated means of smuggling.
2.53   Spurred by the forthcoming customs union, Customs is currently assessing the changes in
procedures, organization and computerization that are necessary to support a modern
administration that will be able not only to administer the EU common external tariff but also
provide support to Turkish importers and exporters as they compete in the customs union and
beyond. The key issues to be addressed are elaborated on below.
2.54   As in the case of the tax administration, the Customs organization is characterized by
inadequate functional orientation and lacks clear lines of authority and responsibility. The
headquarters, regional, and local office responsibilities overlap in many areas. Certain
headquarters units have operational responsibilities, for example, the Audit General Directorate is
responsible for matching and tracing temporary entry documents for vehicles. There are two
complete and separate regional organizations, one each for customs operations and enforcement.
The customs operations regional offices have no responsibility for post release review of
declarations (this responsibility rests with the headquarters Audit General Directorate).
Responsibility for information systems and management is also divided between two directorates.
The fractures in functional responsibility account in large measure for the overstaffing of the
organization (see below) and help explain the persistence of many redundant activities.
2.55   With 10,000 employees, the organization appears to be significantly over-staffed in
relation to the workload. In 1993, Turkish Customs processed about 1 million import and export
declarations and 20 million passengers. This compares with about 800,000 import and export
declarations with 1,200 staff by Chilean Customs, and 9 million import declarations and 130
million passengers with 10,000 staff by Canadian Customs.7
2.56   Every modern customs administration is built on the principle of self-declaration,
whereby, it is the responsibility of the importer to determine and pay the duties and taxes owing.
It is the responsibility of Customs to complete the level of verification required to determine if a
true and complete declaration has been made. Verification is normally completed on a selective
basis taking into account the record of the importer or exporter, the types of goods, the value and
the level of risk (e.g., high rates of duty, exemption claims, or the zero rating of exports for
VAT). Customs administrations have also found that the most effective revenue control
procedures are completed after release of the goods. Physical inspections are valuable, for
7 It is recognized that these comparisons may not be completely valid as Turkey may require more resources
due to the significant threats from its neighbors in terms of both commercial smuggling and drug traffic.



- 25 -
example, to verify quantities and to assist tariff classification. However, they do not enable
Customs to value goods or determine eligibility for exemption. It is necessary, therefore, to
establish effective post release controls including the audit of the books and records of
enterprises.
2.57   Currently, import and export procedures in Turkey do not meet the accepted international
standards employed by modern customs administrations. The following are some of the most
obvious examples:
(a)    100 percent of imports and exports are physically inspected by Customs--there is
no use of selectivity to target high risk goods and enterprises for physical
inspection or documentary review.
(b)    Duty and tax payments must be made before release of the goods and are only
accepted in cash or by certified cheque
(c)    Pre-arrival presentation and processing of import declarations is not permitted.
2.58   Customs brokers, importers and exporters, complain of lengthy delays in the release of
import shipments and excessive controls by customs and other government departments for both
imports and exports. The following specific examples are illustrative:
(a)    To obtain release of an import shipment arriving by sea it requires, on average,
more than one week from time of arrival of the ship (2 days for the presentation
of the manifest to customs; 1-2 days for the broker to receive the bill of lading
from the shipping agent; and, 2-3 days for Customs to process the declaration).
This time period is much longer if the goods are subject to additional controls by
customs (e.g., laboratory analysis) or other government departments.
(b)    Every importation must have a "permission to import", presented in 6 copies for
distribution to Customs, importer, Central Bank, Undersecretaries of Treasury and
Foreign Trade, and the importer's bank. This form serves no apparent purpose as
it relates to foreign exchange control procedures that were dropped several years
ago.
(c)    For exports, it takes 3-4 days from time of notification (from the exporter to the
broker) for the broker to complete the necessary paperwork. The procedures
include obtaining a "free export certification" from the export association;
certificate of origin from the Chamber of Commerce; additional certification from
the Chamber of Commerce if the goods are proceeding to the EU; and customs
formalities (about one half day).
2.59   The use of laboratory tests is excessive. Perhaps as many as one-third of all import and
export declarations are subject to laboratory testing.



- 26 -
2.60  In summary, current import and export processing regulations and procedures (for
Customs and other government departments) are characterized by duplication, excessive
paperwork and unnecessary physical controls. This results in high compliance costs to the
importing and exporting community in the form of both the indirect costs of delays and direct
costs for physical inspections and documentation. Without a major overhaul of the legal and
regulatory framework, followed by corresponding changes in procedures, no modernization
(automation) effort can be meaningful.
2.61  Information Systems and Management. Computer systems development and maintenance
is the responsibility of the Electronic Data Processing Department, which reports directly to a
Deputy Undersecretary. In addition to computer systems, the department is responsible for other
equipment including portable radios for the customs guards. There is a headquarters staff of 43
including 14 programmer/analysts and 7 computer operators.
2.62  The major computerization effort of Customs has been the development of the GIBOS
system (Customs Administration Integrated Automated System) which was initially introduced in
the Ankara Airport on a pilot basis in 1987. Each system operates on a local mini computer with
updates to the files being transmitted through a modem from headquarters. The system has been
implemented in other offices in Izmir and Istanbul. However, only 27 percent of import
declarations are currently processed through GIBOS. Customs has been unable to implement the
system in other locations due to financial constraints. The Customs Systems Directorate also still
has no computing center of its own and uses that of the Ministry of Finance.
2.63  In addition to the systems developed and operated by the Electronic Data Processing
(EDP) Department, import and export trade statistics are captured by a system introduced in 1989
and operational in 41 customs offices (the non-automated offices forward the declarations to
headquarters for keying). The system is operated and maintained by the General Directorate for
Customs. The statistics are available by the tenth of the month following importation/exportation
and are forwarded to the State Institute for Statistics and the Central Bank. The EDP Department
is also undertaking development activity for vehicle control and valuation.
2.64  Given the split in systems development and operations between the Electronic Data
Processing Department and the General Directorate for Customs, it is unclear who has primary
responsibility for new systems development. There is no systematic review of the automation
needs of Customs and no committee structure to review and approve proposals for automation.
For example, it is unclear how the changes to the computer systems (both the GIBOS and
statistical systems) required for Turkey to administer the legislation and requirements of the
customs union in 1995 are being assessed and implemented . The current systems do not support
analytical work necessary for management monitoring and enforcement (e.g., the information is
not stored in a data base making flexible retrieval and reporting difficult).
2. Modernization Strategy and Program
2.65  Recent Developments. Until recently, the Customs administration was part of the
Ministry of Finance. As a first step towards modernization, Customs was removed from the
Ministry of Finance in July 1993 and established as an Undersecretariat in the Prime Ministry.



- 27 -
The Customs program now aims at advancing the changes which would enable the newly
independent Customs Undersecretariat to manage the EU common external tariff and other trade
policy provisions. The revisions would also encompass actions for supporting Turkish importers'
and exporters' competition in the Europe-wide customs union, partly by reducing their currently
high transaction expenses. The strategy furthermore seeks to upgrade the Undersecretariat's
capabilities to deal with the problems which have arisen from considerable increases in trade
volumes, marked changes in goods being imported and exported, and in the sophistication of
smuggling tactics. Through simplification and automation, Customs has the opportunity to
reduce these costs while, at the same time, to increase the effectiveness of its control and revenue
collection responsibilities.
2.66  In preparation for entry into the Customs Union, several measures have already been
taken, including: the passage of new pieces of legislation covering anti-dumping and intellectual
property rights; introduction of the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT) Valuation
Code; and the preparation of amendments to the Customs Law that would bring it in line with
EU requirements. One of the most important requirements of the customs union is the
administration of the EU common external integrated tariff and, in this regard, Customs will be
required not only to apply the rates of duty in the tariff but also its trade policy provisions (e.g.,
EU quotas). The Customs Administration received technical assistance from the EU to
identify the legislative and procedural changes required by Customs to implement the customs
union requirements (the program began in September 1993 and included experts visiting Turkey
to assess the needs and Customs sending officers to the Community members to review customs
procedures).
2.67  The Customs Modernization Propram. The main objectives of the program are to:
3     Implement modern, up-to-date customs legislation
e     Simplify and automate customs procedures
3     Introduce greater reliance on post release controls
i     Provide good service to the trading community
e     Delegate increased responsibilities to regional and local offices.
2.68   The modernization strategy is to be based on the following principles: self-assessment;
selectivity for physical inspection and document review; strengthening of the post release review
function; simplification of procedures as a pre-requisite to automation; reduced reliance on
physical controls (more trust in the trade community to comply); and, rationalization of controls
of other government departments.
2.69  The modernization program has been developed by responding to the following questions:
what procedures are to be simplified to benefit from automation; how are the systems to be
developed; what are the priority components of the system; and, how are the benefits of
modernization to be delivered to the trade community. Three major areas have been identified
for action: legislation and procedures; computer systems development and implementation; and
human resource management and training. The thrust of the modernization plan in each of these
areas is summarized below. Annex 3a provides a detailed description of the major activities to
be undertaken within the context of this operation.



- 28 -
2.70  Legislation and Procedures. For the most part, laws and procedures related to customs
administration are governed by international rules, conventions, and codings. For Turkey, with
the entry into a customs union with the EU, the customs administration must not only be able to
apply the usual international standards but, at the same time, they must also apply certain EU
legislation. In addition, the import and export procedures must be similar to those applied in the
EU. Consequently, the automated systems must be able to support administration of certain EU
laws (e.g., application of the common external tariff) and procedures.
2.71   Drafting of the Customs Law is complete and awaits passage through Parliament. The
customs tariff legislation is being modified to ensure that it conforms to EU common external
tariff and is scheduled for completion in September 1995.
2.72   As part of the process of developing the plan for modernization, with the assistance of the
Bank, a review of the import and export procedures was undertaken (using the principles for
development as previously described). The new procedures meet both international and EU
standards. The procedures, when implemented, will simplify significantly the import and export
customs regimes and will lead to successful implementation of automated systems. Annex 3e
provides a detailed description of these procedures, which have been developed for:
*     Import processing
- Transit and cargo reporting
- Declaration processing
- Physical inspection
- Payment of duty and release of goods
- Post release checks
*     Export processing
2.73   Computer Systems Development and Implementation. Headquarters, 18 regions and 45
customs offices will be automated over a three and a half year period. The 45 customs offices
account for 90 percent of workload and 90 percent of revenue (non-automated offices will
forward documents to automated offices for processing). The following subsystems will provide
automated processing at the customs offices:
*     Import declaration processing
*     Export declaration processing
*     Revenue accounting
*     Manifest
*     Transit
*     Warehousing
*     Management information
e     External interfaces.
2.74  Automated support will be provided to headquarters to produce management information
and trade statistics, perform analyses, and receive and distribute updates to the EU integrated
tariff. The regions will be supported by automation to perform post release reviews and monitor



- 29 -
local office activities. In addition, headquarters and the regions will be supported by office
automation.
2.75   After implementation of these subsystems at the automated customs offices, a second
automation phase will extend automation to other customs offices and the following additional
subsystems will be developed:
*      Enforcement analysis
*      Passenger processing
*      Appeals, refunds, and rulings
Although these sub-systems are not included in the scope of the PFMP, the design of the system
includes provision for their future development and implementation.
2.76   Automation is to be based on the "community system" approach. It is to be developed
using an open computer architecture to permit ease of interconnection with members of the trade
community and other government ministries using electronic data interchange (EDI).8 The
objective of these systems is to provide the opportunity for all participants in the trade system to
submit and receive information electronically. Verification activities are carried out primarily
through the use of automated selection criteria to determine which goods require physical
inspection, documents requiring review, and audits of the books and records of enterprises.
2.77   The proposed system is comprised of a three-tier (headquarters, region, and local office)
network of computers with higher organizational levels containing a subset of lower level
databases.9 To support this approach, a UNIX operating system is recommended to operate with
a relational database. Initially databases will be updated daily by file transfer using an X.25
network and on-line access to databases will be by dial up. After implementation of the new
system, a feasibility study will be performed to determine whether on-line updating of the
headquarters database would be cost effective.
2.78   The IT staff have limited experience with the recommended UNIX environment and with
data base management systems. In addition, the system must be developed in a short period of
time to support administration of the EU legislation and procedures. Therefore, developing
application software "from scratch" is not the best option. In recognition of this fact, the
Customs Administration has entered into a bi-lateral agreement with French Customs to acquire
the SOFIX '" application software which is based on French Customs automated system software.
I Information regarding imports and exports by enterprise will be shared with the Tax Department for tax
enforcement purposes. For this purpose it will be necessary for the Customs Administration to use the
Taxpayer Identification Number from the GDR.
I Thirteen regional computer systems will support the eighteen regions (smaller regions will share a computer
system).
' The acronym for the software is based on the French Systeme d'Ordinateurs de Fret International
(S. O. F .I.).



- 30 -
By using this software, the customs administration will be assured that the tariff and supporting
procedures are compatible with EU requirements. The software will operate in the recommended
architecture. In addition, SOFIX is supported by French customs administration experts who will
assist in adapting the software to Turkey's specific requirements and provide technical training.
2.79   Human Resource Management and Training. Customs modernization involves not only
new systems and procedures and the integration of automation into the work place but also
implies increased delegation and responsibility for regional and local management. It will have
an immediate, significant impact on human resource management and training within the
organization.
2.80   The key human resource management issues to be addressed as Customs undertakes the
modernization effort are:
(a)    The Organization structure--The new organization structure must be designed in a
way that will best deliver the new program. The principles envisaged in the new
structure include: decision making delegated to the lowest possible level to
support better service; strong monitoring at the regional level; and, policy
formulation, monitoring and internal audit at headquarters.
(b)    Chan2es in staff requirements at headguarters. regions. and local offices--The
relative size of headquarters, regions, and local offices will change to reflect
increased delegation, the introduction of effective post release controls, and the
use of selectivity. It is also anticipated that fewer total staff will be required in
the administration once the new systems and procedures are in place.
(c)    New skills--The systems and procedures introduced to support modernization will
require staff with skills not now present or in short supply in Customs (e.g.,
computer systems development, audit, and analysis).
(d)    Training--The training requirements of the organization are multi-dimensional.
Retraining of all customs professional staff will be required to support the new
systems and procedures resulting from changes in legislation, simplification of
procedures, and the introduction of computerization. In addition, training will be
necessary to support entirely new requirements (e.g., audit) and new approaches
to supervision and management.



III. RELATIONSHIP TO BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
3.1   The April 5 Program provided the Bank with an opportunity to enhance its support of
efforts to address the underlying causes of Turkey's growing fiscal imbalances. During the past
year, the Bank has engaged in an intensive dialogue with the Government on the major issues in
areas such as SEEs and social security, with the aim of providing support through a
comprehensive Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL). Unfortunately, the implementation of
key reforms has been extensively delayed, largely as a result of the lack of a clear political
mandate for the government. Meanwhile, as noted above, Turkey's external payments situation
has improved considerably. Given this situation, the Government requested the Bank to suspend
preparation of the PSAL. In view of the weak state of the domestic economy and likely
continued slow progress in the implementation of key reforms, the authorities also requested the
IMF to extend the SBA for six months to March 1996, in order to allow for a more gradual
adjustment. This request was approved by the IMF Board on April 21, 1995.
3.2    Although Bank support through adjustment lending is not judged feasible at this time, the
Government's ongoing stabilization program does provide a framework for Bank assistance to
strengthen the core agencies responsible for macroeconomic management. Specifically, in
keeping with the priorities and graduated Bank response outlined in the CAS that was discussed
at the Board in March 1993, the Bank's current approach is to maintain a constructive role in the
economic policy process by using more narrowly-focused lending operations like the proposed
PFMP to strengthen the institutional framework and administrative capacity for public sector
adjustment. Several of the studies proposed to be financed under the PFMP are also geared to
enhance the understanding within Turkey of the policy issues that must be addressed eventually
when the political situation clarifies.
3.3   The PFMP would complement other Bank-supported projects aimed at enhancing the
infrastructure for public sector management and reform--e.g., the FY92 Treasury Data Systems
Project, which is helping to improve the Government's debt management and macroeconomic
policy formulation capacity, and the FY94 Privatization Implementation and Social Safety Net
Loan, which aims to strengthen the capabilities of the Privatization Administration and Treasury
to manage and implement privatization and an effective social safety net program for displaced
workers, and provide the services necessary to privatize individual enterprises.
B. LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE
3.4   Reviews of recently-completed Bank-supported public sector management projects suggest
a few important lessons for the PFMP. Attempts at public sector management reform need to be
focused in areas where there is a strong commitment at all levels (political, managerial and
technical), particularly in weak or uncertain political and economic environments. Clearly
identified outputs and expected impact must be incorporated in design. Successes can then serve
as the basis for future assistance and reforms. Supervision by the Bank and the Borrower on a
continuous and intensive basis is paramount in public sector technical assistance efforts.



- 32 -
3.5    More specific to Turkey, project implementation is frequently constrained by weak project
management capacity, rapid turnover of key officials, complexities in the Government's
decision-making processes, and cumbersome and lengthy procurement procedures. Another
important constraint in recent years has been budgetary cuts, causing implementation performance
to fall below technical capacity. Inadequate understanding of the Bank's procurement guidelines
has also been a source of implementation delays.
3.6   In recognition of these lessons, the PFMP's development and design places emphasis on:
(a)   Promotion of government ownership and development of effective means of
gaining broad support, including through the focus on the component as the basic
unit for management and implementation.
(b)    Slicing of the overall program into two partially overlapping projects so that
upfront technical studies and follow-up institutional reform decisions and pilot
operations can be carried out before major investment commitments are made.
(c)    Provision of in-house technical advisors and professional project management
support specialists familiar with Bank procedures to minimize the risks associated
with the borrower's implementation capacity.
(d)    Provision for intensive supervision activity, particularly in the first two years of
execution and including three formal reviews to benefit from experience on the
ground and facilitate any required course corrections.
(e)    Evaluation and monitoring criteria tied directly to the objectives sought by the
client.
(f)    Use of annual work programs, and procurement and financing plans.
(g)    Use of World Bank standard bid documents together with translations.



IV. THE PROTECT
A. OBJECTwES
4.1   The overarching objective of the PFMP is to enhance the Government's fiscal
consolidation and reform efforts by improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the agencies
charged with administering the tax and customs administrations and managing government
expenditures, including personnel. The PFMP would involve changes in each of the following
cross-cutting areas for institutional development and reform: (a) legal and regulatory frameworks;
(b) organization and procedures; (c) information systems; and (d) human resource management.
Specific objectives to be pursued in the three components of the project are outlined below.
4.2   The Tax Administration component would be directed at modernizing the organization
and systems of the tax administration in Turkey, with a particular focus on strengthening the
compliance enforcement and policy formulation capabilities of the tax authorities, and improving
conditions progressively for taxpayers who comply. The underlying goal is to broaden the tax
base in order to increase tax revenues while ensuring a more equitable distribution of the tax
burden. The proposed activities would follow up on recent tax policy reforms, which included
the closure of a number of corporate "loopholes" and other measures aimed at expanding the tax
base and improving compliance. The tax administration component would seek to ensure the
sustainability and predictability of the expected revenue increases through the modernization of
organizational arrangements, procedures and systems. Studies financed under a grant from the
Japanese Government have been completed recently outlining medium-term directions for reform,
modernization and automation of the tax administration entities in the Ministry of Finance. These
studies identify substantial needs for technical assistance and training in modern tax
administration business processes and management during the next 5 years, in addition to
information technology investments and associated training.
4.3   The Expenditure and Personnel Management component would be directed at one of
the basic problems affecting Turkey's fiscal performance: the government's inability to program
and control spending efficiently. It would attempt to enhance the government budget's usefulness
as a fiscal policy instrument, and as the tool for managing public finances. To do so, this
component aims at reducing the number of sources of government spending that now operate
outside budgetary channels. It also aims to modernize substantially the complex and outdated
budgetary and accounting control procedures and systems that impede effective and efficient
control over government finances. The proposed introduction of budgeting of public
administration positions and payroll would similarly help improve control over personnel
expenditures and provide the information base for a structured rationalization of the public
administration, envisaged to take place during the next few years.
4.4   The Customs Modernization component would be directed at advancing the changes in
the national customs organization required to enable it to manage the EU common external tariff
and other trade policy provisions. It also aims at supporting Turkish importers and exporters to
compete in the forthcoming customs union by reducing their currently high transactions costs.
The envisaged reforms are oriented as well to enable the recently independent Customs to deal
better with problems that have arisen from increases in trade volumes, changes in goods being
imported and exported, and increasingly sophisticated smuggling tactics. In substance, the



- 34 -
activities proposed to. be pursued under the project are intended to shift the customs agency's
policy from an ex ante, full coverage, sanctioning approach to a more ex post and efficiency-
seeking stance, still capable of gathering appropriate revenues and enforcing relevant national and
international laws.
B. DESCRIPTION
4.5   Project activities for the three components of the Public Financial Management Project
can be grouped under five common heads: (a) studies to complete the detailed programs for
reform and modernization; (b) advisory services and training in new procedures, organizational
arrangements and analytical techniques; (c) modeling activities to determine the design of
information technology investments; (d) information technology investments and associated
training and civil works; and (e) project support services. Generally speaking, it is envisaged
that the Bank loan would help finance advisory services, information technology investments, and
training services and materials. Specific project activities are outlined below for the various
components. Detailed descriptions are contained in the Component Implementation
Plans--Annexes la, 2a and 3a for tax, expenditure and customs, respectively. The draft terms of
reference (TORs) for the main consultancies are contained in Annexes lb, 2b and 3b. During
Loan negotiations, the Government confirmed its agreement that the final TORs for these
assignments would be subject to Bank review and approval.
4.6   Tax Administration Component (base cost US$14.2 million; lead agency General
Directorate of Revenues in the MOF). The medium-term program to revitalize the tax
administration Component would seek to:
(a)    Restructure central, regional and local tax agencies to reduce fragmentation of
managerial authority and achieve a more functional and strategic orientation in the
GDR, including through the establishment of new regional offices focusing on
automated data processing, audit and training.
(b)    Develop and implement a modern automated system for core tax administration
functions and management information in GDR to allow for an expansion of
business and more effective and efficient operations.
(c)    Develop and implement a third party financial information system for
cross-checking purposes that would progressively broaden the tax base and enlarge
revenues--implementation to be coordinated with the ongoing effort by the
Ministry of Interior to modernize the citizens' registry and assign unique
identification numbers to all citizens, which is being supported by the Bank
through the PIAL.
(d)   Develop and implement a more aggressive and complete audit strategy, focusing
on increasing the number and yield of audit operations through training in
computer assisted audits, strategic audit selection and the identification and
assessment of all forms of non-compliance with financial legislation, including
social security and other withholding taxes.



- 35 -
(e)    Strengthen tax policy formulation through the establishment of a Policy Analysis
Unit, training and the introduction of modern simulation techniques and models.
(f)   Increase voluntary compliance by eliminating steps in filing and payment
procedures, simplifying forms, staggering present monthly deadlines, and
improving responses to taxpayer inquiries.
(g)    Enhance the role of the banking system in routine tax administration processes and
speed transfer of tax payments through the banking system.
(h)    Undertake the training and other human resource investments needed to implement
and sustain the aforementioned initiatives, with appropriate redesign of career
paths and redeployment of staff in the GDR.
4.7    The Government has selected a two-phase approach for implementation of its tax
administration program. The first phase, which is to be supported by the proposed PFMP loan,
is intended to develop a sound foundation for planning an expanded program of technical
assistance and training covering staff in most areas of the GDR, as well as substantial IT
investments in the subsequent phase. The first phase, to be concluded in about eighteen months,
will encompass the following major activities:
e     In-House Advisory Services. A team of tax administration experts with detailed
technical and operational tax administration experience will assist the GDR in the
planning, coordination, implementation and monitoring of the other activities
proposed to be carried out under the Tax Administration Component. Specific
responsibilities of the residential advisory team will include preparation of a
detailed, integrated planning document for the modernization of the core tax
administration business processes and management over the next five years
(building on the recent functional studies), and providing technical guidance to
GDR staff in the design and implementation of change, including draft legislation,
procedures and forms.
*     Studies for the Re-organization of the GDR. Even though legislation is pending
that defines and enables the creation of new regional centers, detailed analyses and
developmental work is necessary to determine and establish the optimal linkages
between these regional centers and the rest of the existing organization.
Organizational unit responsibilities will have to be defined and realigned,
consistent with these changes. The restructuring and other process modifications
that are being considered will have significant effects on the work tasks and
positions within the organization. New positions will likely be required and
existing position definitions will probably be changed and both will impose new
knowledge and skill requirements on the incumbents. Position ladders (career
paths) may, likewise, be affected. Substantial reassignment of personnel is
expected to accompany the restructuring to accommodate the shifts and balancing
of work loads, requiring detailed planning and re-orientation of the personnel
affected. Four studies are proposed to be carried out by GDR working groups



- 36 -
with assistance from external consultants. These would cover, variously, overall
organization, third party information systems, banking system arrangements and
withholding arrangements. The main study, the organization study, will be done
in two stages. The first stage, to be completed in the first three to four months of
Phase I, will provide results to support management decisions regarding
organization design and human resource re-alignment plans that are critical to the
remaining Phase I activities. The second stage will provide support for effecting
the restructuring. Results from both stages, together with organization decisions,
will be incorporated into the information process model, IT framework and the
modelling activities discussed below. Detailed descriptions of all four study
activities are contained in Annexes la and lb.
*     Modernization of IT Infrastructure. A comprehensive information/process
model for the tax administration system, as it is envisioned to meet the stated
goals for modernizing the core business processes of audit, collections and returns
processing, as well as overall management of the GDR, will be developed. The
modelers will draw upon information already available through the reports of a
number of recent studies. The results of the four proposed new studies will be
fed into the information/process modeling activities in a timely fashion, permitting
a full model to be developed. A development laboratory will be established in
Ankara. This laboratory will contain a good sample of the technologies to be used
in the construction of the eventual system. It will provide the facilities required
to: (a) prototype and demonstrate new/changed processes; (b) model local tax
offices; (c) model the new regional office concepts, including the proposed tax
intelligence centers; (d) prototype and test the centralized intelligence research
operation; (e) test computer configurations and communications interconnections;
and (f) develop and conduct demonstrations and training sessions for IT specialists
and operational staff. The laboratory will also provide a valuable test bed for the
validation of designs related to the development of the IT framework described
below. Upon completion of system development at the end of the first phase, the
laboratory facilities will be deployed for the ongoing role of a
Training/Demonstration Center. One component may be deployed as an
operational component of the central intelligence research process. Using the
completed information/process model, noted above, a small and highly technical
group of IT specialists will develop the IT Framework for Phase II. This will
consist of: (a) a strategic planning section, which will select the set of technologies
which are appropriate to meet the business needs of the organization, building on
already installed technologies; and (b) technical specifications which support the
procurement of the hardware, software and communications infrastructure for
Phase 1I activities. Project-specific technical training of GDR IT staff will also
commence during Phase I, so as to be ready for the intense development efforts
planned for Phase II. Some of the technologies which require "course-ware" will
not be known in the beginning, but training in core skills can begin as soon as
arrangements can be completed, with additional topics being added as they become
confirmed.



- 37 -
*     Enhancement of Policy Formulation Capability. Activity in this area will seek
to: (a) design and establish a Policy Analysis Unit within the GDR, including
through a detailed training program; (b) carry out a thorough analysis of the
current tax system with a view to providing recommendations for legislative
change that would broaden the tax base and enhance the fairness and efficiency of
the tax system, including through the rationalization of deductions, exemptions and
other preferences; and (c) develop a suite of tax policy simulation models and
analytical databases suitable for the design of tax policy changes and for revenue
forecasting for the budget.
4.8   Implementation and management of the component would be facilitated by a professional
project management expert. The project management support services (PMSS) expert would
negotiate and determine contractual arrangements, effect payments, maintain financial accounts
and give other administrative support to the full range of consultants employed under the
component. The terms of reference for the main consultancies associated with the foregoing
activities are outlined in Annex lb.
4.9   Expenditure and Personnel Manaeement Component (base cost US$10.4 million; lead
agencies General Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control and General Directorate of
Public Accounts, both in the MOF). Activities in the Expenditure and Personnel Management
Component would be targeted to:
(a)    Strengthen budgetary system control by reducing substantially the number of
off-budget spending entities (revolving funds, annexed budgets and the remaining
extrabudgetary funds), tightening the relationship between planning and budgeting
processes, and improving the links between current and investment budgets.
(b)   Make spending agencies more accountable and rationalize the Budget and
Accounting Office systems, and remove ex ante controls, while improving ex post
audit capabilities.
(c)    Strengthen budget decision-making by introducing a more appropriate budget code
structure for economic analysis.
(d)   Install streamlined procedures to govern commitment authorizations and
monitoring and a simplified model compatible with the proposed computerized
Financial Ledger System.
(e)   Modernize payments processes and cash management, including through
establishment of improved norms and procedures for cash projection (to be
coordinated with ongoing Treasury Data Systems Project and GDR revenue
collections modernization) and improvements in public banking arrangements.
(f)   Integrate management of public administration personnel with financial
management through initiation of position ceilings, a centralized data base on the
civil service, linking position and budget management, and establishment of a



- 38 -
payroll system confining personnel expenditures to authorized positions and
clarifying the roles of the spending and financial management agencies regarding
personnel activities.
(g)    Enhance capability of GDBFC, GDPA, Treasury, TCA and State Planning
Organization to perform their public expenditure management responsibilities
through upgrading MOF information systems and realigning all these agencies'
systems on a functional basis in an integrated financial management system for
budget, accounting and payroll transactions.
(h)   Integrate budgeting and accounting functions in the Ministry of Finance (MOF),
and link them with the Treasury's cash and debt management.
(i)    Strengthen MOF information technology staff by expanding their capacities for
system development and maintenance.
4.10   The activities listed above are to be carried out in a phased manner over the course of the
next five years. Phase I, which is to be supported by the proposed Bank loan, involves the
definition and introduction of new processes, procedures and organizational arrangements for
budgeting, accounting and payroll, as well as the development and testing of a prototype for the
proposed FLS. This phase is expected to last about two and a half years. Phase II would
involve the installation of the hardware and systems and applications software across the nodes of
the network; training of operational staff in the use of the system and commissioning the system
at the different nodes; and training technical staff in the maintenance and operation of the system
and in the provision of ongoing end-user support throughout the life of the system. In Phase II,
audit related activities would be separated out as a distinct component, focusing on strengthening
ex post audit techniques and systems in the Turkish Court of Accounts and relevant MOF
entities. i
4.11   Preparatory studies for Phase I are either ongoing or planned to be conducted by
inter-agency Working Groups with the assistance of external consultants. These studies will
variously:
* Define a detailed reform strategy for improving budget coverage through the
rationalization of non-budget entities.
* Introduce a new budget and accounting chart of accounts more suitable for economic
analysis, consistent with international classification structures and which can be
implemented on the proposed Financial Ledger System (and utilized for both budget
preparation and execution).
" At this time, the Govemment would like this proposed component to include the following groups within
the MOF: Finance Inspectors Board, Accountant Controllers and Budget Controllers. The latter two groups are
internal auditors.



- 39 -
*  Prepare an action program for rationalizing the current system of controls over
government expenditures, as well as the organizations involved in these processes.
*  Define new regulations and procedures for budgeting of positions in the public
administration and develop a detailed program for computerization of personnel
information and payroll.
*  Review banking arrangements and government accounts, with a view to developing
recommendations for strengthening the role and performance of the banking system in
the management of public funds--this latter effort will be coordinated with a proposed
study aimed at increasing the role of banks in routine tax administration functions.
Additional work to strengthen payment processes and cash management will be
carried out as one of several short term consultant assignments.
4.12  Most of the preparatory studies in the foregoing areas will be completed by the time of
loan effectiveness, and project activity is expected to focus on implementation of the proposed
changes, including broader dissemination of the GFS methodology for which initial training has
already been completed. The working groups responsible for implementation will be assisted by
an in-house technical advisor. The appointment of the in-house advisor for the Expenditure
and Personnel Component is the sole condition of Loan Effectiveness (see para. 6.3). A
number of short term consultancies will also be executed to help the MOF complete the detailed
design of the reforms and to implement them. Training for IT staff is also planned to be carried
out during this phase as a prerequisite for the substantial information technology investments to
follow in Phase II. The terms of reference for the various consultancies are contained in Annex
2b.
4.13  Also as part of Phase I, a major design study will be conducted to establish the overall
functional and information requirements of the information systems, the overall systems
architecture and the technology architecture (including the hardware, systems software, and
communications design and choice of appropriate hardware, systems software and application
development tools). It is proposed that this study be carried out by a firm with extensive
experience in the design and implementation of such systems. The contractor would be required
to provide not only the detailed design of the FLS, but also develop related procedures and
manuals as well as modules for budget preparation and the personnel and payroll management
information system (PPMIS). Finally, the contractor would be required to test the proposed
systems, applications and systems software in pilot sites. The terms of reference for this
assignment are also contained in Annex 2b.
4.14 Customs Modernization Component (base cost US$62.4 million; lead agency
Undersecretariat of Customs). Activities in the Customs Administration Component would be
geared to: (a) rid customs procedures of their present duplication, excessive paperwork and
physical controls, to be replaced by self-assessment methods, selective physical inspections and
document checks, stronger post-release reviews and simpler import controls; (b) upgrade present
computerization to full automation of customs procedures and the capacity to enforce legislative
and other EU requirements; (c) consolidate responsibilities for development and maintenance of
automated information systems; (d) restructure and downsize the customs organization in line



- 40 -
with the new operational procedures, complemented by decentralization of operations; and
(e) support these changes with staff training, facility renovation, public information programs and
pilot tests with brokers and other affected groups and stakeholders.
4.15  The work required to establish a reform/modernization strategy is largely complete.
Some legislative aspects are pending the results of ongoing negotiations between the Government
and the European Union. A study has also been conducted to establish the functional and
information requirements of the information systems, the overall systems architecture and the
technology architecture (including the hardware, systems software, and communications design.
4.16  As noted above, the Customs administration has decided that the best choice for the main
(customs) application software is the French SOFIX system, which can be adapted readily to
meet Turkish and EU requirements. The cost of the SOFIX software and required technical
assistance and equipment for adaptation, training and pilot implementation is estimated at
US$4-6 million. The entire package is to be procured directly from French customs, including
the hardware. In order to ensure the strictest standards for competitive bidding in the hardware
procurement for nationwide replication of the pilot, the Bank will verify the openness of the pilot
IT system architecture both prior to implementation of the pilot and upon its completion.
4.17  The bulk of component cost (US$54 million) is for the: acquisition and installation of the
hardware and systems software; installation of the application (SOFIX) software across the
country in 18 regional and 45 local offices; training of operational staff in the use of the system;
and training technical staff in the maintenance and operation of the system, and in the provision
of ongoing end-user support throughout the life of the system.
4.18  Major remaining cost elements are: (a) development of simplified, modern procedures and
training of staff in the new procedures and processes and of managers in change management
with the assistance of externally-recruited advisors, including in-house advisers for customs
administration and information technology who will work under the supervision of the IMF;
(b) recruitment of additional IT staff and redeployment of redundant personnel; (c) site
preparation; (d) professional project management services; and (e) maintenance contracts for
hardware and software. During Loan negotiations, it was agreed that the appointment of an
in-house customs administration adviser and IT advisor, selected under the technical assistance
arrangement with the IMF, would be a condition for disbursements for the Customs
Modernization component (para. 6.4 b.).
4.19   The terms of reference for the consultancy contracts for the: in-house customs
administration and IT advisers; training programs for IT staff; and project management support
services are in Annex 3b.
C. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
4.20  There are no substantial requirements for coordinating the three components of the PFMP
at the implementation level, and their activities will proceed according to separate Component
Implementation Plans--Annex la for Tax Administration, Annex 2a for Expenditure and



- 41 -
Personnel Management, and Annex 3a for Customs Modernization. The component
implementation schedules are shown in Annexes Id, 2d and 3d respectively.
4.21   Overall responsibility for the supervision of the Tax Administration and Expenditure and
Personnel Management components rests with the Undersecretary in the Ministry of Finance,
who will ensure any necessary coordination between the GDR, GDBFC, GDPA and other entities
involved in the two MOF components. Any necessary coordination between the MOF and
Customs will be effected at the ministry level by the Undersecretaries, with the assistance of the
Treasury--Chart 4.1 shows the organizational structure of the public financial management system
in Turkey. Management and implementation arrangements and activities for each of the three
components are summarized below. More detailed discussions of these are contained in the
Component Implementation Plans.
4.22  Tax Administration Component. Responsibility for the implementation of the Tax
Administration Component is vested in the General Directorate of Revenues (GDR) in the MOF.
The Director General is responsible for the management of component implementation. A
Project Management Unit (PMU) headed by a Deputy Director General is responsible for
day-to-day coordination of component activities. Specific tasks are to be carried out by Working
Groups comprised of Ministry of Finance staff, assisted by external consultants. A professional
project management support services (PMSS) consultant will assist with procurement and contract
monitoring, disbursements, accounting and other administrative issues.
4.23  Implementation of Tax Administration Component activities for the PFMP is to be carried
out over a period of approximately eighteen months. Initial activities will center on the
appointment of the In-House Advisory team and PMSS contractor. The two consultancies will
commence about two months before any other consultancies begin, in order to allow for
appropriate detailed planning and preparation. The advisory services are to be provided by the
Internal Revenue Service of the United States, and will comprise one long-term adviser
supplemented by a series of short term experts. During Loan negotiations, it was agreed that
these two consultancy appointments would be conditions of disbursements for the tax
administration component (para. 6.4 a.).
4.24  Most other activities will be initiated in parallel but are interdependent over the duration
of this first phase. Most importantly, the Organization Study activities will require preliminary
information from the information and processing requirements models but, in turn, will affect the
final requirements in that area. In turn, they will affect the IT requirements specifications. Both
the timing and the sequencing of certain activities are critical, since they will form the basis for
key decisions about the likely extent of organizational change and the overall scope of PFMP II.
During Loan negotiations, it was agreed that, by December 31, 1996, the Ministry of Finance
will present the Bank with a satisfactory plan for the reorganization of the GDR (headquarters,
regional and local offices) prepared on the basis of appropriate legislation and regulations and the
proposed new automated systems (para. 6.5 a.(i)); and, by the same date, the Government of
Turkey will communicate to the Bank its decision concerning the collection of social security,
health and unemployment contributions by the General Directorate of Revenues (para. 6.5 a.(ii)).



- 42 -
4.25  Initial training for the IT staff will be initiated in parallel, since the baseline technology
framework is established but the scope will be expanded during this phase as a function of
directions established in the other activities. Substantial training materials will be developed and
evaluated in the laboratory activities and pilot tested during this phase prior to broad scale
training in the next phase. The requirements and framework development activities will integrate
the results of the other studies conducted in this component and result in a comprehensive
information technology framework and development/implementation plan for tax administration in
the next phase.
4.26 Expenditure and Personnel Management Component. The Ministry of Finance,
represented by the Undersecretary of Finance, will have overall responsibility for supervision,
management and implementation of this component which involves a number of agencies. An
inter-agency Steering Committee has been appointed as an advisory body. The Steering
Committee is chaired by a Deputy Undersecretary of Finance and includes appropriate high-level
participants from the Ministry of Finance (General Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control and
General Directorate of Public Accounts), Treasury, State Planning Organization and Court of
Accounts. Responsibility for day-to-day coordination, management and monitoring of the
component rests with a Project Management Unit (PMU), led by a Head of Department from the
General Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control (GDBFC). The PMU includes the heads of
four Working Groups that are responsible for implementation of specific tasks, as well as other
MOF personnel with skills in procurement, accounting and contract monitoring.
4.27  Implementation of Expenditure and Personnel Management Component activities is to be
carried out over a period of two and a half years. Due to the constraints of the budget cycle, the
timeliness with which individual subcomponents are executed is critical, as delays in one
subcomponent may delay overall implementation by one fiscal year. The following time-bound
actions were discussed and agreed with the Government during negotiations:
i  By February 28, 1996, the new calendar and methodology for budget preparation shall
have been adopted for the preparation of the fiscal 1997 budget (para. 6.5 b.(v)).
i  The general budget submitted to Parliament for the 1997 fiscal year will be prepared on
the basis of the new code structure, which is to include functional and economic
classification of expenditures according to international standards (para. 6.5 b.(iii)), and
will introduce the full implementation of new guidelines agreed with the Bank for
budgetary posts management (para. 6.5 b.(iv)).
*  By January 1, 1997, the new chart of accounts will be put into effect (para. 6.5 b.(i));
*  By December 31, 1997, the MOF shall furnish the Bank a satisfactory plan for the
reorganization and rationalization of the budget offices and accounting offices prepared on
the basis of the new procedures, regulations and automated systems (para. 6.5 b.(ii)).
*  By December 31, 1997, the MOF will present the Bank with evidence of the satisfactory
performance of the pilots for the Government Financial Management and Information
System and Personnel and Payroll Management Information System (para. 6.5 b.(vi)).



|                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Chart 41 Public FINnaCia Manauonei System Onranizatin Structurel
Prlrn Ministerr
_   Prkrn Ministry                                        Parlianenrt|
Minister of FiaceAAII
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                                                             Turkish Court|
,   .                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of
Accournts
_ , t . |~~~~~~~~~~Underse!cretary                      |        ecretaryl     n  |nerse r 4
Firnance     Undersec dry          Tax                                                I      IIw
hnsp, ectors                    Accountants
Soaird                           Board
D"Kdy~ ~ ~     ~ ~ ~~b t                     Underswcrtary        Undersec,retaryI
UDeseptay                              Plnning            of Treasury         of CustornsI
Udirsectrdate ofic 
tIe          Buge  FsaDIrcoaef
1~~~~~~~oto                        Puli Acout



- 44 -
4.28  Successful implementation of this component will depend on close coordination among
several agencies in the government sector. Most of the reforms, particularly the introduction of a
new budget code structure and the strengthening of budget coverage, will involve spending
ministries. Thus, implementation will require close cooperation between core agencies and
spending units. The modernization of personnel administration must be carried out in close
cooperation between the MOF and the State Personnel Presidency. The design of new
information systems must be coordinated with ongoing activities under a number of disparate
information system projects. The Steering Committee needs to play an effective role in ensuring
that there is the required coordination between the various agencies. Participation of most of the
concerned agencies in the Working Groups is already contributing to good coordination at the
technical level.
4.29  Customs Modernization Component. Responsibility for the Customs Modernization
Component rests with the Customs Undersecretariat. The management and coordination of
component activities will be effected by a Customs PMU, headed by a Deputy Undersecretary.
Actual implementation activities are to be carried out by seven Working Groups.
4.30  Technical assistance will be provided from a variety of sources and it is important that it
be coordinated to ensure that it supports the overall modernization plan. The Customs
Administration has decided to engage the IMF to help it implement the technical components
necessary to support the modernization plan. An agreement with the Fiscal Affairs Department
(FAD) of the IMF will be arranged through an exchange of letters between the Customs
Administration, the Bank and the IMF. Central to this agreement is the appointment of two
in-house technical advisors to provide specific advice related to restructuring of the customs
organization and IT aspects of the component, and to coordinate all technical assistance more
generally. FAD will supervise the in-house advisors that will be appointed under the agreement
as well as the short term advisors appointed to provide specific technical assistance advice.
4.31   The Customs Component will be implemented over a period of three and a half years.
The implementation schedule assumes that legal and procedural arrangements such as the design
of new regulations and customs procedures will be completed by December of 1995. This is
vital for timely definition of the pilot operation. During negotiations, it was agreed that by
December 31, 1996 the Customs Administration shall issue new and/or revised customs
regulations (para. 6.5 c.(i)), and shall present the Bank with evidence of the satisfactory
performance of the pilot site operation, with such performance to be assessed on the basis of
criteria agreed with the Bank, including: (i) simplification of procedures; (ii) reduction of release
times from customs control; (iii) improvement in the accuracy of duty and tax calculations; and
(iv) reduction in the rate of physical inspections (para. 6.5 c.(ii)).
4.32  The development and implementation of the pilot system using SOFIX with French
assistance is expected to be completed by the end of 1996. Overall computer systems
development and implementation will not be completed until mid-1999. During negotiations, it
was agreed that by June 30, 1997 the Customs Administration shall furnish the Bank a
satisfactory plan for the reorganization of the Customs Administration (headquarters, regional and
local offices) prepared on the basis of the new regulations and automated systems (para. 6.5
c.(iii)). Training and organizational change will be completed by early 1999.



- 45 -
D. COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
4.33   Project Costs. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$94.2 million equivalent,
including contingencies, taxes and duties. Project costs include goods and equipment, advisory
services, civil works, training services and materials, project management support services and
the refund of a US$2 million advance from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility. A summary
breakdown of costs by expenditure category is shown in Table 4.1. More detailed presentations
are contained in the Component Implementation Plans (Annexes la, 2a and 3a) and in Annexes
Ic, 2c and 3c.
4.34  The total baseline cost is estimated at about US$87 million. Physical contingencies are
estimated at US$3.2 million, or 5 percent of the baseline costs of civil works, goods and
equipment. Price contingencies are estimated at US$4 million equivalent or 5 percent of total
baseline costs over the three and a half years of project implementation. These calculations are
based on the assumptions of an average local inflation rate of 51 percent in 1995-96, and 15
percent thereafter; and price increases for foreign costs (estimated in US dollars) of 1.6 percent
in 1995-96 and 2.6 percent for the remaining years of project execution. Cost calculations
assume an average exchange rate of 66,000 Turkish Lira/US$1.00 for the project execution
period. Foreign currency costs, including contingencies, are estimated at US$71.1 million or 75
percent of total cost. Taxes and duties are estimated at about US$12.5 million equivalent or 13
percent of total cost.
4.35   Financing Plan. The proposed Bank loan of US$62 million would finance 66 percent of
total project costs (see Table 4.2). It would meet 87 percent of foreign exchange requirements
and 0.4 percent of local costs. The Turkish Government's contribution, US$32.2 million or 34
percent of total project cost, would finance the equipment required for the taxpayer identification
initiative, acquisition of the SOFIX (customs) software and its pilot implementation, as well as
modernization of facilities and other civil works, local IT training, project support costs and
incremental recurrent costs directly attributable to the project during the execution period. The
proposed Government share of project financing is much higher than that for recent
Bank-financed projects in Turkey (24 percent in FY94-95), reflecting the importance that the
authorities attach to remedying the identified weaknesses in the public finance administration in
Turkey. Averaged over the life of the project, the required Government outlays represent about
20 percent of the combined 1995 budget investment allocations for the Ministry of Finance and
Undersecretariat of Customs. Assurances were provided by the Government during negotiations
that adequate annual budgetary provisions will be made to meet counterpart financing
requirements throughout the period of project execution (para. 6.2(b)).



- 46 -
Table 4.1 Component and Proiect Costs Summary By Category of Expenditure
% of  %eTotal
------ TL billion ----        US$million ----   Foreign   Base
Local Foreign    Total   Local Foreign  Total  Exchange Costs
Tax Component
Civil Works                         2       0        2       0.0    0.0      0.0       0        0
Goods/Equipment                     15    230      245       0.3    4.8      5.1       94       6
Training                            67     18       85       1.4    0.4      1.8       21       2
Advisory Services                    0    323      323       0.0    6.7      6.7      100       8
Project Support                     10     19       29       0.2    0.4      0.6      66        1
Subtotal                         94    590      684       1.9   12.3    14.2        86      16
Expenditure Component
Civil Works                         5       0        5       0.1    0.0      0.1        0       0
Goods/Equipment                    55    230       285       1.2    4.8      6.0      81        7
Training                            19     15       34       0.4    0.3      0.7       43       1
Advisory Services                   25    147      172       0.5    3.0      3.5       86       4
Project Support                      5      0        5       0.1    0.0      0.1        0       0
Subtotal                        109    392      501       2.3    8.1    10.4        78      12
Customs Component
Civil Works                        264      0      264       5.5    0.0      5.5       0        6
Goods/Equipment                   478   1,992    2,470       9.9   41.3    51.2       81       59
Training                            86     38      124       1.8    0.8      2.6       30       3
Advisory Services                    0     75       75       0.0    1.6      1.6      100       2
Project Support                     0      72       72       0.0    1.5      1.5      100       2
Subtotal                        828  2,180    3,008      17.2   45.2    62.4       72       72
Total Base Costs              1,031  3,162    4,193      21.4   65.6    87.0        75     100
Total Physical Contingencies     39    120      159       0.8    2.4      3.2       76       3
Total Price Contingencies     1,361  4,333    5,694       0.9    3.1      4.0       78       5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              2,396  7,650   10,046      23.1   71.1    94.2        76     107
4.36   Preparatory activities have benefitted from a Japanese PHRD grant in the amount of Yen
128 million (approximately US$1.3 million). The French Government has also provided a grant
of about US$132,000 for preparatory studies for the Expenditure and Personnel Management
Component. The Government has obtained an advance in the amount of US$2 million from the
Bank's Project Preparation Facility. These monies have allowed the timely initiation of the most
time-sensitive preparatory activities.



- 47 -
Table 4.2 Project Financing Plan
(US$million equivalent)
Local        Foreign        Total        % of Total
IBRD                        0.1           61.9          62.0           65.8
Government                 23.0           9.2           32.2           34.2
Total                      23.1          71.1          94.2           100.0
E. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
4.37  The executing agencies' capabilities and purchasing regulations and procedures were
reviewed during Loan appraisal. It was determined that the General Directorate of Revenues and
Undersecretariat of Customs would benefit from the services of professional procurement
specialists. The General Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control, and of General Directorate
Public Accounts have staff with the appropriate background (including training in Bank
procurement procedures) to manage the procurement activities of the Expenditure and Personnel
Management Component.
4.38  All procurement of goods and material to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds would
be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (January 1995) and procurement of services, including the selection of consultants
for technical assistance and training, would be in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August
1981). Project procurement would be limited to the purchase of goods, material and services,
including training. The former consists mainly of the hardware and software for the information
technology subcomponents (including substations, personal computers and peripherals).
4.39  Contracts for goods and material with a value of more than US$300,000 equivalent per
contract will be arranged in accordance with the Bank's procedures for international competitive
bidding (ICB). In that event, goods manufactured in Turkey and procured through ICB may be
granted a margin of preference of the lower of the actual customs-duty applicable to non-exempt
importers or 15 percent in accordance with paras. 2.54 and 2.55 of the Bank's Guidelines and
paras. 1-6 in Appendix 2 of the Bank's Guidelines. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
will be used for all ICB procurement. Contracts with a value below US$300,000 equivalent per
contract will be procured on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate value of US$350,000.
Direct contracting of proprietary software may be followed to ensure compatibility with
development tools already in use in the implementing agencies, up to an aggregate value of
US$570,00.



- 48 -
4.40  Contracts for equipment and material estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or more
and all direct procurement contracts would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation and approval of contract award. This would result in the prior review of about 98
percent of Bank-financed contracts. Other contracts would be subject to ex-post review after
contract award.
4.41   Procurement of services, including the selection of consultants, would be based mainly on
a shortlisting of firms. The major exceptions are the sole sourcing of the IMF and IRS and,
most likely, the study tours. The services of individual specialists not to exceed US$50,000 per
contract may also be contracted for diverse tasks of short duration (up to six months), amounting
to US$580,000 in the aggregate, by comparison of three curriculum vitae. The total value of
consultant services to be procured from firms is estimated to be US$14.6 million. Prior review
of consultant contracts would not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent per contract for firms and US$50,000 per contract for individuals. However, the
terms of reference for all contracts will be pre-reviewed by the Bank.
4.42  Items to be procured will be grouped into major packages to encourage competitive
bidding and permit bulk procurement. Major procurement categories include: about US$57.1
million equivalent to be procured through ICB and US$15.2 million equivalent through
shortlisting, sole sourcing and individual appointments (consultants services). Direct procurement
will be permitted for contracts totalling US$0.57 million equivalent in the aggregate.
Procurement under ICB will likely consist of 4 packages ranging in value from US$1.59 million
to US$49.76 million. The latter is the proposed turnkey contract for the supply and installation
of information technology hardware for the central and regional customs offices, and associated
end-user training. Table 4.3 summarizes the procurement arrangements for the major categories
of expenditure in the project. Further details of the procurement packages are presented in Table
4.4 (showing the relative timing of different procurement actions) and in Annexes la, 2a and 3a.
4.43   Terms of reference for all the main consultancies have been prepared (see Annexes lb, 2b
and 3b, respectively for tax, expenditure and personnel, and customs), and a number of
procurement actions are quite advanced. Particular attention is being given to the early
recruitment of the In-House Advisors. As noted above, the in-house advisory team for the Tax
component is to be provided by the Internal Revenue Service of the United States, which has
been developing a program of technical assistance with the tax authorities since 1992, and was
instrumental in the preparation of this project. The IMF is assisting the MOF with its selection
in the case of the Expenditure and Personnel component. The IMF will provide and supervise
both the customs administration and information technology advisors for the Customs
Modernization component.



- 49 -
Table 4.3. Summara of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
International                                  Total
Item               Competitive Bidding    Other /a     N.B.F. /b       Cost
l.Civil Works                                                         5.9          5.9
(0.0)        (0-0)
2.Equipment/Goods                     57.1              0.9           9.9          67.9
(46.0)            (0.5)        (0.0)        (46.5)
3. Training                                              1.5          3.7          5.2
(1.5)        (0.0)        (1.5)
4.Technical                                             11.0          0.5          11.5
Assistance/Advisory Services                         (11.0)       (0.0)        (11.0)
5.Project Management                                     1.0          0.7          1.7
Support Services                                      (1.0)        (0.0)        (1 0)
6.PPF                                                   2.0                        2.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(2.0)  (2.0)
Total                                 57.1              16.4         20.7          94.2
(46.0)           (16.0)        (0.0)        (62.0)
al Other includes sole sourcing, short listing of consulting firms and individual consultants (US$15.2 million);
international shopping (US$0.3 million); and direct procurement (US$0.6 million).
b/ Not Bank Financed
Note: Numbers in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
Differences due to rounding.
4.44       Each PMU will furnish the Bank quarterly procurement reports indicating: (a) changes
in individual contract's cost estimates, including estimates for physical and price contingencies;
(b) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award and
completion time of individual contracts; and (c) compliance with aggregate limits on specified
methods of procurement. Further, the annual project operating plans would include any revisions
in the agreed implementation schedule regarding employment of consultants. It is anticipated that
the assignment of In-House Advisors to each of the implementing agencies and procurement
specialists in the GDR and Customs will reduce difficulties in procurement activities.



-50-
Table 4.4 Procurement kndemantatlon Plan
(US million)
TOTAL                      Prepare
(Incuding    Procumiu        Te.aa         Bid        Avard        Combad
Conttnsences)    Method      Docwmaet    IvtatIon    Contrt    Coletido
A. Eovdmunm t 
Tac
I .Infcd manion Procm Model lab and ITF           1.59          ICB           2/96        3/96         4/96         4/97
a) Sysanu Hadwae & Software
b) PC's
c) DevelopmeitApplicatioTools b
d) Prits and Compu  Periphals
2. Office Auomation Equipmet                      0.10           iS           9/95        10/95       11/95          3196
3. Tax Policy Model Software                      0.03           DP          11/95        11/95       12/95          1/96
Expendkture
I. Hardware and System Softwam                    3.11          ICB          12/96        2/97        4/97          3/9S
2. DBMS and Application Development Toolseb       0.54           DP          9196         10/96       11/96         11196
3. Application Software                           2.67          ICB          9196         11/96        1/97         7/97
Qadesus
1. Information Toeology                          49.76          ICB          11/96        2/97        5/97          6199
a) Hudware h Systan Software
b) Auxiliary Equipent
c) Initial Consuuable Products
d) Hardware & Software Mainte
e) Office Autonation Equipment
2. Office AutmationS Equipment&SuppliesforPCU     0.15           IS          995          10/95       11/95         3196
3. Vehicle                                        0.03           IS          4/96         7/96        9/96          12/97
TOTAL                      Prepae        Letter
(Includig    Procwment   Tennx of           of        Awar         Contrac
Contineendes)    Method      Referenee    Ivlaioa      Contrat    Come idleo
Tax
1. Study Tous                                    0.21           SS                               T     BI
2. Policy Analysis                               0.19           SL           395         9/95        10/95         10/96
3.TraiangofLaboratosryStaff                      0.13           SL           1/96        2/96         4/96         11/96
edhre
1. Study Tours                                   0.21           SS                               TBC
2. Information Tedmology (Procured with OGFMS)   0.11           SL           9/95        10/95       12/95         2/9W
C-tom
1. IWfontion Tedsology                            0.16           SL          12/96        2/97        4/97          6/99
2. TrnationofTniningMataial(Muuti-media)         0.54           SL          12/96        2/97        4/97          6/99
3. CuOn Operatiou   ADP Study Tours               0.14           SS                               TED
C. Tecnudcal Asitance
Tax
1. In- House Advisor                              0.95           SS          U95          9/95        10/95         5/97
a) Tax Administration Advisor
b) Short Term Advisors
2. Studies                                        1.32           SL           3195        10/95        1/96          1/97
a) Orgnization Study
b) Third Paty Study
c) Bnking Study
d) Witholding Study
3. Infonnation / Prom Mode, LAb & STF             4.53           SL            /95        10/95       12/95          1/97
4.TaxPolicy Analys                                0.32           SL            /95        10/95       11/95          1/97
ExpendIture
1. Budgetary Refmrs
a) In- Hous Advisor                            0.43           SL           5/95         9/95        10/95         9/97
b) Short Term Conulanht                        0.58           IC           5/95         9/95        10/95         3/97
2. Infomation Sydei
UFMIS Dcvelopment & Pibt Implementation         2.23           SL          9/95         10/95       12/95         2/91
c-
1. In Hous Advisor                                1.67           Ss          8/95         S95         9/95          5/99
a) Cudows Admisatizon Advisor
b) I.T. Advisor
c) Short Term Co aulnts
D. Prolect Manaement SuDDort
C-
PMSS Coractor                                     1.50          SL            /95         10/95       12/95         6/"9
IntiL                         73.25
la lddesd dutss sd tas estmatd at USSj5.25 Iunil. wbicw te b. fasned by thw Go_wnmsmt
%b Dect Procurment f ppruTe software  y ba jaseessay to inur cuapatabilty wt derdepnu t toar amenity  leble In the MOF.
Nml  ICB - intIratIOi Computiv BRding                              SL - Sbort Litig
IS - International Shopping                                 IC - ldividual Coasutnts
DP - Direct Procrement o proprleary software                TBD - To Be DeterminWd
SS - Soe Sourced



- 51 -
F. DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
4.45      The proposed Loan would be disbursed separately for each component. The estimated
shares of costs to be met by Bank loan disbursements for each expenditure category and by
component is shown in Table 4.5.
Table 4.5 Bank Financine Share of Costs a
(Percent)
Expenditure       Tax              Expenditure    Customs
Category          Administration    and            Modernization
Personnel
Goods and
Equipment               29             100               89
Training                28              43               31
Advisory
Services               100              85              100
Project
Management
Support                 0                0              100
a/        Bank financing share of total estimated costs for each expenditure category
excluding all duties and taxes, which are to be financed by the Government.
4.46      Table 4.6 shows the total disbursement forecast for the Loan by component. The Tax
Administration Component is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1998, the Expenditure
and Personnel Management Component by September 31, 1998 and the Customs Modernization
Component by December 31, 1999. Loan Closing will be June 30, 2000, allowing ample time
for the processing of final withdrawal applications.



- 52 -
Table 4.6 Estimated Bank Disbursements
(US$million)
Bank FY            FY1996       FY1997        FY1998        FY1999         FY2000
Tax                  0.8          2.6           5.5
Administration
Expenditure and      0.4          2.1           4.0           2.1
Personnel
Customs              0.9          2.3           9.3           16.0           16.0
Modernization
Annual              2.la/         7.0          18.8           18.1           16.0
Cumulative           2.1          9.1          27.9          46.0            62.0
a/ Includes refinancing of US$2.0 million advance from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility.
4.47  In order to facilitate disbursements, Special Accounts would be set up for each of the
three implementing agencies and managed by the respective PMUs. Details of the Special
Account for each Component are in the corresponding Implementation Plans. Replenishment of
the Special Accounts would be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis, or when the balance of
a Special Account is one-half of the Special Account deposit, whichever occurs first. In addition
to the evidence of payments, each replenishment application would be supported by monthly bank
statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the PMU. All other
applications for direct payments or Special Commitments must be for an amount not less than 20
percent of the Special Account deposit.
4.48  To ensure that critical initial project activities are not delayed, provision has also been
made for retroactive financing of up to US$6.2 million for eligible expenditures between
September 29, 1994 and the expected date of loan signing. Disbursements are expected to
commence immediately at Loan Effectiveness with the initial deposits into the Special Accounts
and the refinancing of the PPF advance. Disbursements would be fully documented, except for
expenditures on contracts for equipment and material of less than US$300,000, and contracts for
services of less than US$100,000/50,000 with firms/individual consultants. In these cases,
disbursements will be made against statements of expenditures, whose documentation will be
retained by the PMUs for at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special
Account is made.



- 53 -
G. MONMTORING, EVALUATION AND SUPERVISION
4.49  Monitoring and Evaluation. The proposed project is marked by significant complexity
and demanding, interdependent time schedules for many elements. Therefore, project supervision
will entail the allocation of substantial resources, especially in the initial stages of
implementation.
4.50 The day-to-day implementation and monitoring will be carried out by the PMUs. Bank
supervision of project implementation will concentrate on the consistency of component activities
with agreements reached during appraisal, performance of the implementing groups and
assessment of emerging needs for adjustments to project parameters. The basis for Bank
monitoring will be quarterly progress reports prepared by the PMUs. The reports will describe
the status, deviation, if any, from the implementation plans, reasons for deviations as well as
corrective actions being taken. The quarterly reports will be supplemented by substantive
discussions with the Working Groups implementing the various subcomponents and discussions
with higher echelon officials. Annual work, procurement and financing plans will be agreed with
the Bank each year, and will include quarterly benchmarks for monitoring and evaluating
progress in implementation.
4.51  Implementation of the proposed project, and the extent to which it is achieving its stated
objectives, would be reviewed and evaluated annually and upon its completion. In addition, there
will be three formal joint Bank-Government reviews. The first of these would be conducted
early in 1996, about four months after Loan Effectiveness, to provide a basis for proceeding with
preappraisal of the proposed follow-up investment operation, and for making any needed early
adjustments in project parameters. The second (FY1997) would focus on the assessment of the
pilot implementation of the new Customs system, and the third (FY1998) the assessment of the
pilot systems for the Expenditure and Personnel Management component. The criteria for
assessing the success of the pilots are described in Annexes 2a and 3a for Expenditure and
Personnel, and Customs respectively. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government on the above three formal reviews, including the criteria for evaluating the success
of the pilots, as well as on a joint-Bank review of project implementation in October/November
of each year for assessing progress toward achievement of agreed policy, institutional, financial
and physical targets and for determining and agreeing on needed budget resources (both local
funds and Loan proceeds) to be requested for the next fiscal year (para. 6.2(c)).
4.52  IBRD Supervision. Bank staff and consultant supervision inputs are expected to range
from 40 staff weeks per year for the first two years of project execution to 30 staff weeks
subsequently, geared to the following tasks:
(a)    General Portfolio Management: Review of routine procurement and consultant
contracting documents, progress reports and correspondence.
(b)   Formal Reviews: Three formal reviews are scheduled for FY1996, FY1997 and
FY1998.



- 54 -
(c)    Supervision missions: Approximately 3 supervision missions would be necessary
annually, each for a period of 2 weeks on average. Supervision missions,
including time for preparation and follow-up, are expected to require about 28
staff weeks during the first year of the project, 30 staff weeks during the second
and 25 staff weeks thereafter. A proposed schedule for supervision missions is
provided in Table 4.7.
4.53  The proposed supervision inputs represent atypical resource allocations to help facilitate
successful project implementation. However, the actual burden on the Bank will be reduced by
the fact that the proposed technical assistance agreements between the Government and the IMF
and IRS are to be financed from Loan Proceeds. In addition, the preparatory activities for PFMP
II will involve close monitoring of activities in the Tax Administration and Expenditure and
Personnel Management Components, and serve to reduce further the supervision inputs for these
components, especially in the first year.
H. ACCOUNITNG AND AUDIT PLANS
4.54  A project account and special account will be established for each of the three
implementing agencies. Each PMU would prepare quarterly statements of expenditures,
consolidate component accounts, and prepare and submit disbursement withdrawal applications
for project expenditures (beginning from the date of Loan Effectiveness). The project accounts
and special accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
The audit reports will contain a separate opinion on the use of Statements of Expenditure.
During negotiations, assurances were provided by the Government that an ainual audit of all
project and special accounts would be undertaken by an independent auditor in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World
Bank. March 1982. (para. 6.2(d)). Audit reports in English will be submitted to the Bank not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (December 31). Details of the project
reporting and annual reviews are presented in Table 4.7.



- 55-
Table 47 Sunerilalon and Report Schedule
Ficl Yew           Calaidw Yew                  Sv-s- Azvtiy                                Reporting Activit
FY96          1995:    OCL           Projec lh mi-ws
Nov.           (Lo  dedzvuims)
Dec.
1996:   J1L
Feb.          FJnmal Joint Review numan
mar.                                                  -ure  Report hunx PMUa
Apr 
MAY            Sqviaionmis sim
FY97            ~~~~Jul.
Avg
Sep.                                                           Repit fhmmPMUs
O.           AI  Review mu
Nov.
Dm             Q__                  _ _              w            Reo fihMnMUs
1997:   JUL
Feb.          Funl Joint Review mwion
MAr.                                                  QuuiRqpot fihm PMUs
Jun.                                                  Qurtcq Rxxt fim  PMUs
Aug
Sep.                                                  Quwtaly Report fivem PMUs
Od.           Anni Review mision
NO.
Dec.                                                  Qu rtrRq    ufnm PMUs
1991:    Ja
Feb.           FoamdJouit Reiew mission
LM.                                                   Qusrtcry Report frm MTs
Apr.
May            Sepanvsion muon
JUIm                                                  Quutwly Repret hun PUiJa
Sep-          AmidW Review moni                        Qutmriy Repxu fum PMUS
NO.
Dec.                                                  Qurtui Repor fcm PMUs
1999:   i1
Fah       ~~Siqaviuaon misaion
Ma.                                                   Quulmrr Report cmn P1MU
Apr.
May
1i.            Sevmisionm                             Quimlly RqiRt fin PMUs
Sep                                                   Quartaly Repat fim PMUs
Ocd            Azual Review muson
Nov.
Dec.                                                  QuartMy Report hun PMUS
200:    J]IL
Feb.           Supwisn mission
Mw.                                                   Qurr Repo fimu PAUs
Apr.
May
Jum            Supavision masion                      Quartly Rqemt fiom PMUs
Se.                                                   Qutely Report hum PMUs
OC             Supavsion miinon
Nov.
Dec.                                                  Final Evaluation Repcot






V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1    When the Government of Turkey launched its major stabilization and reform Program in
April 1994, the focal point of its measures was to obtain a large and durable reduction in the
fiscal deficit. Consistent with this objective, one of the primary strategic thrusts of the Program
was to effect a substantial reduction of the role and weight of the public sector in economic
activities. This in turn provided additional impetus for the Bank's extended efforts in Turkey to
help overcome the causes of the chronic fiscal deficits that have contributed to periodic
macroeconomic instability. This direction figured prominently in the Country Assistance Strategy
discussed at the Board in March 1993, which stressed public sector adjustment.
5.2   Since the April 5 Program was unveiled, the dialogue between the Government and the
Bank has focused on the difficulties related to state enterprises, tax policy and administration,
expenditure planning and control, the social security system and agricultural policies. There have
been extensive discussions on the major issues in these areas which produced some constructive
agreements. Subsequently though, some reform initiatives on key aspects of the sensitive state
enterprise and social security problems have been delayed. Accordingly, an envisaged
comprehensive Bank adjustment operation is not now feasible.
5.3    However, the Government has consistently stressed its desire to move aggressively with
important changes to overcome institutional and systemic problems in public financial
management, for which it continued to request Bank assistance. Indeed, past adjustment efforts
in Turkey have foundered because of failures to tackle key structural problems at the roots of
institutional and other frameworks. The proposed project would assist in addressing such
problems in taxation, government expenditures and customs, accompanied by related personnel
management functions. In these areas, the project would seek to restructure and otherwise
rationalize the central agencies, upgrade their planning and controls, and modernize their
processes and systems. The envisaged changes would help deepen the fiscal stabilization effort
initiated in 1994 and facilitate Turkey's successful entry into a customs union with the European
Union in 1996. Satisfactory progress with this project would lay a solid base for future
investments to strengthen administrative capacity in the financial management agencies and for
future fundamental policy reforms, for which some thorough studies are needed.
5.4   The Government has selected the fixed rate single currency loan terms in U.S. dollars for
the proposed loan and anticipates this will help improve the balance between the currency
composition of the liabilities on its external debt outstanding and Turkey's external receipts and
non-debt capital inflows, which are predominantly in U.S. dollars.
B. RISKS
5.5   The major risks relate to: (a) the large overall agenda for stabilization and reform facing
the Government, which may lead implementation of institutional reforms to be given lower
priority; (b) the institutional diversity and complexity of the project, which may strain the
administrative capacity of the Government and lead to bottlenecks in implementation; and
(c) failure of the technical assistance for any of a number of systemic reasons (see the appropriate



- 58 -
sections of the Component Implementation Plans--Annexes la, 2a and 3a). Against these risks
must be set the fact that the project deals with issues for which there is widespread support in
Turkey--a more equitable tax burden, improved management and control over the Government's
finances and closer economic integration with Europe.
5.6   The Government's commitment is reflected in an unusually high-level of oversight on its
part throughout the preparation of the project, a variety of up-front actions and the considerable
time and resources that it has already invested in the various components. These have also
served to promote ownership at the managerial and technical levels. Working groups have been
established to prepare programs for change, and a number of studies have already been
completed and follow-up action taken, including important proposals for change in tax and
customs legislation. Recognizing the major challenges ahead, the authorities have also decided to
assign in-house technical advisers to each of the project management units. Finally, study tours
are planned for key stakeholders to visit countries that have recently modernized their systems in
order to learn first-hand some of the lessons of their experiences, and seminars in change
management will be held in Turkey to help managers and staff understand better and prepare for
the many changes that will flow from the project.
5.7    Nevertheless, the project would involve a complex mix of organizational, procedural and
information technology changes, covering a number of agencies and departments, and their
sub-national offices. The personnel capabilities in some of these entities is not strong, and there
is potentially a problem with the continuity of key government staff (including losses of personnel
to the private sector due to uncompetitive salaries). Considerable effort will be required to
ensure that the proper pace and sequence of implementation is achieved in each of the involved
agencies. It is hoped that the considerable time and resources being invested in elaborating the
design of the various components with the project entities and the implementation arrangements
(notably the assignment of permanent technical advisors and professional project management
consultants to the project implementing units in each of the beneficiary agencies) will mitigate
these risks. Ultimately, however, the only way to deal with this complex of risk factors is to
allow for major expenditures for supervision as provided for in the design of the operation.



VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. REOUIRED ACTIONS AND UNDERTAKINGS
6.1   The following actions and agreements are required to assure successful implementation of
the project and attainment of broader program objectives.
1. General Undertakings
6.2   During negotiations agreement on the following general undertakings were confirmed by
the Government:
(a) The final terms of reference for all the main consultancies described in Annexes lb, 2b
and 3b would be subject to Bank review and approval (para. 4.5).
(b) Adequate annual budgetary provisions will be made to meet counterpart financing
requirements throughout the period of project execution (para. 4.34).
(c) Three formal project reviews, focusing respectively on the preappraisal of PFMP II, the
evaluation of the customs pilot and the evaluation of the GFMIS/PPMIS pilots, will be
held in March 1996, March 1997 and March 1998 (para. 4.50). In addition, there will
be a joint-Bank review of project implementation in October/November of each year for
assessing progress toward achievement of agreed policy, institutional, financial and
physical targets and for determining and agreeing on needed budget resources (both local
funds and Loan proceeds) to be requested for the next fiscal year (para. 4.50).
(d) An annual audit of all project and special accounts and statements of expenditure would
be undertaken by an independent auditor in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982).
The Audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each
Government fiscal year (December 31) (para. 4.53).
2. Condition of Loan Effectiveness
6.3   During negotiations, the Government agreed to the following Condition of Loan
Effectiveness: the In-House Adviser for the Expenditure and Personnel Management Component
shall have been appointed on the basis of terms of reference agreed with the Bank (para. 4.12).
3. Conditions of Loan Disbursements
6.4   During negotiations, the Government agreed to the following specific Conditions of Loan
Disbursements for the Tax and Customs components:



- 60 -
a. Tax Administration Component
The General Directorate of Revenues shall have appointed an In-House Tax
Administration Adviser and a Project Management Support Contractor, with terms
of reference agreed with the Bank (para 4.22).
b. Customs Modernization Component
The Customs Administration shall have entered into a technical assistance
agreement with the IMF, including for the provision of a customs administration
adviser and an information technology adviser (para. 4.18).
4. Dated Covenants
6.5   Finally, during negotiations, the Government confirmed its agreement to the following
Dated Covenants for the three individual components:
a. Tax Administration Component
(i)    By December 31, 1996, the Ministry of Finance shall present the Bank with a
satisfactory plan for the reorganization of the General Directorate of Revenues
(headquarters, regional and local offices) prepared on the basis of appropriate
legislation and regulations, and the proposed new automated systems (para. 4.23).
(ii)   By December 31, 1996, the Government of Turkey shall have communicated to
the Bank its decision concerning the collection of social security, health and
unemployment contributions by the General Directorate of Revenues (para. 4.23).
b. Expenditure and Personnel Management Component
(i)    The new chart of accounts shall be put into effect by January 1, 1997 on the basis
of guidelines agreed with the Bank (para. 4.26).
(ii)   By December 31, 1997, the Ministry of Finance shall furnish the Bank a
satisfactory plan for the reorganization and rationalization of the budget offices
and accounting offices prepared on the basis of the new procedures, regulations
and automated systems (para. 4.26).
(iii)   The general budget submitted to Parliament by January 1, 1997 for the 1997 fiscal
year shall be prepared on the basis of the new code structure, which is to include
functional and economic classification of expenditures according to international
standards (GFS and COFOGE) (para. 4.26).
(iv)   The general budget submitted to Parliament by January 1, 1997 for the 1997 fiscal
year shall introduce the full implementation of new guidelines agreed with the
Bank for budgetary posts management (para. 4.26).



- 61 -
(v)   By February 28, 1996, the new calendar and methodology for budget preparation
shall have been adopted for implementation in the preparation of the fiscal 1997
budget (para. 4.26).
(vi)   By December 31, 1997, the Ministry of Finance shall have conducted successful
pilot implementations of the Government Financial Management Information
System and Personnel and Payroll Management Information System, with the
success of implementation to be assessed on the basis of criteria agreed with the
Bank (para. 4.26).
c. Customs Modernization Component
(i)    By December 31, 1996, Customs shall issue new and/or revised customs
regulations (para. 4.30).
(ii)   By December 31, 1996, Customs shall have conducted a successful
implementation of the pilot customs operation, with the success of implementation
to be assessed on the basis of criteria agreed with the Bank (para. 4.30).
(iii)   By June 30, 1997, Customs shall furnish the Bank a satisfactory plan for the
reorganization of the Customs Administration (headquarters, regional and local
offices) prepared on the basis of the new regulations and automated systems
(para. 4.31).
B. RECOMMENDATION
6.6   Subject to the above agreements and actions, the proposed operation provides a suitable
basis for an IBRD loan of US$62.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Turkey on fixed rate
single currency terms for up to 15 years. Each semester's aggregate disbursements would have a
maturity of nine years from the rate fixing date, including a grace period of three years.






's  BULGARIA                          32o35  S9NO*                                                                                                             4b-                                     GEO         G      IBRD  24903R
~~~~uOP ~~~~~~~~~~~GECORGIA 
Sl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIMNI                                                                                     4 n SD,s
BULGRUFIA KAR
OZONGU-DM         KsTA-O,,OU
GREECE^>",! XKRDA?->TENS     S
~~~~~~  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<~~E.O
I ~ ~ ~ ~~        ~~~                                                    ANI(AR         kIkIoAJs       voez,o                                                                                                                V
- I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA
|-  -                                                     <-
AIUGIA -~ ~ ~ ~\-83 JF ............... . 2 .......................ARAB REP -
> _ - 9\ 7 ssayX ~~~~~~~TU RKEY
35s                                                                                 | J                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
(V                                   3~~~~~~~~~ PROVINCE CAPlTALS
O  NATIONAL CAPITAL
-  MAJOR ROADS
PROVINCE BOUNDARiES
=ndonwol~~XonlomeMILES                  'o          '1        I                                                                                                         -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Teysldd!niGYorttyslW~- KILOMETERS 0   50    100    150    200 20                    CYPRUS                                                                                     Pr-- mc,,,es a,.th, -..m rpro.-ce cp,tals
ro_E3s                                                                                                  5                                                            30'
MAARCH 1 994












