Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14656-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VOLUME 2 OF 3
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX I: TAX ADMINISTRATION
AUGUST 29, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Turkish Lira (TL)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Turkish Lira per US$)
Currency Unit           CY1990           CY1991           CY1992           CY1993          CY1994          CY1995
Jan-July
US$1.00 = TL             2,609            4,172            6,872            10,985          29,609          42,447
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES                     FISCAL YEAR
Metric System          January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AB          -            National Agricultural Bank (Ziraat)
CAS         -            Country Assistance Strategy
CBT         -            Central Bank of Turkey
CCC         -            Customs Cooperation Council
CCT         -            Common Customs Tariff
CET         -            Common External Tariff
CIT         -            Corporate Income Tax
Customs     -            Undersecretariat of Customs
EBF         -            Extra Budgetary Funds
EDI         -            Electronic Data Interchange
EDP         -            Electronic Data Processing
EU          -            European Union
FAD         -            Fiscal Affairs Department
FIB         -            Finance Inspectors Board
FLS         -            Financial Ledger System
GATT'       -            General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
GDBFC       -            General Directorate of Budget & Fiscal Control
GDC         -            General Directorate of Citizens' Affairs
GDPA        -            General Directorate of Public Accounts
GDR         -            General Directorate of Revenues
GFMIS       -            Government Financial Management Information System
GFS         -            Government Financial Statistics
GIBOS       -            Customs Administration Integrated Automated System
ICB         -            International Competitive Bidding
IMF         -            International Monetary Fund
IT          -            Information Technology
LFA         -            Legal Framework Agreement
MERNIS      -            Merkezi Nufus Idaresi Sistemi (Central Citizens Registry System)
MOF         -            Ministry of Finance
PFMP        -            Public Financial Management Project
PIAL        -            Privatization Implementation & Social Safety Net Assistance Loan
PIT         -            Personal Income Tax
PMSS        -            Project Management Support Services
PMU         -            Project Management Unit
PSBR        -            Public Sector Borrowing Requirement
PSAL        -            Public Sector Adjustment Loan
RCs         -            Revenue Controllers
SAR          -           Staff Appraisal Report
SBA         -            Stand-By Arrangement
SEE         -            State Economic Enterprises
SOFIX       -            Systeme d'Ordinateurs de Fret International
SPO         -            State Planning Organization
TAB         -            Tax Accountants Board
TCA         -            Turkish Court of Accounts
TIN         -            Taxpayer Identification Number
TIR         -            International Transport Register
Treasury    -            Undersecretariat of Treasury
TL          -            Turkish Lira
UIN         -            Unique Identity Number
VAT         -            Value Added Tax



TABLE OF CONTENTS
ANNEX I: TAX ADMINISTRATION COMPONENT
Annex la: Implementation Plan  ...................................  1
Annex lb: General Directorate of Revenue (GDR) Terms of Reference  ....                 ......  43
Annex ic: Detailed Cost Table ...........                ........................  97
Annex Id: Implementation Schedules ............................... 101






Annex la
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Tax Administration Component
Implementation Plan






Annex la
Tax Administration Component
Implementation Plan
Table of Contents
I. THE TAX ADMINISTRATION COMPONENT   .                                     .
A. Objectives and Scope  ........................................   1
B. The Reform Program   ........................................   3
C. Project Description   .......................................... 7
D. Project Costs and Financing Plan ................................. 23
E. Accounting and Audit Plans  .................................... 26
11. IMPLEMENTATION  ARRANGEMENTS  ...........                        .................. 27
A. Responsibilities of the Implementing Agencies ......................... 27
B. Inter-Agency Coordination ..................................... 28
C. Role of World Bank Supervision  ................................. 29
III. IMPLEMENTATION  ACTIVITIES  .................................  31
A. Implementation Schedules  ..................................... 31
B. Procurement Arrangements and Schedules  ........................... 32
C. Disbursement Arrangements and Schedules ........................... 35
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS  ....................................... 37
A. Benefits  ................................................ 37
B. Main Project Risks  ......................................... 37
C. Other Factors Affecting Project's Success ............................ 38
V. MONITORING AND EVALUATION    ..39
A. Monitoring and Evaluation .39
B. Indicators .39
C. Reporting Arrangements .41
Tables:
1. Information Sources .13
2. List of IT Related Courses .21
3. Number of Classes (Sections) by Subject/Course .22
4. Costs Summary by Expenditure Accounts .25
5. Tax Administration Component: Financing Plan .26
6. Proposed Procurement Arrangements .33
7. Procurement Implementation Plan .34
8. Estimated Bank Disbursements .36






I. THE TAX ADMINISTRATION COMPONENT
A. OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE
1.    The primary goal of the Tax Administration Component is to broaden the tax base in
order to increase tax revenues while ensuring a more equitable distribution of the tax burden.
Proposed activities will be directed chiefly at strengthening the compliance enforcement capability
of the tax authorities, introducing a more aggressive and coherent strategy for compliance
enforcement and improving progressively conditions for taxpayers who comply. The envisaged
institutional changes will follow up on recent tax policy reforms that included the closure of a
number of corporate ."loopholes" and other measures aimed at expanding the tax base and
improving compliance. The tax administration component also will seek to ensure the
sustainability and predictability of the expected revenue increases through the modernization of
organizational arrangements, procedures and computer based systems. Activities will also be
directed at improving the policy or legislative framework, so as to ensure that the tax structure
itself does not erode the tax base, and to strengthening the tax policy analysis capability of the
GDR more generally.
2.    A program of activities is proposed that combines technical assistance with significant
technology transfer initiatives, and with investment in the supporting information technology (IT)
environment for tax administration processing and policy formulation. The proposed changes
would seek to:
(a)   restructure central, regional and local tax agencies in order to achieve a more
functional and strategic orientation in the GDR;
(b)   improve coverage of the individual tax payer base and provide for better system
integration of a number of major tax sources;
(c)    develop and implement modern automated systems for core tax administration
functions and management;
(d)    develop and implement a more aggressive and complete compliance enhancement
strategy, notably through the establishment of a third party tax intelligence system
for auditing and collections;
(e)   strengthen tax policy formulation through the establishment of a Policy Analysis
Unit and the development of a suite of tax policy models;
(f)   improve taxpayer service; and
(g)    strengthen GDR human resources through training and study tours to accomplish
and sustain these objectives.
3.    The authorities' plan is reach these objectives in two partially overlapping phases of
activity. The first phase, to be accomplished in approximately eighteen months, will be directed
at completing several key activities--analyses, studies, modelling and training--that will begin the



process of administrative reform in the GDR and lay a solid foundation for a restructuring of the
organization and major investments in new information technology and human capital across the
national office network during a second phase lasting about 4-5 years.
4.    Activities during the first phase (1995-97) will be aimed at introducing a redefinition of
the tax administration system in Turkey, with changes envisaged in organization and procedures,
the legal and regulatory frameworks, and human resources. Resources are required for:
(a)   in-house advisory services to help refine further the medium-term modernization
and reform programn for tax administration business processes and management,
and to help manage Phase I activities;
(b)    an organizational study to establish the overall framnework for restructuring the
GDR to improve its effectiveness and efficiency;
(c)    design studies and pilot activities to establish the detailed requirements and choices
for hardware, systems software, communications design and applications
development tools for the restructured GDR;
(d)   recruitment and training of IT staff to enhance the in-house capability of the GDR
to develop and sustain its information technology investments;
(e)    an assessment of the policy-making process and the information flows on which
policy decisions are based, with a view to designing a tax Policy Analysis Unit
within the GDR, and development of analytical and operational tax models, with
appropriate training of GDR staff;
(f)   study tours abroad for key GDR staff; and
(g)    project management support services.
5.    Phase II (1996-2001) would see an expansion of the advisory services program, notably in
the areas of audit, collections, returns processing and many aspects of the supporting IT
infrastructure, as well as modern tax administration business management. The envisaged Policy
Analysis Unit would also be made operational during this phase, and would use the proposed
models to conduct a detailed analysis of the current tax system, and to perform an evaluation of
various policy options. Consultants may be needed in Phase 11 to provide guidance to the PAU,
however, the objective is to develop an operational unit within the GDR that is sufficiently
trained in the construction and use of analytical tools and models to perform an on-going tax
policy analysis function.
6.    Other Phase II activities in the IT area would cover the upgrading of existing central and
regional IT assets of the GDR, acquisition and installation of IT products at a number of new
regional offices, development and delivery of a broad-based training program for GDR staff and
computers and ancillary equipment for a restructured and rationalized local tax office network.
The main remaining cost elements for Phase II would be: (a) site preparation; (b) a management



consultancy to assist the GDR in its reorganization and the rationalizing of the network of local
offices; and (c) enhanced project management support services. The World Bank has been
requested to provide financial support for the Phase II activities through a follow-up public
financial management loan. The next section outlines in more detail the medium-term program
of the tax authorities. Section C presents a description of the specific project activities planned
for Phase 1, and proposed to be supported by the PFMP loan.
B. THE REFORM PROGRAM
7.    Restructuring and Modernization of the General Directorate of Revenues. The three
basic goals of the GDR are: (a) to restructure its management and administrative organization so
as to reduce fragmentation of managerial authority and achieve a more functional and strategic
orientation in the directorate; (b) to introduce modern automated systems for core tax
administration and management functions, to allow for an expansion of business and more
effective and efficient operations; and (c) to enhance substantially the policy-making capability of
the GDR, including through the establishment of a permanent Policy Analysis Unit to replace the
currently diffused and somewhat ad hoc process.
8.    A three tier model is envisioned with a solidly developed managerial infrastructure at each
level, oversight responsibilities invested in each higher level, with ultimate command at the
central level of GDR. The restructuring is based on establishing new regional offices under the
supervision of the General Director of Revenues. These centers will provide a regional focus for
a substantially enhanced audit function, as well as providing managerial oversight, training and
IT support for a restructured and automated local office network.
9.     An extensive review of the GDR will be conducted at the start of Phase I in order to
confirm the benefits of the proposed three-tier model and to determine required changes in
organization, legislation and human resources. The review would cover current staffing levels
and skills mix, workload distribution and managerial span of control for the new middle tier and
the specific adjustments that will be necessary to implement the three-tier structure that has been
projected. The study will also address the position and performance responsibilities in each
organizational component at all levels, and identify required changes in legislation to establish a
clearer authority link between the local offices, regional centers and GDR headquarters.
10.   A parallel activity will establish the linkage between the business needs of the
organization and the application of IT. Using well established systems engineering
methodologies, it will determine the appropriate level of IT activity within the new regional
offices and the technical interfaces needed to support the re-design of processes--systems and
procedures--affecting functional operations. This study will identify the various informational
needs at all levels, as well as define the major processes that draw upon that information. A
third study will integrate the results from these first two studies (with existing information and
reports from other Phase I activities) to develop a framework and requirements for the acquisition
and deployment of computer hardware, system software and the necessary communications
products. This will represent the "blueprint" for the construction of the new tax administration's
IT infrastructure.



- 4 -
11.   It is anticipated that the major processing of tax returns will be done at regional
processing centers located in Ankara, Istanbul, and Izmir. IT capabilities will be significantly
improved at all three sites. During a transitional period of 2-3 years, taxpayers will still file tax
returns at local offices, and the local office will continue to have the primary responsibility for
interface with the taxpayer. By the end of this period, it is envisaged that the assessment receipt
requirement will have been eliminated--removing the main rationale for taxpayers to visit local
tax offices--and the role of the banking sector in payment collections increased considerably. The
GDR would also like, to introduce direct mailing of returns to processing centers as well. The
removal of major returns processing responsibilities from the local offices, as well as an
enhanced IT capability, will provide the framework for improved taxpayer service.
12.   The main IT system, located at the Dikmen site in Ankara, will continue as the central
hub and be responsible for the tax masterfile and related support activities. The capacity of this
center will be increased to allow for enhanced operational and management activities. The
expanded masterfile, and all its associated processing modules, will be developed and
implemented in Phase II, following appropriate sectorial and IT studies in Phase I. In addition to
the two major studies/analyses mentioned above, a number of smaller, specific-focus studies will
be conducted in Phase 1. A banking study will determine how to improve the transfer of
collected taxes and other public monies from banks to the central bank. It will also examine the
requirements for increasing the role of private commercial banks in the collection of taxes,
thereby improving efficiency in collections and increasing convenience for taxpayers. A
withholding study will analyze the operational procedures for consolidation of all withholding
collection and processing by the GDR. It will assess the impact on other agencies currently
involved in withholding functions and determine the information and process requirements. This
study will also address VAT collection and withholding, including procedures related to
monitoring and field inspections. If determined practical, the GDR will develop systems and
procedures for withholding all taxes, plus social security, health insurance premiums and
unemployment insurance. The results of both studies will be merged into other analysis activities
being undertaken during the Phase I.
13.   The authorities understand that broadening of the tax base has an important analytical or
policy dimension. Specifically, there is a need to ensure that the tax structure itself does not
erode the tax base through excessive deductions, exemptions or other preferences. Attention also
needs to be given to the fairness or equity aspect of the system, which currently places a heavy
burden on wage and salary earners and lower income groups. External consultants will assist the
GDR to design a Policy Analysis Unit to be established in the GDR, and to deliver appropriate
initial training to staff selected to serve in the Unit.
14.   In addition, a family of analytical models and databases will be developed suitable for the
design of tax policy changes and for revenue forecasting for the budget. Currently, projections
of revenue are carried out using aggregate data from tax returns. None of the secondary
economic effects of tax policy changes nor the incidence of taxes is captured. These issues are
important. For instance, the ongoing debate over the replacement of EBF levies by less
distortionary budget taxes is complicated by the lack of information about the likely incidence and
other effects of the proposed replacement taxes. It is also not possible to simulate the effects of
changes in the macroeconomic environment on tax revenues. The envisaged models (covering all



- 5 -
the main tax instruments) would be capable of generating alternative policy simulations as well as
an ongoing monitoring capability for current tax effort. A core team of GDR staff would be
trained in the manipulation and maintenance of the models.
15.   Develop Enhancements for Compliance Enforcement Capability. The main goal in
this area is to develop and implement a third party tax information system that will progressively
permit the broadening of the tax base and the growth of revenues through improved audit and
other compliance checks. This effort will be coordinated with the ongoing citizens' registry
computerization project (MERNIS) of the General Directorate of Citizens' Affairs (GDC) that is
intended to result in the assignment of unique identity numbers (UINs) to all citizens.jL/ The
third party information system will feature prominently in the GDR's efforts to improve
compliance, and will eventually be a driving force for the proposed tax intelligence centers, as
well as provide information-based resources for all audit boards and local offices engaged in
collections and other functions. In addition to the benefits to tax administration and policy to be
derived from the MERNIS, the UIN will allow for the introduction of other reforms related to
social security and health financing contributions and entitlements. A UIN would also reduce
substantially the current burden on citizens who are required to visit the Citizens' Affairs office
in their father's place of birth to obtain certifications for a range of transactions and documents.
16.   Due to its importance to future public financial information systems, Bank support is
already being provided to the MERNIS under the FY94 Privatization Implementation and Social
Safety Net Assistance Loan (PIAL). This is being used by the GDC for required additional
preparatory work, as well as pilot development, temporary incremental personnel and
professional project management support. Additional support for completing the MERNIS
project is planned to be provided under the second PFMP loan. However, in light of its
urgency, more funds would be reallocated under the PIAL if needed to maintain the momentum
of MERNIS activities until financing from the second PFMP loan is available. The overall
MERNIS effort, including issuance of the new identification numbers and matching of files with
the GDR, is expected to take about 3 years to complete.
17.   In the interim, the GDR will conduct a study to review the background and status of
current third party information processing, to compile potential sources of third party
information, identify relationships to other information such as current and future taxpayer
identification numbers and analyze all vehicles for smooth implementation, including required
legislation. Although a strategic plan for the third party information system will be prepared in
the study, it is expected that one of the plan's elements will be specific guidance for a phased
approach. Scenarios for piloting the use of third party information will also be a part of the
Phase I study and pilot operations will be developed in the laboratory center that is also to be
established during Phase I (see below).
18.   The GDR has almost completed a major cleansing of its taxpayer database and has begun
to assign taxpayer identification numbers (TIN) to existing taxpayers. Some expenditures for
1/ The current identity number is tied to local GDC offices and is not practical for national financial
management purposes.



- 6 -
local office equipment have already been made using budgetary resources in order that this key
task not be delayed. TINs will be assigned first to business taxpayers, and later to individual
taxpayers. It is expected that the GDR will take affirmative steps to begin a manual cross
checking of available sources of information for under-reported income. One such information
source could be custom ledgers associated with import/export activity that could be used to match
value added tax (VAT) records to other GDR records.
19.   Since authority to collect and analyze third party information has already been granted to
the Ministry of Finance, it is anticipated that legislation will be issued in the coming year
requiring citizens to obtain a TIN to conduct specified transactions. The GDR will process all
newly issued TIN's through the tax intelligence centers when they become available. In the near
term, the GDR will conduct manual analyses to match specific groups or business sectors. One
group can be derived from new vehicle purchases. The names of the purchasers can be
cross-checked against the current taxpayer name file for tax return filing, and appropriate
enquiries generated where there is evidence of non-filing. Other examples include real estate
purchases or sales and rental property ownership. To the extent that the required information is
available or known, the Phase I study will address the method of eventually cross-referencing
TINs to UINs.
20.   Most computerized audit enhancements are planned for Phase II, since much of the
improvements in the audit function are dependent on the modernization and re-structuring needed
to establish tax intelligence centers and related computer based information and procedures.
Building on an ongoing effort to introduce computer-assisted audit techniques, which is being
supported by the German Government, selected auditors from each of the audit boards will be
trained in computer auditing techniques. They will then train a selected group from their
respective boards. After training, this group of auditors will make up a cadre of computer audit
specialists. This unit will be engaged in specialized audits employing a market segmentation
approach, and targeting business sectors and individuals who fit an identified profile.
21.   At the start of Phase HI, a coordinated audit development plan for the four audit groups in
the MOF will be formulated under the direction of the DGR and approved by the Minister of
Finance. This plan is expected to outline audit strategies and goals designed to increase
efficiency and subsequent yield. Guidelines for an audit management information system will
also be developed during this formulation to determine the criteria for computerized audit
selection, to be implemented in Phase II. It is anticipated that while computerized audit systems
are being developed, all audit boards will aggressively pursue manual audit leads such as land
use, real estate and other pertinent information that is available through existing manual and
automated government and other public data bases. Increases in audit volume will be monitored
throughout the project.
22.   Improve Taxpayer Service. The purpose of this initiative is to increase voluntary
compliance with tax regulations by increasing the role of private banks and the postal service in
routine tax procedures, eliminating steps in filing and payment procedures, simplifying forms and
staggering present monthly deadlines. Working groups will be established within the GDR
during Phase 11 to implement the tasks that are defined in the Phase I studies. Their
responsibilities will include the proposal of legislation for the changes necessary to extend the tax



return filing period. An extended filing season would ease the burden on taxpayers and spread
the workload in local offices over a longer period of time. One of the working groups will
redesign all tax returns and related forms to conform with the restructuring effort, and will
continue to monitor the need for changes in forms on an annual basis during the second phase.
23.   Strengthen Human Resources in the GDR. The purpose of this effort is to undertake
the training and other human resource investments needed to implement and sustain the initiatives
discussed above, including the redesign of career paths and re-deployment of staff in the GDR.
In Phase 1, priority will be given to training GDR IT staff, who will be responsible for much of
the development work in Phase II.
24.   On completion of the analyses for workload distribution and re-deployment of resources
in local and regional offices discussed above, the GDR's central training division will develop
training packages for the re-training of staff, as will be necessary because of new IT, process re-
engineering and/or staff redeployment. This will include the selection and training of a basic
instructor cadre, course design and instruction. In addition, training packages for management
will be developed for entry, middle and executive level managers. Key managers will be
encouraged to visit overseas tax administrations for study tours.
C. PROJECT DEscPTIoN
25.   The Tax Administration component is a wide-ranging system restructuring effort which,
over the duration of the project, will address many of the most important known deficiencies in
tax administration in the Republic of Turkey. The term restructuring is used to imply that this
project involves a re-examination of the fundamental processes that make up tax administration.
Much of the re-examination work has already been conducted, under the auspices of a grant from
the Government of Japan. Other studies are required, which will add to the accumulated
information base. Based on the work that has already been carried out and the information now
available, priority in Phase I is to be given to tasks that accomplish the following:
(a)   Implement improved organizational structures and practices within the tax
administration affecting most functional processes and provide flexibility of design
for the tax administration to evolve smoothly in the future. An example of the
latter point is provided by the current debate over whether the scope of tax
collection functions should be extended to include collections of social security
contributions, and health and unemployment insurance premiums. This should
represent a logical extension of the tax administration's activities in the area of
payroll withholdings, and should not add an insupportable burden to the work
program of the GDR. In short, the future operational systems will be designed to
accommodate reasonable changes in functionality and workload expansion.
(b)   Improve the content of the taxpayer masterfile, both individual and business,
which is known to possess major gaps in coverage as well as deficiencies in the
quality of taxpayer locator information. This masterfile will include:



- 8 -
*     Sub-systems containing tax return and assessment data to assist in returns
processing.
*     A taxpayer account module that will track an account from the pre-
payment stage to final payment, identifying transactions such as appeals,
status of the account, payments and corrections/adjustments.
*     The capability to issue payment commands, which will be accessed by
local offices through their respective regional computing centers.
*     A taxpayer delinquency database to identify non-filers or stop-filers.
*     A MIS to provide statistical information which will assist management in
ascertaining baseline measurements to monitor employee performance and
resource requirements, and to conduct trend analysis.
(c)    Provide for better integration of the various tax information sources, which are
currently processed as separate entities. This includes withholding, third party
information, banking and other financial information relative to other entity
information (e.g., name, address) and appropriate cross referencing.
(d)   Introduce new mechanisms to the requirements of tax administration designed to
increase voluntary compliance and detect non-compliance--the former will be
supported by enhanced service to tax clients, the latter by the development of new
intelligent systems support for the audit and collection functions.
(e)    Develop an enhanced capacity for tax policy analysis and modelling to allow for
the design of new taxes to replace the distortionary extrabudgetary funds levies
and to strengthen the revenue side of budget preparation more generally, including
through the design of a Policy Analysis Unit and appropriate training.
(f)    Expand considerably the interface with the private banking system. The past
reliance on state banks has been identified as a source of significant time delay
(and a source of lost revenue) in the existing collection process, and of difficulties
for taxpayers due to the failure to remit payment receipts and monies to the GDR
in a timely fashion. A study will be conducted in Phase I of the project to
evaluate alternative methods for processing payments made through banks. The
results of this study will also cover part of the requirements of the Expenditure
and Personnel Management component of the PFMP as regards the flow of public
monies through the banking system.
26.   The specific activities proposed to further these ends during Phase I are described below:



9-
27.   In-House Technical Advisory Services (base cost: US$900,000). As noted above, a
number of studies have already been completed, providing recommendations for multi-year
programs of enhancements for the main business processes and management of the GDR. The
studies and pilot activities proposed for the PFMP constitute a second stage effort that will
integrate these process/management recommendations with each other, and with new
organizational and system requirements. Most of the contracted services defined below for the
other activities of this component involve non-tax specialists. The GDR requires the services of a
residential advisory team with detailed technical and operational tax administration experience to
assist the PMU in the planning, coordination and implementation of the activities proposed to be
carried out under the Tax Administration Component. The required services are to be provided
by a team of experts from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of the United States. The
Government's decision to assign this task to the IRS is based on its desire to adopt certain aspects
of the organization and business process models of the IRS, and to continue a technical assistance
collaboration that began in 1992 and was continued during the preparation of the PFMP. The
team will be comprised of one permanent adviser and a number of experts who will carry out
short term assignments.
28.   The specific responsibilities of the in-house advisory team will include:
(a)    preparing an integrated planning document for the modernization of the core tax
administration business processes (audit, collections and returns processing),
systems and management over the next five years--to be completed within six
months and based on the functional reviews that have already been carried out
under the auspices of the Japan Grant and the preliminary results of the activities
proposed to be funded under this loan;
(b)   identifying upfront tasks and training programs (including study tours abroad) that
can be carried out to prepare for and initiate the business process reforms;
(c)    assisting the PMU to coordinate and otherwise manage the various activities and
consultancies proposed to be carried out under this Component, including
preparation of procurement packages, and ensuring consistency in the timing and
recommendations of various efforts and their technical quality;
(d)   providing technical guidance to GDR staff in the design and implementation of
change, including draft legislation, procedures and forms;
(e)   assisting the PMU to prepare detailed work plans for the Working Groups in
charge of specific tasks and to monitor their implementation; and
(f)   assisting the PMU to prepare interim working papers and reports as needed or
requested by the Director General, and quarterly progress reports for the Bank.
29.   This assignment is expected to require roughly 36 consultant months during the period
November 1995 to June 1997, to be delivered by a team comprising one permanent adviser (the
lead consultant), who is highly qualified and experienced in tax administration management, and



- 10 -
experts in various areas of tax administration business processes, e.g., audit, collections and
returns processing, who would carry out short term assignments. The Advisory team will report
to the Director General of Revenues through the Head of the PMU, and the lead consultant will
be an ex officio member of the PMU. The PMU will ensure that the teamn is provided with
translation, administrative assistance and counterpart personnel as required. It is expected that
the consultancy contract would be renewed for three additional years under a second PFMP loan
from the World Bank. The Advisory team will commence activities in Ankara about one-two
months before most of the other technical assistance begins, in order to allow adequate time for
familiarization and more detailed planning.
30.   Studies for the Re-organization of the GDR (base costs: US$1.24 million). Even
though legislation is pending that defines and enables the creation of new regional centers,
detailed analyses and developmental work will be necessary to determine and establish the
optimal linkages between these regional centers and the rest of the existing organization.
Organizational unit responsibilities will have to be defined and realigned, consistent with these
changes. The restructuring and other process modifications that are being considered will have
significant effects on the work tasks and positions within the organization. New positions will
likely be required and existing position definitions will probably be changed and both will impose
new knowledge and skill requirements on the incumbents. Position ladders (career paths) may,
likewise, be affected. Substantial reassignment of personnel is expected to accompany the
restructuring to accommodate the shifts and balancing of work loads, requiring detailed planning
and re-orientation of the personnel affected. Four studies are proposed to be carried out by GDR
working groups with assistance from external consultants. These would cover, variously, overall
organization, third party information systems, banking system arrangements and withholding
arrangements. The studies are each described briefly below.
31.   Organization Study (base cost: US$740,000). A comprehensive study will be conducted
by GDR to determine the most effective organizational structure, authority delegations, and
management controls, to define the necessary organization and personnel administration manual
changes that will be necessary, to determine the training requirements, and to develop specific,
detailed plans for the restructuring. It will include:
(a)    Review of the current organization and authority structure, workload distribution,
and personnel administration structures;
(b)    Definition of alternative structures and analyses of the impact of changes on the
existing organization;
(c)    Elaboration of the responsibilities and authorities needed for the structure to be
implemented;
(d)   Identification and modification of organization authority and other related
manuals;
(e)    Determination of the effect of changes in responsibility on the types of work to be
done and the formal positions that will be affected;



- 11 -
(f)    Estimation of the workload on the affected organizational entities by functional
area and determination of the organization unit structures, including numbers of
position by category and level;
(g)    Development of operating concepts and scenarios for the organizational entities to
be modified;
(h)    Identification of the organization and personnel administration changes that may be
required to implement the restructuring and the modification of related
administrative manuals;
(i)    Identification of training required to effect changes in operations and jobs; and
(j)    Preparation of strategies and plans for carrying out the restructuring.
32.   Because of the critical importance of re-structuring decisions, the first three of the above
items are designated as the first stage of this study, which will focus on developing the
information that is essential to management decisions regarding the re-structuring for new
regional centers. Completing this stage and reaching these decisions will constitute a key
milestone in Phase I. As the decisions become solidified, the second stage effort will shift to
completing the work needed to effect formally the re-structuring and to incorporating the
changes resulting from process restructuring activities, discussed below. For this latter stage, a
dynamic interchange of information will be required between this and the other analysis activities
in Phase I in order to maintain consistency in the end results of all Phase I activities.
33.   The study will be carried out by a GDR Organization/Administration Working Group
over a period of about one year with assistance of technical advisors experienced in organization
analysis and design. The first stage is expected to last 3-4 months, with a further 12 months
required for stage 2. A total of 24 months of technical assistance will be required.
34.   Third-Party Information Study (base cost: US$183,000). It is a feature of most modern
tax administrations that third-party information is obtained and used as the foundation for what
are commonly called "tax intelligence services". This third-party information is typically derived
from public sources such as the administrative data of banks, corporations, unions and
professional associations. It is subsequently used to compare tax returns or other taxpayer related
information with identified sources of income, and validate tax actions that seek to attach
significant asset holdings--which may have escaped identification for tax purposes. This
information can also be used to drive tax-payer profiling activities in support of intelligent audit
programs, and in support of analytical/longitudinal studies of the tax-payer population. The
cbjective of this study is twofold. First, it seeks to develop an approach and plan for an
expanded third party information system within the GDR. This system will enhance the efforts to
improve tax adrrinistration. Second, it seeks to identify the principal information requirements
and processing procedures for such information, and to provide that information to the parallel
modeling activities of Phase 1.



- 12 -
35.   This study, which can draw extensively from previous work, will include the following:
(a)    A review of the background and status of previous and on-going third-party
information processing, including the existing tax intelligence files belonging to
the VIM system--e.g., their content and current capacity.
(b)    A compilation and cataloging of the best potential sources of third-party
information--indicating their data contents, usability, methods of collection or
access, relationship to other information including taxpayer identification numbers,
and the legal, policy, privacy, security and/or technical requirements for effecting
their use.
(c)    A review of existing third-party information sources within the GDR in order to
determine past usage, intended future use, and to assess the need to collect new
information--or the same information from more expanded sources.
(d)    The preparation of alternative proposals for satisfying unmet needs, including data
collection options, enabling conditions for collection or access of data,
recommended analytical methods, technical requirements for implementation,
suggested methods for evaluation, modeling, or pilot testing, and recommended
actions.
(e)    For high priority or selected sources and analyses, preparation of specific plans
for evaluation in a pilot test environment (see the prototyping laboratory activity
below), including all aspects of data base development, data conversion, remote
access or transfer, formatting or structuring, matching and collating with other
sources or files, access security, analysis and summarization, and preparation of
electronic and/or printed outputs for the intended end users or other automated
processes.
(f)    Development of scenarios for pilot use in automated processes or computer aided
tasks by end users, as are envisioned in intelligence support operations for tax
audit and collection functions. Scenarios should include automated processes and
computer aided tasks, such as taxpayer notifications, operating procedures or
dialogues for end users, procedures for analysis and interpretation of output,
output formats and types, and model cases that could be used in training exercises.
36.   Table 1 contains a representative set of information sources and categories to be analyzed
as sources for inclusion in the third-party component of the tax administration base:
37.   Measures will be taken to ensure that all legislative requirements are addressed early since
time frames, directives for third party usage, public relations formulation, and fundamental
approaches for implementation are anticipated issues for inclusion in the parameters of future
legislative guidelines.



- 13 -
Table 1. Information Sources
Banking             Industry Production and         Construction and
Employment                 Manufacturing
Securities                 Land Use               Professional and Trade
Associations
Professional and Other      Imports and Exports             Retail Trade
Non-wage Income
Real Estate                Inheritance               Official Statistics
Motor Vehicle and Driver     Lotteries and Gaming           Credit Bureaus
Registration
38.   In preparing implementation plans, consideration should be given to the burden placed on
reporting groups or agencies. It is important that the tax administration remain sensitive to the
inherent ease or difficulty of providing administrative information. In some cases, enabling
legislation may be required.
39.    The study is to be performed by a GDR Third Party Information Working Group with
assistance from a technical advisor experienced in the analysis outlined above. The results must
feed easily into the information/process model being prepared within another sub-component of
the tax administration component. The effort is expected to require about 6 consultant months.
40.    Banking Study (base cost: US$183,000). This study will ascertain how best to strengthen
the role of banking companies in tax collection and other routine tax administration processes,
and the capability of these institutions to adapt to the envisaged increase of the tax base. The
study will assure that all necessary bank related issues are addressed so as to obtain a system that
will meet the needs of tax administration, while at the same time fall within the parameters of
existing or future legislative guidelines.
41.    To this end, the study will: (a) evaluate alternate methods for processing government
monies in the banking system, in order to improve cash flows and reduce the costs; and
(b) review and restructure the government banking and account arrangements, and to ensure that
the arrangements are consistent with the proposed expenditure management reforms.
Additionally it will investigate the legal and procedural process necessary to establish special
depositories for the collection of taxes so as to increase tax collection by banks, and improve the
efficiency in collection. The study will analyze new possible approaches, establish the data and
processing requirements, outline the possible structure of special depositories and/or other means
of collection, identify possible locations for depositories, and estimate the workload. Costs will



- 14 -
be outlined, recommendations made, and impacts on either the banks or tax offices noted.
Among the issues to be studied are:
*     The causes for delay in the transfer of funds and receipts from banks and post
offices
*     The cost to the Government attributable to the 7 day grace period, as well as
additional delays
*     Suitable banking procedures, account requirements and preferred
arrangements for cash management
*     The options available for more timely transfer of funds to tax accounts,
including electronic funds transfers and/or electronic payments status
information
*     Establishing time frames for fund transfer, including possible fee
mechanisms for alternative processing methods by banks, and penalties for
non-compliance
*     The need to establish audit trails
*     The financial impacts of alternative proposals on banks and post offices.
42.   The study will be timed to begin about two months after the launching of Phase I
activities, and it must be completed in 6 months. It is anticipated that, working together with the
Collections Working Group, a senior banking sector specialist and a specialist in electronic funds
transfer can accomplish this task with approximately 6 months of total effort. Preliminary results
which impact on the information/process modeling activities of a parallel sub-component activity
must be made available to the appropriate consultants in a timely fashion. The results from this
activity will be shared with the Treasury and Budget and Accounting directorates of the MOF.
43.   Withholdings Study (base cost: US$136,000). The General Directorate for Revenue is
charged with the responsibility for enforcing current income tax withholding requirements.
Approximately 75 percent of all revenues are collected through the withholding system.
However the precise extent of income tax collection through withholding is unknown. Currently,
two types of withholding are done by: (a) private and public institutions for wage income taxes;
and (b) financial institutions for interest and dividend income. The withholding of social security
premiums for social security, and health insurance is effected by the Social Security
Administration (SSK) for enterprises in the formal sector, the Civil Service Pension Fund
(Emekli Sandigi), and Bagkur, which collects for (non-agricultural) small businesses and self
employed individuals. It is anticipated that upon approval of pending legislation, unemployment
insurance will be collected by the Social Security Administration. Some government officials
have expressed a desire to have one organization collect withholding funds related to income tax,
and premiums for social security, health insurance and unemployment insurance. The GDR is
the organization most officials consider as the logical agency for consolidated collections.



- 15 -
However, withholding returns and the information retained are substantially different in the GDR
from that obtained and retained by the other collection agencies.
44.   The purpose of this study is to analyze the information and processes required to
accomplish all withholding by the GDR. In addition the processes associated with the
withholding for VAT and VAT monitoring procedures will be analyzed. A detailed plan for the
implementation of all withholding will be prepared, as well as a report on the findings of the
study relative to VAT, including recommendations for possible improvements to be accomplished
in the next phase of the project.
45.    The analysis for regular withholding will cover operational procedures in the other
agencies currently performing withholding functions, and will determine the impact on both the
GDR and the other organizations. The analysis for VAT will cover operational procedures, field
inspections, and sampling techniques for the matching of information with that of other agencies.
46.   Using the information collected during the analysis, a new operational concept will be
formulated that addresses all aspects of the withholding and monitoring process by all involved
organizational entities. The operational and IT requirements will be outlined including reporting
requirements, manual and computer aided procedures, data flows, data base maintenance,
confirmation and other reporting, privacy and security, and financial control and audit. The
analysis will also propose operating guidelines related to withholding procedures, funds deposit or
transfer, distribution of collected funds, and information sharing among involved organizations.
47.   This study is expected to require about 4 person-months by a senior technical advisor with
experience in withholding associated with tax administration. The consultant would work with
the Collections Working Group. The results of the study will be merged into the results of other
activities being undertaken during the first phase of this component.
48.   Modernization of IT Infrastructure (base cost: US$6.03 million). The objective of this
initiative is to assure that system development and investment activities in Phase II are based on a
solid foundation in terms of a full understanding of the information requirements and how they
relate to the major processes in the tax administration system. To that end, and building on the
recent thematic studies, a rigorous examination of the current and proposed tax administration
system will be conducted, in close consultation with sector experts and IT management from the
General Directorate of Revenues (GDR). The following describes the program of activities in
more detail.
49.   Information/Process Model (base cost: US$2.5 million). The purpose of this exercise is
to ensure that system development activities in Phase II are based on a solid foundation in terms
of a full understanding of the information requirements and how they relate to the major
processes in the tax administration system. To that end, a rigorous examination of the current
and proposed tax administration system will be conducted.
50.   A formal information/processing model will be prepared, using an industry standard
methodology, and covering the major processes in the full tax administration system--audit,
collections and returns processing. This model will be adjusted continually as the results from



- 16 -
the four studies proposed for Phase I are made available. For example, the study of the
Withholding process will provide new information requirements concerning the integration of
new processes in support of Social Security collections, possibly to be introduced in Phase II.
51.   To enable the analysis of information flows, certain high-level assumptions can be made
regarding the organization and distribution of tax administration processing in the Republic of
Turkey. Information will flow within a three-tier model consisting of the following logical
elements:
(a)    A local tier represents the tax administration's primary operating interface with
the tax payer. There are roughly 1000 of these offices, and they are quite
dispersed, with a significant number servicing only a few hundred clients. The
GDR operates some 400 such offices as "pure" tax offices, of which
approximately 90 are already automated. The remainder of the tax offices are
combined with the offices of the General Directorate of Accounting. It is
anticipated that the pure tax offices will be the focus for automation activity in
Phase II. For planning purposes, it is assumed that the technology of the local
offices will be PC based; that appropriate linkages to the other tiers will exist; and
that the physical/official tax administration database will not be distributed to this
level. A decision on the suitability of LAN technology for larger offices is not
required for Phase I, and can be determined in the IT framework activities,
discussed below.
(b)    A regional tier provides two primary functions: (a) a management (over-seeing)
role for the local offices in any region, and (b) Tax Intelligence services intended
to support audit and collections activities. The current complement of three
Regional Processing Centers will be expanded, without substantially changing the
role of the processing centers. The precise number, functions and staffing of
these offices is not available at this time. Currently, two large regional centers in
Istanbul and Ankara perform a high volume data entry service for the local
offices. A third office in Izmir will shortly acquire this capability. It is then
planned to gradually subsume data entry operations from the local offices into
these three (and only these three) regional office processing centers.
(c)    A central tier is the single custodian of the logical tax administration database.
This does not preclude the physical distribution of the database at some future
time; thus, the model should be sufficiently flexible to accommodate future
adjustments of this type. In particular, the central tier is responsible for those
portions of the database which are not closely linked to current operations: e.g.,
accumulated longitudinal data on tax administration. These elements of the
database would support an enhanced research and development function (not yet
defined) which would study the operation of the tax system to provide a policy
support service to the GDR. Clearly, this is also a potential source of information
for the Tax Intelligence service described for the regional centers.



- 17 -
52.   It can be further assumed that the transactions which will flow across the future network
will move only between adjacent tier-boundaries; i.e., local offices will not access directly the
center, and the center will not directly access the local tier. They always 'speak' through the
intermediary of the Regional tier. This requirement can be illustrated by considering the case of
the future Tax Intelligence Center. The information which supports this service is expected to
reside within the central tier. This is because it is likely that longitudinal data will be required in
support of this function, and this type of information is not expected to be kept at the more
operational Regional sites, where only immediately relevant information is stored. During day-
to-day operations, specific case information may be requested to be made available to the
regional Tax Intelligence support sites, and this will be serviced routinely by a direct central-
regional link. In turn, this process may result in specific data being transacted to a local site for
field follow-up, and this will be accomplished via a direct regional-local link. Of course, these
links can work in the reverse direction, and the logic of this example can be extended to other
operational situations.
53.    The resulting model(s) will be suitable to support downstream database design activities
and to serve as a metadata repository for system development. Consequently, it is anticipated
that the use of IBM DB2 data dictionary/directory facilities will constitute a useful physical
recording medium for the results of this activity. The GDR has a sizable investment in IBM DB2
technology and it is expected to be a building block of the ultimate technology framework.
54.   Laboratory for Modeling, Piloting and Training (base cost: US$3.06 million). The
primary objective of this activity is to establish a laboratory facility which will feature
representative samples of all the major technological elements of the future tax administration
system. These elements include:
(a)    major hardware types in addition to the mainframe--principally mid-range RISC
computers of different scale, and several scales of PC's and more advanced work
stations;
(b)    operating system components in various configurations;
(c)    foundation software--principally data management software, and productivity tools
for the system development and maintenance stages of the project; and
(d)    communications gear and software, for testing configuration capacities,
performance and reliability.
55.   In addition to supporting the highly technical aspects of system construction, the
laboratory will provide an excellent test bed for the modeling of various tax administration
network situations--i.e., interactions among the three tiers of the future system. During Phase 1,
such tests will provide the capability to perform "proof of concept", to immediately validate
elements of the IT Framework. During Phase II, GDR staff will make use of the laboratory to
prototype, evaluate and pilot test elements of the tax applications --e.g., third-party processing.



- 18 -
56.   A third objective of the laboratory is to provide a vehicle for training the IT staff in the
specific types of technology that will be used in the development of software for Phase 11, and
beyond. As operational prototypes are refined, the facility will also be used to develop, evaluate,
and pilot test training materials and end-user training in the redesigned operating processes and
procedures. In this mode, the laboratory approximates a demonstration center.
57.   Specific capabilities will include the modeling of configurations featuring up to 25
concurrent users. The stations will be interconnected by a local area network, and linked to a
mid-range computer that can sustain both developmental work related to user/computer
interfaces, and simulate combined operations with large data bases. The PC stations will be
housed in an area that can simulate a model office. As the system evolves to an end-user training
facility, additional stations may be added. A rich suite of software will be provided to enable the
evaluation of developmental options in this component of the IT framework, including system
development tools, and to support operational modeling and simulation activities and technology
related training. A similar configuration will be installed as a part of the laboratory to collect,
analyze, develop analytical models, and pilot test the use of third party information for the tax
intelligence services.
58.   During Phase I, prototyping and modeling activities will be based on preliminary
information and process requirements from other component activities and additional detailed
analyses related to the specific operational areas to be modeled. These analyses will lead to
optional designs which will then be prototyped for demonstration and evaluation. When options
are narrowed or selected for specific tasks, the results will be incorporated into an increasingly
sophisticated model related to an area of operations. Operational demonstrations will be
conducted to facilitate end-user and management review. More specific operational simulation
and testing will be conducted to evaluate design options. Testing of specific tasks and operations
will include adequate samples to facilitate estimation of processor and network work loads.
59.   During Phase II, in areas where operations are fully designed or expected to become
operational, the procedures will be documented and, where appropriate, converted to both
document and subsequent on-line style operational aids (on-line Help). Design specifications will
be prepared. Areas that are suitable for development of related training materials will be
identified and, where appropriate, computer and/or media based materials will be specified and/or
developed in prototype for evaluation and pilot testing. Such materials will be both demonstrated
and tested, as may be appropriate.
60.   Training related to the laboratory or development technology included in the laboratory
will be provided to the IT staff and to the training development/trainer staff in GDR, assigned to
work on this activity with the technical advisors, to enable them to use the facility both during
this and the subsequent phase of development and to assume full responsibility for continuing
preparation and training activities.
61.   About US$1.6 million has been allocated for the capital requirements of the IT
Laboratory--covering the cost of acquisition of accommodation elements, hardware (two
mid-range computers, 32 PCs, LAN wiring, communications gear to link to remote mainframes
and to the local tier), software (e.g., data management software, LAN, office automation



- 19 -
elements, tools for the support of system development), and a rich blend of aids for training and
demonstration, including multi-media development tools. The component implementation plan
also provides for the participation of 10 GDR technical trainees for a duration of 9 months.
62.   Development of Information Technology Framework (base cost: US$470,000). This
activity will integrate the results of the other studies conducted in this component -- particularly
the adjusted Information/process model, and the assumptions on which it is based -- and develop
a comprehensive information technology framework (ITF) for tax administration. This ITF will
have two components:
(a)   ITF Part 1 --produces a strategic plan for IT at the GDR.
(b)   ITF Part 2 -- specifies a technical environment for all tax administration
processing which encompasses hardware, commercial software, and
communications. It shows clearly those components of the existing
environment which can be retained, and identifies those new components
which are to be added, to the level of detail required to estimate and plan
for overall procurement activity. Additionally, where it is clear that
certain processing requirements will addressed serially, it also indicates the
gross logical staging of acquisitions.
63.   A key feature of the ITF Part 1 is its choice of a set of enabling technologies which is
coherent and based on internationally accepted de jure and defacto standards. Specific product
selections will be a secondary consideration. For example, the ITF's major commitment for a
data management technology will in all likelihood be SQL; a secondary consideration might be a
commitment to IBM's implementation of standard SQL through its relational database product
DB2. This logic will be extended to other areas of choice within the ITF Part 1.
64.   The ITF Parts 1 and 2 will consider the local market conditions in choosing technologies
and products--i.e., availability and serviceability considerations.
65.   The ITF Part 1 will assume a 5-year view of technology. This will assure that older
technologies which are nearing the end of their useful lives, and immature technologies--which
might pose unacceptable risks for a tax administration system where the consequence of error is
relatively great--can be avoided.
66.   The ITF Part 1 will have a role to play beyond the relatively immediate challenge of
providing a technology baseline for the development of the ITF Part 2 and for support of the
funding decisions in Phase 11 of this project. In addition, the ITF will be of a form suitable for
use as a strategic planning document for the management of IT in the future. It is expected that
the use of IT services will evolve as time goes by. Thus, the plan will be adjusted annually by
the GDR, and used to plan and manage future IT acquisitions and technology replacement.
67.   The strategic framework developed for the ITF Part I will be applied in guiding the
development of the specific IT environment proposed in the ITF Part 2 for Phase II of the Tax
Administration project.



- 20 -
68.   Timing and Level of Effort. The information/process modeling activities will be timed to
begin with the general launching of Phase I activities. The model must be completed in 9
months. The construction of the ITF will follow immediately the completion of the
information/process modeling activities. It must be completed 12 months after the general launch
of this component: i.e., it must be completed within a 3 month period. The IT Laboratory
portion of this consultancy will be active during 16 of the 18 months allocated for Phase 1, with
emphasis on the second half of Phase I, as more elements of the technology plan become defined.
69.   It is anticipated that some overlapping of the activities referenced in the preceding
paragraph may be possible. For instance, it is anticipated that the construction of the IT
Laboratory can draw on some of the same key individuals who are working on the
information/process models, and who may wish to use the facilities of the Laboratory to test and
validate their solutions. That is one important rationale for combining these two items in the
same terms of reference. It is also anticipated that there will be a carryover of key technical
personnel from the laboratory construction activity to the definition of the ITF. Clearly, this
would accelerate the learning curve for the involved GDR staff and consultants. Given the
importance that attaches to the timely execution of proposed activities, and the regional and local
office dimensions, provision has been made for a total effort of 150 months for this consultancy.
The exact amount of effort required will depend on the precise skills mix of the consultant team
and the amount of overlap that can be built into the team's work program and, in practice, should
be somewhat less.
70.   Strengthening GDR System Development Capability (base cost: US$700,700). The
project (Phase I and Phase II) will introduce substantial changes in tax administration during the
next several years, most of which entail modification of existing computer based systems and
entirely new systems. Computer systems will be expanded and added to the IT resource pool.
A new IT framework will be established during the first phase of the project that will form the
foundation for significant IT developments that will largely occur during the second phase. The
IT framework will build on currently installed computer and software technology but will
introduce new development tools and techniques that will be specified during this phase. The
bulk of the system development work in the second phase will be performed by the IT staff in
GDR. For the GDR to reach the objectives set for this project, it is critical that the staff be
adequately trained in the technology and methods that will be used. To avoid a delay between
the phases of the component schedule, it is important to train the staff during the first phase so
that they will be prepared at the outset of the second phase.
71.   The purpose of this activity is to accomplish that training for the 105 computer
programmers, systems analysts, and systems programmers located in Ankara, Istanbul, and
Izmir. Table 2 shows the list of courses or subject areas that are planned to be covered and
indicating the estimated duration of the courses.
72.   The entire IT staff will receive training in all subjects above with the exceptions of course
#3, Database Administration and #10, Windows NT 3.5. For these courses, four of the most
highly skilled IT employees will be selected to receive this training. Two of these employees
will be trained to becoming database administrators (course # 3) and two for providing
communications support (course #10). Class size should, generally, be limited to 15 students, as



- 21 -
Table 2. List of IT-related Courses
(subject to confirmation with the future ITF)
1         IBM DB2 Structured Query Language (SQL)            4 weeks
2         Structured Database Design                          3 weeks
3         Database Dictionary                                 2 weeks
4         Database Administration                             3 weeks
5         C++                                                 3 weeks
6         Structured Analysis and Design Techniques/CASE'     3 weeks
7         Microsoft Disk O/S (MS DOS) 6.2                     2 weeks
8         Microsoft Windows for Workgroups                    1 week
9         Microsoft Word 6.0 (Turkish Version)                1 week
10        Windows NT 3.5                                       1 week
11        Microsoft Excel 5.0 (Turkish Version)               2 weeks
12        Client/Server Application Development Tools         3 weeks
Computer Assisted Software Engineering.
a maximum, because of the "exercise-intensive" nature of the instruction. With this assumption,
the minimum number of classes per course are as indicated in Table 3.
73.   All training should be provided in a classroom/laboratory environment containing the
necessary computer hardware and software so that each student has their own workstation, as
described in an earlier activity. Each student should be provided with a complete set of training
material and necessary technical manuals.
74.   Enhancement of Tax Policy Capability (base cost: US$500,000). Activity in this area
will seek to: (a) design and establish a Policy Analysis Unit within the GDR, including through a
detailed training program; (b) carry out a thorough analysis of the current tax system with a view
to providing recommendations for legislative change that would broaden the tax base and enhance
the fairness and efficiency of the tax system, including through the rationalization of deductions,
exemptions and other preferences; and (c) develop a suite of tax policy simulation models suitable
for the design of tax policy changes and for revenue forecasting for the budget. More precisely,
the GDR Policy Working Group, assisted by external consultants, would:
(a)    Undertake a complete assessment of the policy-making process within the GDR
and make recommendations for restructuring the organization of the policy-making
function and the information flows on which policy decisions are based. The
design of the proposed Policy Analysis Unit (PAU) will be determined, including



- 22 -
Table 3. Number of Classes (Sections) by Subject/Course
1       IBM DB2 Structured Query Language (SQL)                  7
2        Structured Database Design                              7
3        Database Dictionary                                     7
4        Database Administration                                 1
5        C++                                                     7
6        Structured Analysis and Design Techniques/CASE          7
7        Microsoft Disk O/S (MS DOS) 6.2                         7
8        Microsoft Windows for Workgroups                        7
9        Microsoft Word 6.0 (Turkish Version)                    7
10       Windows NT 3.5>                                         7
11       Microsoft Excel 5.0 (Turkish Version)                    1
12       Client Server Application Tools on Modem GUIS           7
Graphical User Interface (under Windows)
its place within the new organizational structure, the posts and functions of the
PAU and a detailed training program for the staff of the PAU.
(b)    Construct analytical models for tax policy to identify potential opportunities for
broadening the tax base while maintaining an equitable tax structure and develop
specialized databases for use in these models, as well as for independent analysis
within the GDR. Separate basic models will be constructed for each indirect tax
(valued-added taxes, customs duties and excise taxes) and income tax (company
profit taxes, individual income taxes and payroll taxes). Also an integrated model
will be developed for examining several of these taxes in combination. A third
(revenue receipt tracking) module should offer the capability to map the simulation
results generated by different basic revenue estimation models into a receipt
projections/monitoring model. Key outputs in this area will include user's and
technical manuals (in English and Turkish), and completed training for a small
group of GDR staff in the use and maintenance of the system. It is possible that
some of the required development material can be purchased off-the-shelf.



- 23 -
(c)    Undertake a preliminary analysis of the current tax system with the above models.
Phase II will see the application of the models to carry out a more detailed
analysis of current tax law and an evaluation of alternative policy options to be
considered by policy-makers.
(d)    Design a detailed training program for the staff of the PAU. Such training would
likely include courses in macro- and micro-economics, tax policy analysis, the use
of computers in quantitative analysis and the construction and use of tax policy
models. Workshops and on-the-job training would be part of the overall training
program. The type of training needed, especially during the early stages of the
activity, will also depend on the skills and background of the staff selected to
participate in the Tax Policy Working Group, who will form the core of the
proposed PAU.
75.   The foregoing activities require expert assistance in the amount of approximately 18
consultant months of effort, beginning in November 1995. Assuming that all data is collected
and processed by the end of December, the construction of the revenue simulation system will
begin in January 1996 and will be completed in February-June 1996, in time for the Fiscal Year
1997 budget preparation process. GDR staff would be expected to participate actively in the
modelling work, and after a few initial sessions to introduce the concepts and modelling software,
most training would be expected to be of the hands-on variety.
76.   Project Management Support Services (base cost: US$514,000). The GDR has decided
that it would benefit from the services of a professional project management support services
(PMSS) consultant for the implementation of defined activities of the Tax Administration
Component of the PFMP under the following categories: (a) national and international
consultants; (b) subcontracts; (c) local training activities; (d) overseas study tours; and (e)
operational support services. The responsibilities of the PMSS contractor in relation to the five
categories of activity are described in the terms of reference detailed in Annex lb.
Approximately half of the cost of this activity will be for miscellaneous project support
expenditures such as translation services and office equipment.
77.   The PMSS assignment is expected to start around the beginning of November 1995 and
last until May 1997 in the first instance. It is expected that the assignment will be extended for a
further 3-4 years in the context of the second PFMP loan from the World Bank.
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
78.   Cost. The total cost of the tax administration component is estimated at about US$14.8
million equivalent, including contingencies. The total baseline cost is estimated at US$14.2
million. Project costs include goods and equipment, advisory services, civil works, training
services and materials, project management support services and a refund of that part of the
US$2 million advance from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility allocated to this component.
Price and physical contingencies are estimated at 5 percent of total baseline costs of equipment,
software, other materials and civil works. Foreign currency costs, including contingencies, are
estimated at US$12.75 million or 86 percent of total cost. Local costs are estimated at US$2.06



- 24 -
million equivalent, and are mostly for training, project support costs, taxes and duties, and staff
salaries. Cost estimates assume an average local inflation rate of 51 percent in 1995-96, and 15
percent thereafter. Price increases for foreign costs (estimated in US dollars) are assumed at 1.6
percent in 1995-96 and 2.6 percent in 1997. Cost calculations assume an average exchange rate
of 61,300 Turkish Lira to US$1.00 for the 1995-97 component execution period. A summary
breakdown of costs by expenditure category is shown in Table 4. A more detailed presentation is
contained in Annex ic.
79.   Einancing. The proposed Bank loan would finance about 60 percent of total component
costs (see Table 5). It also would meet 70 percent of foreign exchange requirements. The
Government's contribution of US$5.9 million includes equipment purchases of US$3.45 million
for the central and local office network in connection with the taxpayer identification initiative,
and a variety of local costs, notably training for IT staff and project support costs.
80.     Preparatory activities for the PFMP as a whole have benefitted from a Japanese PHRD
grant in the amount of Yen 128 million (approximately US$1.3 million). The French
Government also provided a grant of about US$132,000 specifically for preparatory studies for
the Expenditure and Personnel Management component. The Government has obtained an
advance in the amount of US$2 million from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility. These
monies have allowed the timely initiation of the most time-sensitive preparatory activities.



Table 4. Costs Summarv BY Expenditure Accounts
(CMt bUllen)                                                                (US S '0)
Of Whkh                                                                    Of Whkh    % Foreign
Duties &    %e Foreign    % Total                                          Duties &      Exchange      % Total
LcA    Foreign    Total        TAx        Exchange    Base Costs           Local   Foretip     Total       Tax                      Base Costs
Civil Works                  2          0        2            0            0             0              43         0        43             0            0              0
Equipment                   15        230      245           15           94            36             315      4,763    S,078           320           94             36
Training
Local              67         0        67            0            0           10            1,396         0     1396             0            0             10
International       0        18        18            0          100            3               0        375      375             0          100              3
Subtotal           67         18       85            0           21            12           1,396       375     1,711            0           21             12
Technical Assistance
International       0       323       323            0          100           47               0      6,700     6,700            0          100             47          1
Project Support             10         19        29           0           66             4             200        384      584             0           66              4
BASE COSTS                  94        590     6C4             15          86           100           1,954     12,22    14,176           320           K6            100
Physical Contingencies       3         13        16            1          82             2              59        263      322             9           82              2
Price Contingencies         85        471      556           15           85            81              44        266      310             8           86              2
TOTAL COSIS                 182      1.074    1,256           31          86           184           2,057     12,751    14,v80          337           K6            104



- 26 -
Table 5. Tax Administration Component: Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Local    Foreign       Total     % of Total
IBRD                    0.1        8.9        9.0          60.8
Government               1.9       3.9        5.8          39.2
Total Financing       2.0        12.6       14.8        100 .0
E. ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT PLANS
81.   A project account and special account will be established for each of the three
implementing agencies. Each PMU would prepare quarterly statements of expenditures,
consolidate component accounts, and prepare and submit disbursement withdrawal applications
for project expenditures (beginning from the date of Loan Effectiveness). The project accounts
and special accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
The audit reports will contain a separate opinion on the use of Statements of Expenditure.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that an annual audit of all project and special
accounts would be undertaken by an independent auditor in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank. (March
1982). Audit reports in English will be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the
end of each Government fiscal year (December 31). Details of the project reporting and annual
review schedule are presented in Table 4.7 of the Main Report.



II. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE IMPLEMENmTNG AGENCIES
82.   The borrower is the Republic of Turkey which is represented by the Undersecretariat of
Treasury (Treasury). The Undersecretary in the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has overall
responsibility for the supervision of the Tax Administration and the Expenditure and Personnel
Management components of the project.
83.   The Director General of Revenues is responsible for the management of the Tax
Administration component of the PFMP. Specifically, the Director General will oversee, guide
and approve the requirements, specifications, operational and organization proposals and other
changes that result from the study, analysis and design activities conducted as a part of the Tax
Administration Component. The Director General will establish such review committees as he
deems appropriate, or may be recommended by the Minister and Undersecretary of Finance, to
review and evaluate the results of work done in component activities. This process should help
ensure that the activities conducted under this component remain consistent with the objectives
that have been established and with Government intentions.
84.   Responsibility for day-to-day coordination and monitoring of the project component will
rest with the Project Management Unit (PMU), headed by a Deputy Director General, who has
already been assigned this responsibility. The PMU will include the heads of the five Working
Groups being formed to implement component activities. These individuals, who are Department
Heads in the GDR, have also been selected. The Working Groups are expected to form the
nuclei of the teams within the GDR that will assume responsibility for follow-through activities,
after the first phase of this component. The PMU will include the lead consultant from the
In-House Advisory team and the PMSS contractor. Other GDR staff and consultants with skills
necessary to support component activities, including project management, procurement and
contract monitoring, translation and administrative support, will be assigned or contracted, as
necessary, to assist the PMU on a short term basis. The specific responsibilities of the PMU are
summarized as follows:
(a)   ensuring the training, assignment, and placement of GDR staff and consultants as
required by activity work plans;
(b)   providing liaison with the Bank and involved Government units for project
administration and supervision;
(c)   assisting Working Groups in the preparation of procurement strategies, plans and
documents, and ensuring compliance with Bank procurement guidelines in the
acquisition of products and services;
(d)   preparing and distributing period reports to the Director General (monthly), the
Bank (quarterly), and other Governmental units covering the progress, problems
encountered and corrective actions needed, and activity and financial status of the
activities;



- 28 -
(e)   ensuring the movement of official documents and contracts through approval
processes and undertaking measures to expedite their release;
(f)   supporting component activities by providing necessary translation and
administrative support;
(g)   monitoring the availability of funds and project costs and expenditures, processing
loan disbursement applications and tracking disbursements of the Bank loan and
Government funds; and
(h)   preparing a Component Completion Report within six months of the completion of
the component, which will be incorporated eventually into the Project Completion
Report.
85.   As noted above, the General Director of Revenues will establish five Working
Groups--Automation, Collections, Organization, Tax Policy Models and Third Party
Systems--which will be responsible for carrying out component activities with the assistance of
contracted technical advisors. Additional short-term teams may be formed from time to time to
assist with the preparation of tender documents and with the evaluation of proposals. The
specific task responsibilities of the five main Working Groups are as follows:
*     Automation (IT) Working Group: Information/Process Model; Information
Technology Laboratory; Information Technology Framework; and Strengthening
In-House Information Technology Capability.
*     Collections Working Group: Banking Study; and Withholdings Study.
*     Organization Working Group: Organization Study.
*     Tax Policy Working Group: Enhancing Tax Policy Capability.
-     Third Party Working Group: Third Party Information Study.
B. INTER-AGENCY COORDiNATTON
86.   Over the medium term, strengthening public financial management in Turkey will depend
importantly on the efficient and timely exchange of data between the different agencies charged
with this responsibility. However, at this stage, components are essentially independent of each
other and will proceed according to separate component implementation plans. The
implementation of the first phase of the Tax Administration Component will be undertaken solely
by the General Directorate of Revenues in the Ministry of Finance. Consequently, there are no
substantial requirements for coordination with the agencies implementing the other two
components. Any necessary coordination among the organizations will be effected at the ministry
level by the Undersecretaries of Customs and Finance. Looking ahead to Phase II, however, the
future tax administration system will benefit greatly from the availability of the citizen
identification numbering system being implemented under the MERNIS project. At some stage,



- 29 -
a close collaboration will be required between the GDR and the General Directorate of Citizen's
Affairs as the tax administration migrates from its internal taxpayer numbering system to one that
relies on the national citizens registry.
C. ROLE OF WORLD BANK SUPERVISION
87.   Bank supervision of project implementation will concentrate on the consistency of
component activities with agreements reached during negotiations, performance of the
implementing groups and assessment of emerging needs for adjustments to project parameters.
The day-to-day implementation and monitoring will be carried out by the PMUs. The basis for
Bank monitoring will be quarterly progress reports prepared by the PMUs. The reports will
describe the status, deviation, if any, from the implementation plans, reasons for deviations as
well as corrective actions being taken. The quarterly reports will be supplemented by substantive
discussions with the Working Groups implementing the various subcomponents and discussions
with higher echelon officials. Annual work and procurement programs will be required to be
agreed with the Bank each year, and will include quarterly benchmarks for monitoring and
evaluating progress in implementation.
88.   Implementation of the proposed project, and the extent to which it is achieving its stated
objectives, would be reviewed and evaluated annually and upon its completion. In addition, there
will be three formal joint Bank-Government reviews. The first of these would be conducted
early in 1996, about four months into the project, to provide a basis for proceeding with
preappraisal of the proposed follow-up investment operation, and for making any early
adjustments as may be necessary in project parameters. The second (in early 1997) would cover
the formal assessment of the pilot implementation of the new Customs system, and the third
(early 1998) the assessment of the pilot Government Financial Management Information System
(GFMIS) for the Expenditure and Personnel Management Component. A proposed schedule of
supervision and review missions is provided in Table 4.7 of the SAR. During Loan negotiations,
the Government also agreed to a joint-Bank review of project implementation in October-
November of each year for assessing progress toward achievement of agreed policy, institutional,
financial and physical targets and for determining and agreeing on needed budget resources (both
local funds and Loan proceeds) to be requested for the next fiscal year.



I



m. IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES
A. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES
89.   The three components of the PFMP are essentially independent of each other and would
proceed according to separate Component Implementation Plans--see Annex 2a for Expenditure
and Personnel Management and Annex 3a for Customs Modernization. There are no substantial
requirements for coordinating the components at the implementation level. Any necessary
coordination among the organizations will be effected at the ministry level by the
Undersecretaries of Finance and Customs, with the assistance of the Treasury.
90.   The Tax Administration Component will be implemented over a period of roughly
eighteen months, according to the schedule shown in Annex ld. The schedule takes into account
the work that has been carried out during project preparation. In particular, draft terms of
reference (TOR) for major technical assistance assignments have already been prepared and
agreed with the Government. Annex Id also lists the major activities to be undertaken in this
component, showing the tasks related to each subcomponent.
91.   Most of the proposed activities are inter-related both logically and across time. The
results from most will be supported or be integrated into the final strategic plan and information
technology framework. The first critical activity is procurement of the In-House Advisory team,
which must lead other activities by about 2 months in order to allow for effective planning and
coordination of Phase I activities and timely development of the program for Phase II. The
Organization study is divided into two distinct stages. The first stage will provide the basis for
key decisions regarding the re-structuring of the GDR, which is a critical milestone affecting the
remaining activities. The second stage will produce results that will directly support the re-
structuring activities and influence the remaining Phase I activities. It is important that the first
stage be completed early in the phase. The completion of the first stage of the Organization
study and the adoption of an action plan by the MOF based on its recommendations is a basic
prerequisite for the fuller definition of Phase II. The rest of the organization development
activity will continue through the remainder of Phase I. The Information/Process Model is on
the critical path for definition of Phase II as well, and will be launched concurrently with the
Organization study. It is expected to last about 15 months. As it progresses, the modelers will
integrate into their model the information from the first stage of the Organization study and the
three smaller, related studies--Third-Party, Banking, and Withholding. It is expected that these
latter studies will also be launched early in Phase I, and be completed in approximately 6 months,
allowing time for their results to be fully considered in the construction of the
information/process model. The Laboratory prototypes and pilots of certain future operations,
such as the new regional intelligence centers, and the Training activities will continue throughout
Phase 1.
92.   Implementation of some activities will be constrained by others. For example, modelling
of the envisaged new regional offices is dependent on GDR restructuring and training, and cannot
be developed at the outset for some of the technologies which will only be selected in months 14
through 17 of Phase I. However, many of the activities are not similarly constrained and
preliminary results from prototype and operational modeling activities will be integrated into the
information/process model and IT framework, as they become solidified. The IT Framework



- 32 -
activity is conducted entirely during the last semester of Phase I, because it needs for the model
to be relatively complete (and static) while it is being developed.
93.   Together, these activities will establish the foundation for the second phase and provide
necessary technical detail to proceed with its procurement and development activities. This
includes the training activity (Strengthening the In-House System Development Capability),
which is directed to preparing the information technology staff in GDR for second phase design
and development work.
B. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS AND SCHEDULES
94.   Procurement arrangements and schedules have been prepared independently for each
component. The executing agencies' capabilities and purchasing regulations and procedures were
reviewed during Appraisal. It was determined that the General Directorate of Revenues would
benefit from the services of a professional procurement specialist. These services are to be
provided by the PMSS contractor.
95.   All procurement of goods and material to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds would
be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (January 1995) and procurement of services, including the selection of consultants
for technical assistance and training, would be in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August
1981). Project procurement would be limited to the purchase of goods, material and services,
including training. The former consists mainly of the hardware and software for the information
technology subcomponents (including substations, personal computers and peripherals).
96.   Contracts for goods and material with a value of more than US$300,000 equivalent per
contract will be arranged in accordance with the Bank's procedures for international competitive
bidding (ICB). Approximately US$1.7 million worth of equipment is proposed to be procured by
the ICB method. Goods manufactured in Turkey and procured through ICB may be granted a
margin of preference of 15 percent in accordance with paras. 2.54 and 2.55 of the Bank's
Guidelines and paras. 1-6 in Appendix 2 of the Bank's Guidelines. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents will be used for all procurement under ICB. In the event that the equipment
procurement is unbundled, contracts with a value below US$300,000 equivalent per contract will
be procured under the Bank's procedures for international shopping. Direct contracting for
proprietary software may also be followed to ensure compatibility with development tools already
in use in the GDR, but is not expected to exceed US$30,000 in this component.
97.   Contracts for equipment and material estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or more
and all direct procurement contracts would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation and approval of contract award. This would result in the prior review of 99
percent of Bank financed contracts. Other contracts would be subject to ex post review after
contract award.
98.   Procurement of services, including the selection of consultants, would be based on a
shortlisting of firms. The exceptions to this procedure are the contract with the IRS and study



- 33 -
tours which will be sole sourced. The total value of consultant services to be procured from
firms and individuals is estimated to be US$7.65 million. Prior review of consultant contracts
would not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract for
firms and US$50,000 for individuals. However, the terms of reference for all contracts will be
pre-reviewed by the Bank.
99.      The GDR  will furnish the Bank quarterly procurement reports indicating: (a) changes in
individual contracts' cost estimates, including best estimates for physical and price contingencies;
(b) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award and
completion time of individual contracts; and (c) compliance with aggregate limits on specified
methods of procurement. Further, the annual project operating plans would include any revisions
in the agreed implementation schedule regarding employment of consultants. A summary of the
procurement arrangements for the Tax Administration Component is shown below in Table 6 and
the Procurement Implementation Plan showing the details of procurement packages and the
relative timing of different procurement actions is presented in Table 7.
Table 6. ProDosed Procurement Arrangements
(US$million equivalent)
International
Competitive
Item                          Bidding          Other '         N.B.F.h'        Total Cost
I.Civil Works                                                    0.04             0.04
I _______________________    _____________                         (0.00)           (0.00)
2.Equipment/Goods               1.59             0.13            3.45             5.17
(1.28)          (0.02)          (0.00)            (1.30)
3.Training                                       0.53            1.34             1.87
l _________________________                       (0.53)          (0.00)           (0.53)
4.Technical                                     6.42                              6.42
Assistance/Advisory                           (6.42)                           (6.42)
Services
5.Project Management                                             0.62             0.62
Support Services                                              (0.00)           (0.00)
6. PPF                                          0.80                              0.80
(0.80)                           (0.80)
Total                           1.59             7.88            5.45             14.92
(1.28)          (7.77)          (0.00)            (9.05)
a/ Other includes shortlisting of consultant firms (US$6.49 million), sole sourcing (US$1.16
million), international shopping (US$0.1 million) and direct contracting for proprietary software
(US$0.03 million).
b/ Not Bank Financed
Note: Numbers in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
Differences due to rounding.



- 34 -
Table 7: Procurement ImDlementation Plan
(US$ million)
TOTAL                          Prepare
(Including     Procurement      Tender         Bid          Award         CorAet
Contingencies)     Method       Documents   Invitation       Contract      Conpletion
A. Eauipment \a
1. Information/Process Model, Lab &
ffF                                  1.59            ICB            2/96         3/96          4/96           4/97
a) Systems Hardware and Software
b) PCs
c) Development Application Tools \b
d) Printers and Computer Peripherals
2. Office Automation Equipment             0.10             IS            9/95         10/95         11/95           3/96
3. Tax Policy Model Software               0.03             DP           11/95         11/95         12/95           1/96
TOTAL                          Prepare       Letter
(Including     Procurement    Terms of         of           Award         Conract
Contingencies)     Method        Reference    Invitation     Contract      Completion
B, Trainine
1. Study Tours                             0.21             SS           TBD           TBD           TBD            TBD
2. Policy Analysis                         0.19             SL            8/95         9/95          10/95          10/96
3. Training of Laboratory Staff            0.13             SL            1/96         2/96          4196           11/96
C. Techtical Assistance
I. In-House Advisor                        0.95             SS            8/95         9/95          10/95           5/97
a) Tax Administration Advisor
b) Short Term Advisors
2. Studies                                 1.32             SL            8/95         10/95         1/96            1/97
a) Organization Study
b) Third Party Study
c) Banking Study
d) Witholding Study
3. Infornation/Process Model,
Lab &ITF                             4.53             SL            8/95         10/95         12/95           1/97
4. Tax Policy Analysis                      0.32             SL            8/95         10/95         11/95           1/97
| Total                                        9.37                                                                              ]
\a Includes duties and taxes estimated at US$0.12 million, which are to be financed by the Govemrnent
\b Direct Procurement of proprietory software may be necessary to ensure compatability with development tools currently available in the MOP.
NOTES:
ICB - International Competitive Bidding                          SL - Short listing of firms
SS - Sole Sourced                                                TBD - To be Determined
DP - Direct Procurement



- 35 -
100.  There are several procurement actions in the Tax Administration Component that must be
effected by the GDR, all for technical assistance services. The first procurement--for In-House
Advisory Services--is the most critical, since it must lead all other procurement by at least two
months. This procurement is already quite advanced. A joint GDR-IRS decision is expected
before the end of September 1995 concerning the individual who will act as lead advisory
consultant. Given their obvious inter-relations, the four study efforts are proposed to be procured
together. The procurement will be through shortlisting of firms. A separate shortlist is
envisaged for the tax policy consultancy.
101.  The Information/Processing Modelling, the Laboratory Modelling and Prototyping, and
Technology Framework activities are closely related and have been combined to be procured
from one source that will be responsible for all three. The terms of reference for this work
bundle has been prepared on the assumption of a single procurement, under shortlisting
guidelines, and contract. This procurement is also critically important, since it provides the lead
and critical path activities for the completion of Phase I.  The technical re-engineering activities
of Phase I begin, in reality, when this contract is awarded.
102.  The Laboratory Modelling and Prototyping activity is dependent on establishing a
laboratory facility and acquiring mid-range computers, PC's, LAN's, software and multi-media
equipment production equipment. These items fall within the guidelines for ICB (or international
shopping if unbundled) and will be acquired by the TA contractor for that activity following those
Bank guidelines. These acquisitions will be scheduled and conducted in accord with detailed
work plans prepared by the contractor at the outset of the activity.
103.  The final procurement for IT training will involve multiple, small value service contracts
with several service providers. This is also amenable to shortlisting and can be carried out using
already available background material and the summnary information contained in this document.
The TORs for all the foregoing activities are contained in Annex lb.
C. DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS AND SCHEDULES
104.  The Loan would be disbursed separately for each component. Table 8 shows the
disbursement forecast for the Tax Administration Component by semester. Disbursements for
this component are expected to be completed by June 30, 1998, approximately four months after
the end of component execution. Loan Closing will be June 30, 2000, allowing ample time for
the processing of final withdrawal applications.
105.  In order to facilitate disbursements, the Bank's share of project expenditures for the Tax
Administration Component would be disbursed through a Special Account which would be
opened in the Central Bank, and managed by the PMU. The authorized allocation for the Special
Account would be US$1.2 million, equivalent to an estimated four months of component
expenditures under the Bank loan. However, initially this level of allocation would not be
allowed until the project has disbursed an aggregate amount of US$1 million. Until such level of
disbursements is reached, the Special Account deposit would be limited to US$600,000.



- 36 -
Table 8. Estimated Bank Disbursements
(US$million equivalent)
lBRD                                    FY96           FY97           FY98
Fiscal Year
I      1IIIII                       I
Annual        -                              0.8    1.3    1.3    3.0   2.6
Cumulative                                   0.8    2.1    3.4    6.4    9.0
106.  To ensure that critical initial project activities are not delayed, provision has also been
made for retroactive financing of up to US$6.2 million for all eligible project expenditures for
the PFMP as a whole between September 29, 1994 and the expected date of loan signing.
Disbursements are expected to commence immediately at Loan Effectiveness with the initial
deposits into the Special Accounts along with the refinancing of the PPF advance. All
disbursements would be fully documented, except for expenditures on contracts for equipment
and material of less than US$300,000 and contracts for less than US$100,000/50,000 with
firms/individual consultants. In these cases, disbursements will be made against statements of
expenditures, whose documentation will be retained by the PMU until at least one year after the
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account is made.
107.  During negotiations the Government agreed to the following specific conditions for
the Tax Administration Component (see also Main Report, paras. 6.4 a. and 6.5 a.):
Condition of Disbursement
* The General Directorate of Revenues shall have appointed the In-House Technical Adviser
and the Project Management Support contractor, with TORs agreed with the Bank.
Dated Covenants
*  By December 31, 1996, the Ministry of Finance shall present the Bank with a satisfactory
plan for the reorganization of the General Directorate of Revenues (headquarters, regional
and local offices) prepared on the basis of appropriate legislation and regulations, and the
proposed new automated systems.
*  By December 31, 1996, the Government of Turkey shall have communicated to the Bank its
decision concerning the collection of social security, health and unemployment contributions
by the General Directorate of Revenues.



IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
108.  It is known that existing loopholes and deficiencies in the tax system's coverage account
for very significant losses in tax revenue. The precise amount going unrecovered is not known,
but it has been estimated at upwards of 25 percent. Clearly, amounts of this magnitude are
important for the general revenues of the government, as well as for establishing tax rates. The
activities proposed under this project would help expand the tax base by enhancing substantially
the compliance enforcement and policy making capability of the GDR.
109.  A restructured and more "client-friendly" tax administration system can also contribute
strongly to the real and perceived fairness of the system. This, in turn, can pay benefits in terms
of voluntary compliance on the part of tax payers.
110.  From the purely technical, information technology view, re-engineering makes good
sense. The existing system is not robust in either an operational or technical sense. Large
investments have been made in mainframe capacity with little benefit to operations or
management. Under the current situation, it would be very difficult to make major changes to
functionality without introducing serious risks. Consequently, re-engineering can be viewed as a
future cost-avoidance (and risk avoidance) investment.
B. MAIN PROJECT RISKS
111.  The foundation studies and modeling activities scheduled for Phase I are crucial to the
success of the project. Previous reports have dealt primarily with an examination of the tax
administration's problems in a vertical fashion. A second stage effort is required to define
solutions that are of an integrative nature, looking across the entire system, and that lead to
changes in organization, procedures and human resources as well as IT. Therefore, a major risk
is that, if the Phase I activities are severely underachieved, downstream IT investments may yield
only modest benefits to the system.
112.  A second important risk for the Government's medium term tax administration reform
program is the heavy dependence on GDR staff for successful implementation. In particular,
GDR staff, assisted by a team of contracted consultants, will assume responsibility for the bulk of
the downstream system development activities in Phase 11. This requires a timely and successful
investment in IT staff during Phase 1. This may not occur due to any number of systemic
reasons, or there may be losses of trained personnel to the private sector. Against this risk must
be set the fact that this developmental strategy should assure a high level of involvement by the
client early in the project and provide for enhanced sustainability after the logical end of Phase
II. The chances of success can be increased significantly by concentrating on acquiring the very
best possible technical assistance for Phase 1. A good job done with the crucial tasks identified
for the coming year will reap large dividends in the future, even if the authorities eventually
choose to go forward with the activities envisaged for Phase 11 in a manner and timeframe
different from those discussed thus far with the Bank.



- 38 -
C. OTHER FACTORS AFFECT[NG PROJECT'S SUCCESS
113. Downstream,. the use of the unified identification number to be provided by the MERNIS
project is crucial to the envisaged compliance enforcement strategy. It is important that MERNIS
be brought to a successful conclusion in the next two to three years.



V. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
114.  The proposed project is marked by an ambitious scope, substantial institutional
complexity, several interrelated aspects, numerous detailed contracts and training events, and
demanding time schedules for individual elements. Therefore, project supervision will entail the
allocation of substantial resources, especially in the initial stages of implementation. The
supervision inputs detailed above represent atypical resource allocations to help facilitate
successful project implementation.
115.  Implementation of the Tax Administration component of the PFMP, and the extent to
which it is achieving its stated objectives, will be reviewed and evaluated annually and upon its
completion. The PMU will be required to submit quarterly progress reports to the Bank. In
addition, there will be regular supervision missions and a number of annual and formal joint
Bank-Government reviews of overall project implementation. Specifically, there will be three
formal project reviews focusing respectively on the preappraisal of PFMP II, the evaluation of
the customs pilot and the evaluation of the GFMIS/PPMIS pilots, in March 1996, March 1997
and March 1998. In addition, the Government agreed to a joint-Bank review of project
implementation in October/November of each year of project execution for assessing progress
toward achievement of agreed policy, institutional, financial and physical targets and for
determining and agreeing on needed budget resources (both local funds and Loan proceeds) to be
requested for the next fiscal year. The criteria for monitoring and evaluating the Tax
Administration component are outlined below.
B. INDICATORS
116.  The tax administration component has been divided into two phases because several issues
cannot be resolved at this point in time. Consequently, it is important to develop performance
indicators which can be used not only to help gauge progress toward achieving Phase I
objectives, but lay the foundation for Phase II. Monitoring and evaluation will focus on readily
recognizable events that indicate progress and assure that the significant infrastructure
investments being planned for Phase II will be achieved. There are three natural time points for
reviewing performance indicators: (a) at project launch time; (b) at the six-month point; and
(c) at the twelve-month point--at which time many of the key activities of Phase I converge.
117.  At project launch, a number of important teams must be constituted:
*  The in-house advisory team, which will assist the PMU with the day-to-day
monitoring and coordination of the project, must be successfully launched, as must
the project management support services contractor.
*  The five Working Groups that will implement the component activities must be
successfully launched as well.
*  The Working Groups will require technical assistance and, in order for this to occur,
these Groups must develop and implement an aggressive procurement plan, drawing
any support that may be required from the PMU, in-house advisor and PMSS



- 40 -
contractor. Unless the up-front procurement actions are initiated and completed
promptly, according to Bank guidelines, Phase I cannot start and end as planned, with
consequent slippage in the long term, Phase II work.
118.  The Working Group responsible for the two activities that are of a quasi-ongoing
nature--strengthening the in-house system development capability, and constructing the IT
laboratory--will establish and publish its own schedule and indicators for measuring progress in
these activities. These indicators or milestones will be reviewed by the Bank to determine their
suitability as performance indicators. Some suggestions might include: numbers of students
trained, completion of prototypes, rate of acquisition and installation of the Laboratory
components. These two major activities are planned to consume considerable amounts of
resources during Phase I. The performance of these activities--against goals that are to be
established--will be reviewed at the 6 month stage and again at the 12 month stage, so that any
necessary corrective action can be taken.
119.  At the six month point, the key organization study must have completed its first stage
work. A performance indicator here will key on the study's success in providing concrete
solutions for a small number of important issues that persisted at pre-launch. For instance, the
study must provide detailed recommendations that will allow for a formal resolution of the
precise role of the regional offices, as well as their exact number and location.
120.  At the twelve-month point, the key integrative information/process modeling activity must
be successfully completed. For this to happen, the results of the organization study, and the
three focused studies must have been factored into the analysis--and in a timely fashion. In
addition, much existing material must have been successfully analyzed and assimilated into the
model. For instance, by this time, there must have been achieved a formal resolution to the issue
of the collection of social security and other contribution payments, and the protocols which must
exist among the participating agencies would have been identified. A further definition of
success is that the model must reside in an electronic repository, so that it can be applied
optimally to the Phase II system development activities.
121.  This is the point of intersection of most of the major activities of Phase 1. Successful
completion to this point is pre-requisite to the development of the Information Technology
Framework (ITF) during the last few months of Phase I. It is the ITF that will specify the
"blueprint" for the significant infrastructure investments planned for Phase II. Consequently, it is
not feasible to plan for Phase II without passing successfully through this control point.
122.  An advantage of the 12-month point is that it provides sufficient planning time so that
additional funds can be made available, and the project (if it is successful to this point) can pass
relatively seamlessly into Phase II.



- 41 -
C. REPORTING ARRANGEMENTS
123.  The PMU will be responsible for (i) tracking inputs and outputs related to the project; and
(ii) overseeing studies from consultants and working groups. The PMU will prepare a quarterly
progress report which, upon clearance by the GDR, will be submitted to the World Bank. The
reporting schedule is described in Table 4.7 of the Main Report.






Annex lb
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Tax Administration Component
General Directorate of Revenues (GDR)
Terms of Reference






Annex lb
Tax Administration Component
General Directorate of Revenues (GDR)
Terms of Reference
Table of Contents
Consultancy 1:        In-House Tax Administration Advisor  ......            .............. 47
Consultancy 2:        Organization Study . ................................ 53
Third Party Information Study
Banking Sector Study
Withholdings Study
Consultancy 3:        Information/Process Model .........             .................. 65
Information Technology Laboratory
Information Technology Framework
Consultancy 4:        Strengthening GDR Information Technology Capability ..... .         .  .     . 75
Consultancy 5:        Tax Policy Analysis . ................................ 83
Consultancy 6:        Project Management Support Services  ........ .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  89






Republic of Turkey
Ministry of Finance
General Directorate of Revenues (GDR)
Public Financial Management Project (PFMP)
Tax Administration Component
Terms of Reference
CONSULTANCY 1:
PROVISION OF CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR AN
IN-HOUSE TAX ADMINISTRATION ADVISOR
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Turkey (GOT) is embarking upon a program that will revitalize
substantially its Tax Administration system. This process is fairly advanced, and a number of
seminal studies, conducted under the auspices of a grant from the Government of Japan, have
made extensive recommendations for modernization and reform. Implementation is to be funded
by the GOT as one component of an omnibus project--the Public Financial Management Project
(PFMP)--which is to be financed in part by two successive loans from the World Bank. The
PFMP consists of the following major components:
*     Tax Administration
*     Expenditure and Personnel Management
*     Customs Administration.
2.    Overall responsibility for the supervision of the Tax Administration Component is vested
in the Undersecretary in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Director General of the General
Directorate of Revenues (GDR) is responsible for the management of the component. A Project
Management Unit (PMU), headed by a Deputy Director General, is responsible for coordination
of component activities. Specific tasks are to be carried out by Working Groups comprised of
Ministry of Finance staff, assisted by external consultants. The heads of the Working Groups are
members of the PMU. The services of a residential advisory team with detailed technical and
operational experience in tax administration are required to assist the PMU in the planning,
coordination and implementation of activities proposed to be carried out under the Tax
Administration Component. These terms of reference provide a description of the required
advisory services.
BACKGROUND TO THE TAX ADMINISTRATION COMPONENT
3.    The primary goal of the Tax Administration Component is to broaden the tax base in
order to increase tax revenues while ensuring a more equitable distribution of the tax burden.
Proposed activities will be directed chiefly at strengthening the compliance enforcement capability
of the tax authorities, introducing a more aggressive and coherent strategy for compliance
enforcement and improving progressively conditions for taxpayers who comply. The envisaged
institutional changes will follow up on recent tax policy reforms that included the closure of a
number of corporate "loopholes" and other measures aimed at expanding the tax base and



- 48 -
improving compliance. The tax administration component also will seek to ensure the
sustainability and predictability of the expected revenue increases through the modernization of
organizational arrangements, procedures and computer based systems. Activities will also be
directed at improving the policy or legislative framework, so as to ensure that the tax structure
itself does not erode the tax base, and to strengthening the tax policy analysis capability of the
GDR more generally.
4.    A program of activities is proposed that combines technical assistance with significant
technology transfer initiatives, and with investment in the supporting information technology (IT)
environment for tax administration processing and policy formulation. The proposed changes
would seek to:
(a)   restructure central, regional and local tax agencies in order to achieve a more
functional and strategic orientation in the GDR;
(b)   improve coverage of the individual tax payer base and provide for better system
integration of a number of major tax sources;
(c)    develop and implement modern automated systems for core tax administration
functions and management;
(d)    develop and implement a more aggressive and complete compliance enhancement
strategy, notably through the establishment of a third party tax intelligence system
for auditing and collections;
(e)   strengthen tax policy formulation through the establishment of a Policy Analysis
Unit and the development of a suite of tax policy models;
(f)   improve taxpayer service; and
(g)    strengthen GDR human resources through training and study tours to accomplish
and sustain these objectives.
5.    The authorities' plan is reach these objectives in two partially overlapping phases of
activity. The first phase, to be accomplished in approximately eighteen months, will be directed
at completing several key activities--analyses, studies, modelling and training--that will begin the
process of administrative reform in the GDR and lay a solid foundation for a restructuring of the
organization and major investments in new information technology and human capital across the
national office network during a second phase lasting about 4-5 years.
6.    Activities during the first phase (1995-97) will be aimed at introducing a redefinition of
the tax administration system in Turkey, with changes envisaged in organization and procedures,
the legal and regulatory frameworks, and human resources. Resources are required for:



- 49 -
(a)   in-house advisory services to help refine further the medium-term modernization
and reform program for tax administration business processes and management,
and to help manage Phase I activities;
(b)    an organizational study to establish the overall framework for restructuring the
GDR to improve its effectiveness and efficiency;
(c)    design studies and pilot activities to establish the detailed requirements and choices
for hardware, systems software, communications design and applications
development tools for the restructured GDR;
(d)   recruitment and training of IT staff to enhance the in-house capability of the GDR
to develop and sustain its information technology investments;
(e)    an assessment of the policy-making process and the information flows on which
policy decisions are based, with a view to designing a tax Policy Analysis Unit
within the GDR, and development of analytical and operational tax models, with
appropriate training of GDR staff;
(f)   study tours abroad for key GDR staff; and
(g)    project management support services.
7.    Phase 11 (1996-2001) would see an expansion of the advisory services program, notably in
the areas of audit, collections, returns processing and many aspects of the supporting IT
infrastructure, as well as modern tax administration business management. The envisaged Policy
Analysis Unit would also be made operational during this phase, and would use the proposed
models to conduct a detailed analysis of the current tax system, and to perform an evaluation of
various policy options. Consultants may be needed in Phase II to provide guidance to the PAU,
however, the objective is to develop an operational unit within the GDR that is sufficiently
trained in the construction and use of analytical tools and models to perform an on-going tax
policy analysis function.
8.    Other Phase 11 activities in the IT area would cover the upgrading of existing central and
regional IT assets of the GDR, acquisition and installation of IT products at a number of new
regional offices, development and delivery of a broad-based training program for GDR staff and
computers and ancillary equipment for a restructured and rationalized local tax office network.
The main remaining cost elements for Phase II would be: (a) site preparation; (b) a management
consultancy to assist the GDR in its reorganization and the rationalizing of the network of local
offices; and (c) enhanced project management support services. The World Bank is expected to
provide financial support for the Phase II activities through a second PFMP loan.



- 50 -
DESCRIPION OF PHASE I ACTIVITIES
9.    Based on the work that has already been carried out and the information now available,
priority in Phase I is to be given to tasks that accomplish the following:
(a)   Implement improved organizational structures and practices within the tax
administration affecting most functional processes and provide flexibility of design
for the tax administration to evolve smoothly in the future. An example of the
latter point is provided by the current debate over whether the scope of tax
collection functions should be extended to include collections of social security
contributions, and health and unemployment insurance premiums. This should
represent a logical extension of the tax administration's activities in the area of
payroll withholdings, and should not add an insupportable burden to the work
program of the GDR. In short, the future operational systems will be designed to
accommodate reasonable changes in functionality and workload expansion.
(b)   Improve the content of the taxpayer masterfile, both individual and business,
which is known to possess major gaps in coverage as well as deficiencies in the
quality of taxpayer locator information. This masterfile will include:
*     Sub-systems containing tax return and assessment data to assist in returns
processing
*     A taxpayer account module that will track an account from the pre-
payment stage to final payment, identifying transactions such as appeals,
status of the account, payments and corrections/adjustments
*     The capability to issue payment commands, which will be accessed by
local offices through their respective regional computing centers
*     A taxpayer delinquency database to identify non-filers or stop-filers
*     A MIS to provide statistical information which will assist management in
ascertaining baseline measurements to monitor employee performance and
resource requirements, and to conduct trend analysis.
(c)    Provide for better integration of the various tax information sources, which are
currently processed as separate entities. This includes withholding, third party
information, banking and other financial information relative to other entity
information (e.g., name, address) and appropriate cross referencing.
(d)   Introduce new mechanisms to the requirements of tax administration designed to
increase voluntary compliance and detect non-compliance--the former will be
supported by enhanced service to tax clients, the latter by the development of new
intelligent systems support for the audit and collection functions.



- 51 -
(e)    Develop an enhanced capacity for tax policy analysis and modelling to allow for
the design of new taxes to replace the distortionary extrabudgetary funds levies
and to strengthen the revenue side of budget preparation more generally, including
through the design of a Policy Analysis Unit and appropriate training.
(f)    Expand considerably the interface with the private banking system. The past
reliance on state banks has been identified as a source of significant time delay
(and a source of lost revenue) in the existing collection process, and of difficulties
for taxpayers due to the failure to remit payment receipts and monies to the GDR
in a timely fashion. A study will be conducted in Phase I of the project to
evaluate alternative methods for processing payments made through banks. The
results of this study will also cover part of the requirements of the Expenditure
and Personnel Management component of the PFMP as regards the flow of public
monies through the banking system.
10.   The foregoing administrative reform activities are inter-related both logically and across
time. The first critical activity is the Organization study, which will support management
decisions regarding the restructuring of the GDR--decisions that will affect most of the other
activities in Phase I. It is critically important that this stage be completed early in the phase.
The completion of the first stage of the Organization study and the adoption of an action plan by
the MOF based on its recommendations is a basic prerequisite for the fuller definition of Phase
II. The rest of the organization development activity will continue through the remainder of
Phase I. The Information/Process Model is on the critical path for definition of Phase II as well,
and will be launched concurrently with the Organization study. It is expected to last about one
year. As it progresses, the modelers will integrate into their model the information from the first
stage of the Organization study and the three smaller, related studies--Third-Party, Banking, and
Withholding. It is expected that these latter studies will also be launched at the beginning of the
general launch of Phase I and be completed in approximately 6 months, allowing time for their
results to be fully considered in the construction of the information/process model. The
Laboratory prototypes and pilots of certain future operations, such as the new regional
intelligence centers, and the Training activities will continue throughout Phase I. Some of their
activities will be constrained by the other activities. For example, regional modelling is
dependent on GDR restructuring and training, and cannot be developed at the outset for some of
the technologies which will only be selected in months 14 through 17 of Phase 1. However,
many of the activities are not similarly constrained and preliminary results from prototype and
operational modeling activities will be integrated into the information/process model and IT
framework, as they become solidified. The IT Framework activity is conducted entirely during
the last semester of Phase 1, because it needs for the model to be relatively complete (and static)
while it is being developed.



- 52 -
SCOPE OF WORK & DELIVERABLES
11.   The responsibilities of the residential advisor will include:
(a)    preparation of an integrated planning document for the modernization of the core
tax administration business processes (audit, collections and returns processing)
and management over the next five years--to be completed within six months;
(b)   identifying upfront tasks and training programs (including study tours abroad) that
can be carried out to prepare for and initiate the business process reforms;
(c)    assisting the PMU to coordinate and otherwise manage the various activities and
consultancies proposed to be carried out under this Component, including
preparation of procurement packages, and ensuring consistency in the timing and
recommendations of various efforts and their technical quality;
(d)    providing technical guidance to GDR staff in the design and implementation of
change, including draft legislation, procedures and forms;
(e)    assisting the PMU to prepare detailed work plans for the Working Groups in
charge of specific tasks and to monitor their implementation; and
(f)    assisting the PMU to prepare interim working papers and reports as needed or
requested by the Director General, and quarterly progress reports for the Bank.
COMMUNCATIONS AND REPORUNG
12.   This consultancy will be conducted in the capital city of Ankara, in the Republic of
Turkey. The consultants will report to the Director General of Revenues through the Head of the
PMU. The consultants will need to maintain an intensive collaboration with the PMU, as well as
close liaison with consultants assisting with other activities. The lead consultant will be an ex
officio member of the Project Management Unit. The PMU will ensure that the team is provided
with translation, administrative assistance and counterpart personnel as required.
LEVEL OF EFFORT AND TMNG
13.   This assignment is expected to require roughly 36 consultant months during the period
November 1995 to June 1997, to be delivered by a team from the United States Internal Revenue
Service (IRS). The Government's decision to assign this task to the IRS is based on its desire to
adopt certain aspects of the organization and business process models of the IRS. The team will
comprise one permanent adviser (the lead consultant), who is highly qualified and experienced in
tax administration management, and a number of experts in various areas of tax administration
business processes, e.g., audit, collections and returns processing, who will carry out short term
assignments. The Advisory team will commence activities in Ankara about one-two months
before most of the other technical assistance begins, in order to allow adequate time for
familiarization and more detailed planning.



Republic of Turkey
Ministry of Finance
General Directorate of Revenues (GDR)
Public Financial Management Project (PFMP)
Tax Administration Component
Terms of Reference
CONSULTANCY 2:
PROVISION OF CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR STUDIES FOR THE
REORGANIZATION OF THE GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF REVENUES:
(a) ORGANIZATION STUDY
(b) THIRD PARTY INFORMATION STUDY
(c) BANKING SECTOR STUDY
(d) WITHHOLDINGS STUDY
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Governmnent of Turkey (GOT) is embarking upon a program that will revitalize
substantially its Tax Administration system. This process is fairly advanced, and a number of
seminal studies, conducted under the auspices of a grant from the Government of Japan, have
made extensive recommendations for modernization and reform. Implementation is to be funded
by the GOT as one component of an omnibus project--the Public Financial Management Project
(PFMP)--which is to be financed in part by two successive loans from the World Bank. The
PFMP consists of the following major components:
-        Tax Administration
*        Expenditure and Personnel Management
*        Customs Administration.
2.    Overall responsibility for the supervision of the Tax Administration Component is vested
in the Undersecretary in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Director General of the General
Directorate of Revenues (GDR) is responsible for the management of the component. A Project
Management Unit (PMU), headed by a Deputy Director General, is responsible for coordination
of component activities. Specific tasks are to be carried out by Working Groups comprised of
Ministry of Finance staff, assisted by external consultants. The heads of the Working Groups are
members of the PMU.
3.    These terms of reference describe the technical assistance required for the conduct of four
studies of the GDR organization that will provide analyses and recommendations regarding the
restructuring of the Directorate and assistance in planning and effecting the restructuring. In
Phase I, the results of the studies will provide input for management decisions regarding the
restructuring and to the process re-engineering activities being undertaken under another terms of
reference. In Phase II, input from the process re-engineering activities will be factored into
organizational planning at a more detailed level, to assist in the implementation of required
changes.



- 54 -
BACKGROUND TO THE TAx ADM[NISTRATION COMPONENT
4.    The primary goal of the Tax Administration Component is to broaden the tax base in
order to increase tax revenues while ensuring a more equitable distribution of the tax burden.
Proposed activities will be directed chiefly at strengthening the compliance enforcement capability
of the tax authorities, introducing a more aggressive and coherent strategy for compliance
enforcement and improving progressively conditions for taxpayers who comply. The envisaged
institutional changes will follow up on recent tax policy reforms that included the closure of a
number of corporate "loopholes" and other measures aimed at expanding the tax base and
improving compliance. The tax administration component also will seek to ensure the
sustainability and predictability of the expected revenue increases through the modernization of
organizational arrangements, procedures and computer based systems. Activities will also be
directed at improving the policy or legislative framework, so as to ensure that the tax structure
itself does not erode the tax base, and to strengthening the tax policy analysis capability of the
GDR more generally.
5.    A program of activities is proposed that combines technical assistance with significant
technology transfer initiatives, and with investment in the supporting information technology (IT)
environment for tax administration processing and policy formulation. The proposed changes
would seek to:
(a)       Restructure central, regional and local tax agencies in order to achieve a more
functional and strategic orientation in the GDR
(b)       Improve coverage of the individual tax payer base and provide for better
system integration of a number of major tax sources
(c)       Develop and implement modern automated systems for core tax administration
functions and management
(d)       Develop and implement a more aggressive and complete compliance
enhancement strategy, notably through the establishment of a third party tax
intelligence system for auditing and collections
(e)       Strengthen tax policy formulation through the establishment of a Policy
Analysis Unit and the development of a suite of tax policy models
(f)       Improve taxpayer service
(g)       Strengthen GDR human resources through training and study tours to
accomplish and sustain these objectives.
6.    The authorities' plan is reach these objectives in two partially overlapping phases of
activity. The first phase, to be accomplished in approximately eighteen months, will be directed
at completing several key activities--analyses, studies, modelling and training--that will begin the
process of administrative reform in the GDR and lay a solid foundation for a restructuring of the



- 55 -
organization and major investments in new information technology and human capital across the
national office network during a second phase lasting about 4-5 years.
7.    Activities during the first phase (1995-97) will be aimed at introducing a redefinition of
the tax administration system in Turkey, with changes envisaged in organization and procedures,
the legal and regulatory frameworks, and human resources. Resources are required for:
(a)       In-house advisory services to help refine further the medium-term
modernization and reform program for tax administration business processes
and management, and to help manage Phase I activities
(b)       An organizational study to establish the overall framework for restructuring
the GDR to improve its effectiveness and efficiency
(c)       Design studies and pilot activities to establish the detailed requirements and
choices for hardware, systems software, communications design and
applications development tools for the restructured GDR
(d)       Recruitment and training of IT staff to enhance the in-house capability of the
GDR to develop and sustain its information technology investments
(e)       An assessment of the policy-making process and the information flows on
which policy decisions are based, with a view to designing a tax Policy
Analysis Unit within the GDR, and development of analytical and operational
tax models, with appropriate training of GDR staff
(f)       Study tours abroad for key GDR staff
(g)       Project management support services.
8.    Phase 11 (1996-2001) would see an expansion of the advisory services program, notably in
the areas of audit, collections, returns processing and many aspects of the supporting IT
infrastructure, as well as modern tax administration business management. The envisaged Policy
Analysis Unit would also be made operational during this phase, and would use the proposed
models to conduct a detailed analysis of the current tax system, and to perform an evaluation of
various policy options. Consultants may be needed in Phase II to provide guidance to the PAU,
however, the objective is to develop an operational unit within the GDR that is sufficiently
trained in the construction and use of analytical tools and models to perform an on-going tax
policy analysis function.
9.    Other Phase II activities in the IT area would cover the upgrading of existing central and
regional IT assets of the GDR, acquisition and installation of IT products at a number of new
regional offices, development and delivery of a broad-based training program for GDR staff and
computers and ancillary equipment for a restructured and rationalized local tax office network.
The main remaining cost elements for Phase II would be: (a) site preparation; (b) a management
consultancy to assist the GDR in its reorganization and the rationalizing of the network of local



- 56 -
offices; and (c) enhanced project management support services. The World Bank is expected to
provide financial support for the Phase II activities through a second PFMP loan.
DESCRIPmTON OF PHASE I AcTIVrrES
10.   Based on the work that has already been carried out and the information now available,
priority in Phase I is to be given to tasks that accomplish the following:
(a)       Implement improved organizational structures and practices within the tax
administration affecting most functional processes and provide flexibility of
design for the tax administration to evolve smoothly in the future. An
example of the latter point is provided by the current debate over whether the
scope of tax collection functions should be extended to include collections of
social security contributions, and health and unemployment insurance
premiums. This should represent a logical extension of the tax
administration's activities in the area of payroll withholdings, and should not
add an insupportable burden to the work program of the GDR. In short, the
future operational systems will be designed to accommodate reasonable
changes in functionality and workload expansion.
(b)       Improve the content of the taxpayer masterfile, both individual and business,
which is known to possess major gaps in coverage as well as deficiencies in
the quality of taxpayer locator information. This masterfile will include:
*     Sub-systems containing tax return and assessment data to assist in
returns processing
3     A taxpayer account module that will track an account from the pre-
payment stage to final payment, identifying transactions such as
appeals, status of the account, payments and corrections/adjustments
-     The capability to issue payment commands, which will be accessed by
local offices through their respective regional computing centers
*     A taxpayer delinquency database to identify non-filers or stop-filers
*     A MIS to provide statistical information which will assist management
in ascertaining baseline measurements to monitor employee
performance and resource requirements, and to conduct trend analysis.
(c)       Provide for better integration of the various tax information sources, which
are currently processed as separate entities. This includes withholding, third
party information, banking and other financial information relative to other
entity information (e.g., name, address) and appropriate cross referencing.



- 57 -
(d)       Introduce new mechanisms to the requirements of tax administration designed
to increase voluntary compliance and detect non-compliance--the former will
be supported by enhanced service to tax clients, the latter by the development
of new intelligent systems support for the audit and collection functions.
(e)       Develop an enhanced capacity for tax policy analysis and modelling to allow
for the design of new taxes to replace the distortionary extrabudgetary funds
levies and to strengthen the revenue side of budget preparation more generally,
including through the design of a Policy Analysis Unit and appropriate
training.
(f)       Expand considerably the interface with the private banking system. The past
reliance on state banks has been identified as a source of significant time delay
(and a source of lost revenue) in the existing collection process, and of
difficulties for taxpayers due to the failure to remit payment receipts and
monies to the GDR in a timely fashion. A study will be conducted in Phase I
of the project to evaluate alternative methods for processing payments made
through banks. The results of this study will also cover part of the
requirements of the Expenditure and Personnel Management component of the
PFMP as regards the flow of public monies through the banking system.
SCOPE OF WORK
11.   The GDR goal is to restructure its management and administrative organization so as to
reduce fragmentation of managerial authority and achieve a more functional and strategic
orientation in the directorate. A three tier model is currently proposed with a solidly developed
managerial infrastructure at each level, oversight responsibilities invested in each higher level,
with ultimate command at the central level of the GDR. The restructuring will establish a
number of new regional directorates under the supervision of the Director General, as defined in
Decree Law 516, Supplementary Articles 8 and 9, August 20, 1993. A top level regional
management structure is specified in the new legislation, but the directorate functions and work
structures remain general. It is envisaged that the new directorates will provide a regional focus
for "tax intelligence" and related audit and collections functions, as well as provide managerial
oversight, training and IT support for a restructured and fully automated local office network.
12.   The Organization Study will provide assistance in restructuring of the GDR and in
developing revised legislation, regulations and manuals defining the organization and its
personnel administration in areas affected by restructuring and process re-engineering, described
below. It will cover authority structures, unit responsibilities and, in some areas, position
definitions, career paths and new skill/training requirements. The study is to be done in two
stages. The first stage, to be completed in the first three to four months of activity will provide
results to support management decisions regarding organization design and human resource
re-alignment plans that are critical to the other project activities being conducted concurrently in
this phase of the project. The second stage will provide support for effecting the restructuring.
Results from both stages, together with organization decisions, will be incorporated into the
information process model, IT framework, and related modelling activities discussed below.



- 58 -
13.   Results from the Organization Study are expected to confirm the benefits of the proposed
three-tier model and to determine required changes in the organization, legislation, and human
resources. The review will cover current staffing levels and skill mixes, workload distribution,
and managerial span of control for the new middle tier and the specific adjustments that will be
necessary, in all areas, to implement the structure that has been projected. The study will also
address the position and performance responsibilities in each organizational component at all
levels.
14.   Three smaller, specific-topic studies will be conducted in parallel with the Organization
Study, the results of which will be reflected in the second stage of the main study. These
supplementary studies will fill information gaps in several key areas: (a) the role of the Banking
System in tax administration; (b) the potential for obtaining Third-Party Information for
supporting an evolving "tax intelligence" function in the proposed new regional directorates; and
(c) the requirements for consolidating all public financial Withholding Mechanisms within the
GDR--specifically, health insurance premiums, social security contributions and unemployment
insurance premiums. The additional information from these studies is expected to be
incorporated into the organization study, as they become available over the first six months of
Phase I of the Tax Administration Component plan. For instance, a decision to include revenue
collections on behalf of the Social Security Administration in the operations of the GDR would
represent a logical extension of the tax administration's activities in the collection of personal
income tax withholdings. It would also represent a significant change in the workload and
operational (manual and technical) interface with other government organizations that may affect
the restructuring objective.
15.   Other independent parallel project activities will establish the linkage between the business
needs of the organization and the application of IT. Using well established systems engineering
methodologies, they will determine the appropriate level of IT activity within the new regional
directorates and the technical interfaces needed to support the re-design of processes--systems and
procedures--affecting functional operations. They will identify the various information needs at
all levels, as well as define the major processes that draw upon that information. In a second
stage, it will integrate the results from the first stage and the Organization Study, as well as
provide input to the second stage of the Organization Study. These activities also will develop
prototypes and models of new operational entities that, together with other information,
contribute to developing a framework and requirements for the acquisition and deployment of
computer hardware, system software and the necessary communications products. The end result
will represent the "blueprint" for the construction of the new tax administration's IT
infrastructure.
Deliverable #1 - Organization Study
16.   The purpose of this study is to perform the analyses required by GDR to determine the
most effective organizational structure, authority delegations, and management controls, to define
the necessary organization and personnel administration manual changes that will be necessary, to
determine any training requirements, and to develop specific, detailed plans for effecting the
restructuring. It will include the following:



- 59 -
(a)       review of the current organization and authority structure, workload
distribution, and personnel administration structures;
(b)       definition of alternative structures and analyses of the impact of changes on the
existing organization;
(c)       elaboration of the responsibilities and authorities needed for the structure to be
implemented;
(d)       identification and modification of organization authority and other related
manuals;
(e)       determination of the effect of changes in responsibility on the types of work to
be done and the formal positions that will be affected;
(f)       estimation of the workload on the affected organizational entities by functional
area and determination of the organization unit structures, including authority
and other related manuals;
(g)       development of operating concepts and scenarios for the organizational entities
to be modified;
(h)       identification of the organization and personnel administration changes that
may be required to implement the restructuring and the modification of related
administrative manuals;
(i)       identification of training required to effect changes in operations and jobs; and
(j)       preparation of strategies and plans for carrying out the restructuring.
17.   Because of its critical importance to the overall restructuring effort, the first stage of this
study will focus on developing the information essential to management decisions regarding the
establishment of the new regional directorates. Completing this stage and reaching these
decisions will constitute a key milestone in the Tax Administration Component. As the decisions
become solidified, the second stage effort will shift to completing the work needed to effect
formally the restructuring and to incorporating the changes resulting from process restructuring,
already discussed. For this latter stage, a dynamic interchange of information will be required
between this study and the other activities being conducted in Phase I of the project component in
order to maintain consistency in the end results.



- 60 -
18.   The major tasks to be performed in conducting the Organization Study are as follows:
Stage 1.
(1)    Review the existing organization and proposed plans for restructuring;
(2)    Define alternatives that may be considered and analyze the impacts on
existing and proposed organizational structures, organizational entities,
and operations;
(3)    Prepare issue papers, draft enabling legislation and orders and
recommendations for GDR management;
Stage 2.
(1)    Develop necessary enabling administrative documentation, such as
organization and personnel manual changes, covering authorities, and
supporting implementation proposals covering staffing, phasing, and
staff orientation and training related to proposed changes;
(2)    Incorporate any modifications in the organization and operating units
that result from process re-engineering activities;
(3)    Prepare analysis and advisory reports, as may be appropriate,
throughout the duration of the study;
(4)    Prepare periodic study status and progress reports as may be required
by the General Director or the Head of the PMU; and
(5)    Prepare final Stage 2 reports.
Deliverable #2 - Third Party Information Study
19.   This consultancy will prepare a study identifying information that can be obtained from
organizations and individuals outside tax administration (third party sources), and used for the
purpose of identifying potential non-compliance with tax legislation. This study will assure that
all necessary issues are addressed so as to obtain a system that will meet the needs of tax
administration, while at the same time fall within the parameters of existing or future legislative
guidelines. To this end, there will be a comprehensive review of the availability of information
from third party sources conducted in close consultation with audit and collections experts, and
GDR IT management.
20.   The primary deliverable is a report that provides a framework and implementation plan
for the introduction of a third party information system. The report will provide a detailed
analysis and recommendations in the following areas:



- 61 -
(a)       Identification of the principal reporting institutions which have the potential to
contribute to third party tax information--e.g., mortgage companies,
professional associations, unions and retailers of luxury goods;
(b)       Determination of the types of 3rd party information which are most likely to
yield significant downstream results in terms of audit and collections;
(c)       Determination of the legislative implications and requirements of the various
scenarios for accessing 3rd party information;
(d)       Determination of reporting timeframes and instructions for information
providers, coupled with an evaluation of the likely impact of compliance on
information-supplying organizations and firms;
(e)       Recommendations regarding public information approaches which might be
contemplated for the introduction of 3rd party mechanisms; and
(f)       Recommendations concerning the phasing in and launching of a 3rd party
information program--in terms of which sources should be exploited early,
how the information might be made operational, etc.
21.   In addition, the consultant would be required to assist with operational details such as
design of legislation, documents and notices to taxpayers, evaluation of pilot activities and
preparation of prototype scenarios and study cases.
Deliverable #3 - Banking Sector Study
22.   This study will ascertain how best to strengthen the role of banking companies in tax
collection and other routine tax administration processes, and the capability of these institutions to
adapt to the envisaged increase of the tax base. The study will assure that all necessary bank
related issues are addressed so as to obtain a system that will meet the needs of tax
administration, while at the same time fall within the parameters of existing or future legislative
guidelines. To this end, the study will be conducted in close consultation with sector experts and
IT management from the GDR.
23.   The major deliverable from this assignment is a report that addresses the following areas
and issues:
(a)       A complete review of the existing operational interfaces between the Banking
system and the tax administration;
(b)       A determination of the extent of (and rationale for) delays in the deposit of
transfers to the tax authorities;
(c)       A determination of the extent of government loss of income due to deposit
delays;



- 62 -
(d)       The development of recommendations regarding the standardization of
arrangements for the transfer of funds;
(e)       The establishment of time frames for the treatment/processing of tax deposits;
(f)       The development of recommendations regarding the establishment of inter-
agency audit trails for tax payments;
(g)       The determination of the likely impact upon financial organizations of the
rationalization and extension of this method of payment;
(h)       The development of recommendations concerning a future mode of transfer of
payments to the tax administration (e.g., electronic transfer); and
(i)       The identification of any issues relevant to the planned Phase II activities of
the PFMP, and its anticipated timeframe for development.
Deliverable #4 - Withholdings Study
24.   The purpose of this consultancy is to prepare a study that analyzes the information and
processes required to accomplish all withholding by the GDR, and to prepare a detailed plan for
implementation in Phase II of the PFMP. The study will assure that all necessary issues are
addressed so as to obtain a system that will meet the needs of tax administration, while at the
same time fall within the parameters of existing or future legislative guidelines. To this end, a
comprehensive analysis will address operational procedures in the other agencies currently
performing withholding functions, and will determine the impact on both the GDR and the other
organizations. In addition the processes associated with the withholding for VAT and VAT
monitoring procedures will be analyzed. The analysis for regular withholding will cover
operational procedures in the other agencies currently performing withholding functions, and will
determine the impact on both the GDR and the other organizations. The analysis for VAT will
cover operational procedures, field inspections, and sampling techniques for the matching of
information with that of other agencies.
25.   Using the information collected during the analysis, a new operational concept will be
formulated that addresses all aspects of the withholding and monitoring process by all involved
organizational entities. The operational and IT requirements will be outlined, including reporting
requirements, manual and computer aided procedures, data flows, data base maintenance,
confirmation and other reporting, privacy and security, financial control and audit. The analysis
will also propose operating guidelines related to withholding procedures, funds deposit or
transfer, distribution of collected funds and information sharing among involved organizations.
26.   The report will achieve the following specific objectives:
(a)       review and documentation of current withholding methods, including the
classes of agents and number of employees subject to withholding, practices in



- 63 -
use regarding deposits, transfers, distribution of collected funds and
information sharing among involved organizations;
(b)      evaluation of withholding and deposit procedures, with special reference to
deposit time frames, GDR monitoring procedures and development of audit
trail for corporate withholding and deposit;
(c)      determination of scenarios for the development of an operational audit trail for
financial institution withholdings; and
(d)      recommendations for improvement of the current tax withholding function by
GDR, notably of the VAT and including recommendations for possible
improvements to be accomplished in the next phase of the project, and for
expansion to include social, health and unemployment insurance payments,
with clear statements of how this expansion would impact the GDR workload
and plans for revitalizing the tax administration system in Phase II of the
PFMP, including inter-agency connectivity and procedures for distribution of
funds.
TIMINGS AND LEVEL OF EFFORT
27.   This consultancy will be conducted in the capital city of Ankara, in the Republic of
Turkey. The lead consultant must maintain a strong local presence during the assignment in
order to provide the direction that may be required for the teams working on the different
studies, and for the involved GDR Working Groups. The overall program of work is expected to
be done over a 15 month period, and require a total of about 40 consultant months of effort. The
main Organization Study is expected to be developed over a period of 15 months with a total
effort of 24 months. Importantly, the first stage of this study is to be completed within four
months of the general launching of the component in February 1996. The Third Party Study
should be completed within 6 months with a total of six months of consultant effort. The
Banking Study needs to be completed within four months of the general launch of the component,
and is estimated to require 6 person-months. The Withholding Study is expected to require about
4 person-months by a senior technical advisor with experience in withholding associated with tax
administration.
COMMUNICATIONS AND REPORTING
28.   The consultants will report to the Head of the Project Management Unit (PMU), and be
assisted in performing the work by GDR Working Groups established to design and implement
the administrative reforms. The consultants working on the Organization Study will work with
an Organizational Reform Working Group. The Third Party Study consultant will work with the
Third Party Intelligence Working Group. The Banking Study and Withholdings Study consultants
will work with the Collections Working Group. The Heads of the various working groups will
provide translation, administrative assistance and counterpart personnel to the consultant teams as
required.



- 64 -
QUALIFICATIONS
29.   To be considered, firms will be required to submit qualification profiles for the individual
consultants who will conduct the studies. The consultants responsible for the main Organization
Study,will be highly qualified and experienced in organization analysis and design, including
education and experience in management analysis, organization development, human resource
administration and training needs analysis. Prior experience in tax administration reform is
highly desirable. Turkish language proficiency is not a requirement, however, fluency in English
is indispensable. The consultant for the Third Party study should possess considerable skills and
experience in the design and implementation of tax intelligence systems, including legislative
aspects. Similarly, the consultants proposed for the Banking Study assignment are expected to
possess a broad background and conceptual knowledge of manual and computerized work
processes associated with the banking industry as well as the technical skills required to design
and implement strategies for electronic funds transfer capabilities within an automated processing
system. The withholding consultant would be expected to possess a broad background and
conceptual knowledge of manual and computerized work processes associated with tax
withholding, the technical skills required to design and implement strategies for withholding from
wages and other financial sources, and the managerial and technical knowledge required for
planning, developing and training related to a modern automated tax withholding system. The
major deliverables are described above. Interested firms will be required to elaborate the
definition of these reports in their proposals, which should also contain a detailed work program.
The consultants' profiles and technical proposal will be the primary criteria for selection.
Emphasis will be placed on proof of having achieved demonstrable results on studies of similar
scope and complexity.



Republic of Turkey
Ministry of Finance
General Directorate of Revenues (GDR)
Public Financial Management Project (PFMP)
Tax Administration Component
Terms of Reference
CONSULTANCY 3:
PROVISION OF CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR DEVELOPMENT OF:
(a) AN INFORMATION/PROCESS MODEL FOR THE REVITALIZED TAX
ADMINISTRATION SYSTEM OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY;
(b) AN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FRAMEWORK FOR THE COMPUTING
ENVIRONMENT WHICH WILL SUPPORT IT; AND
(c) AN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY TO SUPPORT PILOTING,
TESTING, AND TRAINING ACTIVITIES.
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Turkey (GOT) is embarking upon a program that will revitalize
substantially its Tax Administration system. This process is fairly advanced, and a number of
seminal studies, conducted under the auspices of a grant from the Government of Japan, have
made extensive recommendations for modernization and reform. Implementation is to be funded
by the GOT as one component of an omnibus project--the Public Financial Management Project
(PFMP)--which is to be financed in part by two successive loans from the World Bank. The
PFMP consists of the following major components:
3         Tax Administration
3         Expenditure and Personnel Management
3         Customs Administration.
2.    Overall responsibility for the supervision of the Tax Administration Component is vested
in the Undersecretary in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Director General of the General
Directorate of Revenues (GDR) is responsible for the management of the component. A Project
Management Unit (PMU), headed by a Deputy Director General, is responsible for coordination
of component activities. Specific tasks are to be carried out by Working Groups comprised of
Ministry of Finance staff, assisted by external consultants. The heads of the Working Groups are
members of the PMU. These terms of reference provide a description of the technical assistance
required by the GOT to implement key infrastructure components of the information technology
(IT) environment that will support the restructured Tax Administration system.



- 66 -
BACKGROUND TO THE TAX ADMINISTRATIoN COMPONENT
3.    The primary goal of the Tax Administration Component is to broaden the tax base in
order to increase tax revenues while ensuring a more equitable distribution of the tax burden.
Proposed activities will be directed chiefly at strengthening the compliance enforcement capability
of the tax authorities, introducing a more aggressive and coherent strategy for compliance
enforcement and improving progressively conditions for taxpayers who comply. The envisaged
institutional changes will follow up on recent tax policy reforms that included the closure of a
number of corporate "loopholes" and other measures aimed at expanding the tax base and
improving compliance. The tax administration component also will seek to ensure the
sustainability and predictability of the expected revenue increases through the modernization of
organizational arrangements, procedures and computer based systems. Activities will also be
directed at improving the policy or legislative framework, so as to ensure that the tax structure
itself does not erode the tax base, and to strengthening the tax policy analysis capability of the
GDR more generally.
4.    A program of activities is proposed that combines technical assistance with significant
technology transfer initiatives, and with investment in the supporting information technology (11)
environment for tax administration processing and policy formulation. The proposed changes
would seek to:
(a)       restructure central, regional and local tax agencies in order to achieve a more
functional and strategic orientation in the GDR;
(b)       improve coverage of the individual tax payer base and provide for better
system integration of a number of major tax sources;
(c)       develop and implement modern automated systems for core tax administration
functions and management;
(d)       develop and implement a more aggressive and complete compliance
enhancement strategy, notably through the establishment of a third party tax
intelligence system for auditing and collections;
(e)       strengthen tax policy formulation through the establishment of a Policy
Analysis Unit and the development of a suite of tax policy models;
(f)       improve taxpayer service; and
(g)       strengthen GDR human resources through training and study tours to
accomplish and sustain these objectives.
5.    The authorities' plan is reach these objectives in two partially overlapping phases of
activity. The first phase, to be accomplished in approximately eighteen months, will be directed
at completing several key activities--analyses, studies, modelling and training--that will begin the
process of administrative reform in the GDR and lay a solid foundation for a restructuring of the



- 67 -
organization and major investments in new information technology and human capital across the
national office network during a second phase lasting about 4-5 years.
6.    Activities during the first phase (1995-97) will be aimed at introducing a redefinition of
the tax administration system in Turkey, with changes envisaged in organization and procedures,
the legal and regulatory frameworks, and human resources. Resources are required for:
(a)       in-house advisory services to help refine further the medium-term
modernization and reform program for tax administration business processes
and management, and to help manage Phase I activities;
(b)       an organizational study to establish the overall framework for restructuring the
GDR to improve its effectiveness and efficiency;
(c)       design studies and pilot activities to establish the detailed requirements and
choices for hardware, systems software, communications design and
applications development tools for the restructured GDR;
(d)       recruitment and training of IT staff to enhance the in-house capability of the
GDR to develop and sustain its information technology investments;
(e)       an assessment of the policy-making process and the information flows on
which policy decisions are based, with a view to designing a tax Policy
Analysis Unit within the GDR, and development of analytical and operational
tax models, with appropriate training of GDR staff;
(f)       study tours abroad for key GDR staff; and
(g)       project management support services.
7.    Phase II (1996-2001) would see an expansion of the advisory services program, notably in
the areas of audit, collections, returns processing and many aspects of the supporting IT
infrastructure, as well as modern tax administration business management. The envisaged Policy
Analysis Unit would also be made operational during this phase, and would use the proposed
models to conduct a detailed analysis of the current tax system, and to perform an evaluation of
various policy options. Consultants may be needed in Phase II to provide guidance to the PAU,
however, the objective is to develop an operational unit within the GDR that is sufficiently
trained in the construction and use of analytical tools and models to perform an on-going tax
policy analysis function.
8.    Other Phase 11 activities in the IT area would cover the upgrading of existing central and
regional IT assets of the GDR, acquisition and installation of IT products at a number of new
regional offices, development and delivery of a broad-based training program for GDR staff and
computers and ancillary equipment for a restructured and rationalized local tax office network.
The main remaining cost elements for Phase II would be: (a) site preparation; (b) a management
consultancy to assist the GDR in its reorganization and the rationalizing of the network of local



- 68 -
offices; and (c) enhanced project management support services. The World Bank is expected to
provide financial support for the Phase 11 activities through a second PFMP loan.
DESCRIPTION OF PHASE I ACTIVITIES
9.    Based on the work that has already been carried out and the information now available,
priority in Phase I is to be given to tasks that accomplish the following:
(i)       Implement improved organizational structures and practices within the tax
administration affecting most functional processes and provide flexibility of
design for the tax administration to evolve smoothly in the future. An
example of the latter point is provided by the current debate over whether the
scope of tax collection functions should be extended to include collections of
social security contributions, and health and unemployment insurance
premiums. This should represent a logical extension of the tax
administration's activities in the area of payroll withholdings, and should not
add an insupportable burden to the work program of the GDR. In short, the
future operational systems will be designed to accommodate reasonable
changes in functionality and workload expansion.
(ii)      Improve the content of the taxpayer masterfile, both individual and business,
which is known to possess major gaps in coverage as well as deficiencies in
the quality of taxpayer locator information. This masterfile will include:
3     Sub-systems containing tax return and assessment data to assist in
returns processing
*     A taxpayer account module that will track an account from the pre-
payment stage to final payment, identifying transactions such as
appeals, status of the account, payments and corrections/adjustments
*     The capability to issue payment commands, which will be accessed by
local offices through their respective regional computing centers
*     A taxpayer delinquency database to identify non-filers or stop-filers
*     A MIS to provide statistical information which will assist management
in ascertaining baseline measurements to monitor employee
performance and resource requirements, and to conduct trend analysis.
(iii)     Provide for better integration of the various tax information sources, which
are currently processed as separate entities. This includes withholding, third
party information, banking and other financial information relative to other
entity information (e.g., name, address) and appropriate cross referencing.



- 69 -
(iv)      Introduce new mechanisms to the requirements of tax administration designed
to increase voluntary compliance and detect non-compliance--the former will
be supported by enhanced service to tax clients, the latter by the development
of new intelligent systems support for the audit and collection functions.
(v)      Develop an enhanced capacity for tax policy analysis and modelling to allow
for the design of new taxes to replace the distortionary extrabudgetary funds
levies and to strengthen the revenue side of budget preparation more generally,
including through the design of a Policy Analysis Unit and appropriate
training.
(vi)     Expand considerably the interface with the private banking system. The past
reliance on state banks has been identified as a source of significant time delay
(and a source of lost revenue) in the existing collection process, and of
difficulties for taxpayers due to the failure to remit payment receipts and
monies to the GDR in a timely fashion. A study will be conducted in Phase I
of the project to evaluate alternative methods for processing payments made
through banks. The results of this study will also cover part of the
requirements of the Expenditure and Personnel Management component of the
PFMP as regards the flow of public monies through the banking system.
SCOPE OF WORK & DELIVERABLES
10.   The purpose of this activity is to assure that system development activities in Phase II are
based on a solid foundation in terms of a full understanding of the information requirements and
how they relate to the major processes in the tax administration system. To that end, and
building on the recent thematic studies, a rigorous examination of the current and proposed tax
administration system will be conducted, in close consultation with sector experts and IT
management from the General Directorate of Revenues (GDR).
Deliverable #1: The Information/Process Model
11.   A formal information/process model will be prepared, using an industry standard
methodology, and covering the major processes in the full Tax Administration system. This
model will be adjusted continually as the results from the four Phase I studies (organization, third
party, banking and withholding) described in Consultancy #2 are made available. For example,
the study of the Withholding process will provide new information requirements concerning the
integration of new processes in support of social insurance and health contributions collections
planned for introduction. These requirements will be integrated into the model as they become
available.
12.   To enable the analysis of information flows (and to permit bidders to gauge more
precisely the magnitude of the task at hand), certain high-level assumptions can be made
regarding the organization and distribution of future tax administration processing in the Republic
of Turkey. Information will flow within a three-tier model consisting of the following logical
elements:



- 70 -
(a)       A local tier represents the tax administration's primary operating interface
with the tax payer. There are roughly 1000 of these offices, and they are
quite dispersed, with a significant number servicing only a few hundred
clients. The GDR operates some 400 such offices as "pure" tax offices, of
which approximately 90 are already automated. The remainder of the tax
offices are combined with the offices of the General Directorate of
Accounting. It is anticipated that the pure tax offices will be the focus for
automation activity in Phase II. For planning purposes, it is assumed that the
technology of the local offices will be PC based; that appropriate linkages to
the other tiers will exist; and that the physical/official tax administration
database will not be distributed to this level. A decision on the suitability of
LAN technology for larger offices is not required for Phase I, and can be
determined in the IT framework activities, discussed below.
(b)       A regional tier provides two primary functions: (a) a management (over-
seeing) role for the local offices in any region, and (b) Tax Intelligence
services intended to support audit and collections activities. The current
complement of three Regional Processing Centers will be expanded, without
substantially changing the role of the processing centers. The precise number,
functions and staffing of these offices is not available at this time. Currently,
two large regional centers in Istanbul and Ankara perform a high volume data
entry service for the local offices. A third office in Izmir will shortly acquire
this capability. It is then planned to gradually subsume data entry operations
from the local offices into these three (and only these three) regional office
processing centers.
(c)       A central tier is the single custodian of the logical tax administration database.
This does not preclude the physical distribution of the database at some future
time; thus, the model should be sufficiently flexible to accommodate future
adjustments of this type. In particular, the central tier is responsible for those
portions of the database which are not closely linked to current operations:
accumulated longitudinal data on tax administration, etc. These elements of
the database would support an enhanced research and development function
(not yet defined) which would study the operation of the tax system to provide
a policy support service to the GDR. Clearly, this is also a potential source of
information for the Tax Intelligence service described for the regional centers.
13.   The resulting model(s) will be suitable to support downstream database design activities,
and to serve as a metadata repository for application development. This could constitute a useful
physical recording medium for the results of this activity. It is anticipated that the use of IBM
DB2 data dictionary/directory facilities may be mandated by the GDR since the GDR currently
has a sizable investment in IBM DB2 technology.



- 71 -
Deliverable #2: The Information Technology Framework
14.   A formal Information Technology Framework (ITF) will be prepared which will integrate
the results of the studies conducted in Phase I of this component -- particularly the adjusted
information/process model, and the assumptions on which it is based. The document will define
broadly the IT framework which addresses the business needs of the project. It will have two
components:
(a)       ITF Part 1 -- will approximate an IT strategic plan for the support of tax
administration by the GDR. The involvement and 'buy in' of senior IT
management at the GDR will be required.
(b)       ITF Part 2 -- specifies the technical environment for all tax administration
processing which encompasses hardware, commercial software,
communications, and security considerations. It shows clearly those IT
components of the existing environment which can be retained, and identifies
those new IT components which are to be replaced or added. It will be
designed to the level of detail required to estimate and to plan overall
procurement activities for Phase II. Additionally, where it is clear that certain
processing requirements will be addressed serially (as full functionality of the
revitalized tax administration system is achieved over time), the ITF Part 2
document will indicate the possibilities for staging the required acquisitions.
15.   A key feature of the ITF Part 1 is its choice of a set of enabling technologies which is
coherent and based on internationally accepted dejure and defacto standards. Specific product
selections will be a secondary consideration. For example, the ITF's major commitment for a
data management technology will in all likelihood be SQL; a secondary consideration might be a
commitment to IBM's implementation of standard SQL through its relational database product
DB2, or under client server technology and with modern tools/RDBMS products. This logic will
be extended to other areas of choice within the ITF Part 1.
16.   The ITF Parts 1 and 2 will consider the local market conditions in choosing technologies
and products--i.e., local content plus availability and serviceability considerations.
17.   The ITF Part 1 will assume a 5-year view of technology. This will assure that older
technologies which are nearing the end of their useful lives, as well as immature
technologies--which might pose unacceptable risks for a tax administration system wherein the
consequence of error is relatively great--can be avoided.
18.   The ITF Part 1 will have a role to play beyond the relatively immediate challenge of
providing a technology baseline for the development of the ITF Part 2, and for support of the
funding decisions in Phase II of this project. In addition, the ITF will be of a form suitable for
use as a strategic planning document for the management of IT in the future. Thus, the plan will
be adjusted annually by the GDR, and used to plan and manage future IT acquisitions and
technology replacement.



- 72 -
19.   The strategic framework developed for the ITF Part 1 will be applied in guiding the
development of the specific IT environrnent proposed (in the ITF Part 2) for Phase II of the Tax
Administration project.
Deliverable #3: The IT Laboratory to Support Prototyping, Testing, and Training Activities.
20.   An IT Laboratory facility will be established which will feature representative samples of
the major technological elements of the future tax administration system. It is expected to use
this facility for a number of tax administration purposes.
(a)       The IT Laboratory will provide a test-bed for 'proof of concept' studies
required in Phase I and Phase If of the project. This may be applied to the
testing of technologies in combination, to the piloting of important user
interfaces, and to the development of performance measures.
(b)       The IT Laboratory will be of sufficient size to be used as a model office which
can simulate the 3-tier-network for application testing.
(c)       The IT Laboratory will support the development and presentation of
Training--both for the GDR technical staff, and for representative end-users of
the new system components.
(d)       The IT Laboratory will function additionally as a demonstration center, where
the elements of the new tax administration system can be show-cased to a
variety of audiences--for management review, etc..
21.   Because the IT Laboratory will be constructed from representative technologies of the
new tax administration system, its construction is reliant on the (partial) results of the two other
activities in this Terms of Reference. Consequently, it is expected that it can be constructed over
the duration of Phase I, as the key technologies are identified. In addition, it is envisaged that
the evolving Laboratory will be used to validate technology choices being made in other activities
under this Terms of Reference.
22.   About US$1.6 million has been allocated for the capital requirements of the IT
Laboratory--covering the cost of acquisition of accommodation elements, hardware (two
mid-range computers, 32 Pcs, LAN wiring, communications gear to link to remote mainframes
and to the local tier), software (data management software, LAN, office automation elements,
tools for the support of system development, etc.), and a rich blend of aids for training and
demonstration, including multi-media development tools. The component implementation plan
also provides for the participation of 10 GDR technical trainees for a duration of 9 months.
T1mNG AND LEVEL OF EFFORT
23.   The information/process modeling activities will be timed to begin with the general
launching of Phase I activities. The model must be completed in 9 months. The construction of
the ITF will follow immediately the completion of the information/process modeling activities. It



- 73 -
must be completed 12 months after the general launch of this component: i.e., it must be
completed within a 3 month period. The IT Laboratory portion of this consultancy will be active
during 16 of the 18 months allocated for Phase I, with emphasis on the second half of Phase I, as
more elements of the technology plan become defined.
24.   It is anticipated that some overlapping of the activities referenced in the preceding
paragraph may be possible. For instance, it is anticipated that the construction of the IT
Laboratory can draw on some of the same key individuals who are working on the
information/process models, and who may wish to use the facilities of the Laboratory to test and
validate their solutions. That is one important rationale for combining these two items in the
same terms of reference. It is also anticipated that there will be a carryover of key technical
personnel from the laboratory construction activity to the definition of the ITF. Clearly, this
would accelerate the learning curve for the involved GDR staff and consultants. Given the
importance that attaches to the timely execution of proposed activities, and the regional and local
office dimensions, provision has been made for a total effort of 150 months for this consultancy.
The exact amount of effort required will depend on the precise skills mix of the consultant team
and the amount of overlap that can be built into the team's work program and, in practice, should
be somewhat less.
COMMUNICATIONS AND REPORTING
25.   This consultancy will be conducted in the capital city of Ankara, in the Republic of
Turkey. It may be possible for the leader of this consultancy to draw some of the required
expertise from remote sources, or to bring experts in and out of the local environment on an as-
needed basis. That is acceptable. However, the consulting team must maintain a strong local
presence at all times.
26.   Modeling activities will require liaison with sector experts, and with other consultants
conducting related studies mentioned earlier in this terms of reference document. Additionally,
liaison with IT management of the GDR will be required during the development of the ITF Part
I. In contrast, the development of the ITF Part II is viewed as a relatively independent and
highly technical activity.
27.   Each of the three component tasks of this Terms of Reference will report to the Head of
the PMU, and be assisted in performing the work by an Automation Working Group established
to design and implement IT changes, investments and training. The Head of this Working Group
will provide translation, administrative assistance and counterpart personnel to the consultant
team as required.
QUALIFICATIONS
28.   Bidders will be required to submit qualification profiles for consultants who will form the
team. These qualifications will form an important part of the bid evaluation. Emphasis will be
placed on proof of having achieved demonstrable results on projects of similar scope and
technical complexity in the past. Proposals will be required to include a framework for the
modelling exercise as well as a workplan. The lead consultant must have the ability to draw



- 74 -
upon required specialties dynamically as the need presents itself, and a record of successful
delivery of similar projects in an international environment. The team as a whole will be
assessed on the suitability of the proposed skills/experience mix.
29.   Fluency in English is essential. Knowledge of the Turkish language is also highly
desirable, and would be important for the successful execution of Deliverables #2 and #3.



Republic of Turkey
Ministry of Finance
General Directorate of Revenues (GDR)
Public Financial Management Project (PFMP)
Tax Administration Component
Terms of Reference
CONSULTANCY 4:
PROVISION OF CONSULTANCY SERVICES TO STRENGTHEN
IN-HOUSE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CAPABILITIES
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Turkey (GOT) is embarking upon a program that will revitalize
substantially its Tax Administration system. This process is fairly advanced, and a number of
seminal studies, conducted under the auspices of a grant from the Government of Japan, have
made extensive recommendations for modernization and reform. Implementation is to be funded
by the GOT as one component of an omnibus project--the Public Financial Management Project
(PFMP)--which is to be financed in part by two successive loans from the World Bank. The
PFMP consists of the following major components:
*         Tax Administration
v        Expenditure and Personnel Management
*         Customs Administration.
2.    Overall responsibility for the supervision of the Tax Administration Component is vested
in the Undersecretary in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Director General of the General
Directorate of Revenues (GDR) is responsible for the management of the component. A Project
Management Unit (PMU), headed by a Deputy Director General, is responsible for coordination
of component activities. Specific tasks are to be carried out by Working Groups comprised of
Ministry of Finance staff, assisted by external consultants. The heads of the Working Groups are
members of the PMU. These terms of reference describe an initial training program to be
delivered to GDR information technology (IT) staff in order to enable them to carry a major
share of downstream IT development work.
BACKGROUND TO THE TAx ADMINISTRATION COMPONENT
3.    The primary goal of the Tax Administration Component is to broaden the tax base in
order to increase tax revenues while ensuring a more equitable distribution of the tax burden.
Proposed activities will be directed chiefly at strengthening the compliance enforcement capability
of the tax authorities, introducing a more aggressive and coherent strategy for compliance
enforcement and improving progressively conditions for taxpayers who comply. The envisaged
institutional changes will follow up on recent tax policy reforms that included the closure of a
number of corporate "loopholes" and other measures aimed at expanding the tax base and
improving compliance. The tax administration component also will seek to ensure the
sustainability and predictability of the expected revenue increases through the modernization of



- 76 -
organizational arrangements, procedures and computer based systems. Activities will also be
directed at improving the policy or legislative framework, so as to ensure that the tax structure
itself does not erode the tax base, and to strengthening the tax policy analysis capability of the
GDR more generally.
4.    A program of activities is proposed that combines technical assistance with significant
technology transfer initiatives, and with investment in the supporting information technology (IT)
environment for tax administration processing and policy formulation. The proposed changes
would seek to:
(a)       restructure central, regional and local tax agencies in order to achieve a more
functional and strategic orientation in the GDR;
(b)       improve coverage of the individual tax payer base and provide for better
system integration of a number of major tax sources;
(c)       develop and implement modern automated systems for core tax administration
functions and management;
(d)       develop and implement a more aggressive and complete compliance
enhancement strategy, notably through the establishment of a third party tax
intelligence system for auditing and collections;
(e)       strengthen tax policy formulation through the establishment of a Policy
Analysis Unit and the development of a suite of tax policy models;
(f)      improve taxpayer service; and
(g)       strengthen GDR human resources through training and study tours to
accomplish and sustain these objectives.
5.    The authorities' plan is reach these objectives in two partially overlapping phases of
activity. The first phase, to be accomplished in approximately eighteen months, will be directed
at completing several key activities--analyses, studies, modelling and training--that will begin the
process of administrative reform in the GDR and lay a solid foundation for a restructuring of the
organization and major investments in new information technology and human capital across the
national office network during a second phase lasting about 4-5 years.
6.    Activities during the first phase (1995-97) will be aimed at introducing a redefinition of
the tax administration system in Turkey, with changes envisaged in organization and procedures,
the legal and regulatory frameworks, and human resources. Resources are required for:
(a)       In-house advisory services to help refine further the medium-term
modernization and reform program for tax administration business processes
and management, and to help manage Phase I activities



- 77 -
(b)       An organizational study to establish the overall framework for restructuring
the GDR to improve its effectiveness and efficiency
(c)       Design studies and pilot activities to establish the detailed requirements and
choices for hardware, systems software, communications design and
applications development tools for the restructured GDR
(d)       Recruitment and training of IT staff to enhance the in-house capability of the
GDR to develop and sustain its information technology investments
(e)       An assessment of the policy-making process and the information flows on
which policy decisions are based, with a view to designing a tax Policy
Analysis Unit within the GDR, and development of analytical and operational
tax models, with appropriate training of GDR staff
(f)       Study tours abroad for key GDR staff
(g)       Project management support services.
7.    Phase II (1996-2001) would see an expansion of the advisory services program, notably in
the areas of audit, collections, returns processing and many aspects of the supporting IT
infrastructure, as well as modern tax administration business management. The envisaged Policy
Analysis Unit would also be made operational during this phase, and would use the proposed
models to conduct a detailed analysis of the current tax system, and to perform an evaluation of
various policy options. Consultants may be needed in Phase II to provide guidance to the PAU,
however, the objective is to develop an operational unit within the GDR that is sufficiently
trained in the construction and use of analytical tools and models to perform an on-going tax
policy analysis function.
8.    Other Phase II activities in the IT area would cover the upgrading of existing central and
regional IT assets of the GDR, acquisition and installation of IT products at a number of new
regional offices, development and delivery of a broad-based training program for GDR staff and
computers and ancillary equipment for a restructured and rationalized local tax office network.
The main remaining cost elements for Phase II would be: (a) site preparation; (b) a management
consultancy to assist the GDR in its reorganization and the rationalizing of the network of local
offices; and (c) enhanced project management support services. The World Bank is expected to
provide financial support for the Phase II activities through a second PFMP loan.
DESCRIPTION OF PHASE I AcTIVITEs
9.    Based on the work that has already been carried out and the information now available,
priority in Phase I is to be given to tasks that accomplish the following:
(a)       Implement improved organizational structures and practices within the tax
administration affecting most functional processes and provide flexibility of
design for the tax administration to evolve smoothly in the future. An



- 78 -
example of the latter point is provided by the current debate over whether the
scope of tax collection functions should be extended to include collections of
social security contributions, and health and unemployment insurance
premiums. This should represent a logical extension of the tax
administration's activities in the area of payroll withholdings, and should not
add an insupportable burden to the work program of the GDR. In short, the
future operational systems will be designed to accommodate reasonable
changes in functionality and workload expansion.
(b)       Improve the content of the taxpayer masterfile, both individual and business,
which is known to possess major gaps in coverage as well as deficiencies in
the quality of taxpayer locator information. This masterfile will include:
*     Sub-systems containing tax return and assessment data to assist in
returns processing
*     A taxpayer account module that will track an account from the pre-
payment stage to final payment, identifying transactions such as
appeals, status of the account, payments and corrections/adjustments
*     The capability to issue payment commands, which will be accessed by
local offices through their respective regional computing centers
-     A taxpayer delinquency database to identify non-filers or stop-filers
-     A MIS to provide statistical information which will assist management
in ascertaining baseline measurements to monitor employee
performance and resource requirements, and to conduct trend analysis.
(c)       Provide for better integration of the various tax information sources, which
are currently processed as separate entities. This includes withholding, third
party information, banking and other financial information relative to other
entity information (e.g., name, address) and appropriate cross referencing.
(d)       Introduce new mechanisms to the requirements of tax administration designed
to increase voluntary compliance and detect non-compliance--the former will
be supported by enhanced service to tax clients, the latter by the development
of new intelligent systems support for the audit and collection functions.
(e)       Develop an enhanced capacity for tax policy analysis and modelling to allow
for the design of new taxes to replace the distortionary extrabudgetary funds
levies and to strengthen the revenue side of budget preparation more generally,
including through the design of a Policy Analysis Unit and appropriate
training.



- 79 -
(f)       Expand considerably the interface with the private banking system. The past
reliance on state banks has been identified as a source of significant time delay
(and a source of lost revenue) in the existing collection process, and of
difficulties for taxpayers due to the failure to remit payment receipts and
monies to the GDR in a timely fashion. A study will be conducted in Phase I
of the project to evaluate alternative methods for processing payments made
through banks. The results of this study will also cover part of the
requirements of the Expenditure and Personnel Management component of the
PFMP as regards the flow of public monies through the banking system.
SCOPE OF WORK & DELIVERABLES
10.   The purpose of this activity is to assure that the skill level of the IT staff of the GDR is
raised sufficiently to assure that they can participate fully in the application development process
planned for Phase II of the project, and to adequately support the major technologies which will
underlie those applications. The IT training consultants will work closely with the GDR's IT
management team. It is expected that the consultants will develop and provide detailed classroom
training on the above technical subjects and other computer applications or techniques as defined
in the plan. The consultant firm is expected to prepare summary progress reports at the end of
each course. These reports will indicate each students progress and attendance in the training.
11.   Parallel to the work of this consultancy, there will be a major activity which seeks to
develop a comprehensive IT framework for the GDR. This framework will choose the major
technologies to be employed in constructing the future revitalized tax administration system.
Some existing technologies will be confirmed; some existing technologies will be targeted for
abandonment; new technologies will be identified for exploitation. Consequently, the work
outlined for this consultancy must remain flexible to the GDR's technology directions as they are
identified in the evolving framework document. For example, in the early stages of the
consultancy, it would be wise to schedule training in core-skills areas which are relatively well
insulated from possible technology changes; and, it would be unwise to proceed with early
instruction in (for example) Novel networking skills.
Deliverable #1
12.   This consultancy will prepare a skills inventory of the IT staff of the GDR. This
inventory will form the basis of consultations with IT management of the GDR, to prepare a
needs assessment, and to develop a syllabus of training.
Deliverable #2
13.   Working closely with the IT management of the GDR, the consultants will develop
courseware for classroom and/or hands-on training on technical subjects which address the
objectives above. This courseware will become the property of the GDR upon completion of the
consultancy, and will be used by their staff (or staff contracted to them) to deliver training.



- 80 -
Deliverable #3
14.   The consultants will deliver classroom and hands-on training to the IT staff of the GDR.
Sample topics -- to be confirmed in light of the Deliverables above may include:
*        Techniques and Practices:
*     Management of Application Development Projects
*     Systems Engineering Methodology
*     Testing Strategies
*     Tools in Support of Systems Development
*     System Administration (i.e., source, test suites, documentation)
*        Data Management:
*     Database Design
*     Metadata Concepts
*     Specific Data Management Products (DB2, RDBMS)
*        Proeramming:
*     3GL Programming Practices and Techniques (C-language, C/S
Technology and modern GUI (windows-based)
*     SQL
*        Support Services:
*     Operating System Concepts -- for O/S in use at GDR
*     Communications Concepts -- specific to the technologies chosen for the
GDR
*     Local Area Network Support -- specific to the GDR's technology
choices
*     Wide Area Network Support -- specific to the technology choices of
the GDR.
*     RDBMS and CASE and GUI
TIMNG AND LEVEL OF EFFORT
15.   The training consultant is expected to work closely with DGR Information Technology
and Training Department management to develop a detailed IT training program that will result
in a significant strengthening of the computer development capabilities of the DGR staff. The
assignment is estimated to require approximately 45 consultant months of effort. It is estimated
that the training will take place over a 15 month period. The contract is expected to be extended
for further IT training activities under a second PFMP loan from the World Bank.



- 81 -
COMMUNICATIONS AND REPORTING
16.   This consultancy will be conducted in the capital city of Ankara, in the Republic of
Turkey. It may be possible for the leader of this consultancy to draw some of the required
expertise from remote sources, or to bring experts in and out of Ankara on an as-needed basis.
That is acceptable. However, the consulting team must maintain a strong local presence at all
times.
17.   The consultants will report to the Head of the Automation Working Group, who will
ensure that the team is provided with administrative assistance and counterpart personnel as
required. The lead consultant will be expected to work closely with the management of the GDR
both in the IT, and sector areas for their input, and clarifications as are appropriate. The
assignment will require liaison with other consultants conducting related studies in the IT area, as
well as GDR staff in the Training Department.
18.   The consultant team will be required to prepare a detailed training plan indicating the
specific training activities, modalities, length of training, number of training days and number of
participants in each training activity. The consulting firm will be required to prepare summary
progress reports at the end of each course. These reports will indicate each students progress
and attendance in the training.
QUALIFICATIONS
19.   The information technology consultants to be selected for providing the computer training
assistance are expected to have a broad technical background in the design and development of
information systems related to various computer platforms, computer environments and relational
databases. The following are minimum qualifications:
(a)       Comprehensive technical knowledge in all aspects of information systems,
computer hardware and operating system, application software development,
developing technical training courses and providing classroom training. The
lead consultant must have a minimum of 10 years experience working and
operating in both public and private information environment, particularly in
the areas of applications development, database dictionaries and
administration, structured analysis and programming techniques, data network
and telecommunications.
(b)       A sound technical knowledge of various types of application software with
emphasis on IBM DB2 Structured Query Language (SQL), Microsoft Disk
Operating System (MS-DOS) Version 6.2, Microsoft Windows for
Workgroups, Microsoft Word 6.0 (Turkish Version), Microsoft Excel 5.0
(Turkish Version) and Novel Netware 3.12.
(c)      Demonstrated relevant experience in organizing training of personnel, and
knowledge of X.25 PSDN and other data communication facilities.



- 82 -
(d)       The consultants should be fluent in Turkish. Fluency in the English language
is considered an advantage.
20.   Firms will be required to submit qualification profiles for consultants who will forn the
team. These profiles will form an important part of the bid evaluation. Considerable weight will
also be placed on proof of having achieved demonstrable results on assignments of similar scope
and complexity in the past.



Republic of Turkey
Ministry of Finance
General Directorate of Revenues (GDR)
Public Financial Management Project (PFMP)
Tax Administration Component
Terms of Reference
CONSULTANCY 5:
PROVISION OF CONSULTANCY SERVICES TO STRENGTHEN
TAX POLICY ANALYSIS CAPABILITY
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Turkey (GOT) is embarking upon a program that will revitalize
substantially its Tax Administration system. This process is fairly advanced, and a number of
seminal studies, conducted under the auspices of a grant from the Government of Japan, have
made extensive recommendations for modernization and reform. Implementation is to be funded
by the GOT as one component of an omnibus project--the Public Financial Management Project
(PFMP)--which is to be financed in part by two successive loans from the World Bank. The
PFMP consists of the following major components:
3        Tax Administration
e        Expenditure and Personnel Management
*        Customs Administration.
2.    Overall responsibility for the supervision of the Tax Administration Component is vested
in the Undersecretary in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Director General of the General
Directorate of Revenues (GDR) is responsible for the management of the component. A Project
Management Unit (PMU), headed by a Deputy Director General, is responsible for coordination
of component activities. Specific tasks are to be carried out by Working Groups comprised of
Ministry of Finance staff, assisted by external consultants. The heads of the Working Groups are
members of the PMU. These terms of reference describe an assignment to assist with the
strengthening of the tax policy analysis capability of the GDR.
BACKGROUND TO THE TAX ADMINISTRATION COMPONENT
3.    The primary goal of the Tax Administration Component is to broaden the tax base in
order to increase tax revenues while ensuring a more equitable distribution of the tax burden.
Proposed activities will be directed chiefly at strengthening the compliance enforcement capability
of the tax authorities, introducing a more aggressive and coherent strategy for compliance
enforcement and improving progressively conditions for taxpayers who comply. The envisaged
institutional changes will follow up on recent tax policy reforms that included the closure of a
number of corporate "loopholes" and other measures aimed at expanding the tax base and
improving compliance. The tax administration component also will seek to ensure the
sustainability and predictability of the expected revenue increases through the modernization of
organizational arrangements, procedures and computer based systems. Activities will also be



- 84 -
directed at improving the policy or legislative framework, so as to ensure that the tax structure
itself does not erode the tax base, and to strengthening the tax policy analysis capability of the
GDR more generally.
4.    A program of activities is proposed that combines technical assistance with significant
technology transfer initiatives, and with investment in the supporting information technology (IT)
environment for tax administration processing and policy formulation. The proposed changes
would seek to:
(a)       restructure central, regional and local tax agencies in order to achieve a more
functional and strategic orientation in the GDR;
(b)       improve coverage of the individual tax payer base and provide for better
system integration of a number of major tax sources;
(c)       develop and implement modern automated.,systems for core tax administration
functions and management;
(d)       develop and implement a more aggressive and complete compliance
enhancement strategy, notably through the establishment of a third party tax
intelligence system for auditing and collections;
(e)       strengthen tax policy formulation through the establishment of a Policy
Analysis Unit and the development of a suite of tax policy models;
(f)       improve taxpayer service; and
(g)       strengthen GDR human resources through training and study tours to
accomplish and sustain these objectives.
5.    The authorities' plan is reach these objectives in two partially overlapping phases of
activity. The first phase, to be accomplished in approximately eighteen months, will be directed
at completing several key activities--analyses, studies, modelling and training--that will begin the
process of administrative reform in the GDR and lay a solid foundation for a restructuring of the
organization and major investments in new information technology and human capital across the
national office network during a second phase lasting about 4-5 years.
6.    Activities during the first phase (1995-97) will be aimed at introducing a redefinition of
the tax administration system in Turkey, with changes envisaged in organization and procedures,
the legal and regulatory frameworks, and human resources. Resources are required for:
(a)       in-house advisory services to help refine further the medium-term
modernization and reform program for tax administration business processes
and management, and to help manage Phase I activities;



- 85 -
(b)       an organizational study to establish the overall framework for restructuring the
GDR to improve its effectiveness and efficiency;
(c)       design studies and pilot activities to establish the detailed requirements and
choices for hardware, systems software, communications design and
applications development tools for the restructured GDR;
(d)       recruitment and training of IT staff to enhance the in-house capability of the
GDR to develop and sustain its information technology investments;
(e)       an assessment of the policy-making process and the information flows on
which policy decisions are based, with a view to designing a tax Policy
Analysis Unit within the GDR, and development of analytical and operational
tax models, with appropriate training of GDR staff;
(f)       study tours abroad for key GDR staff; and
(g)       project management support services.
7.    Phase 11 (1996-2001) would see an expansion of the advisory services program, notably in
the areas of audit, collections, returns processing and many aspects of the supporting IT
infrastructure, as well as modern tax administration business management. The envisaged Policy
Analysis Unit would also be made operational during this phase, and would use the proposed
models to conduct a detailed analysis of the current tax system, and to perform an evaluation of
various policy options. Consultants may be needed in Phase II to provide guidance to the PAU,
however, the objective is to develop an operational unit within the GDR that is sufficiently
trained in the construction and use of analytical tools and models to perform an on-going tax
policy analysis function.
8.    Other Phase II activities in the IT area would cover the upgrading of existing central and
regional IT assets of the GDR, acquisition and installation of IT products at a number of new
regional offices, development and delivery of a broad-based training program for GDR staff and
computers and ancillary equipment for a restructured and rationalized local tax office network.
The main remaining cost elements for Phase II would be: (a) site preparation; (b) a management
consultancy to assist the GDR in its reorganization and the rationalizing of the network of local
offices; and (c) enhanced project management support services. The World Bank is expected to
provide financial support for the Phase 11 activities through a second PFMP loan.
DESCRIPrMON OF PHASE I AcTIVITIEs
9.    Based on the work that has already been carried out and the information now available,
priority in Phase I is to be given to tasks that accomplish the following:
(a)       Implement improved organizational structures and practices within the tax
administration affecting most functional processes and provide flexibility of
design for the tax administration to evolve smoothly in the future. An



- 86 -
example of the latter point is provided by the current debate over whether the
scope of tax collection functions should be extended to include collections of
social security contributions, and health and unemployment insurance
premiums. This should represent a logical extension of the tax
administration's activities in the area of payroll withholdings, and should not
add an insupportable burden to the work program of the GDR. In short, the
future operational systems will be designed to accommodate reasonable
changes in functionality and workload expansion.
(b)       Improve the content of the taxpayer masterfile, both individual and business,
which is known to possess major gaps in coverage as well as deficiencies in
the quality of taxpayer locator information. This masterfile will include:
*     Sub-systems containing tax return and assessment data to assist in
returns processing
*     A taxpayer account module that will track an account from the pre-
payment stage to final payment, identifying transactions such as
appeals, status of the account, payments and corrections/adjustments
*     The capability to issue payment commands, which will be accessed by
local offices through their respective regional computing centers
*     A taxpayer delinquency database to identify non-filers or stop-filers
*     A MIS to provide statistical information which will assist management
in ascertaining baseline measurements to monitor employee
performance and resource requirements, and to conduct trend analysis.
(c)       Provide for better integration of the various tax information sources, which
are currently processed as separate entities. This includes withholding, third
party information, banking and other financial information relative to other
entity information (e.g., name, address) and appropriate cross referencing.
(d)       Introduce new mechanisms to the requirements of tax administration designed
to increase voluntary compliance and detect non-compliance--the former will
be supported by enhanced service to tax clients, the latter by the development
of new intelligent systems support for the audit and collection functions.
(e)       Develop an enhanced capacity for tax policy analysis and modelling to allow
for the design of new taxes to replace the distortionary extrabudgetary funds
levies and to strengthen the revenue side of budget preparation more generally,
including through the design of a Policy Analysis Unit and appropriate
training.



- 87 -
(f)       Expand considerably the interface with the private banking system. The past
reliance on state banks has been identified as a source of significant time delay
(and a source of lost revenue) in the existing collection process, and of
difficulties for taxpayers due to the failure to remit payment receipts and
monies to the GDR in a timely fashion. A study will be conducted in Phase I
of the project to evaluate alternative methods for processing payments made
through banks. The results of this study will also cover part of the
requirements of the Expenditure and Personnel Management component of the
PFMP as regards the flow of public monies through the banking system.
SCOPE OF WORK & DELiVERABLES
10.   The objectives of this consultancy are to: (a) design and help establish a Policy Analysis
Unit within the GDR, including through a detailed training program; (b) conduct a thorough
analysis of the current tax system with a view to providing recommendations for legislative
change that would broaden the tax base and enhance the fairness and efficiency of the tax system,
including through the rationalization of deductions, exemptions and other preferences; and
(c) develop a suite of tax policy simulation models suitable for the design of tax policy changes
and for revenue forecasting for the budget. More precisely, the consultant(s) would:
(a)       Undertake a complete assessment of the policy-making process within the
GDR and make recommendations for restructuring the organization of the
policy-making function and the information flows on which policy decisions
are based. Specifically, the consultant(s) will help design a Policy Analysis
Unit, will determine its place within the new organizational structure (jointly
with Consultancy #2), will determine the posts and functions of the PAU and
detail a training program for the staff of the PAU.
(b)       Construct analytical models for tax policy to identify potential opportunities
for broadening the tax base while maintaining an equitable tax structure and
develop specialized databases for use in these models, as well as for
independent analysis within the GDR. Separate basic models will be
constructed for each indirect tax (valued-added taxes, customs duties and
excise taxes) and income tax (company profit taxes, individual income taxes
and payroll taxes). Also an integrated model will be developed for examining
several of these taxes in combination. A third (revenue receipt tracking)
module should offer the capability to map the simulation results generated by
different basic revenue estimation models into a receipt projections/monitoring
model. The entire system should be driven by user-friendly menus (in both
English and Turkish) that facilitate the specification of scenarios and allow for
the automatic generation of the necessary reports. The deliverables in this
area will also include user's and technical manuals (in English and Turkish),
and training for a small group of GDR staff in the use and maintenance of the
system.



- 88 -
(c)       Undertake a preliminary analysis of the current tax system with the above
models. Phase II will see the application of the models to carry out a more
detailed analysis of current tax law and an evaluation of alternative policy
options to be considered by policy-makers.
(d)      Design a detailed training program for the staff of the PAU. Such training
should include courses in macro- and micro-economics, tax policy analysis,
the use of computers in quantitative analysis and the construction and use of
tax policy models. Workshops and oa-the-job training should be part of the
overall training program. The type of training needed, especially during the
early stages of the activity, will also depend on the skills and background of
the staff selected to participate in the Tax Policy Working Group, who will
form the core of the proposed PAU.
TIvING AND LEVEL OF EFFORT
11.   The assignment is estimated to require approximately 18 consultant months of effort, to
be delivered in about one year beginning in November 1995. At least six months of this effort
should be dedicated to training. Assuming that all data is collected and processed by the end of
December, the construction of the revenue simulation system will begin in January 1996 and will
be completed in February-June 1996, in time for the Fiscal Year 1997 budget preparation
process. GDR staff would be expected to participate actively in the modelling work, and after a
few initial sessions to introduce the concepts and modelling software, most training would be
expected to be of the hands-on variety.
COMMUNICATIONS AND REPORTING
12.   This consultancy will be conducted in the capital city of Ankara, in the Republic of
Turkey. The consultants would be expected to maintain a strong local presence at all times. The
consultants will report to the Head of the Tax Policy Working Group, who will ensure the
availability of administrative assistance and counterpart personnel as required.
QUALIFICATIONS
13.   The selected consultant(s) would have an excellent technical background and at least ten
(10) years experience in the design, development and delivery of models and training programs
for tax policy analysis. The consultant(s) should be fluent in English. Fluency in Turkish would
be considered an advantage. Bidders will be required to submit qualification profiles for the
consultant(s) who will carry out this assignment. The profile(s) will form an important part of
the bid evaluation. Considerable weight will be placed on proof of having achieved demonstrable
results on similar assignments in the past.



Republic of Turkey
Ministry of Finance
General Directorate of Revenues (GDR)
Public Financial Management Project (PFMP)
Tax Administration Component
Terms of Reference
CONSULTANCY 6:
PROVISION OF CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR
PROJECT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Turkey (GOT) is embarking upon a program that will revitalize
substantially its Tax Administration system. This process is fairly advanced, and a number of
seminal studies, conducted under the auspices of a grant from the Government of Japan, have
made extensive recommendations for modernization and reform. Implementation is to be funded
by the GOT as one component of an omnibus project--the Public Financial Management Project
(PFMP)--which is to be financed in part by two successive loans from the World Bank. The
PFMP consists of the following major components:
*         Tax Administration
*        Expenditure and Personnel Management
*        Customs Administration.
2.    Overall responsibility for the supervision of the Tax Administration Component is vested
in the Undersecretary in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Director General of the General
Directorate of Revenues (GDR) is responsible for the management of the component. A Project
Management Unit (PMU), headed by a Deputy Director General, is responsible for coordination
of component activities. Specific tasks are to be carried out by Working Groups comprised of
Ministry of Finance staff, assisted by external consultants. The heads of the Working Groups are
members of the PMU. These Terms of Reference (TOR) are for management support only, and
do not substitute for, or contain, the TOR for technical assistance. It is in these TOR to
negotiate and determine contractual arrangements, provide payment and give other administrative
support to the full range of consultants employed under the Tax Administration Component of the
PFMP.
BACKGROUND TO ni'E TAX ADMINISTRATION COMPONENT
3.    The primary goal of the Tax Administration Component is to broaden the tax base in
order to increase tax revenues while ensuring a more equitable distribution of the tax burden.
Proposed activities will be directed chiefly at strengthening the compliance enforcement capability
of the tax authorities, introducing a more aggressive and coherent strategy for compliance
enforcement and improving progressively conditions for taxpayers who comply. The envisaged
institutional changes will follow up on recent tax policy reforms that included the closure of a
number of corporate "loopholes" and other measures aimed at expanding the tax base and



- 90 -
improving compliance. The tax administration component also will seek to ensure the
sustainability and predictability of the expected revenue increases through the modernization of
organizational arrangements, procedures and computer based systems. Activities will also be
directed at improving the policy or legislative framework, so as to ensure that the tax structure
itself does not erode the tax base, and to strengthening the tax policy analysis capability of the
GDR more generally.
4.    A program of activities is proposed that combines technical assistance with significant
technology transfer initiatives, and with investment in the supporting information technology (IT)
environment for tax administration processing and policy formulation. The proposed changes
would seek to:
(a)       Restructure central, regional and local tax agencies in order to achieve a more
functional and strategic orientation in the GDR
(b)       Improve coverage of the individual tax payer base and provide for better
system integration of a number of major tax sources
(c)       Develop and implement modern automated systems for core tax administration
functions and management
(d)       Develop and implement a more aggressive and complete compliance
enhancement strategy, notably through the establishment of a third party tax
intelligence system for auditing and collections
(e)       Strengthen tax policy formulation through the establishment of a Policy
Analysis Unit and the development of a suite of tax policy models
(f)       Improve taxpayer service
(g)       Strengthen GDR human resources through training and study tours to
accomplish and sustain these objectives.
5.    The authorities' plan is reach these objectives in two partially overlapping phases of
activity. The first phase, to be accomplished in approximately eighteen months, will be directed
at completing several key activities--analyses, studies, modelling and training--that will begin the
process of administrative reform in the GDR and lay a solid foundation for a restructuring of the
organization and major investments in new information technology and human capital across the
national office network during a second phase lasting about 4-5 years.
6.    Activities during the first phase (1995-97) will be aimed at introducing a redefinition of
the tax administration system in Turkey, with changes envisaged in organization and procedures,
the legal and regulatory frameworks, and human resources. Resources are required for:



- 91 -
(a)       in-house advisory services to help refine further the medium-term
modernization and reform program for tax administration business processes
and management, and to help manage Phase I activities;
(b)       an organizational study to establish the overall framework for restructuring the
GDR to improve its effectiveness and efficiency;
(c)       design studies and pilot activities to establish the detailed requirements and
choices for hardware, systems software, communications design and
applications development tools for the restructured GDR;
(d)       recruitment and training of IT staff to enhance the in-house capability of the
GDR to develop and sustain its information technology investments;
(e)       an assessment of the policy-making process and the information flows on
which policy decisions are based, with a view to designing a tax Policy
Analysis Unit within the GDR, and development of analytical and operational
tax models, with appropriate training of GDR staff;
(f)       study tours abroad for key GDR staff; and
(g)       project management support services.
7.     Phase 11 (1996-2001) would see an expansion of the advisory services program, notably in
the areas of audit, collections, returns processing and many aspects of the supporting IT
infrastructure, as well as modern tax administration business management. The envisaged Policy
Analysis Unit would also be made operational during this phase, and would use the proposed
models to conduct a detailed analysis of the current tax system, and to perform an evaluation of
various policy options. Consultants may be needed in Phase II to provide guidance to the PAU,
however, the objective is to develop an operational unit within the GDR that is sufficiently
trained in the construction and use of analytical tools and models to perform an on-going tax
policy analysis function.
8.    Other Phase 11 activities in the IT area would cover the upgrading of existing central and
regional IT assets of the GDR, acquisition and installation of IT products at a number of new
regional offices, development and delivery of a broad-based training program for GDR staff and
computers and ancillary equipment for a restructured and rationalized local tax office network.
The main remaining cost elements for Phase II would be: (a) site preparation; (b) a management
consultancy to assist the GDR in its reorganization and the rationalizing of the network of local
offices; and (c) enhanced project management support services. The World Bank is expected to
provide financial support for the Phase 11 activities through a second PFMP loan.



- 92 -
DESCRIPnIoN OF PHASE I AcTIvITIEs
9.    Based on the work that has already been carried out and the information now available,
priority in Phase I is to be given to tasks that accomplish the following:
(a)       Implement improved organizational structures and practices within the tax
administration affecting most functional processes and provide flexibility of
design for the tax administration to evolve smoothly in the future. An
example of the latter point is provided by the current debate over whether the
scope of tax collection functions should be extended to include collections of
social security contributions, and health and unemployment insurance
premiums. This should represent a logical extension of the tax
administration's activities in the area of payroll withholdings, and should not
add an insupportable burden to the work program of the GDR. In short, the
future operational systems will be designed to accommodate reasonable
changes in functionality and workload expansion.
(b)       Improve the content of the taxpayer masterfile, both individual and business,
which is known to possess major gaps in coverage as well as deficiencies in
the quality of taxpayer locator information. This masterfile will include:
*     Sub-systems containing tax return and assessment data to assist in
returns processing
-     A taxpayer account module that will track an account from the pre-
payment stage to final payment, identifying transactions such as
appeals, status of the account, payments and corrections/adjustments
3     The capability to issue payment commands, which will be accessed by
local offices through their respective regional computing centers
-     A taxpayer delinquency database to identify non-filers or stop-filers
*     A MIS to provide statistical information which will assist management
in ascertaining baseline measurements to monitor employee
performance and resource requirements, and to conduct trend analysis.
(c)       Provide for better integration of the various tax information sources, which
are currently processed as separate entities. This includes withholding, third
party information, banking and other financial information relative to other
entity information (e.g., name, address) and appropriate cross referencing.
(d)       Introduce new mechanisms to the requirements of tax administration designed
to increase voluntary compliance and detect non-compliance--the former will
be supported by enhanced service to tax clients, the latter by the development
of new intelligent systems support for the audit and collection functions.



- 93 -
(e)       Develop an enhanced capacity for tax policy analysis and modelling to allow
for the design of new taxes to replace the distortionary extrabudgetary funds
levies and to strengthen the revenue side of budget preparation more generally,
including through the design of a Policy Analysis Unit and appropriate
training.
(f)       Expand considerably the interface with the private banking system. The past
reliance on state banks has been identified as a source of significant time delay
(and a source of lost revenue) in the existing collection process, and of
difficulties for taxpayers due to the failure to remit payment receipts and
monies to the GDR in a timely fashion. A study will be conducted in Phase I
of the project to evaluate alternative methods for processing payments made
through banks. The results of this study will also cover part of the
requirements of the Expenditure and Personnel Management component of the
PFMP as regards the flow of public monies through the banking system.
SCOPE OF WORK & DELIVERABLES
10.   Support services are required for the implementation of defined activities of the Tax
Administration Component of the PFMP under the following categories: (a) national and
international consultants; (b) subcontracts; (c) local training activities; (d) overseas study tours;
and (e) operational support services. The responsibilities of the PMSS contractor in relation to
the five categories of activity are described below.
11.   National and International Consultants. This category covers the recruitment and
remuneration of national and international consultants and project support staff. Specifically, the
PMSS contractor will be responsible for undertaking the following activities, all in consultation
with the Head of the PMU.
(a)       Negotiating and determining contractual arrangements with international and
national consultants approved by the Director General. The terms of reference
for each consultancy will be prepared by the PMU and approved by the World
Bank
(b)       Undertaking all kinds of administrative tasks such as regular payment to the
consultants, insurance and relevant taxes
(c)       Undertaking all kinds of administrative tasks for the staff of the PMU, both
GDR officials and consultants, such as travel arrangements, payments and per
diems; in relation to project related field trips and attendance to national and
international meetings, seminars, etc;
(d)       Keeping financial and accounting records and regular reporting to the Head of
the PMU and Director General.



- 94 -
12.   Subcontracts. This category covers the management of the contracts implied by the
foregoing five TOR. It includes planned studies and researches to support the changed
procedures, new technology introduction, and institutional development of the GDR's
modernization program; supervision of training programs, including management training;
development and production of public information materials and other project services as may be
required. Specifically, the contractor will be responsible for undertaking the following activities,
all in consultation with the Head of the PMU.
(a)       Issue of Requests for Proposals (RFPs) to the selected firms according to the
Terms of Reference (TORs) and the shortlist of firms proposed by the GDR
and approved by the World Bank
(b)       Undertaking necessary activities related to the evaluation of bid proposals,
amendments in TORs as requested by the GDR upon the approval of the
World Bank; and negotiating and contracting with the successful bidder upon
the final approval of the General Director
(c)       Undertaking all kinds of administrative tasks such as payments to the
subcontractor(s) based on the payment plan agreed in their contract and upon
the final confirmation of the General Director
(d)       Keeping financial and accounting records and reporting to the PMU regularly.
13.   Local Training Activities. This category covers the management support services for the
implementation of all training programs to be organized for GDR and other MOF personnel
under this component. Specifically, the contractor will be responsible for undertaking the
following activities, all in consultation with the Head of the PMU.
(a)       Undertaking all kinds of administrative tasks such as advance payments,
reconciliation of advance payments and final payments to the regional and
local staff and also to the PMU, as the case may be, based on the global
training program to be prepared by the GDR and approved by the World bank
(b)       Keeping financial and accounting records and reporting to the GDR regularly.
14.   Overseas Study Tours. This category covers the management support services to the
implementation of overseas study tours, which will be provided for management and technical
personnel.
(a)       Undertaking all kinds of administrative tasks such as travel arrangements and
payments for each of the fellow and the host institution(s) selected by the GDR
and approved by the World Bank
(b)       Keeping financial and accounting records and reporting to the GDR regularly.



- 95 -
15.   Operational Support Services. This activity covers the procurement of translation
services, office equipment, furniture, and supplies for the PMU to facilitate project activities.
(a)       Undertaking procurement procedures for translation services, office
equipment, furniture and supplies according to the technical specifications and
itemized list of requirements prepared by the PMU and approved by the World
Bank, and contracting with the successful bidder upon the final approval of the
General Director
(b)       Undertaking necessary activities related to the evaluation of bid proposals,
amendments in technical specifications as requested by the GDR upon the
approval of the World bank, and negotiating and contracting with the
successful bidder upon the final approval of the General Director
(c)       Undertaking all kinds of administrative tasks such as payments to the
subcontractor(s) based on the payment plan agreed in their contracts and upon
the confirmation of the General Director
(d)      Keeping financial and accounting records and reporting to the PMU regularly.
INPUTS FROM GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF REVENUES
16.   The Project Management Unit (PMU) of the General Directorate of Revenues as the
implementation agency is charged with the responsibility to carry out necessary administrative
and support activities including the preparation of Terms of Reference, short lists, obtaining no-
objections from the World Bank, and any other official clearances as required, approval of
contracts, technical review of consultant's performance, and outputs as per the relevant rules and
regulations established by the World Bank.
17.   The GDR will provide adequate funds in a timely manner from the proceeds of the IBRD
loan and its own budget to meet component costs, including the PMSS contractor's administration
fee.
CONTRACTOR'S ADMINISTRATION FEE
18.   The contractor shall indicate, in its proposal, the fee for services such as accounting,
payroll, financial reporting, computer time, secretarial and other assistance to be provided. The
"administration fee" must be justified by the staffing plan. Any increase or decrease in the
amount of administrative costs resulting from increases or decreases in the amount of the services
to be provided will be mutually agreed by the GDR and the contractor.



- 96 -
REVISIONS
19.   The following types of revisions may be made to these TOR upon the mutual agreement
of both the GDR and the contractor:(a) revisions which do not involve significant changes in the
immediate objectives, outputs or activities of a project, but are caused by the rearrangement of
inputs already agreed to or by cost increases due to inflation; and (b) mandatory annual revisions
which alter the delivery of agreed project inputs or increased expert or other costs due to
inflation.
20.   In the event of any other changes made in the Loan Agreement that cause any significant
decrease or increase in the type and amount of services to be provided by the contractor, the
administrative fee may be rearranged upon the mutual agreement of the GDR and the PMSS
Contractor.
REPORTING, REVIEW, AND EVALUATION
21.   The consultant will report to the Head of the PMU, and serve as an ex officio member of
the PMU. The assignment will also require close liaison with the In-House Advisory team. The
consultant will be required to assist the PMU to prepare period reports covering procurement,
disbursement and audit issues to be submitted to the World Bank.
TIMING AND LEVEL OF EFFORT
22.   This consultancy will be conducted in the capital city of Ankara, in the Republic of
Turkey. A professional project management specialist, equipped with the knowledge and skills to
ensure the timely provision of support services for the successful implementation of project
activities, is required to assist the GDR throughout the period of component execution. Short
term consultants would be added on an as needed basis, e.g., translation services.
23.   The assignment is expected to start around the beginning of November 1995 and will last
until May 1997 in the first instance. It is expected that the assignment will be extended for a
further 4-5 years in the context of a second PFMP loan from the World Bank.
QUALIFICATIONS
24.   Bidders will be required to submit qualification profiles for the consultant who will carry
out the assignment. The profile will form an important part of the bid evaluation. The
consultant must be fluent in both the English and Turkish languages. Prior experience with
World Bank projects is an advantage. The selected consultant would be able to demonstrate
superior professional and technical capacity, as well as experience in:
(a)       Managing and coordinating complex projects of similar magnitude, preferably
in the financial complex of large organizations
(b)       Undertaking large volumes of financial transactions with several different
entities within a limited time period.



Annex Ic
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Tax Administration Component
Detailed Cost Table






Turkey
Publc Finhndl Managenent Project
Tax Adminstration Component - Detailed Costs (USS'OOO)
orfwhi                         TOTAL
Bo" Codb                        De"            Totl           lUd>ila
U.k         nRmuncdor         1986        1994       197          Tela    & Teaes    C.adagowdus   Cetnedopcso)
A. ChI Work
1. SimatePocon                                              hawp sn          GOT              43           0           0            43            0               2               U
Subtotal                                                                                43           0           0            43            0               2               44
I. Ifam             Modd Lab A IT Fmnw                                                         Q        L6             Q         Lou0m                                           2 81
a) Crek(SyaaxTpe A)                                       2            IBRD              0        1.220          0         1,220          252              67            1,287
b) P eunaJCopitm                                         32            IBRD              0          119          0           119           23               7              126
c) L_ernpnt                                               I            IBRD              0           3           0             3            1               0                3
d) iUne Printe                                            I            IBRD              0          20           0            20            4               1               21
e) MldixPrirnt                                            2            IBRD              0           3           0             3            1               0                3
f) Softwam (Wowpg medhzn coda repou)                  hsmunim          IBRD              0          24           0            24            5               1               25
g) Dcb B_e Softwre (32 um)                            hump um          IBRD              0           53          0            53           11               3               56
h) UPS Syutm(30KWA)                                   hawp mn    I      BRD              0          37           0            37            8               2               39
i) OfficA         AuAonm&pqxrrant & Supplies          hunpsumr         IBRD              0          124          0           124           26               7              131
2. Tax Pobcy Model                                          hmupsun          IBRD              25           0          0            25            5                1              26
3. TIN Equpuim                                              lunpsum          GOT              450           0          0           450            0               0              450
4. Lcal Office IT Equipmnut                                  hunpn           GOT            3,000           0          0         3,000            0               0            3,000
Subtotal                                                                              3,475       1,603           0         5,077          337              89            5.166
C. Trailag
1. Slrhb n Inb-ah     S-n  DeoIW-  CWapdqy                  hop sum          GOT              25          526       10            701            0              42              742
2. TruigotLabSortory Sff                                    hump um          IBRD               0         125          0           125            0               7              132                            x0
3. Tramg for New IT Staff                                                    GOT               70           0          0            70            0               3               73
4. TranmingofCmputotEn_z                                                      GOT             250         230          0           501            0              23              524
5. Stdy Toux                                                 20 isaff        IBRD              s0         150          0           200            0              10              210
6. PokiyAniymyd                                                              IBRD               0         175          0           175            0               10             185
Subtotl                                                                                 395        1,226        130         1,772            0              94            1.865
D. Techolcal Abata.c
1. n HoeAdo                                                                                    7         563         2L            90             Q              54             524
a) TaK A       _dnistrntn AdAor                    18pm nm morA        IBRD              38         300        113           450            0              27              477
b) Short Term Advo                                 18 po   inntn       IBRD              38         263        130           450            0              28              478
2. O 0mAh        Study                                      ho  umm          IBRD               0         432        308           740             0             48              788
3. Third Party Infrtion Study                               bmp mmn          IBRD               0         183          0           183             0              10             193
4. Bank;g Study                                             hpmau            IBRD               0         183          0           183             0              10             193
5. WithholdigStudy                                          hbnpsm           IBRD               0         136          0           136             0              8              144
6. lnfolrtnin/ Pxom Model                                   howam -          IRD                0       1.725        772          2.497            0             155           2.653
7.Luxroy                                                    luomp uen        IBRD               0         991        300          1,291           0              78             1.369
8. Develop afmuimn Te.daIo  finwrk                          hmp -            IBRD               0           0        470           470             0              37             507
9. Ta Pcy A ys                                           12 pmmon            IBRD              50         230          0           300             0              16             316
Subtotal                                                                                125       4,462      2.113         6,700            0             416            7,116
L Projwt Suppot
1. Mt-DMAW S                    KE
S)Potmuimwociho                                      bhumpu mm         GOT               35         204         75           314            0               18             332
b) M   inoewm                                         kanp mmn         OOT               s0         150          0           200            0              10              210
2. hmurn    IT Staff                                        hnpm  en         GOT               30          30          10           70             0               4              74
&AOtal                                                                                  113         384          85           584            0              32             616
TOTAL                                                                                  4,158       7,675      2,347        14,176          237             632           14,m






Annex ld
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Tax Administration Component
Implementation Schedules






Public Financial Management Project
Tax Administration Implementation Plan
1995                 1996        T        1997
ID   Task Narne                                                    Duration    Start    Finish     2   03   Q4  Ql  Q2  Q3  Q4   0 1   Q2   03   04  Q1
I    In-House Advisory Services                                       80.6w    11/1/96   5/16/97
2        Preparation of Planning Documents                             14.2w   11/1/95    2m/796
3        Support to Implementation of Administration Reform             63w   2/12/96   4/25/97
4        Prepare Final Assessment Report                               14.2w    2/7/97   5/16/97
5    Project Managemnent Support Services                              80.6w    11/1/95   5/16/97
6    Organization Study                                                 52w     1/8/96    113/97
7        Review Current Organization & Proposed Plans                   12w    1/8/96   3/29/96
B        Define Aitematives & Analyze Impacts                           12w   1/29/96   4/19/96
9        Complete Stage 1 Recommendations                                3w   4/12/96    5/2/96
10       Prepare Responsibilites, Authorities, Change Documents          12w   4/12/96    7/4/96
11       Incorporate Process Re-Engineering Changes                     20w   6/26/96  11/12/96
12       Prepare Advisory Reports                                       40w   326  12/2696
13       Prepare Final Stage 2 Reports                                    4w   12/9/96    1/3/97
14   Third Party Inforration Study                                     32.8w     1/8/96   8/22/96
15       Review Background Materials                                     4w    1/8/96    2/2/96
16       Complete Information Source Catalog                             10w   1/15/96   3/22/96
17       Develop Intelligence Center Concepts, Priorities, Evaluation    18w   2/26/96   6/28/96
is       Prepare Prototype Scenarios, Cases studies                    12.2w    4/5/96   6/28/96
19       Complete final Report                                          7.8w    7/1/96   8/22/96
Task                                   Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Progress                              Rolled Up Task
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone <C>






Public Financial Management Project
Tax Administration Implementation Plan
1996                 1996                  1997
ID   TaskNarne                                                      Duration    Start    Finish   02   Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2  0Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2   03   Q    01
20   Banking Study                                                      25.8w    11/8/96    7/4/96
21        Review Existing Materials and Background                         4w    118196    2/96
22       Review of Current Operations, Operational Issues, Constraints    11w    1/15/96   3/29/96
23       Develop Process Concepts, Requirements, Impacts                 low    3/8/96   5/16/96
24       Consolidate Findings and Complete Final Report                   12w   4112V96    7/4/96
26   Withholding Study                                                   26w      1/8196    7/6196
26        Review Existing Materials and Background                         4w     1/8/96  .2/
27       Complete Analysis of Current Methods                             11w    1/15/96   3/29/96
28       Develop Afternate Concepts Identify New Requirements            1Ow   2/26/96    5/3/96
29       Consolidate Findings, Complete Final Report                      11w   422/96    7/5/96
30   Develop Information and Process Model                               63w    118/96   1/10/97          .         .
31       Select Modeling Methoddology                                      3w     1/8/96   1/26/96
32       Model Known Information Sources and Processes                     9w    1/29/96   3/29/96
33       Incorporate New Information from Other Activities                30w   3/22/96  10/17/96
34       Complete Informaton/Process Models                               13w  10/14/96   1/10/97
36   Strengthen In4-ouse System Developrment Capability                  67w    1/16/96   4/26/97
36       Develop Sidlls Inventory                                          4w   1/15/96    2/9/96
37       Prepare Interim Training Requiremnents                            6w   1/22/96    3/11/96        .l
38       Procure Training Interim Training Providers                       6w    1/29/96    318/96
Task                                   Summary                                 Rolled Up Progress
Progress                               Rolled Up'Task
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone






Public Financial Management Project
Tax Administration Implementation Plan
1995         1        1996                  1997
ID   Task Narne                                                      Duration     Start    Finish   Q2  Q3   Q4  Q1   Q2   Q3   Q4  0Q1   02   0304    Q
39        Prepare Individual Training Plans                                 8w    4/12/96    6/6/96
40        Conduct Initial Phase 1 Training                               51.2w   3/22/96   3/14/97
41       Integrate Framework Requirements, Expand Training                  6w    3/17/97   4/25/97
42   Modeling, Prototyping & Training Laboratory                           61w     2/5/96    4/4/97
43        Review Existing Materials & Background                            4w     2/5/96    3/1/96
44        Prepare Tender Documents & Award Contracts                       1                4w22/13/96 4/
45        Develop Local & Regional Ops. Concepts & Models                  24w    2/19/96    8/2/96
46        Prepare & Setup Lab Facility & Lab Operations                    26w     4/8/96   10/4/96
47        Train Laboratory Support Staff                                   26w    5/13/96   11/8/96
48        Prepare Demonstrations & Pilot Operations                        23w    10/7/96   3/14/97
_       ~         _         _ __              _      _                
49        Develop & Test Pilot Training                                    26w     8/5/96   1/31/97
50        Prepare Final Recommendations & Reports                          13w     1/6/97    4/4/97
51   Develop Information Technology Framework                            16.8w    12/3/96   3/28/97                                    _
52        Review Models from Preceeding Activities                          2w     2/3/97   2/14/97
53        Establish Framework Standards                                     6w    2/17/97   3/28/97
54        Prepare IT Specifications                                         8w    12/3/96   1/27/97
55        Conduct Internal GDR Reviews                                      2w    1/28/97   2/10/97
56        Adopt Framework & Strategic Plan                                  1w   2/11/97   2/17/97
57        Complete Final Documents                                          4w    2/18/97   3/17/97
Task                                    Summary                                 Rolled Up Progress
Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Milestone                               Rolled Up Milestone






Public Financial Management Project
Tax Administration Implementation Plan
1995                 1996                   1997
ID    Task Name                                                      Duration     Start  | Finish   Q2   Q3   Q4  Ql  Q2   Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2   Q3   Q4   Q1
58   Tax Policy Analysis                                                 51.6w    11/1/95  10125/96
59        Policy & Data Assessment & Analysis                            16.6w    11/1/95   2/23/96        ..
60        Model Development and Implementation                           21.8w     1/8/19    6/6/96
61        Preparation of Phase 2 Report                                     8w     5/6/96   6/28/96
62        Training                                                 i       26w j4/29/96  10/25/96
Task                                    Summary                                 Rolled Up Progress
Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Milestone                               Rolled Up Milestone <>












