             Document of
          The World Bank




                                     Report No: 25572

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
        (SCL-39420; PPFB-P2730)

                ON A

                LOAN

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$62 MILLION

               TO THE

         REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                FOR A

PUBLIC FINANCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT




              June 6, 2003

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                   Currency Unit =

                                        FISCAL YEAR


                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALMIS      Assets and Liabilities Management Information System
BYES       A computer based budget preparation system
BILGE      A computer based customs administration system
CY         Calendar Year
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CoA        Chart of Accounts
EU         European Union
FAD        Fiscal Affairs Department
FLS        Financial Ledger System
FY         Fiscal Year
GDBFC      General Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control
GFMIS      Government Financial Management Information Systems
GFS        Government Finance Statistics
GDR        General Directorate of Revenues
GDPA       General Directorate of Public Accounts
GDPF       General Directorate of Public Finance
HR         Human Resources
IMF        International Monetary Fund
IT         Information Technology
IRS        Internal Revenue Service
IRU        International Road Transport Union
LTU        Large Tax Payers Unit
MOF        Ministry of Finance
OCR        Optical Character Reader
PSAL       Public Sector Adjustment Loan
PTL        Program Team Leader
PFMP       Public Finance Management Project
QAE        Quality at Entry
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
say 2000i  A computer based system for budget execution
SPO        State Planning Organization
SPP        State Personnel Presidency
TDSP       Treasury Data Systems Project
TCA        Turkish Court of Accounts
TIR        Transport Internationaux Routiers
US-IRS     United States- Internal Revenue Service
VAT        Value Added Tax

    Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
 Country Director:   Ajay Chhibber
   Sector Manager:   Helga Muller
Task Team Leaders:   Ali Hashim, Carlos Ferreira

                                           TURKEY
                             Public Finance Management Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33

Project ID: P035759                                                      Project Name: Public Finance Management Project
Team Leader: Ali Hashim                                                  TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 6, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Public Finance Management Project                        L/C/TF Number: SCL-39420; PPFB-P2730
   Country/Department: TURKEY                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Tax policy and administration (P); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (P); Administrative and civil service
                            reform (P); Law reform (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    06/17/1994                                        Effective: 11/15/1995              05/01/1996
   Appraisal:    04/10/1995                                            MTR: 12/15/1998                12/15/1998
    Approval:    09/21/1995                                         Closing: 06/30/2000               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY/MOF & UNDERSECRETARIATS OF
                                           CUSTOMS AND TREASURY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Johannes F. Linn                                    Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Director:          Ajay Chhibber                                       Rachel Lomax
Sector Manager:            Helga Muller                                        Christiaan J. Poortman
Team Leader at ICR:        Ali Hashim                                          Samuel J. Otoo
ICR Primary Author(s): Ali Hashim; Carlos D. C.
                           Ferreira


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The specific objectives pursued in the three components of the PFMP are summarized below.

    (a) The Tax Administration component was directed at modernizing the organization, systems and
    procedures of tax administration in Turkey, with a particular focus on strengthening the compliance,
    enforcement and policy formulation capabilities of the tax authorities, and improving progressively the
    conditions for tax payers who comply. The underlying goal was to broaden the tax base in order to
    increase tax revenues while ensuring a more equitable distribution of the tax burden.

    (b) The Expenditure and Personnel Management component attempted to enhance the government
    budget's usefulness as a fiscal policy instrument and as a tool for managing public finances by reducing
    the number of sources of government spending that operated outside budgetary channels, and by
    introducing budgeting of public administration positions and payroll. It also aimed to modernize the
    complex and outdated budgetary accounting procedures and systems that impede effective and efficient
    control over government finances.

    (c) The Customs Modernization component was directed at: (i) shifting the Custom Administration's
    policy from its costly and inefficient ex-ante, full coverage, sanctioning approach to a more ex-post
    and efficiency seeking stance, still capable of gathering appropriate revenues and enforcing relevant
    national and international laws; and (ii) at advancing the changes in the national customs organization
    required for Turkey to be able to enter into a customs union with the European Union (EU).

Context. The primary economic challenges facing Turkey in 1994-5 were to establish the foundations for a
sustainable fiscal adjustment and to bring about a rapid and durable reduction in inflation. The policy
reforms required for this needed to be complemented by a variety of institutional reforms to strengthen
public financial management. The domestic tax system was characterized by a relatively narrow base. This
situation was due in large part to deficiencies in tax administration systems that precluded a broadening of
the income tax base, effective collection and compliance activities, and better taxpayer service. Expenditure
management and control was severely hampered by a complex and outdated budgetary framework and
systems, the plethora of agencies and funds that were effectively outside the budgetary process, and
deficiencies in cash management and public sector accounting. As a result, general government
expenditures exceeded targets by large margins in the early and mid nineties, and fiscal policy was driven
by the short term financing needs of the government. Public administration was characterized by
considerable overstaffing due to poor information and lack of controls over personnel expenditures. Finally
the major liberalization of external trade achieved during the 1980's was not matched by corresponding
changes in customs administration. The customs regime was costly and inefficient and detracted from the
competitiveness of Turkish exports and the country's attractiveness as a site for investment. Another major
impetus for change in this area stemmed from the requirements of Turkey's anticipated customs union with
the EU. The proposed PFMP was to assist in addressing institutional and systemic problems in taxation,
government spending and in related personnel management functions and customs administration.

Assessment of Objectives. The objectives of this project reflected essential priorities for public finance
management as identified by the Government and the Bank in 1995. They were consistent with the
Government strategy for setting up institutions, systems and procedures necessary to enhance the
Government's capacity to manage its financial resources.



                                                      - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

At the project identification stage the Government was insistent on a very comprehensive reform program
encompassing most elements of the public sector. However, the Bank realizing the difficulties of
implementing such a program, agreed only to address a few key elements of the reform agenda in the first
phase and convinced the Government that it would be more prudent to time slice the program. The PFMP
was therefore designed to be a phased operation, with the current project envisaged as phase I and a
follow-on PFMP II designed to cover remaining areas of reform. However, even the objectives set for
Phase I proved to be very ambitious and complex to implement under the umbrella of a single project. Two
years into project implementation, it was found that: (a) some Government agencies were willing to
undertake quite extensive reform in their functional processes, organizational structures and associated
systems and procedures, whilst others were not so forthcoming; and (b) it was easier to proceed with the
reform agenda when the associated reform activities fell under the purview of specific agencies rather than
being spread across multiple agencies. The Government and the Bank agreed to: (a) make adjustments to
the project scope and settle for a more gradual pace of reform and more modest objectives for some
components, making an effort to better match the scope to implementation capacity; (b) simplify
implementation by restricting work on a given component to a specific agency instead of across multiple
agencies; and (c) focusing on activities related to the design and implementation of information systems
which would provide immediate and tangible benefits and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the
relevant agencies. This was achieved by a significant project re-structuring in 1998 and another set of
adjustments in 2000. The formal project restructuring was approved by the Board on March 30, 1998. In
the second set of adjustments, the Government proposed and the Bank approved the cancellation of one
component and re-allocations for additional activities for some components within the overall scope of the
project. These were approved by the Country Director and put into effect by an amendment to the Legal
agreement in September 2000. After the two revisions objectives of the project components were as
follows:

    (a) Tax Administration Component. The revised objective of this component was still directed at
    modernizing the organization and systems of the tax administration department and strengthening its
    policy formulation capabilities, but the scope of the component would be restricted to a few specific
    areas: (i) undertaking studies relating to the organizational and information technology needs of the
    General Directorate of Revenue (GDR); (ii) establishing a tax policy unit in the GDR; and (iii) paying
    increased attention to training activities under the component.

    (b) Expenditure and Personnel Management Component. The restructured component had a
    reduced set of objectives that sought to strengthen the budget preparation and execution processes by
    implementing a new budget classification structure and Chart of Accounts (CoA) compliant with GFS,
    and new automated systems for budget preparation and execution.

    (c) Customs Modernization Component. The goal of the Customs Modernization component
    remained effectively unchanged, and was directed at shifting customs from its original costly
    sanctioning approach to a more efficient and selective examination process and advancing the changes
    in Customs required to allow entry into the EU.

    (d) Debt Accounting and Cash Management Component. This new component added in 1998
    focused on a reform program built on the work done under a previous Bank operation (the Treasury
    Data Systems Project -TDSP). The objective of this component was to modernize debt accounting
    procedures and practices. In September 2000, a sub-component focusing on the training of Treasury



                                                      - 3 -

    Controllers who are responsible for the audit of World Bank projects and of State Owned Enterprises,
    was added to improve the quality and timeliness of these audits.

    (e) Audit Modernization component. The objective of this new component added in 1998 was to
    improve the quality and relevance of the audits carried out by the Turkish Court of Accounts (TCA)
    and enable it to produce more meaningful reports for Parliament. This component was subsequently
    cancelled at the request of the Government in the project adjustments in September 2000.

The revised objectives were more focused on addressing priority areas needing reform and much more in
line with the implementation capacity of the counterpart agencies.

3.3 Original Components:

The original components of the project were:

    (a) Tax Administration Component (Cost US$14.9 million, Bank Financing US$8.9 million). The
    Tax administration component was to: (i) restructure the management and administrative organization
    of the GDR so as to reduce fragmentation of managerial authority and achieve a more functional
    strategic orientation; (ii) introduce modern automated systems for core tax administration and
    management functions, to allow for an expansion of business and more effective and efficient
    operations; (iii) enhance the policy-making capability of the GDR, including the establishment of a
    permanent Policy Analysis Unit; and (iv) enhance GDR's compliance enforcement capability by
    developing and implementing a third party tax information system that would progressively permit the
    broadening of the tax base and the growth of revenues through improved audits and compliance checks.

    (b) Expenditure and Personnel Management Component (Cost US$11.06 million, Bank
    Financing, US$8.6 million). Activities under this component were targeted to: (i) strengthen
    budgetary systems control by reducing substantially the number of off-budget spending entities,
    tightening the relationship between the budgeting and the planning process, and improve the links
    between the current and the investment budgets; (ii) make spending agencies more accountable by
    rationalizing the budget and accounting systems, remove ex-ante controls while improving ex-post
    audit capabilities; and strengthen budget decision-making by introducing a more appropriate budget
    code structure for economic analysis; (iv) install streamlined procedures to govern commitment
    authorization and monitoring and a simplified model compatible with the proposed Financial Ledger
    System (FLS); (v) modernize budgeting and accounting functions, payment processes and treasury
    management; (vi) enhance the capabilities of the core agencies to fulfill their expenditure management
    responsibilities by upgrading information systems and staff skills, realigning the systems on a
    functional basis and creating an integrated financial management system for budget accounting and
    payroll management.

    (c) Customs Modernization Component (Cost: $68.3 million, Bank Financing US$44.4 million).
    Activities under this component aimed to: (i) rid customs procedures of their present duplication,
    excessive paper work and physical controls and replace them by self-assessment methods, selective
    physical inspections and document checks, stronger post release reviews and simpler import controls;
    (ii) upgrade present computerization to full automation of customs procedures and the capacity to
    enforce legislative and EU requirements; (iii) consolidate responsibilities for development and
    maintenance of automated information systems; (iv) restructure and downsize the customs organization
    in line with the new operational procedures; and (vii) support these changes with staff training, facility
    renovation, public information programs and pilot tests with brokers and other stakeholders.



                                                     - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:

During project implementation, project activities envisaged as part of the Tax Administration and the
Expenditure and Personnel Management Components were found to be too ambitious and exceeding the
capacities of the implementing agencies. In the case of the Expenditure and Personnel Management
component they also required close coordination and cooperation across multiple agencies, namely the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Treasury, the State Planning Organization (SPO), the State Personnel
Presidency (SPP) and the TCA. The initial enthusiasm shown by these agencies to participate in a
collaborative reform effort, during project design, was found to be not sustainable as the reform program
progressed. The Government therefore requested that: (a) activities under both these components be scaled
back and restricted to priority elements more in line with the capacity of the implementing agencies; (b) in
the case of the Personnel and Expenditure Management component, the scope be restricted to elements that
would be carried out by the MOF and the reform agenda for some of the other implementing agencies, such
as that for the Treasury and the TCA, be packaged into separate components. For example, in the earlier
design an overall Government Financial Management Information System (GFMIS) had been envisaged,
which would cover the requirements of the MOF, the Treasury, the SPO and TCA. In the revised design the
MOF systems would concentrate on budget preparation and budget execution and work related to Debt
Accounting systems was split off into a separate component. As mentioned above, this was accomplished
by a formal re-structuring of the PFMP in March 1998 and subsequent adjustments in 2000. The final
scope of the revised components is:

    (a) Tax Administration Component (Cost US$2.35 million; Bank financing US$2.02 million).
    Activities under this component were restricted to: (i) Studies relating to the organizational and
    information technology needs of the GDR; (ii) a program to establish a tax policy unit in the GDR; and
    (iii) training activities.

    (b) Expenditure and Personnel Management Component (Cost US$1.8 million; Bank Financing
    US$ 1.6 million). The scope of this component was restricted to: (i) finalization and implementation of
    a new GFS compliant budget classification structure; (ii) implementation of a Financial Ledger System
    (FLS) to enable the MOF to monitor the execution of the budget; (iii) design of a financial reporting
    system to provide the MOF with timely and accurate information; and (iv) design of information
    systems to support these activities and their implementation at a set of pilot sites. In a further
    adjustment of this component, put into effect in 2000, the Government decided that it would use Bank
    financing only for consulting work related to: (i) studies carried out under the consulting contract with
    the IMF's Fiscal Affairs Department on the reform of the public finance management system; (ii)
    consulting assignments to support the design and implementation of the new budget execution system,
    say 2000i; and (iii) training activities for MOF staff. Expenditure on hardware and software and
    further design work on the new budget preparation system would be met from the Government's own
    resources.

    (c) Customs Modernization Component (Cost US$68.4 million; Bank Financing US$48.44
    million). The Government requested and the Bank agreed in September 2000 to an increase in scope of
    this component to cover further modernization of the Ipsala, Kapikule and Derekoy border posts in
    addition to the existing activities described above.

    (d) Debt Accounting and Cash Management Component (Cost US$5.07 million; Bank Financing
    US $4.7 million). This component aimed to modernize debt accounting procedures and practices and
    design and implement an automated accounting system for state debt and guarantees. The component


                                                     - 5 -

    also included improvements in cash management by automation of the internal payments accounts
    office in Treasury. The additional sub-component added in 2000 aimed to provide the Board of
    Treasury Controllers with tailored training to further develop their skills in areas critical to the
    performance of their duties, including accounting and auditing. The program also included the
    procurement of office equipment needed to improve their efficiency and effectiveness. The program
    was to be implemented through three sets of activities: (i) English language training; (ii) training
    abroad in accounting and financial reporting, private and public sector auditing, and analysis of
    financial statements; and (iii) procurement of office equipment.

    (e) Audit Modernization Component (Cost US$10.91 million; Bank Financing US$4.85 million).
    This component focused on the TCA and had four sub components: (i) strengthening the audit process
    by improvements in audit management and planning, external reporting, and audit methodology and
    standards; (ii) provision of modern information technology to support TCA's work; and (iii)
    organizational development activities including a review of the organization of TCA, creation of new
    administrative structures and relationships for auditing, developing new policies and procedures for HR
    management and training, and enhancing training opportunities. The Government subsequently
    requested a cancellation of this component, in September 2000.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

QAE was not formally assessed by QAG for this project. The original project components were identified
and their scope determined with participation of the Government and were consistent with reform priorities
determined by the Government and the Bank. The design of the Customs and Expenditure and Personnel
Management components was carried out in close collaboration with the IMF and that of the Tax
component with the US IRS, and were based on international best practice. The bulk of Bank project
financing was allocated to the customs modernization component (US$48 million out of a total of US$57
million) which was largely implemented as originally designed. However, the other components were found
to be too complex and ambitious in scope in view of the involvement of multiple agencies. The project
underestimated the resistance to change, particularly as it related to a revision of the roles and
responsibilities of the main economic management agencies. Implementation capacity was also found not to
be commensurate with requirements in some of the implementation agencies and the scope of the
corresponding components had to be scaled back to bring it in line with the implementation capacity of the
relevant agencies. However, since the bulk of the operation dealt with the customs component, which
proceeded according to design, and since the revised components were able to achieve most of the expected
outputs, QAE is assessed as satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Most of the revised objectives of the project have been accomplished and the achievement of the objectives
can therefore be rated as satisfactory.

Under the Tax Administration component, the project has enhanced the capacity of the General Directorate
of Revenues (GDR) for tax policy analysis. Under the Personnel and Expenditure Management, the
Customs Modernization and the Debt Accounting and Cash Management components, the Government has
been able to put in place state of the art processes, procedures, and information systems to assist budget
execution, customs administration and debt accounting. These systems implementations have been
accompanied by a restructuring of key functional processes and organizational structures to bring them in



                                                      - 6 -

line with international best practices. They have been successful in increasing the efficiency and
effectiveness of the relevant departments and made their functioning more transparent.

Under the Personnel and Expenditure management component implementation of the say 2000i system
enables the MOF to obtain accurate and timely information on the status of budget execution and helps the
Treasury in better cash management. Efficiencies in budget execution achieved by the system have assisted
the Government in managing its financial obligations within the stipulated contractual time limits.

As part of the Customs modernization effort, extensive changes have been made in the underlying legal
framework to make it compatible with the EU, a major organizational re-structuring has been carried out to
make the Customs organization more efficient and has resulted in the closure of 120 branch offices. The
new customs system implemented though out the country has resulted in increased efficiencies in the
customs clearance process and made it more transparent. Systems implementation has enabled customs to
be more selective in its ex-ante examination processes, while retaining the ability for enforcement of
relevant regulations and increasing the level of revenue collections.

The new Treasury Debt Accounting system helps the Treasury to better manage its extensive debt portfolio
and improve its accounting procedures. Implementation of the say 2000i system at the Treasury
accountancies can also give Government a better idea of the total cash resources available to it at a given
point in time and thereby enable it to improve its borrowing strategy.

The improved analytical and information systems capacity at the MOF, the Customs administration and
the Treasury have also made a significant contribution to the reliability and relevance of financial
information available to the Government, thereby assisting in decision making. Finally, ready availability of
quality information has also enhanced overall transparency of the management of budget, debt and fiscal
risks in Turkey.

The specific outputs of each project component are described below.

4.2 Outputs by components:

(a) Tax Administration Component

This component was implemented by the General Directorate of Revenues (GDR) of the MOF. The
component was reduced in scope as part of the project restructuring carried out in 1998 and limited to a
few key activities. As a result, Bank financed costs were reduced from US$8.9 million to US$2.02 million.
Most of the activities envisaged under the revised scope of the tax administration component have been
completed, though results are mixed. Implementation of the component was supported by an US Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) in-house adviser and by short-term consultants who assisted with five working
groups on a broad range of modernization activities described below. On balance, the implementation
progress of the component is rated satisfactory because it carried out the planned activities, but its
contribution to the project's development objectives is unsatisfactory because many recommendations of the
working groups were not implemented by the MOF.

    (i) Automation Working Group. GDR elected to carry out most of the activities to automate the tax
    collection operations outside the context of the project under Government budget financing. To that
    effect, it developed, tested, and made operational the automated tax office (VEDOP) system, which
    automated the tax offices according to the business procedures and organizational arrangements
    defined in the tax law. The system supported the introduction of electronic filing in Turkey. The



                                                     - 7 -

project, through IRS consultants, provided planning and technical assistance to the effort. GDR
deployed the VEDOP system to 155 of its tax offices throughout the country.

(ii) Collections Working Group. The main activity of this group was to study on the collection of
taxes through the banking system. A short term IRS advisor provided assistance to the group. As a
result, the number of banks selected for revenue collections was increased from 17 to 25, as originally
targeted by the project, with about 50% of tax revenues collected by GDR being now collected through
the banking system.

(iii) Organization Working Group. This group was to carry out a major organization study of the
Tax Administration and to prepare a recommendation for management consideration. A number of
IRS short-term consultants assisted the working group, who also carried out two study tours to review
organizational arrangements and observe modern tax administration business processes.

A master plan for reorganization of the GDR was developed by the IRS and formally accepted in
March 2000. The study was completed and recommended to Ministry management the implementation
of a three-tier organizational structure with national, regional, and local levels. MOF management
decided not to implement the organizational recommendations made by the Group based on the IRS
study. Instead, management has opted for marginal improvements on as needed basis. For example,
the concept of Large Taxpayer Units (LTU's) recommended in the study has been partially adopted.
Nevertheless, the reorganization of the Tax Administration continues to be recommended by
international organizations, including the Bank and IMF. The study financed by the project continues
to be used as an important source of information as the MOF considers the future of the entity.

(iv) Tax Policy Working Group. Harvard University provided a three-week seminar on tax policy
analysis to about 30 senior tax officials in Ankara. Unit staff were trained in statistical and
mathematical software (GAMS) and in the design of tax policy models. The tax policy analysis unit
became operational after the first group of staff returned after completion of GAMS training in 1998,
however the unit's establishment was never formalized because of the MOF's inertia on reorganization
matters described in the paragraph above. The group was assisted by tax policy advisers and modeling
specialists on the design and construction of a general equilibrium based indirect tax model. Two
short-term consultants from the US Treasury provided technical assistance on Corporate Tax and
Personal Income Tax models. The working group encountered serious difficulties in establishing the
analytical foundation intended by the project because of unreliable historical data. Moreover, to
improve the quality of future data it would be necessary to seriously redesign tax forms. A review by
the US Treasury pointed out that, in addition to the previously known problems with data quality, the
data being captured from returns are insufficient to permit good quality economic modeling. At the end
of the project GDR, also considering its difficulties in retaining stable staffing for the Unit, was
studying how to best put in place the type of analytical capacity envisaged by the project.

(v) Third Party Information Working Group. This working group studied improvements in GDR's
ability to obtain so-called "third-party information" to validate the liability declaration of taxpayers.
The group provided recommendations to the MOF and Government for the improvement in the tax
legislation to create a legal base for collection of such data, which were incorporated in the recent Tax
Reform. IRS short-term consultants provided technical assistance and training to the working
group.The GDR has also completed an organizational study under a contract with the US IRS and has
had an extended dialogue with the IMF on organizational and other matters related to tax
administration. However, only a few of the recommendations made by this study, such as those related



                                                  - 8 -

    to the concept of Large Taxpayer Units (LTU's), have been implemented.

(b) Public Expenditure Management (PEM) Component

The General Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control (GDBFC) and the General Directorate of Public
Accounting (GDPA) of the MOF were the implementing agencies for this component. This component was
also considerably reduced in scope during the 1998 and the 2000 project restructuring whose main thrust
was to restrict component activities to those activities that fall under the purview of the MOF. Project
related financing for this component was reduced from around US$8.6 million to US$1.6 million as the
MOF expressed its ability and desire to meet all costs for hardware and software acquisition related to the
systems implementation from its own resources and to restrict Bank financing to cover consulting services
and expenses related to training.

Most of the outputs envisaged under the revised scope of this component have been completed and this
component is rated satisfactory.

    (i) The say 2000i system

         Under this component the GDPA has successfully designed and deployed a state of the art modern
         budget execution system, the say 2000i system, which embodies the functionality of a Financial
         Ledger System and has the reporting capabilities and capacity to provide the MOF with accurate
         and timely information on the status of budget execution.

         Say 2000i functionality: The say 2000i system has been implemented at some 1450 accountancies
         across the country. The accountancies are units of the MOF-GDPA located with line agencies and
         are responsible for budget execution and accounting activities. The GDPA accountancies located
         with spending agencies, record data on budget appropriations and budget releases sent directly to
         them by the budget office. After funds have been released, spending agencies make a request to
         their budget office/accountancy to make payments related to specific contracts and incur other
         expenditure by generating a payment order and sending it to the accountancy for payment. The say
         2000i system records these transactions as they are sent to the accountancy by the spending
         agencies, checks for the availability of funds and then generates a payment due to the creditor.
         After the expenditure has taken place the say 2000i system makes this information available to the
         GDBFC for it to compare budget appropriations with actual expenditures. The say 2000i system
         has the capability to provide a full suite of budget execution reports.

         In addition to the core accounting functions described above, the say 2000i system also has a
         payroll module that enables it to check the payroll calculations made by spending units. The
         responsibility for calculating the payroll rests with the spending unit, but the GDPA accountancies
         are responsible for checking these calculations prior to releasing payment. Operation of this
         module has enabled GDPA to develop a personnel and salary database for all civil servants.
         Currently the system is used by a number of accountancies covering the payroll calculations for
         1.8 million out of a total of 2 million civil servants. The say 2000i system also has a module that
         enables it to check health service related payments. These two modules allow the say 2000i system
         to covers all functions performed by the accountancies.

         The say 2000i system has been implemented in about 1450 accountancies across the country. A
         help desk with 20 operators continues to be fully operational and is being used by end users,
         country wide to resolve technical and other problems with the use of the system. A country-wide


                                                        - 9 -

     network of 350 trainers and 88 coordinators has been set up, with each trainer being responsible
     for three to four accountancies. Over 15,000 staff have already been trained out of whom about
     10,000 use the system for their operational day to day accounting work and are judged to be
     proficient in system use.

(ii) New Budget Classification and Chart of Accounts

     The MOF has designed a new budget classification structure and Chart of Accounts (CoA),
     conforming to the GFS, with IMF-FAD consulting assistance financed through this project. The
     MOF has successfully piloted the new budget classification structure and CoA at six budget offices
     and 49 associated accountancies. It plans to expand implementation of these elements, after an
     evaluation in 2003, to the consolidated budget agencies from January 2004 and to the Local
     Government and Extra Budgetary funds, such as the Social security fund, starting January 2005.
     Thus the necessary budgetary classification framework has been completed and tested under this
     project, and can be applied across Government. However, the Government will probably require
     additional technical assistance to complete the roll-out which could be provided as part of a
     separate operation.

(iii) Budget Preparation System

     As part of the adjustment in scope carried out in September 2000, the MOF decided to finance this
     activity from its own resources. The General Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control (GDBFC)
     in the MOF has completed a new computer based system to assist in the budget preparation
     process (BYES) that will enable it to prepare the budget according to the new classification
     structure and CoA and to monitor its execution using this system along with the say 2000i system
     mentioned above.This system was completed in CY 2002 and is being progressively implemented
     at the central accountancies, budget departments in line agencies. BYES has been used in the
     budget preparation process during the FY 2003 budget cycle.

(iv) Links of the say 2000i system with other MOF systems

     The say 2000i system is a key system whose effectiveness in providing accurate and up to date
     information to the MOF will be greatly enhanced as interfaces are implemented with some other
     Government systems. These are:

         l    Link with Revenue systems: This will enable the say 2000i system to obtain revenue data
              from the Tax Administration's VEDOP system to give MOF information on total revenues
              collected. The interface will also enable information on revenues collected via the say
              2000i system at 155 tax accountancies and 20 customs accountancies to be transferred to
              the GDR thereby also giving the GDR a complete picture of total revenues. This interface
              has been completed and daily updates from GDR systems are being sent to the GDPA and
              information on revenue collections at the accountancies that operate the say 2000i is now
              being transferred to the GDR.

         l Interfaces with the GDBFC systems: At present, the say 2000i system operates on the
              basis of budget release transactions sent to accountancies in hard copy format. After the
              expenditure has taken place, the say 2000i system makes information on actual
              expenditures available to the GDBFC for it to be able to compare actual expenditures with
              budget appropriations. After the new GDBFC systems become operational the say 2000i


                                                  - 10 -

                 system should be able to pick up budget release transactions electronically from these
                 systems. Network connections between GDPA and GDBFC have been set up to enable fast
                 data transfer. GDPA has also developed the software that will be required to access data
                 on budget appropriations and funds releases from GDBFC systems. However, this
                 interface is dependent on the completion of the GDBFC systems and the operationalization
                 of the interface arrangements. The Bank team has informed the MOF of the criticality of
                 this interface. As stated in the borrower comments, the budget preparation system is now
                 operational and the interface between BYES and say 2000i has improved significantly.

            l Link with Treasury systems: The State Debt Accountancy uses the accounting system
                 developed under the Treasury Debt Accounting component (see below) to generate
                 payments related to the domestic and external debt. The Treasury is supposed to send a
                 copy of these transactions in electronic form to the say 2000i system so that the latter can
                 update its databases and present a complete picture of Government debt related payments.
                 Conversely, the Treasury requires data on actual expenditures and revenues collected by
                 say 2000i for cash management purposes. Thus it is clear that these systems need to
                 interface with each other.

                 At present Treasury forwards aggregated data on debt related payments in the form of a
                 set of tables to a mailbox on the say 2000i system in pdf format which cannot be used to
                 update the say 2000i data bases.

                 The internal and external payments accountancies in Treasury are using the say 2000i
                 system for generating payments, however, they cannot as yet use the data on expenditures
                 and revenues gathered by the say 2000i system for cash management purposes and
                 continue to collect this data independently.

                 The Bank team has strongly advised the MOF and the Treasury to agree and implement
                 efficient data sharing arrangements that would enable both to get a complete picture of
                 government expenditures and receipts.

Overall assessment: Implementation of the say 2000i system has laid the basic technical infrastructure of
a system that could eventually evolve into the Government's Integrated Financial Management System
(GFMIS) as envisaged in the original scope of the PFMP. The system has the type of information that
would be required by all the primary players in economic management, namely the MOF, the Treasury, the
TCA, the SPO and the SPP. Experience in trying to develop interfaces between the various MOF and
Treasury systems has shown that implementation of an integrated schema is extremely difficult and will
require vision, attention and monitoring at the highest levels of Government to ensure cooperation between
all agencies. With a Government based on a single political party now in power in Turkey, this may be
easier to achieve. However, this issue will need to be addressed within the context of the Bank's overall
dialogue with the country.

(c) Customs Modernization Component

This component covers the bulk of the financial outlays envisaged under this project (US$48.4 million out
of a total Loan amount of US$57 million). The Customs Under-Secretariat has been responsible for
implementing the reform program agreed under this component. All activities envisaged under the
component have been completed and the component is rated satisfactory. The major reasons for successful
implementation of the component were (i) project ownership, commitment, support, and involvement of
Customs management at the highest levels; (ii) continuity of project management; and (iii) technical



                                                     - 11 -

assistance contract with the IMF during the early phase of implementation. The prospect of EU accession
was also a major driver of change. Work under this component was organized under four sets of activities
as follows:

(i) Improvements in Customs Legislation Procedures. Turkey's decision to enter into a Customs Union
     with the EU had a major impetus for this component. A new Customs Law was prepared to bring the
     entire Customs regulations in line with EU requirements. The law was passed by Parliament on
     October 27, 1999. Following passage of the new law, the Customs Undersecretariat prepared the
     regulatory framework consisting of about 900 articles. The new law and regulations went into effect
     on February 5, 2000. The new Customs Law and associated regulatory environment provided the
     needed legal basis for the simplification of Customs procedures to a level approaching that adopted in
     the European Union, a key objective of the project. Simplification was achieved in consultation with
     trading community. Extensive training was provided to traders.

     The new operational environment is based on the following principles: (i) business procedures,
     organization, and physical layout of facilities have been re-engineered to create an efficient
     environment for computerized clearance; (ii) Customs and public areas were refurbished to avoid
     contact between inspectors and the public; (iii) responsibility for electronic entry of declarations was
     assigned to traders who may enter declarations on Customs kiosk facilities, directly through dedicated
     or dial-up communication lines, or through the Internet; (iv) declaration processing is now randomly
     allocated to inspectors through an automatic ticket system; (v) a multichannel system was introduced
     with declarations selected by the computer system for green (release), blue (post-clearance review),
     yellow (documentary checks), or red (physical examination) channels, according to risk profiles
     maintained by Customs headquarters.

     The project was able to reduce physical examinations from 100% to less than 20% for imports and
     about 10% for exports by late 2002, with the progress in adoption of improved procedures reflected on
     the table below.

                       Red Channel
      Transaction      2002 Q1          2002 Q2           2002 Q3
      Type                                                (Ataturk
                                                          Airport)
      Import           22              22                17 
      Export           10              9                 11

     A number of changes in the operational environment made during execution of the project had as an
     objective, in addition to increasing efficiency, to reduce motive and opportunity for corruption. The
     operational changes made reduce contact and discretion, while a new post-release control monitors the
     quality of decision made by inspectors. Moreover, Customs management, faced with a continued
     perception of corruption (refer to TESEV household and business diagnostic surveys) continues to take
     this issue very seriously and has initiated a number of actions including an internal diagnostic survey
     and introduction of ethical rules for the Customs staff. Hence, though not a stated objective of the
     project, Customs modernization is contributing positively to the anti-corruption efforts of the
     government.

(ii) Reorganization of Customs Administration: Under this component the Undersecretariat of Customs,
     as required as a Loan covenant, prepared and subsequently implemented a reorganization plan with the



                                                       - 12 -

     following salient features: (i) issuance of a strategic statement for Customs; (ii) rationalization of the
     divided Customs and Enforcement organizations; (iii) reduction of the number of regional offices; and
     (iv) restructuring of headquarters. Pursuant to the plan, 120 Customs Offices were closed throughout
     Turkey and Import and Export Custom Directorates of the deployment sites have been combined under
     a single director responsible for all customs activities. Also, the functions of Regional Director of
     Customs and Director of Customs Enforcement were consolidated in Izmir, Kapikule, Gurbulak,
     Habur, and Sarp regions. Further changes toward a more comprehensive reorganization of the
     Customs organization were drafted but remain dependent on Parliament passing a specific law for this
     purpose.

(iii) Automation of Customs Operations: Most of the project investment was dedicated to the automation
     of Customs operations. Automation activities were centered on the implementation of a version of
     SOFIX, the computer system used in France, which was acquired as part of the Turkish-French
     Technical Customs Union Agreement. The software was customized to Turkey legal requirements and
     extended in functionality to support an electronic interface capability allowing traders/brokers to enter
     transaction data directly into the system. It was also customized to allow the use of handheld
     computers. The enhanced software became known as BILGE.

     Pilot Site Operations. The Ataturk Airport in Istanbul, which is responsible for 20 to 25% of the
     customs operations in the country, was selected as pilot site. There, BILGE underwent a one-year
     stress testing to give Customs management assurance that deployment throughout the country would
     take place smoothly.

     BILGE Implementation. When considering the extended functionality achieved under the project,
     BILGE became a modern state-of-the-art customs administration system. Implementation of the
     automation was completed and is being expanded to additional offices with Customs own budget,
     demonstrating early signs of sustainability. In addition to the 48 offices originally scheduled for
     participation in the project, the Bank agreed to financing the modernization of ten additional offices.
     The table below reports the offices modernized under the project. Also, Custom has started furthering
     the implementation of project results by introducing BILGE at the following offices using its own
     budget resources: Pazarkule (Bulgaria border), Yayladag (Syrian border), and Aksaray (internal post),
     as well as four additional posts at the Haydarpasa Port. As a result, by the end of the project 99% of
     the customs declarations were being processed under the BILGE automated processes.

      Modernized Customs Offices
      Customs Office                    Date          Customs Office                 Date
      1- Esenboca                       29.05.200 30-Manisa                           30.04.200
                                        0                                             1
      2- Behibey                       12.06.200 31-Mersin Free Trade                19.02.200
                                        0                                             1
      3- Konya                          14.08.200 32-Eskisehir                        08.10.200
                                        0                                             1
      4-Mersin & Regional               28.08.200 33-Adana                           04.06.200
                                        0                                            1
      5-Istanbul Reg.&-Karaky          04.09.200 34-Gebze                           04.06.200
                                        0                                            1
      6-Ankara Regional                 04.09.200 35-Izmit & Regional                04.06.200
                                        1                                           1



                                                       - 13 -

7-Yesilky Otomotiv       11.09.200 36-Headquarters           26.11.200
                          0                                   1
8-Atatrk Airport         11.09.200 37-Cilvegz              25.06.200
(Renovation)              0                                   1
9-erkezky               02.10.200 38-Derince                25.06.200
                          0                                   1
10-Erenky                09.10.200 39-Gaziantep & Regional   25.06.200
                          0                                   1
11-Kayseri                16.10.200 40-Antakya                30.07.200
                          0                                   1
12-Adnan Menderes Airport 06.11.200 41-Iskenderun & Regional  30.07.200
                          0                                  1
13-Ege Serbest Blge      13.11.200 42-Samsun & Regional      27.08.200
                          0                                   1
14-Halkali                13.11.200 43-Trabzon & Regional     27.08.200
                          0                                   1
15-Izmir Reg & Alsancak   27.11.200 44-Sarp                   27.08.200
                          0                                   1
16-Edirne Regional &      04.12.200 45-Sinop                  25.06.200
Kapikule                  0                                   1
17-Istanbul Posta         04.12.200 46-Hopa                   24.09.200
                          1                                   1
18-Ahl Free Trade         11.12.200 47-Rize                   24.09.200
                          0                                   1
19-Ambarli                15.01.200 48-Hakkari Regional       15.10.200
                          1                                   1
20-Ipsala                 08.01.200 49-Gida Ihtisas           08.10.200
                          1                                  1
21-Antalya & Regional     22.01.200 50-Grbulak Regional      19.11.200
                          1                                   1
22-Tekirdag               29.01.200 51-Habur Regional         22.10.200
                          1                                   1
23-Antalya Airport        05.02.200 52-Dereky                03.12.200
                          1                                   1
24-Haydarpasa             30.04.200 53-Dilucu                 03.12.200
                          1                                   1
25-Mudanya                26.02.200 54-Izmir Menemen          14.12.200
                          1                                  1
26-Bursa & Regional Bursa 12.03.200 55-K.Eregli               11.02.200
Textile                   1                                  2
27-Denizli                02.04.200 56-Haramidere Oil Customs 08.05.200
                          1                                   2
28-Aliaga                 02.04.200 57-esme Port Customs     23.08.200
                          1                                   2
29-Gemlik                 26.03.200 58-Aksaray                01.12.200
                          1                                   2




                                     - 14 -

As the BILGE project implementation is extended by Customs using its own resources, the
functionality of the system is also being further increased. The Customs project team developed a new
BILGE module for the control of transit called TIR-Transit. Under the new systems minimum data
from the TIR carnet entry section extracted at the point of entry and recorded in the system are then
made available to the point of destination, where it is completed. The system can easily identify cases
where trucks do not appear at the destination. But the most significant improvement is that the entry
and destination papers are kept at the respective offices and no longer remitted to Ankara for
processing, with significant gains in efficiency. Another related source of efficiency is that
corresponding international statistics that are routinely remitted to IRU (Geneva) are now carried out
three days after the closing of the week, while before the TIR-Transit system was implemented, it took
44 days. Turkey is now the second most efficient country in carrying out this international obligation.

Adoption of the electronic data system for input of customs transactions by importers and brokers also
continues to proceed at a very good pace, as indicated in the table below, and has reached levels higher
than anticipated under the project.


 Year             % Electronic
                  Transactions
 2000             8
 2001             32.44
 2002             43.17

Customs continues to refine and improve its risk management system and the level of physical
inspection of imports and, as indicated above, has already reached the level of 20% targeted by the
project. The selection system is being continuously re-balanced. For example, in September 2002 it
was changed to introduce a bias toward increasing the use of the blue channel and reducing random
selection into the red channel, which requires physical inspection. Reduction of physical inspections
from the baseline of 100% to the target of 20% was one of the key indicators sought by the project. As
exemplified in the table following para. (i) above, the levels of inspection sought by the project have
been achieved.

In addition, Customs has indicated that the national blue channel average (goods moved directly to
importers' premises and not subject to inspection) reached about 20% in October, with the remaining
60% of transactions being inspected through the yellow channel (document inspection only).
Moreover, the 20% of transactions going into the blue channel are biased toward high value
transactions and most likely correspond to more than half the value of import transactions. Finally, the
rate of detection of irregularities at either the red or yellow channel is in the 10-12% range, which
indicates that there is room for further improvement.

The green channel (release of goods with no inspection) has, for all practical purposes, come into
disuse because of the way the risk system currently works seems not to be conducive to the adoption of
a green channel scheme similar to that adopted in EU countries. Instead, Turkey has preferred to
increase the use of blue channel, which is similar to the green channel but applies to trusted foreign
trade operators, often government owned companies and large private sector enterprises.

In an attempt to improve the accuracy of the risk management system, a module has been added to
BILGE to compile statistics of irregularities detected and automatically adjusts the weights in the risk
system to increase the rate of inspection of factors (origin, good, importer, broker, tariff code, or



                                                   - 15 -

    geographic area) that are being detected.

    The post-release control system has been fully established and the necessary regulatory instructions
    have been issued. Post-release inspection is currently set at a 1% rate, except for importers with a very
    high number of transactions, for whom the rate is adjusted automatically. Also, all investigation
    reports are now being sent to Ankara for analysis by the risk management team to ensure quality of
    work.

(iv) Border Posts Modernization. In September 2000, a fourth activity was added to the project with the
    objective of modernizing three border posts between Turkey and Europe: Kapikule, Ipsala and
    Derekoy. The proposed plan included: (a) civil works for reconstruction of the posts, feeder roads, and
    inspection facilities; (b) basic inspection and automation equipment; (c) x-ray scanners. The Bank
    accepted financing automation and scanning equipment with the condition that the Government would
    finance the necessary civil works. Complementary to project activities, the Government also financed
    number-plate readers and bar-code scanning devices to improve the quality of enforcement. The
    Government would have liked to extend the project yet another time to expand the scope of this activity
    further. The Bank, however, did not agree to a further extension since it felt that the project had already
    been extended several times and that this work could have been completed in the allotted time.

(d) Debt and Cash Management Component

This component added to the project in 1998, was implemented by the General Directorate of Public
Finance (GDPF) in the Treasury. Most of the outputs expected have been completed and the component is
rated satisfactory.

This component financed activities related to the development of a Debt Accounting and Cash Management
System, including procurement of computer hardware, software, a variety of consulting services and
training activities. The Bank financing for this component was $4.7 million.

    (i) Treasury Public Finance Management System

        Under a previous Treasury Data Systems Project (TDSP) the Bank had financed the development
        of External and Domestic Debt Management Systems, namely the External Finance Information
        System and the Domestic Finance Information System. These systems kept a record of data on all
        Government External and Domestic Borrowing. However, actual payments and receipts related to
        this borrowing had to be prepared manually and posted in the manual accounting system. This was
        cumbersome and the manual processes were prone to errors. In addition, the Treasury also
        required systems modules to enable it to keep track of receivables due against loans it guaranteed
        and a database that tracked disbursements as reported by the spending agencies that are the actual
        beneficiaries of the loan.

        Under this component the Treasury has accordingly developed the following additional capabilities:

        i.        Developed and implemented a Receivables Management Information System which:

                 records general attributes and basic terms and conditions of agreements and protocols for
                  on-lending credit, assumed debt, direct lending (to external and domestic entities) and
                  frame agreements
                 creates projection information of flows including disbursement and collections


                                                     - 16 -

             records actual information of flows including scheduled and unscheduled disbursements
         and
              collections
             generates notices of payment due
             manages overdue payments (e.g. applies late payment interest, manages deductions)
             provides accounting information to the Public Finance Accounting System
             produces statistical and analytical reports
             records debt reorganizing operations, which are rescheduling, refinancing, debt transfer
         and
              conversion, against loans guaranteed by the Treasury

     ii.      Developed and implemented a External Project Credit Disbursement System that keeps
     track of disbursements against existing loans as reported by the spending agencies themselves;

     iii.     Developed and implemented a Payment Accrual (Tahakkuk Mzekkeresi) and Payment
     Order (deme Emri) System that enables automatic creation of payment accrual and payment
     order transactions for any external debt and domestic debt payments falling due. The GDPF uses
     this module to prepare the payment accrual transaction for any external or internal debt payments
     using a live link between this system and debt systems. The State Debt Accountancy checks the
     validity of payment accruals and prepares a payment order and sends it to the Central Bank that is
     the fiscal agent of the Treasury.

     iv.      Developed and implemented a Debt Accounting System. After the payment has been
     generated the system passes all data via an accounting interface to an Oracle Financials based
     accounting system that is also fully functional.

     Together these systems constitute the Treasury Public Finance Management system. The Treasury
     has further consolidated all these systems under a new software platform, completed an exercise
     under which all system redundancies would be removed, a uniform end user interface would be
     developed and the systems would be migrated from a client server to a web based environment. The
     new system is called the Assets and Liabilities Management Information System (ALMIS). The
     system is currently undergoing testing and migration to the new system is will occur over the
     March-June 2003 time frame. The Treasury has acquired and installed the necessary hardware
     required to move to the new technological environment under a recently completed International
     Competitive Bid financed under the project.

(iii) Cash management. The cash management function has benefitted from the implementation of the
say 2000i system which the Internal and External payments accountancies in the Treasury use to
process payment transactions, a task originally envisaged in this component. However, at present the
Treasury does not use say 2000i data on expenditure and revenues and still continues to collect this
data independently while it could be using the data available through the say 2000i system. The Bank
has advised the Treasury that to get the full benefit of the say 2000i system it should use all existing
data from the say 2000i system and discontinue its old methods of collecting this data.



(iv) Risk management. The Treasury has completed a set of four consultancies in the area of Risk
management related to: (a) formulation of a strategy for risk management; (b) contingent liability
evaluation and management; (c) assessment of risk management tools; and (d) systems related
requirements.


                                                  - 17 -

    (v) Training Program. The Treasury has, over the course of this project, sent over 50 officials for
    training held at a variety of institutions in Europe and US to train them in key areas related to its
    functional responsibilities.

    (vi) Training of Treasury Controllers. The English language training envisaged under this component
    has been completed and 30 controllers have completed language courses tailored to prepare them for
    training abroad. The foreign training envisaged under this component was organized in conjunction
    with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland. Three groups of auditors (a total of 36) have
    completed training in Edinburgh, Scotland, and now carry out the audit of World Bank financed
    projects using the knowledge obtained during this training. As a direct result of this training, the
    European Union has accepted the Board of Treasury Controllers as qualified auditors for the audit of
    European Union funds Necessary office equipment has also been procured and installed.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of the project varies across components. The design development and
implementation of new systems and procedures within the Customs Undersecretariat and the Treasury for
the debt accounting function have had a substantial institutional development impact. The Turkish
Government has been able to put in place two state of the art information systems to assist customs
administration and debt accounting. Implementation of these systems has been complemented by a
restructuring of key functional processes and organizational structures to bring them in line with
international best practices. These systems have: (a) increased the efficiency and effectiveness of the
relevant departments and made their functioning more transparent; (b) resulted in efficiencies in the
customs clearance process and made it more transparent; and (c) helped the Treasury to better manage its
extensive debt portfolio. The improved analytical and IT capacity at Customs Administration and the
Treasury have made a major contribution to the reliability and relevance of financial information available
to the Government. Finally, these steps have also contributed to the overall transparency of the
management of budget, debt and fiscal risks in Turkey. In the case of the Customs component the project
was able to achieve substantial improvements in the underlying legal framework and organizational
structures which has resulted in a more efficient and trade community friendly institution.

In the case of the MOF, implementation of the say 2000i system has similarly had a significant impact and
has enabled the MOF and Treasury to obtain accurate and timely information on the status of budget
execution and improved cash management. The Government has a better idea of the total cash resources
available to it at a given point in time thereby enabling it to better formulate its borrowing strategy.
Efficiencies in budget execution achieved by the system have enabled the Government to meets its financial
obligations within the stipulated contractual time limits. However, not all the interfaces between say 2000i
and other MOF and Treasury systems have become fully operational.

Overall the institutional development impact of the project is assessed as substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome



                                                      - 18 -

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Economic Management responsibilities in Turkey are divided amongst a number of agencies, namely the
Treasury, the MOF, the SPP, the SPO, the Undersecretariat of Customs, and the TCA. The reporting
relationships of these agencies at the ministerial level are rather different from those generally found in
other modern economies. Notably the Treasury, the MOF, and the SPO report to different ministries. This
was further complicated by the fact that for most of the life of the project, a coalition Government governed
Turkey with members from different political parties heading the various agencies responsible for economic
management. This political landscape made it very difficult for the Government to take decisions related to
the relative roles and responsibilities of these agencies and for the implementation of reforms across
multiple agencies governed by different political parties. The initial project design had underestimated the
importance of this constraint and had proposed cross cutting changes across multiple agencies. As project
implementation progressed, the Government and the Bank concurred that it would be more practical to time
slice the reform program, and in the first phase, restrict reform activities to those that fell under the
purview of individual agencies, rather than across multiple agencies.

During the course of the project, Turkey's economy was buffeted by the after effects of several
international financial crises, such as the Russia financial crisis, and natural disasters, such as the
earthquake. This caused Government attention to be diverted from the longer term public sector reform
program and focussed on efforts to combat the after effects of these events on an urgent basis.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The reform agenda for public finance management, as envisaged in the project, was formulated as part of
the ongoing dialogue between the Government and the Bank on the broader economic management front.
The linkage between the PFMP and adjustment lending became particularly strong in the later years of the
project as a significant public sector adjustment operation, the PFPSAL, was carried out. The Government
was able to address some of the inter-agency coordination problems as part of the PFPSAL agenda and
agreed to conditionality on completion of a number of key objectives under the PFMP, namely the
completion of the say 2000i system, the introduction of a GFS compliant budget classification structure
and progress on additional objectives such as work on risk management of the debt portfolio under the debt
and cash management component. The Government has also tried to address anew, as part of the PFPSAL
agenda, many of the broader public expenditure management issues and tax administration reforms that
were dropped from the PFMP. Conversely some of the key lessons learned under PFMP have been
incorporated in the design of the PFPSAL II program.

A critical success factor for reform measures such as those envisaged in the project to succeed is continued
and sustained government support at the highest levels given the program's complexity and multiple-agency
nature. As project implementation progressed some Government agencies were more willing to undertake
quite extensive reform in their functional processes, organizational structures and associated systems and
procedures, while others were not. This had a direct effect on project progress. The Customs and the
Treasury Debt Accounting components moved rapidly while the Tax and Expenditure Management
components were restructured and reduced in scope and a more gradual pace and more modest objectives
were adopted in some areas to better match scope and implementation capacity.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Strong commitment and implementation capacity within the Customs Administration and Treasury resulted
in the rapid implementation of the Customs and the Treasury Debt Accounting components.



                                                     - 19 -

Correspondingly, the relatively weaker implementation capacity and support for wide ranging reform have
resulted in MOF pursuing a much more modest reform agenda for the Tax Administration and the
Personnel and Expenditure management components.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The original investment cost of the project was estimated at US$94.2 million of which US$62 million was
to be financed by the Bank and US$32.2 million by the Government. In September 2000, an amount of
US$5 million was cancelled at the Government's request. The final Project loan allocations and actual costs
are:

                                                       (Amounts in US$ million)

     Component                               Total Loan                      Government
                                              Allocation       Loan
                                                           Disbursement     Contribution

 (a) Tax Administration                            2.02           1.16          0.045
 (b) Personnel and Expenditure Management          1.60           1.15          15.86
 (c) Customs Modernization                        48.51          37.25          16.54
 (d) Debt Accounting and Cash Management           4.70           4.62           0.63
     Unallocated                                   0.17              -              -
                                     Total        57.00          44.18          33.07


The undisbursed amount of US$12.81 million from the Loan has been cancelled.
Government contributions in the table above include taxes and duties and related expenses for equipment
and services procured under Bank financed contracts. Direct government purchases of hardware and
software and installation services for the say 2000i system amount to US$15.59 million.

The main variance between the revised Loan allocation and the disbursement is due to the fact that the cost
of the hardware and scanning equipment acquired for the Customs Modernization component procured
through International Competitive Bidding came out to be considerably less than the estimated amount,
with the two main factors causing the deviation from estimates being: (a) lower than expected costs under
ICB, particularly for the scanning equipment awarded to Chinese contractors; and (b) an yearly decline in
the real prices of electronic equipment. Small amounts allocated for the purchase of goods and training
services within the Tax Administration and Personnel and Expenditure Management components remained
unutilized.

The final Government contributions were close to the original estimate. However, there were variances in
the contributions by component. First, the lower costs of Hardware and software for the Customs
component resulted in lower duties and taxes. Secondly, as a result of the reduction on the scope of the
Tax Administration and the Personnel and Expenditure Management components several activities were
dropped the Government contributions to these activities were therefore not required. However, the
subsequent Government decision to finance the say 2000i hardware and software from its own resources
brought the final total close to the original estimate.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Most of the achievements under the project are likely to be sustainable. The institutional building activities
supported by the project included the setting up of new organizational structures, legal framework, systems
and procedures for customs administration, budget execution, debt accounting and cash management.



                                                       - 20 -

These institutional structures and systems have now become an operational part of the arrangements for
customs administration, tax policy formulation, budget execution and debt and cash management in
Turkey. BILGE, the new Customs administration system, say 2000i, the new budget execution and
accounting system, and the new Treasury Management Information System have been fully
commissioned, a large number of staff have been trained in their use and these systems are now routinely
used in the day to day functioning of the relevant agencies. It is highly unlikely that these changes would be
rolled back. They will serve as the basis for further improvements. A significant part of the investments in
systems has been government financed and it has the financial resources necessary to operate and maintain
these systems. In view of this, it can be concluded that the achievements are likely to be sustained.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The institutions and systems set up as part of this project are now routinely used by the Government as part
of its apparatus for public finance management. The transition to regular operations has already
successfully taken place.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Banks performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. The project was designed to address key areas
of reform in public finance management which were part of the Government's reform agenda and consistent
with the Bank's assistance strategy for the country. Project design for the Customs and the Expenditure
and Personnel Management components was based on IMF recommendations and that for the Tax
component was made in close coordination with the US IRS. Close liaison continued with the IMF during
the design and initial implementation phases for the Customs component and contributed to a successful
component outcome. There were no deviations from Bank policies or procedures during project
preparation. This project supported policy dialogue undertaken at the time of project preparation under a
proposed Public Sector Adjustment (PSAL) operation, and was consistent with the Bank's lending priorities
for Turkey in 1995. As mentioned earlier, the Government would have liked to have initiated an even more
comprehensive reform program addressing all areas of the public sector. The Bank however, agreed only to
a phased program of intervention in which a few key areas would be addressed as part of the PFMP I.
However, even the reduced scope of PFMP I was found to be very ambitious and the design complex,
involving multiple activities whose implementation would require close cooperation across several agencies.
Perhaps this could have been foreseen as even more of a serous constraint within the specific country
context. In retrospect, the Bank and the Borrower did underestimated political and institutional capacity
constraints and the project had to be restructured as it entered the implementation phase. However, very
significant elements of the PFMP reform agenda were in fact successfully implemented, lending support to
a satisfactory assessment of the preparation phase. The project received 244.8 staff weeks from
preparation through negotiations.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. The project has received 218.9 staff
weeks during the supervision phase. Soon after start of project implementation it became clear that while
the Customs component, to which most of the loan resources had been allocated, was progressing
satisfactorily, counterpart agency commitment and capacity was not commensurate with that required for a
successful outcome of the Tax and the Expenditure and Personnel Management components. As project
implementation showed signs of stalling for some components, the Government requested the Bank to


                                                     - 21 -

re-assess the scope and focus on a subset of objectives which were considered more achievable. The Bank
was confronted with two choices: (a) stay with the original targets and upon failure of counterpart agencies
to meet required milestones close down the respective components; or (b) re-structure elements of the
project facing implementation problems, focussing on a subset of activities. The Bank chose the latter
course, seeing an opportunity to be able to achieve some important elements of the reform agenda and
moved quickly to restructure the project and reduce the scope of these components and simplify their
design, by repackaging activities so that they could be carried out by individual agencies. The Bank kept a
close watch on project progress and as the Customs and the Debt Accounting components showed more
promise, it increased the financing for these components in a second project adjustment and further
decreased that of the Tax Administration and Expenditure and Personnel Management components,
ensuring better value for the Government.

Soon after the 1998 restructuring, management for two components was transferred to staff at the resident
mission in Ankara. Later the Lead Economist who was also overall in-charge of the project, and
procurement responsibilities were also transferred to Ankara. Over the later years of PFMP
implementation, the PFPSAL adjustment operation afforded the PFMP team an opportunity to flag
problem areas requiring top level Government attention to be addressed as part of the dialogue related to
the adjustment operation. Support from part of the project team which was located in Ankara contributed
significantly to the quality of project supervision since they were readily available to the implementation
agencies with Bank advice on both the substantive and procedural aspects for project implementation.
Procedural problems associated with Bank procurement and financial management were addressed on site
and the team was able to quickly get relevant technical advice on budget management, debt management,
treasury and informatics issues from team members at headquarters. This mode of operation made the
supervision process a continuous activity rather than confining it formal supervision missions.

As a result of close supervision from headquarters and the field, the project components were eventually
able to deliver most of the outputs as envisaged in the restructured project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

In view of project outcomes and the quality of supervision, the overall Bank performance has been
satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The various government agencies such as the MOF, the SPO, the Treasury, the TCA, the Tax
Administration and the Under-Secretariat of Customs were all involved in the preparation and design
phases of the project. The Bank helped shape the requirements, as expressed by the Borrower, into specific
project components. In view of the pro-active role played by the Borrower during preparation, borrower
performance can be rated as satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Overall implementation performance suffered for some components because of the Government's inability
to take the required policy decisions on issues related to the restructuring of the roles and responsibilities of
the agencies responsible for economic management as discussed in section 5.1.

Changing Government priorities, some times caused by management changes in implementing agencies



                                                      - 22 -

resulted in changes in the scope of the project and that of individual components. Thus for example,
changes in management at the TCA resulted in a loss of interest in pursuing project activities and a
component that had been added in the first project re-structuring had to be cancelled. At the MOF, in the
Personnel and Expenditure Management component , the Government reduced the scope of Bank financing
to cover only consulting services and training activities. In the Customs and the Debt Accounting and Cash
Management components, additional activities were added as the project progressed. It seems the Bank's
agreement to project re-structuring may have had some unintended consequences. It may have led the
Government to believe that changes in project and component design could be done easily. This in turn may
have detracted from the rigor of the initial design.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The Foreign Economic Relations Department of the Treasury was responsible for overall project
coordination. Execution of individual components was delegated to the respective departments e.g. the
Undersecretariat of Customs for the Customs Modernization component, the GDR in the MOF for the Tax
Administration component, GDBFC and the GDPA in the MOF for the Expenditure and Personnel
Management component, GDPF in the Treasury for the Debt and Cash Management component.

Separate Project Implementation Units (PIUs) were established for each component and were responsible
for maintaining project accounts and the financial management aspects of the project, including project
audits. Over time these project units became familiar with Bank procedures and these tasks were
accomplished very efficiently.

Implementation capacity varied across agencies. The Treasury, and the Under-Secretariat of Customs were
very responsive to the implementation needs of the project and generally excellent cooperation was
established with the task team and maintained throughout the project. Implementation agency performance
for these agencies is rated highly satisfactory. Tax administration and the Expenditure management
components had to be adjusted in scope and design to make them more compatible with implementation
capacity in the relevant directorates of the MOF.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Borrower performance varied across agencies. However, the overall performance of the Borrower's
implementing agencies is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The PFMP holds some valuable lessons for the design and implementation of technical assistance projects.

(i) Strong commitment and support from the highest management levels of the Government:
Substantial commitment and support is required from the highest levels of government in a project
involving institutional development, the restructuring of the organizations, systems and procedures for
economic management and public finance and introducing change on a massive scale in several key
ministries and agencies. Thus, the introduction of the new institutional structure for budget execution
envisaged under the project would require reorganization and realignment of the roles and responsibilities
of related Government agencies, such as the MOF, the Treasury, the SPO, the TCA, as well as the
relationships with line ministries. Reform of the Tax and Customs systems and organizations would
similarly require restructuring of the organizations, and streamlining of their processes and procedures.
High level oversight and coordination is also required to ensure that new processes, procedures and



                                                     - 23 -

methodologies for public finance management are introduced across Government in a coordinated and
consistent manner. This type of coordination is possible only by pro-active participation and guidance
from officials at the highest levels who are responsible for implementing the Government's financial reform
program. Two years into project implementation it became clear that it was possible to muster the required
commitment and support form the highest levels of Government in those cases where there was a strong
external political imperative. For example, the prospect of membership in the EU was a major driver for
change in the Customs area. The criticality of Government debt, spurred reforms in the debt management
function. A second catalyst for this commitment was the presence of a few visionary individuals in key
management positions who would serve as champions of the reform agenda. This was the major reason
why the MOF was able to implement the say 2000i system so efficiently.

(ii) Focused and well defined program: Comprehensiveness of the reform agenda, as envisaged in the
original design, ensured that all relevant areas are covered and all key issues addressed. However, the
resultant complexity and extended scope made project implementation very difficult. PFMP project
objectives, even though they were reduced from what the Government wanted initially, were too numerous,
very ambitious and complex to implement under a single project. The project encompassed reforms in such
key areas such as tax and customs administration, budget execution and debt management which in several
other member countries were implemented as separate Bank projects.The Government soon realized that a
focused and well defined program and a single implementing agency were prerequisites to successful and
smooth implementation and reduced and simplified the project scope accordingly during the restructuring
process. In hind sight it would have been better to focus on an even more modest reform agenda with a
simpler project structure, and to the extent possible, fewer implementing agencies.

(iii) Implementation capacity: The availability of qualified and committed high level and influential staff
at the Treasury and the Customs departments was a major factor in the smooth and efficient
implementation of these components. A core group of experts in each institution was assigned to implement
the components and for the most part was retained throughout implementation. The absence of similar
capacity and/or the turn over of staff at the MOF contributed to the difficulties experienced in the
Expenditure and Personnel Management and the Tax Administration components.

(iv) Flexibility in design of components: Bank and the Government counterparts worked closely to be
flexible, adjust the project scope and settle for a more gradual pace of reform and more modest objectives
in some areas, in order to better match the scope to implementation capacity. Flexibility was also necessary
in the specific country context due to several major political and management level changes in the course of
the project with a consequent change of emphasis in various reform areas. The question confronting the
Bank and the Government was whether to stick to a fixed set of targets which were impractical to achieve
in the light of on the ground realities (for some components), or to be flexible in approach and proceed with
a more gradual reform agenda that aimed at the achievement of a subset of the outcomes. The Bank and the
Government adopted the latter approach and as a result the project was able to achieve some progress in
furthering the reform agenda in the area of public finance management. However, this approach needs to be
used with caution since, as mentioned, it may have some unintended consequences. It may lead counterparts
to believe that changes in project and component design could be done easily. This in turn may detracted
from the rigor of the of the initial design.

(v) Relating technical assistance operations to policy based lending: As mentioned above, the close
linkages between the PFMP and public sector adjustment lending (the PFPSAL program) have been
particularly useful in focusing high level Government management attention on the importance of achieving
milestones in the PFMP project. Conversely, lessons learned during implementation of the PFMP have been
incorporated in the design of the PFPSAL program. Areas that had to be initially dropped from the PFMP


                                                      - 24 -

agenda because of the lack of commitment were included in the PFPSAL program.

(vi) Time required for institutional building projects: The project closing date had to be extended by two
and a half years to complete the activities under the various components. The time actually taken to
introduce changes in the legal framework and organization structures, re-engineer functional processes and
introduce new systems, procedures on such a large scale across multiple government agencies needs to be
recognized in planning similar projects.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Borrower's Comments (letter)

Republic of Turkey
Prime Ministry
The Undersecretariat of Treasury
General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations

Ref. B.02.1.HM.0.DEL.01.05.189/23887               Ankara, May 15, 2003

Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Country Director
ECC06
The World Bank

Re: Public Finance Management Project (PFMP) Loan No. 3942-TU

Dear Mr. Chhibber,

We would like to refer to the draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) dated April 30, 2003, for the
Public Finance Management Project, which was closed as of end-December 2002. In this regard we hereby
send to the Bank the comments of the Ministry of Finance (General Directorate of Budget and Public
Finance, General Directorate of Revenues), the Undersecretariat of Treasury (Board of Treasury
Controllers. General Driectorate of Public Finance) on the draft ICR. We would like to note that the
General Directorate of Public Accounts, Ministry of Finance and the Undersecretariat of Customs have
considered the related sections of the draft ICR appropriate.

We would appreciate it if the Bank would revise the draft ICR taking into consideration the comments of
the Government.

Sincerely yours,

Signed/-
Seven Yucel
Acting Deputy Director General

Ref.:B.02.1.HM.0.DEL.01.05.189                                            Ankara, June 3, 2003




                                                    - 25 -

Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Country Director
ECC06
The World Bank

Re: Public Finance Management Project (PFMP) Loan No. 3942-TU
Our letter dated May 15, 2003 and numbered 29887

Dear Mr. Chhibber,

        We would like to refer to the Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) dated April 30,
2003, for the Public Finance Management Project, which was closed as of end-December 2002. In this
regard we hereby send to the Bank the comments of the Ministry of Finance (General Directorate of Public
Accounts) Undersecretariat of Customs on the Part 9-Partner Comments in the draft ICR.

        We would appreciate it if the Bank would revise the draft ICR taking into consideration the
cooments of the Government.

Sincerely yours,


Signed/Seven Yucel
Acting Deputy Director General

(a) Tax Administration Component:

Comments of General Directorate of Revenues (GDR), Ministry of Finance on Tax Administration
Component

Please make the necessary changes in the relevant sections of the report as follows:

- "GDR deployed the VEDOP system to 155 tax offices throughout the country."
- Tax Policy Analysis Unit has not been formally established yet. However it has become actually
operational on
    December 1998, when the first group of the personnel assigned to the tax policy modellingactivities
    after the completion of the GAMS training.
- Master plan for reorganization of GDR was developed by the IRS contractor and accepted on
29.03.2000.

Signed/-
Recep Biyik

(b) Personnel and Expenditure Management Component:

Comments of General Directorate of Public Accounts on draft ICR

        The draft annexed article "Completion of Implementation Report" which is required to be prepared
according to the World Bank procedures related to Public Finance Management has been analyzed and the
points to be added to the draft report in question are given below.


                                                     - 26 -

"The Web Based Accounting Offices Automation System say 2000i"

         The General Directorate of Public Accounts has initiated the "The Web Based Accounting Offices
Automation System sya2000i Project" taking into consideration the fact that a public management
information system based on automation is necessary for our public finance system.

         The designation operations of say2000i project were initiated on the 3rd of March 1999. At the
first stage operations on determining the needs, defining the problems and designing he system were carried
out and as a result it was decided that a pilot application software appropriate for the automation needs of
the accounting offices be developed.

         say2000i application software consists of the modules Accounting, Personnel and Fees, Health
Expenditure, Legislation Information and On-line Support.

         say2000i project is one of the most comprehensive 5 projects in the world among the web based
e-government implementations in which most developed computer and communication technologies are
used.

         say2000i communication infrastructure shall be able to communicate from the center with the
systems which shall be developed by other governmental institutions in the future within the scope of
e-government.

         Through the say2000i project, 1536 places in total including 1464 accounting offices and 72 other
units carrying out operations related to governmental accounting are provided with the opportunity to
communicate with each other via a country-wide broad network.

         Also, within the scope of Public Finance Management Project, an accrual based accounting system
is being consituted. Besides the opportunity to follow the budgetary results, the system shall be able to give
accrual based results. As a result, the movable and immovable assets, credits and dets, equities of the
Government shall be followed in detail and the balance sheet and other financial tables of the Government
shall be issued.

         In order to provide transparency in government accounts and produce financial tables comparable
with international standards, theoritical studies about acrual based accounting have been completed, a
comprehensive accounts plan has been prepared and sent to Turkish Court of Accounts.

         In order to meet the short term needs of the General Directorate, a communication technologies
expert qualified as advisor and a database expert have been employed in the say2000i project and within
the scope of the project only advisor fees were financed by the World Bank.

Comments of General Directorate of Budget and Fiscal Control (GDBFC), Ministry of Finance on
Personnel and Expenditure Management Component

1. Page 9: Budget Preparation System

GDBFC has completed the work for the budget preparation system during 2002. The new system were
used by thecentral accountancies, budget departments in line agencies and also in the insitution where the
budget departments do not exist like, Parliament, Presidency and Turkish Court of Accounts. BYES has


                                                     - 27 -

been installed easily in the institution level and has provided IT support to the budget preparation process
enabling the preparation of 2003 budget both by using the (ABS) ESA and the existing coding systems.

2. Page 10: Links of SAY2000i System with other MOF Systems

(b) Interfaces with the GDBFC systems

Currently, SAY2000i system reports the information of budget release transactions on paper. The system
takes the expenditure information when the expenditure is made. BYES has been operational since the
beginning of 2003 and the system is equipped by the industry standard iterfaces not only for General
Directorate of Public Accounts (GDPC) also for the other instituions enabling the integration with the other
agencies. In this context, the information services listed below are being used y other information systems
since the beginning of 2003:

- Budget Program Information: The programs to be implemented to defined institutions every year.
- Budget Sub-program Information: The sub-programs to be implemented to defined institutions every year.
- Budget Activity Information: The activities to be implemented to defined institutions every year.
- Budget Appropriations: Appropriations in the Budget Law and eased (limited) stat-up appropriations.
- Legal Codes: Legal bases and provisions defining the budgetary operations of the year.
- Budget Operations: The transactions such as, transfer and increase in budget appropriations during the
     budget year.
- Payment Orders.

The payment orders cannot be transferred to the BYES totally since the instruction for the use of payment
orders has not been provided yet. However, all of the other services are operational. The required
standards are submitted to the GDPC in November 2002. This document is annexed to the note.

3. 5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.

7.6 Implementing Agency.

There exists some comments under the above headings about the MOF in terms of the personnel and
expenditure management. However, the MOF believes that these comments are not totally true as the
implementation capacity and the support of Ministry are considered. As it is mentioned in may parts of the
report, the module is wide ranged and involves more than one institution, in this regard not only the MOF's
implementation capacity and support but also the line agencies' should have been increased.

(c) Customs Administration Component:

                                               Republic of Turkey
                                                 Prime Ministry
                                          Undersecretariat of Customs
                                               Modernization Unit

Number:800-30/90-139                                                                 Ankara, 26/05/2003


                                          Uundersecretariat of Treasury




                                                      - 28 -

              Ref: a) Your letter of 16.04.2003 numbered B.02.1.HM.0.EDI.01.05.189/23013
                         b) Our letter of 05.05.2003 numbered 800-30/80-109

         As you are well aware, Customs Modernization Project financed by the World Bank, which is a
component of Public Financial Management Project (PFMP), has progressed considerably. Customs
procedures have been carried out electronically by using integrated software called BILGE. The BILGE
system is supported by software for EDI (Electronic Data Interchange), Vehicle Tracking, Container
Tracking, TIR-Transit Control, Passenger Transactions, Anti-Smuggling Data Bank. Today, 99% of
foreign trade transactions have been realized by BILGE. The said project was completed on schedule at the
end of 2001. With some additinal studies, totally 61 Customs offices habe been automated as of February
2002.

         At the completion of the project automation of customs procedures, foreign traders habe been
provided better service, customs procedures have been simplified and foreign trade statistics habe been
produced more effectively and efficiently. Technical infrastructure of Customs Administration has been
adapted to meet today's demands; customs offices and Headquarters habe been electronically connected to
each other locally and centrally and integrated to other public organizations. In this regard, Customs
Administration has been electronically connected to State Institute of Statistics and Ministry of Finance.

         It has been deduced from reports prepared by the World Bank authorities on review of Customs
Modernization Project that we have exactly fulfilled obligations put forward in Loan Agreement and the
project has been operated perfectly.

         The BILGE System developed under Customs Moderniation Project is much related to trafficking
of commodities, vehicles and travelers. Undersecretariat of Customs has concentrated on illegal trafficking
of goods by using the existing infrastructural means.

         In this regard, studies on prevention of illegal trafficking of commodities, vehicles and travelers
have been accelerated. Accordingly, an internatonal bidding was opened up to equip Kapikule, Ipsala and
Ambarh customs border posts with two relocatable and one mobile vehicle inspection systems on
28.01.2002 in accordance with international competitive bidding rules. In particular, following the
establishment of the inspection systems at the customs border posts, the Undersecretariat of Customs has
been taking major steps towards detection and confiscation of narcotics, goods and travelers.

         Since Turkey is on a critical corssing point for illegal trafficking of narcotics, arms, ammunitions
and nuclear materials as well as explosives, goods, vehicles and travelers between East and West, we
kindly requested the World Bank's "no-objection" to extending the Loan Agreement No. 3942-TU by
31.12.2003 so as to furnish eseentially southern and easterm customs border posts and Haydarpasa,
Mersin, Izmir and Samsun ports with technical devices, such as inspection systems in order to prevent the
illegal customs activities at the said customs border posts and to combat all customs fraud activities more
efficiently and effectively; however, the World Bank refused a third extrension of the Loan Agreement.

         If we had "no-objection" to extend the project for one year, the Undersecretariat of Customs would
have made much more significant advances in the modernization and anti-smuggling efforts at the said
essential customs border posts and ports.

         For your information in order to take necessary actions.

                                                              Signed/


                                                      - 29 -

                                                         Nurcan Ozyazici
                                                         On behalf of Customs Undersecretary
                                                         Head of Project Unit




(d) Treasury Debt Accounting and Cash Management Component:

Comments of the General Directorate of Public Finance, Undersecretariat of Treasury, on the Debt
Accounting and Cash Management Component

"Debt and cash management component which is implemented by Public Finance Department of
Undersecretariat of Treasury as been successfully completed. External Finance Information System,
Domestice Finance Information System, External Project Credit Disbursement System, Payment Accrual
and Payment Order System have been developed and currently in use. Thus, the past transactions prepared
manually and without any intercourse between the accounting system has now been performing
automatically. All of the allocations have been used appropriately in order to improve management of
debt."

Signed/-
Tulay Saylan
Director General


Comments of the Board of Treasury Controllers on the Training sub-component of the Debt Accounting
and Cash Management Component

The Board of Treasury Controllers has focused on parts related with Board of Treasury Controllers of the
draft Implementation Completion Report. We have made some corrections on the information explained on
page 16 under the "Training of Treasury Controllers" of the draft Implementation Completion Report. It is
our opinion that the following paragraph describes the best pricture of the Board of Treasury Controllers in
Public Finance Management Project.

"Training of Treasury Controllers. The English language training envisaged under this component has
been completed and 30 Treasury Controllers have completed language courses tailored to prepare them for
training aborad. The training program in abroad envisaged under this component was organized in
conjunction with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland. Three groups of auditors (totally 36)
have completed training in Edinburgh, Scotland, and now carrry out the audit of World Bank financed
projects using the knowledge obtained during this training. As a direct result of this raining, the European
Union has accepted Board of Treasury Controllers as qualified auditors for the audit of European Union's
Funds. Necessary office equipment has also been procured and installed."

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A



                                                   - 30 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 31 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Development and adoption of master plan 1. Development and adoption of master plan Master plan for reorganization of GDR was
for functional reorganization of the GDR by     for functional reorganization of the GDR by     developed by the IRS contractor and
December 31, 1999.                              December 31, 1999.                              accepted on [get exact date] [or in
                                                                                                early-2000]. The Ministry of Finance
                                                                                                implemented a few of the recommendations,
                                                                                                such as the creation of Large Taxpayer Units.
                                                                                                Reorganization continues to be discussed
                                                                                                under PFPSAL-II, using the master plan as
                                                                                                an input.

2. Establishment of policy analysis unit by     2. Establishment of policy analysis unit by     Policy analysis function though not formally
December 31, 1998.                              December 31, 1998.                              established as a unit became operational in
                                                                                                1998 though with limited effectiveness
                                                                                                because of staffing and computer modeling
                                                                                                deficiencies.

3. Strengthen human resources in the GDR        3. Strengthen human resources in the GDR        Extensive training provided for management
by implementing training programs.              by implementing training programs.              and policy unit staff.
Commencement of training programs by            Commencement of training programs by
June 30, 1999.                                  June 30, 1999.

1. Adoption of the new budget classification    1. Adoption of the new budget classification    The Government is piloting a new budget
structure and chart of accounts for budget      structure and chart of accounts for budget      classification structure in 6 budget offices. It
preparation and execution by January 1,         preparation and execution by January 1,         plans to continue to test during FY2003 and
2001.                                           2004.                                           extend the coverage to consolidated budget
                                                                                                agencies by January 2004.

2. Pilot implementation of a Financial Ledger 2. Pilot implementation of a Financial Ledger The Government has implemented a new
System (FLS) to enable the MOF to monitor       System (FLS) to enable the MOF to monitor       budget execution system, the say 2000i,
the execution of the budget by January 1,       the execution of the budget by January 1,       which also embodies the functionality of a
2001.                                           2001.                                           Financial Ledger System (FLS) across all
                                                                                                1500 or so accountancies.

3. Design and pilot implementation of a         3. Design and pilot implementation of a         The say 2000i system which has now been
financial reporting system to provide the MOF financial reporting system to provide the MOF implemented by the General Directorate of
with timely and accurate information by         with timely and accurate information by         Public Accounts (GDPA) has the capability
January 1, 2001.                                January 1, 2001                                 to produce timely and accurate financial
                                                                                                reports.

1. Adoption of processing procedures similar 1. Adoption of processing procedures similar Parliament adopted the new Customs Law
to those in operation in the EU for both        to those in operation in the EU for both        based on the principles of the EU Customs
imports and exports by December 31, 2000.       imports and exports by December 31, 2000.       Union, on October 27, 1999. The law and
                                                                                                regulations issued by Customs went into
                                                                                                effect on February 5, 2000.

2. Completion of customs formalities for 90% 2. Completion of customs formalities for 90% [to be completed by Customs]
of shipments within 48 hours.                   of shipments within 48 hours.

3. Reduction in the physical inspection rate to 3. Reduction in the physical inspection rate to By the end of the project the rate of physical
no more than 20% for imports and 2% for         no more than 20% for imports and 2% for         inspection was, in average, about 20%. It
exports (for which there is no duty drawback). exports (for which there is no duty drawback). was below 20% in key foreign trade centers
                                                                                                like Ataturk Airport. The rate of inspection for
                                                                                                exports was, in average, about 10% for all
                                                                                                transactions. Both rates are considered
                                                                                                excellent for a country with the market
                                                                                                conditions of Turkey.

4. Provision of adequate and timely             4. Provision of adequate and timely             Customs has established a quite complete
information to the trade community.             information to the trade community.             website with information for the trade
                                                                                                community. Extensive training of traders was
                                                                                                carried out under the project.
5. Achievement of 90% accuracy rate in tariff 5. Achievement of 90% accuracy rate in tariff [to be completed by Customs]



                                                                   - 32 -

classification and valuation at time of    classification and valuation at time of
declaration processing.                    declaration processing.

1. Introduction of new practices and       1. Introduction of new practices and       The Treasury has implemented a new Debt
procedures for Debt Accounting based on    procedures for Debt Accounting based on    accounting system that provides it with the
GAAP by January 1, 2001.                   GAAP by January 1, 2001.                   required capability.

2. Implementation of a new automated debt  2. Implementation of a new automated debt  The Treasury has completed the
accounting system by January 1, 2001.      accounting system by January 1, 2001.      implementation of the new Debt Accounting
                                                                                      system.

3. Design of a new cash management         3. Design of a new cash management         The say 2000i system implemented at the
system and automation of the internal      system and automation of the internal      Internal payments accountancy provides
payments accounting office in treasury by  payments accounting office in treasury by  Treasury with information required for cash
January 1, 2001.                           January 1, 2001.                           management.


Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                              - 33 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal      Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                              Estimate          Estimate          Appraisal
                       Component                             US$ million       US$ million
Tax Administration                                               14.88               1.20                 8
Expenditure and Personnel Management                             11.06              18.21             164.6
Customs Modernization                                            68.30              53.80             78.77
Debt Accounting and Cash management                               5.07               5.25             119.1

Total Baseline Cost                                              99.31              78.46
                          Total Project Costs                    99.31              78.46
                    Total Financing Required                     99.31              78.46
Note: The Scope of the Tax Administration component was reduced as part of the restructuring in March
1998 and September 2000. The final estimated cost of this component was US$2.35 million including a
Bank Loan of $2.02 million and Government financing of US$ 0.337 million.

The Scope of the Expenditure and Personnel Management component was reduced as part of the
restructuring in March 1998 and in September 2000. The final estimated cost of the component was
US$1.8 million with a Bank Loan of US$1.16 million and Government financing of US$ 0.2 million.
However, the Government extended the say 2000i system across the country at their own expense at a cost
of US $15.59 million.

The scope of the Customs Modernization Component was increased as part of the adjustment in September
2000. The final estimated cost of this component is US$68.44 million with a Government contribution of
US$20.0 million.

The Debt Accounting and Cash Management component was added as part of the project restructuring in
March 1998. Its scope was increased further in September 2000. The final estimated cost of the component
was US$5.07 million with a Bank Loan of US $4.7 million and Government financing of US$ 0.37 million.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         1
                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category              ICB            NCB                  2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                     Other
1. Works                              0.00            0.00            0.00            5.90            5.90
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                             57.10            0.00            0.90            9.90           67.90
                                     (46.00)          (0.00)         (0.50)          (0.00)         (46.50)
3. Services                           0.00            0.00           13.50            4.90           18.40
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (13.50)         (0.00)         (13.50)
4. PPF                                0.00            0.00            2.00            0.00            2.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (2.00)          (0.00)          (2.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)



                                                   - 34 -

      Total                                 57.10              0.00              16.40             20.70            94.20
                                           (46.00)            (0.00)            (16.00)           (0.00)           (62.00)


  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                 ICB              NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
  1. Works                                   0.00              0.00              0.00             5.00              5.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  2. Goods                                  45.35              0.00              1.35             17.98            64.68
                                           (34.32)            (0.00)            (1.08)            (0.00)          (35.40)
  3. Services                                0.00              0.00              8.78             0.00              8.78
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (8.78)            (0.00)           (8.78)
  4. PPF                                     0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                           0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                           0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                 45.35              0.00             10.13             22.98            78.46
                                           (34.32)            (0.00)            (9.86)            (0.00)          (44.18)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
      staff for the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
      (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank          Govt.       CoF.         Bank         Govt.        CoF.     Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Tax Administration             8.96          5.92                     1.16         0.04                  12.9      0.7
Expenditure Management         8.63          2.43                     1.15         15.86                 13.3     652.7
Customs Modernization          44.46         23.84                    37.25        16.54                 83.8     69.4
Debt Accounting and Cash       4.70          0.37                     4.62         0.63                  98.3     170.3
management

   See Note above.




                                                           - 35 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 36 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              September 1994             8    Task Manager & Economist,
                                              Operations Analyst, Public
                                              Finance Specialist, Tax
                                              Specialist, Customs Specialist,
                                              Informatics Specialist
              January 1995               6    Task Manager & Economist,
                                              Operations Analyst, Public
                                              Finance Specialist, Tax
                                              Specialist, Customs Specialist,
                                              Informatics Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal April            6    Task Manager & Economist,
              1995                            Operations Analyst, Public
                                              Finance Specialist, Tax
                                              Specialist, Customs
                                              Specialist, Informatics
                                              Specialist
              Negotiations-July          6    Task Manager & Economist,
              1995                            Operations Analyst, Public
                                              Finance Specialist, Tax
                                              Specialist, Customs Specialist,
                                              Informatics Specialist

 Supervision

              05/31/1996                 6    Task manager and Economist,          S               S
                                              Informatics Specialist,
                                              Public Finance Specialist,
                                              Economist,Public Sector
                                              Management Specialist,
                                              Operations Analyst
              02/07/1997                 5    Task manager and Economist,          S               S
                                              Informatics Specialist,
                                              Public Finance Specialist,
                                              Economist, Operations Analyst
              04/01/1998                 6    Task manager and Economist, ,        S               S
                                              Lead Specialist,
                                              Informatics Specialist,
                                              Public Finance Specialist,
                                              Economist,Public Sector
                                              Management Specialist,
                                              Financial Analyst
              04/18/1999                 3    Economist, Public sector             S               S
                                              management Specialist,
                                              Informatics Specialist



                                               - 37 -

               09/20/1999              3    Economist, Public sector            S    S
                                            management Specialist,
                                            Informatics Specialist
               04/10/2000              3    Economist, Public sector            S    S
                                            management Specialist,
                                            Informatics Specialist
               04/10/2000              3    Economist, Public sector            S    S
                                            management Specialist,
                                            Informatics Specialist
               05/05/2001              2    Public sector Management            S    S
                                            Specialist, Customs Specialist
               12/08/2001              3     Economist, Public sector           S    S
                                            management Specialist,
                                            Informatics Specialist
                                                                                S    S


 ICR
               11/23/2002             3      Economist, Public sector
                                            management Specialist,
                                            Informatics Specialist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           213.4                           669.70
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 41.4                              72.5
  Supervision                          218.9                           849.28
  ICR                                     9.6                           51.33
  Total                                483.2                         1642.81




                                            - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal report No 14656-TU
Proposed Amendments to Loan Agreement, March 1998 and September 2000.
Bank mission back to office reports and Aide Memoires from 1995- 2002.




                                               - 41 -

- 42 -

