Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3942 TU
                                 Loan Agreement
                        (Public Financial Management Project)
                                     between
                                REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                                       and
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                 AND DEVELOPMENT
                              Dated October 11, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3942 TU
                                LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 11, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
TURKEY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single
Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency
Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Page  2
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)      "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
     (b)      "Treasury" means the Undersecretariat of Treasury of
the Borrower;
     (c)      "SPO" means the State Planning Organization of the
Borrower;
     (d)      "CA" means the Customs Administration of the Borrower;
     (e)      "GDR" means the General Directorate of Revenues of
the MOF;
     (f)      "GDBFC" means the General Directorate of Budget and
Fiscal Control of the MOF;
     (g)      "GDPA" means the General Directorate of Public
Accounts of the MOF;
     (h)      "GFMIS" means the Government Financial Management
Information System of the Borrower;
     (i)      "PPMIS" means the Personnel and Payroll Management
Information System of the Borrower;
     (j)      "PMU" means a Project Management Unit and "PMUs" mean
the Project Management Units established within: (i) the GDR,
(ii) the GDBFC and the GDPA, and (iii) the CA, with overall
responsibility for the coordination of Parts A, B and C of the
Project, respectively;
     (k)      "Working Groups" mean the working groups, referred to
in Parts A.2, B.1 and B.2, and C.2 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, established within the MOF and the CA, with
responsibility for the implementation of specific activities
under Parts A, B and C of the Projects, respectively;
     (l)      "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 26, 1995 and July
13, 1995 between the Borrower and the Bank; and
     (m)      "Special Account A", "Special Account B" and "Special
Account C" mean the accounts referred to, respectively, in
paragraphs (b) (i), (b) (ii) and (b) (iii) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement, and "Special Accounts" means Special Account A,
Special Account B and Special Account C.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount of sixty-two million dollars ($62,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)      The Borrower may open and maintain in dollars in the
Central Bank of the Borrower, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank: (i) for the purposes of Part A of the Project, Special Account
A; (ii) for the purposes of Part B of the Project, Special Account B;
Page  3
and (iii) for the purposes of Part C of the Project, Special Account C.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)      Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                           Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the
Project through the GDR, Part B of the Project through the
GDBFC and the GDPA, and Part C of the Project through the CA,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and technological
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project, including, inter alia, annual budgetary allocations,
at a level satisfactory to the Bank, for each part of the
Project.
     (b)      Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank.
     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, without limitation
to the provisions of Sections 9.06 and 9.07 of the General
Conditions, prepare and furnish to the Bank for approval for
purposes of the Project, by October 31 of each year, starting
on October 31, 1996, its proposed annual operational program,
such program to be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, to include, inter alia: (i) a
detailed list of the Project activities to be executed and
expenditures to be incurred, in respect of each Part of the
Project, during the immediately following year; and (ii) a list
of the Borrower's agencies or third parties selected to
participate in Project activities or to assist the Borrower,
through contractual arrangements, in the carrying out thereof,
all during the immediately following year.
Page  4
     (b)      The Borrower shall review: (i) the progress made in
the carrying out of each Part of the Project against a set of
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; and (ii)
the level of funding required for the Project for the
immediately following year from the proceeds of the Loan and
budgetary allocations made by the Borrower.
     (c)      The Borrower shall: (i) introduce such changes into
each proposed annual operational program as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank; and (ii) make provision for
budgetary allocations for the immediately following year as
shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
     Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall: (a) not later than March 31, 1996, carry out a review,
jointly with the Bank, of progress in Project implementation;
(b) not later than March 31, 1997, carry out a review of the
pilot implementation of the new customs systems under Part C of
the Project; and (c) not later than March 31, 1998, carry out
a review of the pilot GFMIS under Part B of the Project.
     Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the
Borrower shall:
     (a)      prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
     (b)      afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                              ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)      The Borrower shall:
              (i)       have the records and accounts referred to in
                        paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                        for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                        audited, in accordance with appropriate
                        auditing principles consistently applied, by
                        independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
             (ii)       furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
                        but in any case not later than six months
                        after the end of each such year, the report of
                        such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                        in such detail as the Bank shall have
                        reasonably requested; and
            (iii)       furnish to the Bank such other information
                        concerning said records and accounts and the
                        audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
Page  5
                        time reasonably request.
     (c)      For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
              (i)       maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                        accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                        records and accounts reflecting such
                        expenditures;
             (ii)       retain, until at least one year after the
                        Bank has received the audit report for the
                        fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                        the Loan Account or payment out of each
                        Special Account was made, all records
                        (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                        and other documents) evidencing such
                        expenditures;
            (iii)       enable the Bank's representatives to
                        examine such records; and
             (iv)       ensure that such records and accounts are
                        included in the annual audit referred to in
                        paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                        report of such audit contains a separate
                        opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                        statements of expenditure submitted during
                        such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                        and internal controls involved in their
                        preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                        related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has appointed, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, an in-house
technical adviser to assist the GDBFC and the GDPA in the
implementation of budgetary reforms under Part B of the
Project.
     Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of the Treasury of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
              Basbakanlik Hazine
              Mustesarligi
              Inonu Bulvari
              Emek - Ankara
              Republic of Turkey
              Cable address:                 Telex:
Page  6
                   MALIYE-HAZINE             821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
                                             921-42689 (ANK-TR)
     For the Bank:
              International Bank for
                 Reconstruction and Development
              1818 H Street, N.W.
              Washington, D.C. 20433
              United States of America
              Cable address:                 Telex:
                       INTBAFRAD            248423 (RCA)
                       Washington, D.C.      82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                                 REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                                              Authorized Representative
                                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                 By /s/ Christiaan Poortman
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                Europe and Central Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                  Amount of the
                                 Loan Allocated           % of
                                 (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                       Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Part A of the
     Project:
     (a)  Goods                     1,190,000        100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures, 100%
                                                     of local expenditures,
                                                     (ex-factory cost) and
                                                     85% of local
                                                     expenditures for other
                                                     items procured locally
     (b)  Training                    500,000        100%
     (c)  Consultants'              6,000,000        100%
Page  7
          services
(2)  Part B of the
     Project:
     (a)  Goods                     4,680,000        100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures,
                                                     100% of local
                                                     expenditures,
                                                     (ex-factory cost)
                                                     and 85% of local
                                                     expenditures for other
                                                     items procured locally
     (b)  Training                   300,000         100%
     (c)  Consultants'             2,690,000         100%
          services
(3)  Part C of the
     Project:
     (a)  Goods                   35,250,000         100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures,
                                                     100% of local
                                                     expenditures,
                                                     (ex-factory cost)
                                                     and 85% of local
                                                     expenditures for
                                                     other items
                                                     procured locally
     (b)  Training                  580,000          100%
     (c) Consultants'
         services (advisory)      1,560,000          100%
     (d) Project manage-          1,000,000          100%
          ment support
          services
(4) Refunding the                 2,000,000          Amounts due
    Project Preparation                              pursuant to
    Advance                                          Section 2.02 (c)
                                                     of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated                   6,250,000
                                 __________
        TOTAL                    62,000,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate
amount not to exceed $6,200,000 may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after
September 29, 1994;
Page  8
     (b)   expenditures in respect of Category (1) for Part A of
the Project, until the Bank has received satisfactory evidence
of the appointment, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, of an in-house adviser and a procurement specialist
for said Part A of the Project; and
     (c)   expenditures in respect of Category (3) for Part C of
the Project, until the Bank has received satisfactory evidence
of the execution of an agreement between the Borrower and the
International Monetary Fund for the provision to the CA of
technical assistance, including an in-house adviser and an
information technology specialist for said Part C of the
Project.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures: (i) for goods under contracts not exceeding
$300,000 equivalent; and (ii) for services of consultants'
firms of less than $100,000 and of individual consultants of
less than $50,000; under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to enhance the first
phase of the Borrower's fiscal consolidation and reform efforts
in tax administration, management of government expenditures
and customs administration and in improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of the agencies responsible for administering
these functions.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Tax Administration
(1)  Restructuring of the central, regional and local tax
agencies to reduce fragmentation of managerial authority and
strengthen the GDR, including the establishment of new regional
offices focusing on automated data processing, audit and
training.
(2)  Development and implementation of a modern automated
system for core tax administration functions and management
information in the GDR to allow for an expansion of business
and provide for more effective and efficient operations.
(3)  Development and broadening of the tax base and enlarging
of revenues, through the introduction of a third-party
financial information system for cross-checking purposes and
strengthening the policy formulation capability of the GDR.
(4)  Development and implementation of an enhanced audit
strategy.
(5)  Increase in voluntary tax payment compliance by
streamlining current procedures.
(6)  Strengthening the role of the banking system in routine
tax administration processes and speeding transfer of tax
payments through the banking system.
(7)  Provision of training and consultants' services to support
the above activities, including, inter alia: (a) an in-house
technical advisory team to assist the GDR in planning,
coordination, implementation and monitoring; (b) carrying out
of an organization study to provide assistance in the
restructuring of the GDR and the preparation of draft
Page  9
legislation, regulations and manuals re-defining the GDR and
its personnel administration; (c) preparation of an
information/process model for the tax administration system;
(d) establishment of a development laboratory in Ankara to
model new/changed processes, local tax offices, regional
offices and the new centralized intelligence research
operation, test computer configurations and communications
interconnections, and to develop and conduct demonstrations and
training for the GDR staff; and (e) training and modeling
activities to enhance policy formulation capability.
Part B:    Expenditure and Personnel Management
(1)  Strengthening of the budgetary system control by
elimination or  restructuring of revolving funds, annexed
budgets and extra budgetary funds.
(2)  Restructuring of the budget office system, rationalization
of the account offices network and reduction in the ex-ante
controls.
(3)  Strengthening budget-decision making by introducing a new
budget code structure for economic analysis.
(4)  Installation of streamlined procedures to govern
commitment authorizations and monitoring and a simplified model
compatible with the proposed computerized financial ledger
system.
(5)  Modernization of payments processes and cash management,
including the establishment of improved norms and procedures
for cash projection and improvements in public banking
arrangements.
(6)  Integration of the management of public administration
with financial management through the initiation of position
ceilings, a centralized data base on the civil service linking
position and budget management, and establishment of a modern
payroll system.
(7)  Strengthening the capability of the GDBFC and the GDPA in
management of public expenditures through upgrading of MOF
information systems, realigning the GDBFC and the GDPA systems
on a functional basis in an integrated financial management
system and training in modern government financial management
accounting.
(8)  Integration of budgeting and accounting functions in the
MOF and linking them with Treasury's cash and debt management
system within the context of the financial ledger system.
(9)  Strengthening of information technology staffs of the
GDBFC and the GDPA by expanding their capacities for system
development and maintenance through technical training.
(10) Provision of training and consultants' services to
support the above activities, including, inter alia, carrying
out of studies to: (a) define a reform strategy for improving
budget coverage; (b) introduce a new budget and chart of
accounts; (c) prepare an action program for rationalizing the
system of controls over government expenditures; (d) define new
regulations and procedures for budgeting of positions in the
public administration and develop a detailed program for
computerization of personnel information and payroll; (e)
review banking arrangements and government accounts; and (f)
establish overall functional and information requirements of
the information systems, overall systems architecture and
technology architecture, and implement the systems at eight
pilot sites; and provide training and modeling activities to
enhance policy formulation capability.
Part C:    Customs Modernization
Page  10
(1)  Revision of regulations and procedures by the introduction
of self-assessment methods, selective physical inspections and
document checks, strengthening post-release reviews and
streamlining import controls.
(2)  Upgrading of computerization to full automation of customs
procedures and strengthening the capacity to enforce
legislative and regulatory requirements, following a successful
pilot implementation.
(3)  Consolidation of responsibilities for the development and
maintenance of automated information systems.
(4)  Restructuring and rationalizing of the customs organization
in line with new operational procedures, together with
decentralization of operations.
(5)  Provision of training and consultants' services to support
the above activities.
                              *       *         *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                        Interest and Principal
                         Repayment Provisions
A.   General Definitions
     For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have
the following meanings.
     (a)   "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account in such Interest Period.
     (b)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the
initial period, each period from and including an Interest
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest
Payment Date.
     (c)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (d)   "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount,
the first day of the Interest Period next following the
Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.   Interest
1.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into
Disbursed Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed
Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate based on a
floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a
fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph
2 of this Part B.
2.   (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of
each Disbursed Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not
including the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to
the applicable:
          (i)   LIBOR Base Rate; plus
         (ii)   LIBOR Total Spread.
Page  11
     (b)   From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount
until final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed
Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)   Fixed Base Rate; plus
         (ii)   Fixed Total Spread.
3.  For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following
terms have the following meanings.
    (a)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in
which a Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value the
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the
Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such Interest
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
a percentage per annum.
    (b)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in
which each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
         (i)  one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
        (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
              Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
              offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
              deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings
              or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single
              currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include
              such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
   (c)  "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
in dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed interest
rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed
Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
   (d)  "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
        (i)    one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
       (ii)    minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the
               Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below
               (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or
               other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in
               respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
               portions thereof allocated to fund single currency
               loans or portions thereof made by it that include
               such Disbursed Amount; plus
      (iii)    the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing
               Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage
per annum.
4.  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate,
LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread
applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
5.  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this
Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for
Page  12
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other
than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts
of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6)
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The new basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.
C.  Repayment
1.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C,
the Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September
15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh
(7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for
such Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be
payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each
installment shall be one twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed
Amount.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part
C, if any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount
would, pursuant to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be
payable after March 15, 2011 the Borrower shall also pay on
said date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.  After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization
scheduled for such Disbursed Amount.
                             SCHEDULE 4
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
Part A:   General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more per
contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B:
      (a)    Grouping of Contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost $300,000
equivalent or more each.
      (b)    Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
      The provision of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
Page  13
1.    International Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per
contract and $350,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.    Direct Contracting
      Proprietary software which must be purchased from the
original supplier to be compatible with existing tools and
costing $570,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may, with
the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitation to prequalify for
bidding, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of  Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract procured under the
provisions of Part B of this Schedule and Part C.2 of this
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ management, financial, tax
and customs consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
Page  14
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
A.   Tax Administration (Part A of the Project)
1.   The Borrower shall maintain the PMU within the GDR, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be
responsible for the coordination and implementation of
activities under Part A of the Project, including, inter alia,
coordinating all procurement activities, monitoring the
availability of funds and all costs and expenditures, and
preparing periodic and completion reports, all with respect to
said Part A of the Project.
2.   The Borrower shall maintain within the GDR five Working
Groups, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
which shall be responsible for carrying out specific activities
under Part A of the Project, namely, automation, collections,
organization, tax policy analysis and third-party systems.
3.   The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1996, furnish the Bank
with an action plan for the reorganization of the GDR,
including its headquarters, regional offices and local offices.
4.   The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1996, furnish the Bank
a copy of its decision concerning the collection by the GDR of
social security, health and unemployment contributions.
B.   Expenditure and Personnel Management (Part B of the Project)
1.   The Borrower shall maintain, within the GDBFC and the
GDPA, the PMU for Part B of the Project, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be responsible
for the coordination and implementation of the activities under
said Part B of the Project under the Head of Department from
the GDBFC, and four Working Groups with responsibility for
implementation of specific activities under said Part B of the
Project.
2.   The Borrower shall maintain four Working Groups, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be
responsible for carrying out specific activities under Part B
of the Project, including, budget preparation and revision,
budgetary control processes, personnel and payroll management,
and information systems.
3.   The Borrower shall, by January 1, 1997, put into effect
the chart of accounts in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4.   The Borrower shall, through the MOF, furnish to the Bank
by December 31, 1997, a plan satisfactory to the Bank, for the
reorganization and rationalization of the budget offices.
5.   The Borrower shall: (a) by January 1, 1997, adopt a new
budget code structure which shall include, inter alia,
functional and economic classification of expenditures
according to international standards, and full implementation
of position ceilings in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) prepare the general budget to be submitted to Parliament
for the 1997 fiscal year on the basis of said new code
structure and position ceilings.
6.   The Borrower shall, by February 28, 1996, adopt for
implementation in the preparation of the 1997 budget, the new
Page  15
timetable and methodology for budget preparation.
7.   The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1997, successfully
conduct the pilot operation for the GFMIS and the PPMIS. The
success of such pilot operation shall be measured on the basis
of criteria agreed with the Bank.
C.   Customs Modernization (Part C of the Project)
1.   The Borrower shall maintain the PMU within the CA, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be
responsible for the coordination and implementation of Part C
of the Project.
2.    The Borrower shall maintain within the CA, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, seven Working Groups which
shall be responsible for carrying out specific activities under
said Part C of the Project, including tariffs, trade documents
harmonization and standardization, customs procedures and
organization, information technology, technical assessment,
national implementation and training.
3.    The Borrower shall, through the CA, by December 31, 1996,
issue new and/or revised customs regulations as agreed between
the Borrower and the Bank.
4.    The Borrower shall, through the CA, by June 30, 1997,
furnish to the Bank a satisfactory plan for the reorganization
of the CA, including the headquarters, regional offices and
local offices.
5.    The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1996, successfully
conduct the pilot site operation. The success of such pilot
site operation shall be assessed on the basis of criteria
agreed with the Bank, including, inter alia: (a) simplification
of procedures; (b) reduction of release times from customs
control; (c) improvement in the accuracy of duty and tax
calculations; and (d) reduction in the rate of physical
inspections.
                             SCHEDULE 6
                    Special Accounts A, B and C
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)   the term "eligible Category" means, in respect
of Special Account A, Category (1); in respect of Special
Account B, Category (2); and in respect of Special Account C,
Category (3); as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Part A, B and C of the Project and to be financedout of the proceeds of 
the Loan allocated from time to time to
the respective eligible Category in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means in respect of
Special Account A, an amount equivalent to $1,200,000, in
respect of Special Account B, an amount equivalent to $930,000,
and in respect of Special Account C, an amount equivalent to
$1,300,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited
in the respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to
in respect of Special Account A, an amount equivalent to
$600,000, in respect of Special Account B, an amount equivalent
to $470,000, and in respect of Special Account C, an amount
equivalent to $650,000, until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all
Page  16
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, in respect of
Special Account A, $900,000, in respect of Special Account B,
and $8,700,000, in respect of Special Account C.
2.  Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be
made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the respective Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the respective Authorized
Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of said Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the
respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)     For replenishment of said Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                  for deposits therein at such intervals as the
                  Bank shall specify.
         (ii)     Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                  4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                  respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
                  basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
                  on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                  Account and deposit into said Special Account
                  such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
                  as shall have been shown by said documents and other
                  evidence to have been paid out of said Special Account
                  for eligible expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of each Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into
Special Account A, Special Account B or Special Account C:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for Special Account A,
Special Account B or Special Account C;
    (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Page  17
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the respective eligible Category, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the respective part of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the respective Authorized
Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
respective eligible Category shall follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account A, Special Account B or
Special Account C: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the respective Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the respective Special Account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in Special
Account A, Special Account B or Special Account C.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
