Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15410
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAIMERON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
(LOAM  2999-GM)
MARCH 4, 1996
: irastructure Division
Central Africa and JEndiaim Ocean Department
Africa Regioan
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = CFA franc
1988   nUS$ = 309 CFA fiancs
ns989   nUS$  336 CFAfrancs
1990   nUSs = 285 CFA francs
1991   1US$ = 275 CFA francs
1992   1US$ = 289 CFA francs
11993   IUS$  280 CFA francs
1994   lUS$  540 CFA francs
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FSCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
July 1 J gune 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARAN   (Agence de Restructuration de la Zone Nylon)
CFC                   Cameroon Housing Loan Bank (Credit FoncJer du Cameroun)
CSDU                  Special Unit for Urban Development (Cellule Speciale de D&veloppement
Urbain)
DGTC                   General Directorate for Large Scale Works (Direction G&hrale des Grands
Travaur du Cameroun)
MM             °      Economic Rate of Return
FEICOM                 (Fonds d'Equipement des Communes)
GOC                   Government of Cameroon
W>A            o      International Development Association (Association Internationale de
Ddveloppement)
°AETUR  Special Agency for site and services development (Mission d'Aminagment des
Travaux Urbains)
Ministry of Urban Affairs and Housing
PDU2                   Second Urban Project
PDUn                  First Urban Project
p?ED           o      Priority Investment Program
PMUR                   Project Management Unit
sIc                   Social Housing Corporation (Socit& Immobili&re du Cameroun)
SM  S                 Small and Medium Enterprises
TA                    Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page
Preface.................................................................................................................................
Evaluation Summary ...............................
Part I: Performance Assessment ...............................1
Project Identity .............................1
Background .............................1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .............................2
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .............................4
C.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................................6
D. Project Sustainability ..............................................9
E. Bank Performanc. ........................ :..9
F.  Bo       rrower Performance .......................                                                                      11
G. Assessment of Outcome .......................                                                                              12
H. Future Operation .......................                                                                                   12
I. Key Lessons Leamed .......................                                                                                 12
Part II: Statistical Information ............................                  .        .       .        .       .,. 14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..........................                                                                    14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................                                                                15
Table 3: Project Timetable ..........................                                                                        15
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimate and Actual .......................................... 16
Chart 1: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ...........................................                             17
Table 5: Project Implementation and Execution ...........................................                                    18
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project .                                                                                   19
Table 8A: Project Costs ............................                                                                          20
Table 8B: Project Financing ............................                                                                      20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ............................                                                             21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................                                                           22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ............................                                                              23
Part III: Borrower's Contribution ............................                                                                     24
Appendices
A. Resettlement Problem ................                                                                                           25
Map IBRD 19632R
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(i)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
LOAN 2999-CM
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Urban Project in
Cameroon (PDU2), for which Loan 2999-CM in the amount of US$146 million was approved on
Octeber27, 1988. The loan agreement was signed on January 25, 1989 and the loan became
effective on May 16, 1989. It was closed on June 30, 1994, accounts being finally closed in
March 1995. Only US$ 90.99 million of the loan was disbursed, and the remainder of US$ 55.01
mnillion was canceled.
This report was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Central Africa
and Indian Ocean Department in the Africa Region on the basis of the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Loan Agreement, the division files, correspondences between the Bank and the Borrower, and
internal Bank memoranda. The Borrower has submitted its assessment of the project.



(ii)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
LOAN 2999-CM
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The second urban project (PDU2) was originally seen as the continuation of Nylon area
rehabilitation ("Projet Zone Nylon", PDUI) which consisted of the physical improvement of a slum
area of about 250,000 inhabitants in Douala (1.5 million inhabitants), the country's port and
economic center. It also included civil works intended to improve traffic conditions in Douala and
Yaounde, the capital city (1 million inhabitants). However, at the appraisal stage, PDU2 evolved
into a far more complex project in relation to its original design. The project was expanded to
further address institutional issues that had been raised in a sector policy letter and action plan that
was drafted at appraisal stage on the basis of lessons drawn from the implementation of PDU1.
Also, civil works were extended to secondary cities without sound prioritization and economic
justification. This increase in scope was unaccompanied by a prior definition of sector strategy in
a serious oversight in a country with a plethora of urban-related institutions. A further problem
was the involvement of several parastatals in critical financial situations, such as MAETIUR for
sites and services development, FEICOM, a central agency for technical and financial support to
local urban authorities, SIC, specializing in the construction of social housing, and CFC, a
financial institution for social housing. The project involved close coordination of three main
ministries: Urban Affairs and Housing for physical planning and land management, Interior (and
local governments) for the management of proxy public services, and Finance to address inter-
goverunental financial relationships and fiscal transfers. The issue of sector coordination among
the ministries involved was tentatively addressed by creating, under the project, a special unit
(Celluhe Speciale de Dgveloppement Urbain, CSDU) that enjoyed de facto autonomy vts-c-vts its
ministry (the ministry of Urban Affairs and Housing) and all other central and local authorities
involved in the sector. This unit rapidly transformed itself into a powerful project implementation
unit.
Project objectives
2.    The project's design was intended to support implementation of the government's Sector
Policy and Action Plan which was drawn up with the Bank's assistance and had 12 principal
objectives. Among these objectives the project was to focus on the following: (a) setting up
workable mechanisms to promote investment; (b) improving mobilization of local resources; (c)
providing secure land tenure as an incentive for private investment; and (d) increasing the role of
the private sector in housing and land development. All these objectives were spelled out and
agreed in a letter accompanying the loan agreement, along with over 30 actions designed to
improve integration between urban operations and economic development.
3.    The project was intended to: (a) consolidate the basis for sustainable and replicable urban
development which had been initiated under the first urban project; (b) encourage economic and
social development by improving infrastructure and access to urban services, particularly in the
lower income areas; (c) improve the distribution of responsibility across central and municipal



(iii)
levels of government as well as public and private providers of urban services; and (d) strengthen
management capabilities of all urban agencies and develop replicable upgrading programs financed
by local resources, with emphasis on improved cost recovery. The project was also seen as a
stepping stone in the definition of the government's urban strategy, which was expected to provide
the basis for a broad sector approach in future Bank lending.
Findings, Implementation Experience, and Results
4.    The project tumed out to be overly ambitious in its scope, unrealistically optimistic about
the government's commitment to sector reforrn, and lacking focus in its activities. Directly or
indirectly, it involved about twenty urban institutions, of which four parastatals were indeed
headed for bankruptcy.
5.    Against a background of the macro-economic and financial crisis which prevailed during
the project's execution, the lack of counterpart funds was the primary factor obstructing project
implementation. It compromised overall performance and undermined the achievement of
objectives. Delays in execution were the direct consequence of poor government commitment to
provide counterpart funds and take steps towards more efficient management of the sector,
especially with respect to local resource mobilization for financing urban development. CSDU soon
transformed itself into a powerful project management unit (PMU), misusing Bank funds for
financing its own increasing operating costs and taking advantage of its strategic consultancies to
become the Bank's priority interlocutor for sector policy dialogue and reform, to the detriment of
permanent administrations and decision-making entities.
6.    Unresolved issues at the end of the project included the Government's financial
compensation of all 237 displaced households in Douala as a consequence of infrastructure works
included in the project, and non-compliance with audit requirements for the project (CSDU, FY
1994) and some of the implementing agencies (MAETUR, FY 92, 93, 94, and CFC 1994) as well.
T-he project suffered one suspension (June 1993) because of CSDU's inimproper use of Bank's
funds, and two interruptions caused by the country's non-accrual status. The project was closed
on June 30, 1994, the original closing date, by which time 62% of the available funding had been
consumed. The Bank decided not to extend the time for execution by one more year, as requested
by the government, given: (a) GOC's repeated failure to compensate all displaced families; and (b)
non-compliance with the action plan agreed upon in January 1994 for providing the Bank with
MAETUR's audit reports for FY92 and FY93. The prospect of Cameroon becoming eligible for
IDA funds also played a role in the decision to draw the curtailed project to a close. Given the lack
of project ownership by central and local administrations, no consistent sector strategy has
emerged from this project, despite a myriad of studies carried out to this effect, with little progress
in setting up sustainable mechanisms for financing and managing of the urban sector. None of the
reforms pertaining to municipal finance and land management that had been identified and/or
proposed during project execution were adopted. Civil works executed in Douala and Yaound6
certainly improved traffic conditions in these two cities with good ERR, but due to the economic
crisis and considerable cost overruns, resulting mainly from civil strifes during execution,
economic justification for these works is today below expectations. This is equally valid for civil
works executed in secondary cities.



(iv)
Key Lessons Learned and Future Operation
7.     This operation has demonstrated the difficulty involved in adopting a broad sector policy
approach with ambitious policy and institutional reformn objectives and a large scope of project
activities, particularly given the timid results of the previous project and the absence of a sector
strategy prescribing a certain course of sector reform. The project also shows the limitations of
temporary solutions such as the creation of a special unit (CSDU) for sector coordination: although
lodged in one of the technical ministries, CSDU rapidly embarked on its own agenda, diverting
decision-making away from the agencies involved in the project and causing an absence of
ownership among the project's main stakeholders.
8.     Future Bank lending to Caneroon's urban sector will be conditioned by the resolution of
pending issues, i.e. compensation of displaced families as a result of civil works included in the
project, and auditing. A clarified institutional setting will be a prerequisite for starting preparation
of a new project. Given (i) the strong dependence of sector investment on external financing, and
(ii) the magnitude of sector reforms to be carried out in areas such as urban/municipal finance,
land management and urban services management, project management should be clarified to avoid
conflicts of interest. A clear sector strategy and action-plans, to be worked out consistently wit
macro-economic policies, should be proposed by the govermnent and found acceptable by the Bank
as conditions for negotiation. Future operations should be more selective and strive for a higher
impact of civil works on employmnent and living conditions of the urban poor, through: (i) the
preparation of a pipeline of labor-intensive priority works in urban infrastructure, to be included in
the PIP for ensuring consistency with, and the availability of, counterpart funding, and (ii) the
execution of works by private contract managers using procedures which encourage the
development of private SMEs in the construction sector.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
LOAN 2999-CM
PART 1: PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
Project Identity
Name:            Second Urban Project
Loan number:    2999-CM
RVP unit:        Africa
Department:      Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Country:         Cameroon
Sector:          Urban
Background
1.    With almost half its population settled in urban areas, Cameroon is a highly urbanized
country by sub-Saharan standards, experiencing rapid urban growth, particularly in Douala (1.5
million inhabitants), the economic center and main Central Africa Region port, and Yaound6, the
capital city and administrative center (I million inhabitants).
2.    More than twenty institutions are involved in Cameroon's urban sector, with responsibility
for: physical planning and land management; public works and transport; mining and energy;
supervision of local governments and the metropolitan authorities of Yaound6 and Douala;
management of public finances; site and services development; construction of social housing;
administering subidies to communes and financing social housing; providing water and electricity
services; and management of metropolitan areas.
3.    A first urban project (PDU 1) sought to upgrade one of Douala's worst slum areas (Zone
Nylon[Nylon shantytown area). It was conceived as a product of ongoing dialogue with the
Government of Cameroon (GOC) since 1977. Its achievements were mixed: the Nylon area was
significantly upgraded, but the application of high infrastructure standards led to the resettlement
of more than 30% of the population, mostly lower-income families. Originally designed as a
modest effort to provide the area's population with basic water and sanitation, which could be
sustained through local financing, the project turned out to be a major urban intervention that
involved the construction of primary infrastructure (a central market stall and primary transit
roads) and would have required ongoing external funding. No mechanism was worked out under
the project for preventing haphazard settlements in the city's outskirts.
4.    The second project (PDU 2) was originally viewed as a continuation of the first, with some
extension to civil works aimed at improving traffic conditions in Douala and Yaound6. During



2
appraisal, however, the project assumed greater complexity: As indicated in a sector policy letter,
the project was expanded to address some policy and institutional issues and civil works were
extended to secondary cities. The increase in scope, moreover, was based on poor sector strategy,
notwithstanding the sector's numerous institutions (see para. 2).
A.    STATEMXNT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
5.    Project objectives. Ihe project was designed to help implement a govermuent Sector
Policy and Action Plan which was drawn up with the Bank's assistance and had 12 principal
objectives. Among these objectives the project was to focus on the following: (a) implementing
workable mechanisms to promote investment; (b) improving mobilization of local resources; (c)
providing secure land tenure as an incentive for private investment; and (d) increasing the role of
the private sector in housing and land development. All 12 objectives were spelled out and agreed
in a letter accompanying the loan agreement, along with over 30 actions to be taken to help
improve integration between urban operations and economic development. Absence of focus, lack
of prioritization and strategic vision characterized the Policy Action Plan. It was meant to be
followed by the clear definition of a sector strategy.
6.    The project was intended to: (a) consolidate the basis for sustainable and replicable urban
development initiated under the first urban project; (b) encourage economic and social development
by improving infrastructure and access to urban services particularly in lower-income areas; (c)
improve the distribution of responsibility across central and municipal levels of government as well
as public and private providers of urban services; and (d) strengthen management capabilities of all
urban agencies and develop replicable programs for upgrading of urban areas, financed by local
resources, with emphasis on improved cost recovery. The project was also seen as a stepping stone
in the evolution of the governmenes urban strategy which was expected to provide the basis for a
broad sector approach in future Bank lending.
7.    Project Description. Project activities largely reflected this absence of focus, prioritization
and strategic vision that characterized the Policy Action Plan. The Action Plan had three major
components:
Part A. Urban Resources Mobilization, consisting mainly of studies and technical assistance,
was to achieve the following objectives:
A. 1.  Establishment of a fiscal cadastre in Yaounde and Douala, including a study for
possible property tax application for Douala and Yaounde.
A.2.  Improved land management through demarcation of state-owned and locally-
owned land, and the development of a computerized land data base.
A.3.  Municipal revenue enhancement through improved billing and collections.
A.4.   Creation of a Municipal Credit Fund, administered by CFC, for the financing of
income-generating investments in urban communes (markets, truck and bus
terminals, commercial & industrial sites development).



3
Part B. Priority Urban Infrastructure Improvement, encompassing civil works, engineering
studies and works supervision, was to support:
B. 1.  A program in Douala comprising:
- traffic management improvement, including about 17 intersections,
signalization and upgrading of 20 kn of sidewalks
-  upgrading and constructing 10 kan of primary roads
-  widening, deepening and lining 4.5 km of storm water drains
-  continuing the Nylon area development undertaken under the first urban
project (PDUI) through: (i) primary infrastructure ; (ii) land development of
about 50 ha; (iii) providing credit to MAETUR (the parastatal for sites and
services development) through the CFC (a financial institution for social
housing), for land development programs and to provide for the resettlement
of displaced households, consisting of small basic serviced lot development in
a resettlement area of about 35 ha and the sale of lots to displaced purchasers.
B.2.  A program in Yaound6 comprising:
-  traffic management for about 4 intersections and preparation of a traffic
management study
-  road improvements through upgrading of 6 kmn of primary roads
-  rehabilitation of street paving
- periodic maintenance and road and drainage upgrading in three secondary
cities.
B.3   A program in about five secondary cities, including paving and upgrading of the
road networks, lining of storm water drains and improvement of access roads to
commercial and industrials development as well as social services.
Part C. Policy and Institutional Development:
- the implementation of action plans to streamline Government's urban development
policy, define institutional and financing mechanisms  for managing urban
development, and identify priority investment programs through technical
assistance;
-  the strengthening of project management capacity of MINUH (Ministry of Town
Planning and Housing) by (i) the provision of TA to the CSDU (Cellule Sp6ciale
de Developpement Urbain), and (ii) on the job and external training;
-  the definition and implementation of action plans covering para public entities in
the housing and urban sectors, i.e., Socit Immobiliere du Cameroun (SIC),



4
MAETUR, and CFC, and in the commercial credit sector, FEICOM (a central
agency providing technical and financial support to local urban authorities)
- the strengthening of technical and financial management capacity of municipalities
of Douala, Yaounde and other secondary cities, by providing TA for training, as
well as equipment.
8.    Evaluation of the objectives.
The objectives, as stated in the SAR, were unrealistically ambitious and too demanding
both institutionally and fmancially for the Borrower:
- PDU2 was of an overly complex design, lacking focus in its activities and involving
about twenty urban institutions which lacked coordination. This broad sector policy approach with
ambitious institutional objectives would have required a strong leadership and commitment from
the Government, both of which now seem, in retospect, to have been unlikely, given the mixed
results of the first urban project and the absence of a sector strategy prescribing a certain course of
sector reform;
- the growing macro-economic and financial crisis, which began during project
preparation, was not taken into account in the SAR: (i) counterpart funding requirements quickly
became too demanding and unrealistic, given the steep drop of country's financial resources; (ii)
programming of street rehabilitation and civil works was made assuming a steady 10% traffic
growth rate and was not revised, despite its overdesign.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
B.1.  Degree of Achievement of Objectives
9.    Urban Management (Part A). The achievement of the project's objectives for this
component can be rated only as unsatisfactory. No significant results were obtained with respect to
either resource mobilization or establishment of a sustainable mechanism for financing urban
development. The activities envisaged could not be completed due to implementation difficulties
and insufficient preparatory work/appraisal (see paras. 11 and 12). Some activities, such as
establishment of the fiscal cadastre, were diverted from their fiscal objective and focused on
property rights and regularization.
10.   Studies were almost all carried out and complied with their terms of reference. Notable
exceptions were: (i) the feasibility study a fiscal cadaster which was diverted from its fiscal
objective as mentioned above; and (ii) the land database that should have differentiated State-
owned land properties from municipal ones, which was never completed.
11.   The preparation of a multi-purpose base map of Yaound6 was seriously delayed due to
administrative red tape in procurement, taking 39 months instead of 24 as planned. Subsequent
delays in the fiscal mapping component prevented the practical execution of the agreed Action
Plan. Due to non-availability of local funds, the base map of Douala was not done, while Yaound6
mapping was interrupted before the digitalization stage; the latter is therefore useless at this point.
12.   Three years elapsed following loan approval before CFC managed to set up an acceptable
procedure for the municipal credit line to become active. Considerable difficulties, in preparing



5
proposals for income-generating projects that would be acceptable to CFC on the basis of this
procedure, were finally overcome by providing the beneficiaries (urban communes) with some
technical assistance from local consultants, to help them put together such projects. A total of 13
projects was thereby judged acceptable, of which only two, however, were realized.
13.   An important benchmark was the government-sponsored symposium/workshop at Kribi in
March 1993 that served as a forum for discussion of the various surveys, studies, etc. under the
project and included the participation of government departments. However, the symposium failed
to provide a decisive breakthrough towards the formulation of a government urban strategy:
instead the recommendations amounted to little more than a list of measures still in need of
assirmilation towards a coherent strategy for ensuring sustainable urban development.
14.   Urban Infrastructure (Part B). About 70% of the target under this component was
achieved; the outcome is nevertheless rated as unsatisfactory, due to both the application of
inappropriately high planning and construction standards which increased costs, and the creation of
resettlement problems, which led to the suspension of disbursernents.
15.   The planned works at "Nylon" were completed but only after substantial extra costs were
incurred. Parts of the resettlement areas to be developed, to accommodate the displaced families,
were provided neither with access roads nor water supply, the latter to have been financed by the
government. Dislocated families have continued to undergo great suffering and hardship
notwithstanding pressure from the Bank upon the government. Moreover, not all the households
have been compensated by government -- the reason for project suspension in mid-1993 and an
important consideration in the Bank's decision to adhere to the closing date of mid-1994, in spite of
requests for extension (see Annex II).
16.   Road works and additional sidewalks at Yaound6 experienced delays and heavy additional
costs but were completed in April 1992. Civil works in Douala had also been completed when the
project was closed in June 1994, except for works that were included in the traffic management
scheme, which experienced delays in procurement.
17.   Infrastructure works in the secondary cities experienced an overall time overrun of 50%,
although some road works were completed within time and budget limits. The 11 road contracts,
which were to be completed over to a cumulative contracted execution time of 158 months, in fact
required an additional 77 months. Furthermore, the selection of works to be carried out was made
according to undefined criteria which lacked economic justification and prioritization.
18.   Institutional Development (Part C). Activities under this component, which were geared
to overhaul governnent urban policy and generate a workable urban strategy, produced results that
may be rated only as unsatisfactory. Although much solid work was carried out, which has made a
useful contribution to government thinking (at the Kribi Syrnposium in particular, see para. 13
above), the government did not take meaningful steps to build upon the recommendations of the
studies in furthering the achievement of project objectives. On the other hand, the studies
sometimes strengdtened the resolve of the central administration (Cadastre and Domalnes
especially) to intervene in matters (such as land) best left to market forces with government
involvement restricted to planning and regulation.
19.   The studies that were mandated to expatriate consultant groups were all carried out;
reconmmendations for action were collated and adopted as the MINUH Program. Technical



6
counterpart assistance was undertaken for Cadastre, Domaines, and in areas such as Municipal
finance, Operational Planning, etc. Government agencies' inability to adopt the necessary changes
was particularly evident for parastatals: SIC, MAETUR and CFC becamne virtually bankrupt.
B.2.  Economic Evaluation
20.   At Appraisal. The SAR provided an economic evaluation of the Urban Infrastructure
Rehabilitation component, based on traffic surveys carried out in Douala. The Economic Rate of
Retum of the Douala road improvement program was estimated at 32 °/O, as a result of savings in
Vchicle Operating Costs (i.e excluding time savings benefits). It was expected that ERRs for
Yaound6 and secondary cities would reach simnilar levels. It was agreed during negotiations that, to
be eligible for financing under the project, the Yaound6 and secondary cities sections would yield
ERR of at least 12%.
21.   After Projed Completion. Because of the lack of reliable and updated data on traffic and
Vehicle Operating Costs, the economic evaluation of the Infrastructures Rehabilitation component
could not be undertaken. However, the actual Rate of Return is expected to be much lower than
estimated in the SAR, because of the deep economic crisis and the devaluation of the CFA Franc
which resulted in a steep drop of traffic, contrary to an estimated 10% annual growth rate forecast
in the SAR. Furthermore, despite agreement during negotiations on the eligibility criteria for road
sections rehabilitation in secondary cities, the selection process did not reflect the criteria, and
lacked prioritization.
C.    IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
1. Implementation Record
22.   Implementadon Arrangements. The government agency with overall responsibility for
project implementation was the Ministry of Urban Plamning and Housing (MINlH), through a
project managenent unit (Cellule Spdiale de Developpement Urbain, CSDU), specially created
to coordinate project activities across the various agencies involved and manage contracts related
to project execution. MAETUR(-ARAN) was the implementing agency directly responsible for the
land development activities in Douala, including provision of plots to households eligible for
resettlement under the project. The agency was to replenish project funds through plot sales and
use of a revolving fund mechanism. Municipal credit for financing municipal income-generating
projects was to be provided by the CFC; it was responsible for administering a line of credit to be
opened in a special account under specific procedures. An inter-ministerial Urban Development
Steering Committee with representation of all concerned ministries had been created for overall
project supervision and orientation.
23.   Legal agreements between the GOC and the Bank were:
(a) a loan agreement between the GOC and the Bank spelling out the tasks to be carried
out by the various agencies as agreed, with a loan of US$146.0 million from the Bank,
and counterpart funding from GOC of US$107. 5 million, amounting to a total project
cost of US$253.5 million;
(b) a project agreemnent between the Bank and the Credit Foncier (CFC) for on-lending for
a municipal credit fund; and



7
(c) a project agreement between the Bank and MAETUR for land development.
24.   The loan agreement identified the free-standing responsibilities of the CFC and MAETUR,
stipulating that the MINUH would be responsible for overall project management and coordination
through its project management unit (CSDU), which would also act as a technical secretariat to the
Steering Committee.
25.   Actual Implementation. By the time of loan effectiveness, the responsibilities of the
CSDU had been expanded to represent MINUH and establish a modus operandi for the resolution
of conflicts of priority arising among the numerous agencies involved, As a result, the CSDU
became the de facto agency entirely responsible for overall project execution, with moreover,
involvement in strategic matters which were more appropriately the concern of the ministries and
agencies.
26.   Both CFC and MAETUR were subordinated to CSDU in practice. Conceived as only a
technical facilitator serving the participating agencies, CSDU effectively became the master of the
project through its powerful political connections. While such authority helped combat the habitual
lassitude of those agencies, it diluted or removed responsibility from those properly responsible,
and marginalized the role of the Steering Committee. Operating in a public sector environment
recognized for overreaching, the CSDU, in practice, under-delivered.
27.   Loan Effectiveness and Project Startup, The Bank loan became effective on May 16th
1989, three months later than planned. A project-launching mission in March 1989 reported that a
number of legal conditions for effectiveness were still to be complied&lwith, and outstanding
payments were still to be made on PDU1 (Loan 2244-CM) for works at Nylon-Douala.
Subsequently, a Bank supervision mission in July 1989 reported al,ikely request from the
government to reduce GOC's share in the financing arrangements due to substantial reductions in
the National Investment Budget as part of Cameroon's structural adjustment. Delays in project
start-up and during its initial stages were due to the difficulty in mobilizing counterpart funds amid
GOC's worsening financial situation and the practical difficulties involved.in coordinating the large
number of institutions.
28.   Procurement and Project Costs. Despite the government's emphasis on civil works,
considerable delays plagued this largest portion of the project due to the long duration of the
procurement process. The Bank experienced difficulty in impressing upon the Borrower the need to
follow its procurement guidelines. The intervention of various technical reviewers, including
DGTC, the central agency for procurement in Cameroon, further complicated the process. The
application of inappropriately high planning and construction standards was at the root of the
project's higher-than-expected costs. Adjustments in design to incorporate more practicable
standards caused delays. A 10% overrun against initial cost estimates was taken for granted by
CSDU and affected almost all civil works contracts. In the later stages of the project, the Bank
effectively intervened in order to streamline design of the works and firmly establish a more
systematic approach to procurement in general. The latter materialized into a proposal for
procurement code reform which was recently approved.
29.   Disbursements. As of June 1994, when the project was closed, US$ 84.33 million had
been disbursed under the loan.  By March 1995, when the accounts were closed, total
disbursements amounted to US$90.99 million, leading to a cancellation of the undisbursed amount,
of $54.36 million. Detailed disbursement figures are given in Annex 1. At the closure of the



8
project account in March 1995, approximately 56.6% of the total cost of the project as appraised
had been executed.
30.   The disbursement pattem over the life of the project compares favorably with the average
pace of disbursement for civil works across the region.  From the start of the project,
disbursements were slower than expected, mainly due to delays arising from the lack of local
counterpart funds. By mid-1993, only US$76.04 million had been disbursed; this rates poorly
against an appraisal forecast of US$134.30 million, but compares well with the regional
disbursement profile, which suggests a regional average disbursement of only US$58.65 at a
comparable stage of project implementation. This reinforces the perception that the Bank's
expectations were unrealistically optimistic; thus measuring the project's progress against
appraisal forecasts could be misleading. The project's higher total cumulative disbursement
(US$90.99) relative to the regional profile (average of US$86.14 millions) suggests that it was
slightly above average in its expenditure efficiency.
31.   Legal Covenants and Audits. Non-compliance with legal and audit requirements led to
project suspension in June 1993. Suspension was related to the improper withdrawal of funds
from the special account and delays in replenishing it, repeated failure to submit the audit report
for MAETUR for two consecutive years (1992 and 1993); and failure to compensate displaced
households in Douala. The resettlement plan itself was long reported not yet determined (in
February and November 1991 as well as August 1993) and was finally declared off-track in
December 1993.
32.   The 1993 audit revealed that funds amounting to US$2.8 million had been improperly
withdrawn from CSDIYs special account, without the Bank's prior agreement, and had not been
replenished by the goverunent. These funds had been improperly used to meet increases in
CSDU's operating costs which were to be provided for by the govermnent as counterpart funds.
They were finally paid back by the Goverunent.
33.    The absence of a proper accounting system in some of the implementing agencies was part
of the problem. The gap was closed in the project's late years, as far as CSDU was concerned;
MAETUR still does not have a proper accounting system. At the closing of the Loan Account, the
Bank had not received CSDU's audit for the last year of project execution (1994), the general audit
of CFC (1994) and the audit of its special account, and MAETUR's audit report for FY 1992,
1993 and 1994.
34.   Implementation Timetable. The schedule. foresaw project completion in FY 1996. The
project suffered one suspension because of CSDU's improper use of Bank funds, and two
interruptions (June and September 1992) due to the country's non-accrual status. The project was
closed on June 30, 1994, the original closing date, by which time 62% of the available funding had
been used, i.e. 56% of the total cost estimate of the project. In 1993, lingering difficulties in
counterpart funding prompted a reexamination of the project's content and resulted in a curtailment
of project scope in order to maintain project closing at the original date as agreed. By mid-1994,
the Bank decided not to extend project implementation by a year, as requested by the Government,
given: (a) GOC's repeated failure to compensate displaced families, and (b) inon-compliance with
the action plan agreed upon in January 1994 to provide the Bank with MAETUR's audit reports
for FY92 and FY93. Furthermore, Cameroon's becoming eligible for IDA funds also played a role
in the Bank's decision to draw the curtailed project to a close.



9
35.   Project Financing. In February 1991 the Bank acceded to the government's request and
amended the loan agreement in order to increase the Bank's share of project financing from 58% to
74% of total project cost. Coupled with reduced government spending, this imnplied that total
infrastructure costs incurred would be reduced from US$160 million to US$112 million.
December 1993 saw the curtailment of the project to bring it into line with the realities of the
situation. New works, not likely to be completed within the project time period, were discouraged.
2. Major Factors Affecting the Project
36.   Lack of Government commitment, project complexity and poor design of institutional
arrangements for project execution, combined with over-optimistic assumptions regarding the
government's capacity to mobilize counterpart funds, were at the root of the overall unsatisfactory
outcome of the project.
37.   The lack of counterpart funds was an imnportant factor in project difficulties.  It
comprornised the project's overall performance and undernined the achievement of its objectives.
The resulting delays in execution were the direct consequence of lack of government commitment
in providing funds and taking steps towards a more efficiently managed urban sector, especially
with respect to the mobilization of local resources for financing urban development. Indeed, the
threat and subsequent implementation of loan suspension were the only means to enforce GOC's
comuitment to providing counterpart funds.
38.   The project was, at the time, highly demanding in terms of budget allocations for
counterpart funding. Amid the worsening macroeconomic and public finance situation, finding the
resources for this purpose would have required much more government commnitment to the project
and its objectives than was indeed the case. In the absence of clear sector policy goals, and
because of CSDU's taking over of almost all project responsibilities, other concerned urban
institutions strongly resisted project implementation.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
39.   Ultimately, the project's fundamental airn was to put in place sustainable mechanisms for
financing and managing urban development. This major goal was not achieved: the worsenring
public finance situation leaves the country unable to provide for the operation and maintenance of
past investments. Municipal revenues are insufficient to provide even basic services such as street
maintenance, let alone to effectively manage urban growth. Even with improved resource
mobilization, the pattern of spending incremental revenues on salaries and equipment for force
account service delivery, without reducing routine expenditures, would have jeopardized the
creditworthiness of municipalities. The revolving fund to be managed by MAETUR for sites and
services development was never replenished and MAETUR used the cost-recovery revenues from
plot sales to cover its increasing routine operating costs.
E.    BANK PERFORMANCE
40.   Overall Assessment.  Apart from the 1993 project suspension, the Bank was not
consistently strict in the handling of project execution; indeed, it was too permissive regarding
compliance with legal covenants and audit requirements. It had difficulties in having the
government follow Bank procurement guidelines. Only in the later stages of the project (1993-
1994) did the Bank act decisively to maintain the original closing date, thereby effectively



10
curtailing the activities of the project a second time. It became dramatically evident by mid-1993
that the project's goals -- particularly those related to institutional strengthening -- would not be
achieved. With the benefit of hindsight, the valiant attempts to keep the project going despite
repeated suspensions were not beneficial, and project cancellation two years before closing would
have more likely been the best solution.
41.    Given the issues of the first urban project still unresolved when the second (PDU2) was
appraised, the Bank faces some responsibility for its over-optimistic assessment of the
government's capacity to furnish counterpart funding and to commit itself to solving the
resettlement problem. Before proceeding with negotiations, the Bank should have particularly
made sure that: (i) the government was making meaningful efforts to develop its sector policy and
mobilize counterpart funds accordingly and on a timely basis, and (ii) agreed actions with regard to
resettlement, would be implemented realistically.
42.   Project Preparation. PDU2 was prepared with input from the ministries concerned and
support from Bank personnel. The request for project preparation had been formulated by the
government as the result of discussions which had taken place over an extended period, involving
the parastatals and their directorates.
43.   The project initially focused on the continuation of Nylon area rehabilitation and also
included civil works aimed at improving traffic conditions in Douala and Yaounde. Despite the
mixed results of the first project, PDU2 evolved (at the appraisal stage) into a project of much
greater complexity and advanced design. Further, the chances for such a project to succeed were
narrowed by the country's numerous urban-related institutions which lacked coordination, the
absence of a government strategy for the urban sector, and the scarcity of skilled and efficiently
deployed professionals. PDU2 also extended civil works to secondary cities without adequate
social and economic justification. Moreover, these decisions were taken against a background of a
growing financial crisis. The situation was clearly risky from the start.
44.   The project was appraised in an overly optimistic manner. It was also unrealistically
arnbitious, particularly in the light of the institutional weaknesses that became apparent during the
first project, which were exacerbated by the government's inability to provide timely counterpart
funding and reluctance to tackle the underlying institutional weaknesses.
45.   Implementation and Supervision.  During the implementation period, a total of 12
supervision missions visited Yaounde. A total of 139 staff weeks was devoted to the project
throughout the project cycle. Bank supervision missions started to carry out site field visits of
works under completion in secondary cities only in 1993. In general, Bank missions included
adequate skill mix, though the professional areas of civil engineering and procurement were often
missing in the staffing composition of supervision missions.  As a consequence, project
implementation had shown some weaknesses in these areas. This had become crucial to the civil
works part of the project and remedial actions were carried out by the executing agency (CSDU) to
address this concern. A full time (expatriate) technical assistant was recruited by CSDU after one
year of project implementation to strengthen compliance with Bank procurement requierements.
46.   Relations with Cofinanciers. Throughout the project implementation period, the Bank
maintained good relationships with other donors involved in the sector, in particular the French,
despite the fact that CSDU was viewed by other donors as having the monopoly on the sector. This
issue particularly affected relations between CSDU, implementing the Bank-financed project, and



11
some departments of MINUH (in particular Urban Affairs) which were at the same time receiving
permanent technical assistance and logistical support from the French Aid under FAC fimancing, to
pursue the same objectives as the Bank-financed project but with a slightly different perspective.
The two projects were initially carried out in parallel, with tensions between the two entities
(CSDU and the Department of Urbanism) belonging to the same ministry. In the end, the French-
financed technical assistant joined CSDU, in recognition of its dominance of the sector.
47.   Documentation and Data. Project documentation was satisfactory. The appraisal report
provided the goals, objectives and means in a clear and concise manner. However, it failed to
delineate the timing and detailed description of activities necessary for sound implementation by the
participating agencies, thereby providing an opportunity for the CSDU to develop as a power
broker. The project documents did not include a detailed description of the physical components -
in particular those to be undertaken in secondary cities -- nor justification for investment in them.
F.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
48.    The perfornance of the Borrower ranged from mediocre to poor. Since the start, MINUH
and, more significantly the rest of the government, were only partly conmnitted to the key goals of
the project and involved in its implementation. Repeated breaches of loan covenants included the
timnid production of the resettlement plan (reported not yet deternined in February 1991, November
1991 and August 1993) which was finally declared off-track in December 1993. A similar pattern
was evident in the auditing of project accounts, the national urban strategy, and the three year plan
for MINUH.
49.   The government's weak response in working towards project objectives may be gleaned
from its failure to resettle the displaced, families despite the availability of resources and its
repeated reassurances, its failure' io promptly replenish the special account which had been
improperly used to finance the operating costs of the CSDU, and its reluctance to follow Bank
procurement guidelines leading to unproductive and costly delays.
50.    By contrast, the energetic activities of CSDU related primarily to the execution of civil
works, and diverted attention from the inherent institutional disability of GOC. The CSDU
succeeded in establishing itself with a high profile and impressive power base for managing
consultations and ingeneering studies. It achieved delivery of the project's civil works cornponent
in line with the regional profile for disbursement. In practice, it deflected responsibilities from the
beneficiary institutions, thus diluting the project's development impact on those agencies. It took
advantage of its access to strategic consultancies that it was supervising to become the Bank's
priority interlocutor for sector policy dialogue and reforrn, to the detriment of permanent
administrations and decision-making units.
51.   This was to prove no substitute for administrative problem-solving within the govemment
agencies concerned. CSDU's achievements proved far more limited in overall project terms than
suggested by its position of authority and administrative influence.
52.    Consultancy Services and Technical Assistance. Despite the delivery of quality output,
mainly by foreign consulting firms, the impact of the services provided was not satisfactory in that
they were of little benefit to counterpart institutions and staff. This was due to the level of control
exercised by the CSDU, which tended to speak for all parties. CSDU would receive the reports
and recomnmendations of the different consultants, invite comments from the institutions



12
themselves, and paraphrase reactions, which led to dilution and lack of appreciation for the
analytical processes involved. Much of the well-prepared work of the consultants remains
appreciated and partly useful, but the transfer of knowledge and capacity-building within the
institutions concerned was not achieved.
G.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
53.   The execution of the Second Urban Project has been, in the overall, largely unsatisfactory
with limited or poor results, both in respect of its physical and institutional aspects. It was to be
expected that the institutional complexities and lack of coordination among the large number of
agencies in the public sector in Cameroon would weaken the chances for achievement of project
objectives. The prevailing national economic crisis, combined with the absence of government
commitment, exacerbated the situation. This risk had already been identified at the time of loan
approval and undermined the project's start up, exposing the inherent weaknesses of project design,
which was not only too arnbitious but also lacking in focus. The project sought to achieve broad
sector reforms, calling for a clear vision as well as unambiguous commitment, through specific
activities requiring strong management capacity; all of these elements were absent, however. In
implementing the project, the GOC gave priority to infrastructure investments and no major
breakthrough was achieved towards a more sustainable sector. Notwithstanding the Action Plan,
the country continues to lack a meaningful and coherent sector strategy.
H.    FUTURE OPERATION
54.   Future Bank lending to the urban sector in Cameroon will be conditioned by the resolution
of pending issues related to compensation of displaced householders (see Appendix A) and
auditing. A clarified institutional setting will be a prerequisite for starting preparation of a new
project. Given (i) the strong dependence of sector investmnent on extemal financing, and (ii) the
magnitude of sector reforms to be carried out in areas such as urban/municipal finance, land
management and urban services management, project management should be clarified to avoid
conflicts of interest. A clear sector strategy and action plans, to be worked out consistently with
macro-economic policies, should be proposed by the govermment and found acceptable by the Bank
as conditions for negotiation. Future operations should be more selective and strive for a higher
impact of civil works on employment and living conditions of the urban poor, through: (i) the
preparation of a pipeline of labor-intensive priority works in urban infrastructure, to be included in
the PIP for ensuring consistency with, and the availability of, counterpart funding, and (ii) the
execution of works by private contract managers using procedures which encourage the
development of private SMEs in the construction sector.
I.     KEY LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
55.    A number of lessons can be drawn from this project execution; all are about building
stakeholders' commitment and ownership, and designing sound institutional setup for project
implementation and monitoring, at the preparation stage. Indeed, they provide useful insights on
the kind of pitfalls that may be encountered when: (i) government commitment is weak, (ii) the
long-tern vision for the sector diffuse, (iii) a multiplicity of implementing agencies (and donors)
compete to achieve the same goals, and (iv) indicators for monitoring the project during
implementation are not clearly thought through.
56.    Government Commitment. There has been no real commitment to well identified reforms
for improving the management of the sector at the appraisal stage; during project implementation,



13
actual enphasis was put on civil works. With this respect, a policy letter issued by a technical
ministry (MINUH was clearly not sufficient to get the other ministers committed (in this case the
Ministries of Finance and Interior). Such an upfront commitrnent by the Government as a whole,
or at least from the Ministers that are mainly concerned, will have to be got prior to project
effectiveness in further Bank or IDA financed operations in the urban sector.
57.    Sector Policy and Strategy. Embarking in an ambitious sector program covering a large
range of sector issues without setting up a clear sector vision, strategy and prioritization of actions
to be carried out under the project was a mistake. Furthermore, this project was featuring a
combination of physical and institutional elements that were not consistently tied together.
Coupled with a-lack of focus in project activities, it actually turned into diffuse and shaky results,
even with physical components which are usually successful in Bank financed urban projects.
58.   Implementation Arrangements.  They were insufficiently thought through at the
appraisal stage, and responsibilities were not clearly allocated between the various implementing
agencies. These arrangements should be viewed as a critical part of the project design and key
conditions to project success. With this respect, the project has also shown the limitations of
temporary solutions such as the creation of a special unit (CSDU) for sector coordination: although
lodged in one of the technical ministries, CSDU rapidly embarked on its own agenda, diverting
decision-making away from the agencies involved in the project and causing an absence of
ownership among the project's main stakeholders.
59.    Monitoring Indicators.  The performance indicators were not clearly thought through,
hence making it more difficult in this context of multiple actors to design a monitoring system that
would be able to assure a coherence of the planned activities of this project. A thoughtful
definition of key indicators for project monitoring will have to be set up at the appraisal stage of
any further investment operation.



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
LOAN 2999-CM
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Achievement of objectives       Substantial        Partial          Negligible     Non applicable
Macro policies                      0                O                 O                 0
Sector policies                      3               O                 e                 O3
Financial objecives                 Cl               O                                    3 O
Institutional development           O3               0                 0                 03
Physical objectives                 O3               0                 0                 0
Poverty reduction                   0                0                 0                 0
Gender issues                       O                0                 0                 0
Other social objectives             O                O                 0                 03
Environmental objectives            0                0                 0                 0
Public sector management            0                0                 0                 0
Private sector development          0                0                 0                 [3
Project sustainability             Likely                 Unlikely                Uncertain
Urban Management                     0                       0                        0
Urban Infrastucture                  0                       0                        0
Institutional devlopment             0                       0                        0
Bank performance            Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory              Deficient
Identification                      0                       0                        El
Prepration assistance               0                                                0
Appraisal                           0                       0                        0
Supervision                         0                       03                       0
Borrower performance        Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                         0                       0                        0
Implementation                      O                       El                       0
Covenant compliance                 0                       O                        0
Operation                           03                      0                        0
Highly              Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory  Highly unsatisfactory
satisfactory
Assessment of outcome            0                 0               EE 0



15
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
LOAN 2999-CM
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
UJrban I                 Establish efficient     1983      Disbursed   The project demonstrated
(Loan 2244 - CM)         institutional framework                       mixed results. It consisted of
for improving and                            the physical improvement of a
restructuring the                            slum area of about 250,000
spontaneous urban                            inhabitants in Douala ('Zone
districts                                    Nylon"). As a result of delays
during the execution of the
works and higher costs than
expected due to the use of
high standards of
construction, the Nylon area
rehabilitation was to be
completed under the Second
Urban Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification                                                  May 1984
Preparation
Appraisal                      November 1987                  November 1987
Credit negotiations                                             June 1988
Board presentation                                           October 27, 1988
Credit signature                                             January 25, 1989
Credit effectiveness            January 1989                  May 16, 1989
Credit completion              December 1993                  June 30, 1994
Credit closing                   June 1994                   October 31, 1994



16
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
LOAN 2999-CM
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimate and Actual
:: k~                                . .. ....
30-Jun-89                 6.5                  15.17             233%
30-Sep-89                14.5                  15.88             110%
31-Dec-89                22.6                  16.26              72%
31-Mar-90                30.6                  17.39              57%
30-Jun-90                38.7                 20.14               52%
30-Sep-90                47.4                 22.56               48%
31-Dec-90                58.4                  23.29              40%
31-Mar-91                68.9                  23.86              35%
30-Jun-91                78.8                  30.6               39%
30-Sep-91                87.7                  37.33              43%
31-Deo-91                96.3                  42.14              44%
31-Mar-92                103.9                 45.18              43%
30-Jun-92                110.9                 51.9               47%
30-Sep-92                117.7                 56.07              48%
31-Dec-92                 124                  57.02              46%
31-Mar-93                 129                  68.72              53%
30-Jun-93                134.3                 76.04              57%
30-Sep-93                138.3                 80.99              59%
31-Dec-93                141.6                 81.64              58%
31-Mar-94                143.8                 80.81              56%
30-Jun-94                 146                  84.33              58%
30-Sep-94                                      89.83              62%
31-Dec-94                                      91.64              63%
31-Mar-95                                      90.99              62%



17
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
LOAN 2999-CM
Chart 1: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
120
I 00          ~:
2  80  s ...  .. .. 'Dr:s:            -4--Appraisal
20             .              *   .. *.* .
Quarters



18
Table 5: Project Implementation and execution
Priority Urbai Infrastructures Rehabilitation
DOUALA
- Traffic management'                Intersections/         .             NA
sidewalks
- Primary Roads Network                 10 km            4.6 km          46%
- Water Drains rehabilitations         4.5 km            3.7 km          82%
- Nylon rehabilitation                50-ha pilot       completed        100%
- Resettlement area                     35 ha            35 ha2          80%
YAOUNDEi
- Traffic management                4 intersections         -             NA
= Road improvement'                     6 km                0             NA
- Street Rehabilitation               8- 10 km           8.9 km          100%
FIVE SECONDARY CITIES
Road Rehabilitation                                     23 km           100%
|TOTAL                             I                                        65%
Cancelled, following delays in procurement
2 Parts of the resettement areas were not provided with water supply



19
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
LOAN 2999-CM
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Fiscal Cadastre      1. Study the potential        Completed      Negligible. Establishment of the fiscal
improvements of fiscal                       cadastre was diverted from its fiscal
collection.                   Completed      objective and focused on property
2. Study the means to be                     rights and regularization.
deployed to identify the tax-
payers and the physical                      Due to the lack of appropriate
composition of the properties.    Partially  computers, the base map of Yaounde is
3. Establishment of a cadastral   Completed  only partially used.
base maps in Yaounde and
Douala._
Municipal Action Plan  Municipal revenue enhancement  Completed   Negligible. Not implemented.
through improved billing and
collection.
Land Management    Identify and demarcate state-   Completed      Not implemented: no follow-up by the
owned and locally-owned land.                Govermnent.
Develop a computerized land
data base.
Urban Sector         Define institutional and      Partially       Negligible. The formulation of a
Investment Strategy    financing mechanisms for    Completed      coherent urban strategy was never
managing urban development,                  issued by the Government.
and identify priority investment
programs.
Assessment of small-  Identification of SMEs in    Completed      Fair. Allowed better knowledge of
and medium-scale     Cameroon. Potential for labor-                local SMEs in the construction
enterprises          based methods in urban works.                industry.



20
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
LOAN 2999-CM
Table 8A: Project Costs (US$ Million)
Resources Mobilization            4.7       8.8      13.5         4.0           29%
nfrastructures Priority Program  71.5     90.7     162.2         99.9          62%
Douala                      46.4      52.8     99.2         64.4           65%
Yaound6                      12.6      19      31.6          13.0          41%
Secondary Cities            12.5      18.9     31.4         22.5           72%
Institutional Development         3.9       9.7      13.6         12.5         .92%
PhYsical Continsencies            7.5       9.5      17
Price Contingencies               19.9     27.3      47.2
_TOTAL                         r 107.5      146     253.5  I     116.4          46%
Table 8B: Project Financing (USS Million)
IDA                 0        146      146       0.0      90.99     90.99      62%
Local sources      107.5      0       107.5    25.4      0.00      25.40      24%
TOTAL                107.5      146    253.5      25.4     90.99    116.391    46%



21
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
LOAN 2999-CM
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan Agreement
Section 3.02 (a)    Government to make parts of the proceeds of the  Complied with on February 14, 1989
Loan available to CFC under subsidiary financing
agreement.
Section 3.02 (a)    CFC to onlend parts of these proceeds to MAETUR  Complied with on April 13, 1989
under a subsidiary financing agreement.
Section 3.05      Govemment to prepare, through MINAT an action  Complied with delays
plan on the basis of the municipal finance study.
Section 3.06      Government to furnish to the Bank a report on the  Complied partially (1993 report prepared on
execution of the urban strategy action plan by June  June 30, 1994)
_30 of each year.
Section 3.07      Government, Through MINUH, to furnish action  Complied with
plans concerning the parapublic enterprises in the
urban and housing sectors.
Section 3.08      Government to carry out the action plan for Not complied with
resettlement.
Section 4.01      Government to furnish an audit of the project's  Complied except for the last year of the project
accounts.                                     (FY 94)
Section 4.02      CUD and CUY to furnish a report on municipal Complied with
finance and a work plan for infrastructure
maintenance by March 31 of each year.
Section 4.03      MINUH to furnish a three-year urban investment Complied with
program by March 31 of each year
CFC Project Agreement
Section 4.01      CFC to submit audited financial statements on  Complied except for FY 93 and FY94
special account
Section 4.02      CFC to plan its housing credit operations     This covenant is no longer relevant.
Section 4.03      CFC to use the repayments from MAETUR and  Not complied, because MAETUR never paid
municipalities for further loans to MAETUR and  back CFC.
municipalities
MAETUR Project Agreement
Section 2.02     MAETUR to ensure that the sale price of lots cover Not complied with
the aggregate cost of servicing
Section 4. 01    MAETUR to submit audited financial statements on  Still overdue (FY 93 and FY 94)
special account                                                              -------_-



22
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
LOAN 2999-CM
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
... .....                _   _.       . ..  ___    __   .  _
Through Appraisal                      115.3                          262.3
Negotiations through                   130.4                          275.7
Effectiveness
Supervision                            145.6                          417.2
Completion                              7.4                            20.1
TOTAL                                  398.8                           975.3



23
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
LOAN 2999-CM
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
g g    S~~~~~~'
Pre-appraisal    06/86     19      4        2 UE, 2 C                            July 14, 1986
Appraisal        10/87     20      7      SHE, FA, 2 UP,                        November 25, 1987
UB, BHE, E
Post-appraisal    07/88    21      6       UP, 2C, PDA,
SC, SHE
Post-appraisal   11/88     19      2          UP, E
Post-appraisal    03/89    13      3         UP, E, C                            May 4, 1989
Supervision 1    07/89     5       1           UP             1          1       August 7, 1989
Supervision 2    02/90     12      2         UP, MS           1          1      March 1, 1990
Supervision 3    05/90     8       2         UP, MS           1          1      June 20, 1990
Supervision 4    09/90     8       1  .        SUP            1          1      October 24, 1990
Supervision 5    01191     9       1           SUP            1          1      Februaxy 25, 1991
Supervision 6    06/91     7       1           SUP            1          1      July 10, 1991
Supervision 7    10/91     8       1           SUP            2          1      November 20, 1991
Supervision 8    02/92     8       3        SUP, SE, C        2          1       April 2, 1992
Supervision 9    12/92     9       1           SUP            2          1      March 1, 1993
Supervision 10    05/93    12      3        FA, TP, C         3          2       August 9, 1993
Supervision I1    11/93    10      1           TP             4          3      December 15, 1993
Supervision 12    0i/94    11      2          TP, UP          3          2      March 15, 1994
Completion       06/94     17      3        TP, UP, E         2          2       July 26, 1994
Total
UP     Urban Planner                          MS    Municipal Specialist
SUP    Senior Urban Planner                   SE     Senior Economist
E      Economist                              UE    Urban Economist
SHE    Senior Highway Engineer                SC     Senior Counsel
FA     Financial Analyst                      PDA   Principal Disbursement Assistant
C      Consultant                             HE    Highway Engineer
TP     Transport Planner



24
PART III: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
The Borrower has submitted its final evaluation report dated November 1994, consisting
of 108 pages. Despite several reminders of its responsibility to produce a summary report, as of
this date, it appears very unlikely that the Borrower will furnish us with it.



25
Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
RESETTLEMENT PROBLEM
1.    The Second Urban project (SUP) in Caneroon leaves 237 households (equivalent to about
1,000 people) displaced by the major road and drainage works in Douala, without compensation in
monetary form as agreed prior to the project's effectiveness. They are owed 624.33 million CFAP.
Lack of Government commitment to resettlement arrangements is at the root of the problem which
persisted until the project's closing on June 30, 1994, this despite precautions taken before and
duriiig project in.plementation, as discussed below.
2.    In 1989, prior to the project's effectiveness, the Government had submitted and committed
itself to a resettlement arrangement. A more detailed plan followed in 1990. It provided for full
monetary compensation to the then estimated 500 homeowners to be moved. Conforming to 1987
legislation on resettlement rights, compensation was estimated on a case-by-case basis and covered
tenured homeowners as well as squatters.
3.    A survey established the list of the displaced and the amount of their compensation.
Expropriation procedures were put into place, and a special Governmental agency (MAETUR-
ARAN) was appointed to implement them. Finally, a decree issued by the Prime Minister
authorized the Ministry of Finance to earmark 1.446 billion CFAF for compensation and stipulated
CFC as the executing agency of the compensation mechanism.
4.    To protect the resettlers, the Bank attached negotiation of the SUP to several conditions,
among them: (a) provision by the Government of a resettlement site; and (b) Government
submission of technical studies on the development of resettlement plots. The Bank consented to
the financing of the site development with Project funds. It was also agreed that the resettlement
sites had to be developed at the lowest possible cost in order to accommodate the displaced
population's budget. Compensation in monetary form would have allowed the majority, if not the
entirety, of the resettlers to acquire affordable plots.
5.    During project irnplementation, a new technical design of the drainage system reduced the
number of displaced households from 500 to 272, and the compensation amount from 1.446 billion
CFAF to 800 million CFAF. By the project's closing date, June 20, 1994, the Government had
compensated just 35 of the households evicted from the Japoma road works in 1991. This
compensation amounted to 175.71 million CFAF. Faced with increasing budgetary difficulties and
a worsening recession, the Government did not keep its commitment to the displaced population.
From 1991 to 1993, the Contractor brought in an expert sociologist to convince households to
move, and then assigned workers and trucks to help them do so.



26
6.    The Bank reacted vigorously to the resettlement problem. Several warnings were sent to
the Government. Supervision missions drew the Government's attention to the potential threat this
issue posed to the project's continuation. In mid-1992, the Bank stopped disbursing to the land
development component. To raise the Governnent's awareness of the gravity of this issue, the
Bank rnission of June 1993 met with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. In July 1993,
the project was suspended because of misuse of the Special Account funds, At the same time,
payment of the overdue compeasation was set as a condition for the reinstatement of the project.
In January 1994, the Government met the conditions for lifting the suspension and provided a
workable fonnula to settle the outstanding compensation in four installments. The Metropolitan
Authority of Douala (MAD) wus designated to implement the new compensation plan. But in
March 1994, a Bank mission found that the funds had not been advanced to MAD to enable it to
make the first compensation payment.
7.    Based on the recommendations of the Bank mission of March 1994, and on the aggravated
economic and social conditions in Cameroon, the Bank has determined that the likelihood of
Cameroon's resolving the resettlement problern is not good. For these reasons, and because of the
CFA parity change, the Govenmment's request for project extension has been denied and the project
closed on June 30, 1994. Furthermore, the Government was informed by telex in July 1994 that
the new operation requested by the Government (Urban Works and Sector Management Project)
wiH not be effective until all of the displaced households have been compensated in full.



MAP SECTION



M Ai L *       NIGER12'                                                                                               IA'                 IA6
z- N I G E R        ./o r,                             rhu bml.osteered by                         <?        F      zZAZCHiAOZ   i
i rlake Chod                        tI,Sae has _wa,, o                                     iy
BUKI\        ~                                    L_ SUDAN         r.dm s*da exduw* n m e4to  .
FASO   '*i                              C H A D                     and No kftnwbma Finaoke 
-~~~~~~  onw It* bondanes' srahI
BENINl  NIGRI                                                 p e,f 01Th U_,,b ,_ dam I0 
{OGQ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~               ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ *t MJ v _     mdo nmeff.%*. On VWIF
L  N I G E R I A                                   OWS~~~~~~~~~'-, htn,IM60aIFk,ance Corvomaho
at &W'ff-'crily o, an                                                 tZN-DJAMENA
GHANA  :{ I                  -v   ;::/ .  CENTRAL AFRICAN            od°rf w        .'
.- wi-~-----)      M         -REPUBLIC                      -12 S. suh bo$W,s                                                                                        1
*ou5e1 
J S\CAMEROON '                SB             KILOMETERS 0  20 40 60  80 100 120 140 160                             ogor)
C;.f /         UTO;  AA -  -  :    \.   *                           MILES 0    20   40    O0   80   100                                                  H   A
.  EQUATORlAL\s. --                                                                                                                 r 
GUINEA     k!      / PEOPLE'SE    Z     E
Arl,TIC OCEAN            GABON &ON;G                                              N I G E R I A                          1  EXTREME1-
' ~      .    -~\ 'i                                                                           Mon \\OR     rJOL
MOOIrokol;M          D  Mago~4
C A M E R O O N                                               W ry    M   1                    1~~~~~~~~~~~~Mk-
MAJOR URBAN CENTERS                                                                           (I          / \-PMindi0
.  National capitals
10'                                  @~~~~~~~~~~~~Q Province capitals                           ~--
@  Division capitals                                    ;uider
-        Paved roads, national               0  Sub-division capitals
Unpaved roads, national               o  District copitals                         .
Unpaved roods, provincial             a  Other towns                      ..            "GjOt    *2    I\
--- Unpaved roads, district           *          Airports
Railroads
- Rivers                                   _    Province  boundaries
4.  Ports                             -*-International boundaries
NORD   p\"'
On nnn ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ! 4fl00 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~P1



. 0 d 7,. W-.- -100 150,000 ........,N<tX'X\X 
t00 XF f3 \ ,2so-a -   -10,O
_______    ~~C.  iJ                                                              *o=-.                  I
M.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
/1 -j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
N I G E R I A    j>(   NORD-,.                                          ADAP0AO)    U-
\r h"ombe tb  r' 3Mi                tz aUE9                                f  i90n9
M.          *        O     USTt   P   tot'
-DA C  E N  T R A    L
2OUES TA                                                                                                                  FRbI CA      N
CE                 RE  SI                .                       .        -
K.M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
iNSUILAR GUINEA)           0       _b 
EA         Ol                SUD Ngot.b!6  DUD     ,_-<   t,eum                  < oNgoi
victMn                                                     A) N                                                                     4_.
r                           ;                            iX.'L--                                                    ,<         M; Jhaondcaa      M 
SoQUc NatiAL Dirtot f    EQUATORIAL GUINEA                          G   A                   ?  PEO PLE             REP                      )           J
(INSULCNANNTRGINA                                                1    N.~F TE                         O     G GUIEA
m   Statistics, Yaounde   .';    0,                                ,~.       I                          tA*                                  6  
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M ,nd,o..,



