Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL tiSE ONLY
/A/ 2                           CM
Report No. 7398-CM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
October 3, 1988
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency  Unit   -   CFA Franc (CFAF)
USS1.0   -   CFAF 290
CFAF 1 million   -   US$3448
FISCAL YEAR
July 01   --  June 30
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 meter (m)                -    3.28  feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)            10.76  square feet (sq ft)
I cubic meter (m3)         -   35.3   cubic feet tcu ft)
1 kilometer (kn)           =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (ki2)        0.39  square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (t)                2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Item       ----------------------------------- French/English ------------------------------------
ARAN       Agence de Restructuration et d'Amenagement de Nylon/Nylon Land Development Agency
CFC        Crd4 t Foncier du Cameroun/Cameroon Housing Loan Bank
CUD        Communaute Urbaine de Douala/Municipality of Douala
CUY        Communaute Urbaine de Yaoundd/Municipality of Yaounde
DDA        Direction de la cooperation au ddveloppement et de l'aide humanitaire/Swiss Department
of Development and Humanitarian Aid
FEICOM     Fonds Spdcial d'FYuipement et d'Intervention Intercommunale/Special Fund for Municipal
Equipment
MAETUR     Mission d'Amenagement et d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains et Ruraux/Urban and Rural
Land Development Agency
MAGZI      Mission d'Amenagement et de Gestion des Zones Industrielles/Industrial Land Development
Agency
MINAT      Ministere de l'Administration Territoriale/Ministry cf Territorial Administration
MINFI      Ministere des Finances/Ministry of Finance
MINMEN     Ministere des Mines et de l'Energie/Ministry of Mines and Energy
MINPAT     Ministere du Plan et de l'Amenagement du Territoire/Ministry of the Plan and Regional
Development
MINTPT     Ministere des Travaux Publics et des Transports/Ministry of Public Works and Transport
MINUH      Ministere de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat/Ministry of Town Planning and Housing
NGO        Organisation non-gouvernementale/Non-governmental Organization
PSU        Cellule Spdciale du Projet/Project Special Unit
SDAU       Schema Directeur d'Amenagement et d'Urbanisme/Urban Master Plan
SIC        Socidt6 Immobiliere du Cameroun/National Housing Company of Cameroon
SNEC       Societe Nationale des Eaux du Cameroun/National Water Company of Cameroon
SONEL      Societe Nationale d'Electricite du Cameroun/National Electricity Company of Cameroon
SOTUC      Soci6te des Transports Urbains de Cameroun/Urban Trap-sport Conpany of Cameroon



FOR OmCIL USe ONLY
REPUTLLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJYZT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .......           ................    ....... 
1.   THE URBAN SECTOR  ......................                                        1
A.  Urban Services Demand ... I ............................                   1
B.  Supply of Urban Services              ...............   ...............    2
C.  Investments in the Urban Sector ...................           O..          5
D.  Deficiencies of Urban Services               8......................       8
E.  Government Policies for Urban Development                                  9
F.  Bank Experience ......... .  ....       .......................           10
II. THE PROJECT ................12....
A.  Origin, Objectives, and Description                .................      12
B.  Project Costs and Financing ..........................                    16
C.  Implementation Schedule and Responsibilities               .........      17
D.  Procurement ....... .........................  * .... . .                 19
E.  Disbursements ..............................................              20
F.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ......             .............       22
G.  Beneficiaries, Justification and Risks .....* ........                    22
11I.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........              .........      24
ANNE!S
1-1   Policy Action Plan .................... .........  .......                     26
1-2   Implementing Institutions ......             ..........................        30
2-1   Detailed Description of Project Components               ..............        41
2-2   Training, Technical Assistance and Sectoral Studies    ......                  51
2-3   Summary and Detailed Cost Tables .........................                     61
2-4   Disbursement Schedule .....               ..............................       67
2-5   Douala Infrastructure Project -- Economic Justification  ..                    68
3     Documents in the Project File ......            ......................         74
MAPS:    IBRD 19632R   Major Urban Centers
IBRD 19662    Douala Diagnostic Map
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited Cameroon in November 1987,
consisting of Messrs. Barry H. Van Waes (Mission Leader), Bernard Delaval (Task Manager),
Frangois Amlot (Economist), and Francois Lagier (Consultant). Secretarial work and typing were
done by Mrs. GeneviAve Nixon and Miss M. E. Houle.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OP CANEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Cameroor
Financial Intermediary:  Crddit Foncier du Cameroun (CFC)
Beneficiaries:           Ministry of Town Planning and Rousing (MINUR); Municipalities of Douala
and Yaoundd (CUD, CUY); Ministry of Territorial Administration (MINAT);
secondary cities; MAETUR and CFC.
Amount:                  US$146.0 million
Terms:                   Amortization over seventeen years, including five years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:         Part of the proceeds (USS9.0 M) will be onlent at least on the same terms
as the Bank loan, through CPC to: (a) Municipalities for financing of
income-generating projects (US$4.0 M); and (b) MAETUR for land develop-
ment operations (USS5.0 M).
Prolect Descrintion:    The proposed project will consist of:
(a) the improvement of urban resources mobilization through:  (i) the
preparation of a fiscal cadastre for Douala and Yaounde; (ii) better
management of state-owned lands; (iii) the implementation of an action
plan to improve billing and collection of municipal taxes; and (iv) the
financing of income-generating municipal projects;
(b) a program of civil works for completing, upgrading and rehabilitating
priority urban infrastructure in the cities of Douala, Yaoundd and other
secordary  centers,  including:   (i) traffic  management  improvements;
(ii) road and drainage construction and upgrading; (iii) rehabilitation
of urban road networks; (iv) continuation of civil works in the Nylon
district started under the First Urban Development Project (Ln. 2244-CM);
and (v) development of a 35-ha resettlement area in Douala; and
(c) the formulaticn and implementation of a sound policy framework and
the strengthening of institutions in the urban and housing sectors
through: (i) implementation of a policy actiox. plan to consolidate urban
policies; (ii) provision of technical assistance, studies and equipment
for urban agencies; (iii) the preparation and implementation of an action
plan to rehabilitate parapublic urban and housing sector enterprises and
promote private sector housing development; and (iv) a program of studies
and pilot actions to improve the management and delivery of basic urban
services.



- it -
Project Benefits:        The project is expected to yield lasting benefits to Cameroon, first, by
its three-prongr.d approach of resource mobilization, infrastructure
improvement and policy and institutional strengthening, the project vill
consolidate the basis for sustainable urban development itiitiated under
the First Urbau: 3evelopment Project; second, through the combined action
oZ upgrading and resettlement in the least-developed areas of the cities,
the poorer segment of the population will benefit proportionately more
than other segments of the urban population, which will greatly contrib-
ute to the social and economic growth in the urban setting; and third, by
adjusting and improving urban and housing policies under the policy
action plan, the project will enable the Government to gradually transfer
responsibility for urban and housing development to the private sector,
thereby freeing Government resources for other sectors of the economy and
increasing overall efficiency.
Project Risks:           The Covernment's continued financial difficulties might put the project
as well as sector development at risk. This risk is being minimized
through:   (a) the  Bank's  continued  financial  support  of  a  major
resource-generating and replicable component started under the First
Urban Development Project (Ln. 2244-C); and (b) the resource mobili-
zation components of the project which will improve the munici*.,al revenue
basis and help project financing in the later years. Another risk would
be the Governmeit's slow implementation of policy reforms. This risk is
addressed through the policy action plan by clearly defining the combina-
tion of studies and actions required to bring about policy changes. The
close monitoring of the policy action plan and the annual reviews of
operating and investment budgets of the institutions benefitting from the
project would also contribute to minimizing the project risks.
Summary Proiect Cost Estimate
--------- (USS million) ---------             %
Item                         Local        Foreign         Total       of Base Cost
A. Urban Resources Mobilization                  4.7           8.8          13.5               7
B. Priority Infrastructure Program              71.5          90.8         162.3             86
C. Institutional Development                     3.9           9.7          13.6              7
Total Base Cost                             80.1         109.3         189.4            100
Physical Contingencies                      7.5            9.5          17.0              9
Price    Contingencies                     19.9           27.2          47.1             25
Total Project Cost                        107.5          146.0         253.5            134
Of which Taxes                              31.1           ---          31.1
Total Project Cost (Net of Taxes)           76.4         146.0         222.4
Percent                                       34            66           100



- lli -
Summary Financing Plan
-------- (USS million)  ---------
Item                               Local         Foreign        Total
IBRD Loan                            ---          146.0         146.0
Government                         107.5            ---         107.5
Total                              107.5          146.0         253.5
Estimated Disbursements
Item           FY89       FY90       FY91       FY92        FY93       FY94
Annual             6.5       32.2        40.1        32.1       23.4       11.7
Cumulative         6.5       38.7        78.8       110.9      134.3      146.0
Rate of Return:          Weighted average of 20%, ranging from 32% without time savings for road
and traffic Improvements in Douala to 12% minimum ERR for all other
components.
Estimated Project
Completion:             December 31, 1993
Maps:                    IBRD 19632R    Major Urben Centers
IBRD 19662     Douala Diagnostic Map
tor,N
| ~~October 3, 1988



REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
I. THE URBAN SECTOR
A. Urban Services Demand
1.01      The annual non-oil GDP growth of over 6% that Cameroon has experi-
enced between 1976 and 1986 results, to a large extent, from the steady rate
of urbanization which has produced a population distribution well suited to
the economic potentials of the country.  With an annual rate of growth of 7%,
the urban population has increased from 2.2 million inhabitants in 1976 (28%
of total population) to an estimated 4.3 million inhabitants in 1986 (41% of
total population).   During  the  same period,  urban-based  activities  have
generated over two thirds of new employment opportunities and non-oil GDP real
growth. Cameroon's maturing economic structure and increasing division of
labor between rural and urban areas have proven beneficial for both sectors,
as agricultural productivity has increased by an annual average of 2.1% during
the 1976-85 period.
1.02      These notable economic performances resulted, in part, from Cam-
erocn's unusually well-developed and dense network of urban settlements, which
coincides with the couatry's overall population distribution an.' major econom-
ic regions. Douala, a major West African port, is the largest city, with an
estimated population of 842,000 in 1986.  It is the center of the Coastal
Region which concentrates most of the country's industrial activities.
Yaound6, the second largest city, with an estimated population of 648,000 in
1986, is Cameroon's political and administrative capital, as well as the
economic pole of the Central Region. The agriculturally rich Western Region
accounts for 25% of urban population and presents a dense urban network with
12 of Cameroon's 39 largest cities.  Garoua and Maroua in the North, and
Ngaound4r4 in the Adamaoua, have experienced also rapid growth due to their
economic roles as regional centers. This well-structured urban network has
allowed, through the development of the internal food market, for increased
agricultural production and the related shift from subsistence into
market-oriented agriculture. Recent estimates indicate that by the year 2000,
more than half of Cameroon's population will be urban. This will lead to a
dramatic decrease in the ratio of rural producers to urban consumers from
three-to-one in 1973 to one-to-one in 2000. This structural shift will create
powerful incentives to further improve agricultural productivity.
1.03      The pursuit of Cameroon's development  -elies increasingly on the
support tbat efficient urban centers will give to the creation of economic
activities ana the generation of employment opportunities. With a 3.3% annual
population growth rate, Cameroonian cities are expected to absorb over 4 mil-
i       lion new inhabitants and over 1.6 million new wcrkers between now and the turn
of the century.  This formidable task will take place in the context of the
country's financial constraints which severely restrain public investments.
Prudent use of public resources in consolidating the network of urban centers
and strengthening their economic efficiency is one of the country's key
development challenges.  The preservation of economic growth depends on an
environment that favors the expansion of the domestic market which is the
major potential supplier in terms of economic activities, jobs and incomes.



- 2 -
Cities have a critical role to play in that respect.  Not only can they,
through urban-rural linkages, support the development of their hinterlands,
but they are also capable, through their informal economy, of satisfying basic
needs and of generating employment and income with a high mul.lplier effect.
Labor-intensive activities within the private sector already provide for one
half of all new jobs, and probably constitute the best potential engine of
economic development.   Similar to experiences in other African countries,
recent observations also indicate that the informal sector proves much more
resilient than the modern one to economic and financial constraints.
1.04      The diversity of Cameroon's uiban cer-ters requires the formulation
of a multi-faceted strategy to strengthen the support that the city can give
to the development of economic activities. Yaound4 and Douala, as the largest
centers with national functions, require special attention encompassing
substantial improvement in infrastructure and urban management to stimulate
private investment in housing and economic activities. The other fast-growing
regional centers face increasing demands for supply of services and warrant
development of more dynamic local initiative to be able to cope with growth.
There is a third group of smaller urban centers which have a strong role to
play in improving agricultural production of their hinterlands and in provid-
ing better access to urban services and marketing, storage, and processing
facilities.
B. Supply of Urban Services
1.05      Because of the sheer size of the demand for urban services and the
costs involved, the Government has a key role to play in stimulating and
facilitating the supply of these services. Emphasis in Cameroon on strength-
ening urban centers began in earnest only in the late 1970s when the Govern-
ment established the Ministry of Town Planning and Housing (MINUH), formerly a
department of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport  (MINTPT).  Con-
strained at first by a limited manpower and lack of technical expertise, MINUH
concentrated its earlier efforts on preparing urban master plans for Dcuala,
Yaound6 and many of the secondary cities, while major urban projects continued
to be executed by other technical ministries or executing agencies such as
MINTPT for roads and urban transport, and the Ministry of Mines and Energy
(MINMEN), through its parastatals SNEC (National Water Company) and SONEL
(National Electricity Company), for water and electrification.   Also, the
Ministries of Education, Health, Welfare, Youth and Sports continued to handle
the programing and implementation of various community projects under their
respons',bility.  Coordiaation among all of these urban activities remained
poor. Land registration and management actirities, also entrusted to MINUR,
were flow to develop, and improved property demarcation and land rights
regularization only began with the implementation of the Bank's First Urban
Development Project, which was approved in 1983. Enforcement of the urban
master plans continues to be hampered by uncontrolled rapid urban growth and
the limited staff and financial resources of central as well as local urban
institutions. The Government now expects to address all of these issues under
its Sixth Development Plan (1986-91) and specifically under the proposed
project.
1.06      As in most other developing countries, the institutional set-up for
providing urban services is complicated by the large number and general
weakness of the institutions, their inadequate organization, their multiple
reporting responsibilities, the limited resources available, and the heavy
demands placed on the narrow qualified human resource base. The institutions



are described in detail in Annex 1-2. They consist of three separate levels:
first, at the central Government level, the Ministries of Town Planning and
Housing (MINUI), and Territorial Administration (MINAT); second, at the
parastatal level, a number of parapublic executing agencies: SIC, the Nation-
al Housing Company; MAETUR, the Urban and Rural Land Development Agency; and
MAGZI, the Industrial Land Development Agency, as well as tC.o fimancial
intermediaries: CFC, the Housing Bank; and FEICOM, a special fund for munici-
pal development; and third, at the local level, the municipalities and the
local offices of the central ministries and of the public agencies and finan-
cial intermediaries. MINUH directly supervises SIC and MAETUR, while MAGZI
operates under the supervision of the Ministry of Plan and Regional Develop-
ment (MINWPA). CFC reports to the Ministry of Finance (MINFI), while 11EICOM
reports to MINAT. The municipalities operate under the supervision of MIN#T.
This complex mesh of responsibilities makes the coordination and implementa-
tion of urban policies and investments extremely difficult. Under the pro-
posed project, .his institutional arrangement would be streamlined through an
Urban Development Steering Committee which has just been created, consisting
of the various Ministries and institutions involved in the sector.   This
committee would implement a policy action plan (Annex 1-1) with, as a first
measure, the rationalization of public investment in the urban sector through
the clarification of functin"-l res.ponsibilities of the various urban institu-
tions.
1.07      MINUB, established in 1979, is responsible for the preparation and
implementaition of the Government's land and housing policies, anid the execu-
tion of Government-sponsored urban operations. It was reorganized in 1985 and
comprises four main departments: Town Planning, Surveys, Lands, and Housing.
MINUH is represented at the provincial level through delegations which also
provide technical assistance to municipalities. It has a staff of more than
1900 employees of vThich 110 are assigned to headquarters in Yaounde, 200 to
the littoral province (Douala), and the others evenly spread over the remain-
ing nine provinces. MINUH's senior staff is limited, howe-er, to 59 higher
level managers of which only 29 are engineers. A training program is included
in the proposed project to increase the capabilities of MINUH, and project
management would be strengthened by a special project unit (PSU) established
in February 1988 (para 1.26). The investment and operating budgets directly
managed by MINUH are shown below. They do not include investments fully
financed by donors or managed by parapublic enterprises.   The latter are
listed in paras 1.15 aid 1.16.
Category     NF81/82  FY82/83  FY83/84  NY84/85  FY85/86  FY86/87 FY87/88 FY88/89
--------- __--------------  (FCFA billions)  -----------------------------
Special Budget     11.5    16.6     5.0    19.4      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0
Investments Budget    4.8   7.0    11,3    12.0    24.0    27.7   10.0   12.0
Operating Budget    6.7     8.2     9.7    12.1    15.0    16.8   15.6   14.0
Total              23.0    31.8    26.0    43.5    39.0    44.5   25.6   26.0
The special budget which was used to channel oil revenues into public invest-
ments has not been available for the urban sector since 1985/86.  the marked
decline of investments in 1987/88 is a direct result of the diminution of
these oil r_--tnues and the financial difficulties besettl.g the Government.



- 4 -
1.08      For the 4mplemeintation of its land and housing programs MINUH is
primarily assisted by threa parastatal agencies: SIC for housing, MAETUR for
land development and CFC as the financial intermediary. SIC, created in the
1960s, constructs high-cost housing units for rent, sale or lease-purchase
intended for civil servants and other high-income individuals.  The porfor-
mance of SIC has not been sacisfactory and its financial situation is criti-
cal.  Government subsidies to SIC are being reduced, and a general change in
the role and policies of SIC would be studied and implemented under the
project.  A rehabilitation or phasing out plan would be lucluded under the
project (para 2.07 (c)). MAETUR was established in 1977 to develop serviced
sites for house  construction.   Its staff of about  250,  including thirty
technicians and four expatriates, prepares and supervises land development
operations on behalf of IIINUH. MAETUR's central office is located in Yaounde;
Douala's regional office has a staff of about 30, and a small technical unit
is located in Garoua. MAETUR's operations over the period 1981-86, which are
reviewed i-i para 1.16, represented a total investment of FCFA 77 billion.
ARAN, a unit of MAETUR, was established in 1981 for the upgrading of the Nylon
neighborhood in Douala, a program supported by the Bank's First Urban Develop-
men. Project (Ln. 2244-C1).  ARAN, with a staff of 40, ir':luding nine engi-
neers, supervises implementation of the infrastructure and resettlement
contracts  currently estimated  at about  US$60 M equivalent.   MAETUR's  and
ARAN's performances have been satisfactorv.
1.09      Financial intermediation fo. land development and housing is done by
CFC, an independent, commercially oLiented and financially autonomous para-
statal enterprise reporting to MIINFI. CFC, which has local offices in most of
the major cities, provides financing for housing construction including land
development for both private and pdblic (SIC and MAETUR) operations.   CFC
receives Government revenues through the proceeds of a housing tax on salaries
which represented FCFA 12.4 billion in 1986. CFC was the financial intermedi-
ary under the Bank's First Urban Development Project (Ln. 2244-CM) and has
performed satisfactorily.
1.10      To facilitate econamic investments, the Government also established
MAGZI, an agency which operates under the supervision of MINPAT and develops
industrial sites, mostly in Douala.  It also established FEICOMI, a Special
Fund for Municipal Equipment, which came into operation in 1974 under the
supervision of MINAT.  FEICOM provides earmarked funds, mostly on a grant
basis, to municipalities for the firancing of local projects such as road
maintenance equipment and other urban facilities.  Its resources come from
municipal taxes, the Government budget, sad, until 1981/82, subsidies from
ONCPB, the national agriculture stabilization fund. Its financial situation
has deteriorated gradually, mostly as a result of large discrepancies between
expected revenues and expenditures; as a result, FEICOM's lending operations
have virtually stopped. The agency has been reviewed as part of the Govern-
ment's audit of public enterprises, and because of its experience with munici-
palities, it would continue in an advisory capacity to MINAT.  CFC would
become the financial intermediary for municipal projects.
1.11      Municipalities, which operate under the supervision of MIMAT, play a
major role in providing basic urban services, and the Government is increas-
ingly interested in strengthening their autonomy and improving the management
of their financial resources. The budgets of the municipalities are approved
by MINAT but depend upon MINFI for their resources. A comprehenisive reform
was initiated in 1987 (Law 015/87 of July 15, 1987) clearly delineating the
responsibilities of the urban communities and confirming their authority to



raise taxes, borTow for municipal projects and generally strengthen their
autonomy. For the time being, application of this law is limited to the main
cities, but would be broadened as municipalities are being strengthened.
1.12      Municipal budgets rely mostly on fiscal resources, representing 602
to 90% of total revenues, which are assessed, billed and collected by the
local offices of MINFI on behalf of local governments. Due to an iradequate
tax base and poor collection systems, only about 50% of potential revenues are
collected. Delays in releasing tax receipts to the municipalities are exces-
sive, often up to 18 months.   The existing taxation system is such that
resources are directly proportional to modern sector activities and this
favors major cities like Douala and Yaound6 which, respectively, receive 60%
and 22% of total revenues collected in the municipalities.  Locally collected
fees only represent 17%, on the average, of municipal revenues; the remainder
are funds allocated by Government. To improve municipal finances, the Govern-
ment has commissioned a study which is expected to be completed by March 1989.
Twiplementation of the recommendations of this study, financed under the Bank's
Second Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1168-CM), would be part of the pro-
pcsed project, and during negotiations, agreement was reached with Government
that a report on municipal finances would be submitted by March 31 annually to
the Bank for review and comment (para 2.13).
1.13      However, despite their limited financial resources, municipalities
have undertaken substantial infrastructure improvement operations. In addi-
tion to their conventional tasks of garbage collection and disposal, roads and
drainage maintenance, market construction and maintenance, street lighting,
and public standpipes operation, local governments allocate a substantial
shere of their limited budgets (close to 50% for the major cities) to invest-
ments in basic infrastructure.   The Urban Community of Yaounde (CUY), for
instance, has developed over 9,000 minimally-serviced plots over the last
twenty years. The Urban Community of Douala (CUD) has carried out substantial
programs of access roads as part of the upgrading of squatter settleuients and
has also benefitted from the implementation of the Bank's First Urban Develop-
ment Proiezt (Ln. 2244-CM) about to be completed (para 1.27).
C.  Investments in the Urban Sector
1.14      Urban investments increased from CFAF 59 billion under the Third
Development  Plan  (1971-76)  to  CFAF 120 billion  under  the  Fourth  Plan
(1976-81), and doubled again to CFAF 253 billion, or 11% of total investments,
under the Fifth Plan (1981-86). Under the Sixth Development Plan (1987-92),
the Government expected to invest CFAF 690 billion for urban development,
including CFAF 330 billion directly managed by MINUH. This objective is now
seriously compromised because of reduced Government revenues resulting from
the drop in commodity prices, in particular oil, in CFAF terms. Already in
1987!88, MlNUH's expected annual investment of CFAF 66 billion was reduced to
CFAF 10 billion, (para 1.07), a level insufficient to continue the investment
programs of the Sixth Development Plan. MINUH' s average annual investment
budget, excluding foreign financing, is now expected to be as follows for
1988/89 through 1990/91:



-6-
Annual Investment Budget
CategorY                                  for FY88/89 through FY90/91
----- (FCFA billions) -----
Studies                                                              0.7
Infrastructure, other than Second Urban Project                      3.0
Construction and Land Development                                    2.0
Compensation                                                         0.6
Equipment                                                            0.4
Subsidy MAETUR (VY88/89 only)                                        0.3
Second Urban Project                                                 5.0
Total                                                               12.0
The budget reflects Government policy to eliminate subsidies for parastatals,
in particular for SIC, in the housing sector, while MAETUR, the land develop-
ment agency, would receive declining subsidies to be phased out in FY90/91.
During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that the
three-year rolling urban investment budget would be updated annually and
furnished to the Bank for review by March 31 of each year starting
March 31, 1989.
1.15      The Fifth Plan (1981-86) integrated the housing policy defined by
the recently created MINUR and its parastatal agencies.  SIC was to build
15,000 housing units or 20% of estimated urban housing demand. MAETUR was
expected to develop, in addition to the land and infrastructure required for
the SIC operations, 26,250 serviced sites for individual construction repre-
senting an additional 35% of estimated urban housing demand. Considerable
financial resources were allocated to achieve these objectives.  Over the
period 1981-86, the Government invested close to CFAF 170 billion in MAETUR
and SIC operations. However, actual achievements fell short of objectives.
SIC constructed only 8,327 housing units,  or 56% of its program.  MAETUR
developed only  7,105 serviced  plots,  or  27% of its program.   Government
funded, on a grant basis, the total cost of infrastructure, or CFAF 39.2 bil-
lion for SIC housing, and CFAF 11.7 billion for MAETUR plots. CFC contributed
CFAF 32.7 billion  in loans  to  SIC,  and CFAF 16.1 billion  to MAETUR.   In
addit;on, CFC has also lent CFAF 39.2 billion to wage-earning households for
servic%d sites accuisition anid housing construction.
1.16      SIC's and MAETUR's limited accomplishments result primarily from the
high bul'ding standards whi-k were selected for housing construction. SIC's
averagr. housing unit cost has been CFAF 17 million (about US$60,000) while
MAETUR's average land development costs amount to CPAF 52 million per ha, or
CFAF 3.6 million  (about US$13,000)  per serviced plot.   By comparison,  the
average cost of municipal land development operations carried out in Yaounde
was CFAF 0.35 million (US$1,300) per plot. As a result of the limited number
of housing units and plots completed, the vast majority of the urban popula-
tion was left with no other alternative but to settle on unserviced land,
which resulted in the uncontrolled urban spatial growth now hampering imple-
mentation of urban master plans (para 1.05). Learning from '.iis experience,
the Government has decided to increase the role of the private sector in the
land development and housing sectors. Therefore, it has agreed, as part of
the policy action plan (Annex 1-1), to redefine the role of SIC and  SAETUR in



-7-
the sector In order to stimulate a more active participation of private
developers and to broaden the role of CFC to that of financlal intermediary in
private housing and land development operations.
1.17      The Government has already moved to eliminate subsidies to housing
parastatals and including, among other measures, modifications of SIC's tax
advantages and a general review of its operations aiming at a clear distinc-
tion between the management of its existing housing stock and its new housing
development functions. For MAETUR, the modifications would imply more empha-
sis on the development of low cost plots, improved cost recovery and optimiza-
tion of already developed sites. Regarding CFC's operations, emphasis would
be placed on the financing of low cost housing; onlending rates would be
revised and a full cost recovery policy for Government investments in the
housing sector would be generally the main objective. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that the Government would conduct an audit of the above
parastatal agencies and prepare by December 31, 1988, submit to the Bank for
comment, and thereafter implement, action plans for their rehabilitation
(para 2.07).
1.18      Other major urban investments over the period 1981-86 have included:
(a) the construction of 120 km of urban roads for a total cost of
FCFA 83.9 billion:  37% in Yaounde, 11% in Douala, and 52% in the secondary
cities; (b) the rehabilitation and upgrading of water supply systems in
64 secondary centers for a total cost of CFAF 82 billion; and (c) the con-
struction of administrative buildings throughout the country for a total cost
of  CFAF 129 billion.   The  Fifth  Plan  also  included  significant  funding
(CFAF 7.2 billion) for the improvement of land registration.
1.19      Land Tenure Situation.  Rapid urban growth has created considerable
pressure on land which is, no longer, a communal inalienable asset as it was
in the traditional tenure system but has instead become a marketable commodity
indispensable to individual economic agents. In 1974, Cameroon adopted a set
of Land Laws which provide the framework for the transformation of traditional
into modern tenure rights as well as for state management of the undeveloped
lands. The limited implementation capacities of MINUH's Surveys and Lands
Departments have not allowed, until now, for effective enforcement of these
Laws.  Less than 20% of all urban properties are registered, and in the
absence of properly maintained cadastral maps, locating the few existing land
titles on the ground is virtually impossible.
1.20      These deficiencies in land registration hamper the proper func-
tioning of the land market in a context where over 30,000 new urban plots are
created annually. The vast majority of businesses and households have no
alternative but to settle illegally on inadequately serviced lands. For most
newcomers, access to urban land results from informal and unregistered ar-
rangements with traditional occupants who, frequently, consider these transac-
tions as revocable leases. This prevents the efficient management of urban
land resources. The lack of land tenure security severely restricts private
investment in small enterprises and housing as well as the use of land as
collateral for borrowing. T.ie complex land tenure situation constrains the
pace of land acquisition for public projects and hampers the implementation of
priority infrastructure, community facilities and land development operations.
Furthermore, State and municipal properties are aot clearly identified and the
proper management of these public assets is impossible. This also hampers the
implementation of a property tax. Since 1985, MINUR has initiated the prepa-
ration of cadastral maps for Yaound4 and Douala and has embarked on a first



- 8 -
program on the implementation of appropriate mechanisms to improve the land
tenure situation under the First Urban Development Project. This Project has
been instrumental in identifying appropriate mechanisms to regularize the land
tenure situation in squatter settlements. Continuation of these actions is
included under the proposed project through the streamlining of procedures to
assess and register land rights.
D. Deficiencies of Urban Services
1.21      The considerable financial efforts, accomplished during the Fifth
Development Plan, have not kept up with demand, as a consequence of inadequate
prioritization of urban investments and lack of coordination dmong the many
agencies involved (para 1.05). A backlog has developed and the provision of
basic urban services has remained insufficient. Consequently, basic infra-
structure for most of the urban population remains inadequate, and Cameroon is
confronted not only with the task of accommodating future urban growth, but
also of making up for this backlog.  Close to 70% of the urban population
lives and works in haphazardly subdivided and inadequately serviced settle-
ments. Uncontrolled urban growth induces densification of central settlements
and diffuse urbanization of peripheral areas which increase the cost of urban
infrastructure  provision.   Inadequate  flood control,  drainage,  and waste
disposal create serious security and health hazards. Congestion of the urban
road network increases considerably the cost of travel and thus of business
and, in many instances, generates accidents and prevents access of priority
vehicles into the densely populated central settlements.
1.22     The urban infrastructure backlog is particularly critical in Douala,
the country's main commercial, industrial, and economic center, where limited
public investments took place within the last ten years.  Douala's road
network is underdeveloped:  the ratio of surfaced roads to population is a
third of that of Yaounde and the primary network is only about a quarter of
what is needed for adequate coverage. Moreover, Yaounde's road network is in
need of rehabilitation which is provided for under the proposed project.
Traffic in Douala is concentrated on the primary road system where, on key
intersections, saturation levels were already reached in 1982. There are few
carparks or sidewalks, and roadsides are encumbered by pettv traders. Pedes-
trians are not adequately separated from vehicle traffic.  There are no taxi
stops, bus terminals are inadequate, through traffic connections do not exist,
and traffic is forced to make long detours through busy central districts,
adding to congestion and hampering economic activity.   Road networks  in
secondary cities are inadequate for current traffic demands, and drainage
systems have become insufficient to cope with population growth.
1.23     Much of the city of Douala is low-lying.  Drainage channels are
insufficient and lead to frequent floods damaging houses and businesses,
inconveniencing residents, disrupting traffic, and eroding the road surface.
Leaks from latrines during floods are a serious health hazard. Poor solid
waste collection services force residents frequently to use drains for refuse
disposal, in some cases completely blocking major culverts. Recent initia-
tives by CUD to improve waste collection and drain cleaning have reduced the
problem somewhat, but the basic issue of limited drainage capacity remains.
Upgrading of drainage in Nylon, Douala's lowest-lying neighborhood, started
under the First Urban Project.  A program to improve the rest of Douala's
primary drainage system has been prepared, and its priority components would
be executed under the proposed project. CUD is also speeding up its program
of secoitdary and tertiary road and drainage systems, and improving and



- 9 -
expanding its solid waste collection and disposal services. The latter would
also be addressed under tne pilot sanitation operations included under the
proposed project. CUD's technical services are being strengthened through the
substantial expertise and financial assistance that the French Ministry of
Cooperation is providing to Douala as part of the fourth FAC Agreement signed
in 1987. Additional assistance for institutional development would be provid-
ed througlh the proposed project.
E. Government Policies for Urban Development
1.24      Although considerable improvements in the Government's institutional
set-uip in the urban sector are required, efforts undertaken since the early
1980s have provided the basis for the preparation of an adequate sectoral
strategy.   As the proprams implemented fell short, however,  of the Fifth
Plan's (198i-86) objectives, the Government, recognizing the difficulties
encountered, has embarked on ambitious programs for the removal of critical
bottlenecks to urban development. The Sixth Plan (1986-91), currei.tly under
implementation, fully integrates a revised urban strategy which aims at:
(a) implementing workable mechanisms to prioritize public investments; (b) im-
proving the mobilization of local resources; (c) securing land tenure as an
incentive for private investments; and (d) increasing the role of the private
sector in housing and land development. Due to current financial constraints,
planned investments of the Sixth Development Plan are likely to be substan-
tially scaled down. Therefore, the Government has identified the first slice
of a priority infrastructure program and is seeking to supplement its limited
resources through the proposed project in order to improve its chances of
reaching the critical objectives needed for its urban strategy.
1.25      Among its priority objectives,  the Government  is seeking donor
community assistance to implement its revised urban strategy through the
following measures:
(a)  Rationalization of public investment in the urban sector.  Actions
include: (i) analysis of the sharing of responsibilities between
central and municipal institutions for planning, financing, imple-
menting and maintaining urban infrastructure and services; (ii) im-
proved identification of priority urban development needs; (iii) ad-
justment of design standards of priority programs to economically
justified levels and available resources; (iv) study and implementa-
tion of cost recovery mechanisms for secondary and tertiary infra-
structure; and (v) development of an urban investment programming
strategy in line with macro-economic development objectives.
(b)  Strengthening municipalities and gradually building up their techni-
cal and financial capabilities to cope with the development needs of
their  cities.   Actions  include:  (i) providing more  autonomy,  a
process already started in 1987, to municipalities; (ii) studying
and implementing means to improve cost recovery and local resources
mobilization through the reform of local taxes assessment and
collection systems; (iii) strengthening of financial intermediaries
to  improve  lending  mechanisms  for  municipal  projects;  and
(iv) assisting in defining programs to improve the provision and
maintenance of basic urban infrastructure.
(c) Improving the management of urban land resources and the functioning
of the land market.   Actions include securing land tenure to a



- 10 -
larger share of households and businesses through: (i) the produc-
tion of cadastral maps and the identification of state-owned land in
major cities; (ii) the streamlining of procedures to assess land
rights and accelerate their legal registration; and (iii) the
strengthening of land agencies' implementation capacities.
(d) Developing the role of the private sector in housing and land
development. Actions include: (i) the refocusing of the role of the
public sector (MAETUR) towards the provision of secondary infra-
structure;  (ii) the  implementation  of  financing  mechanisms  to
recover the costs of these infrastructures; (lii) the streamlining
of procedures allowing private developers and municipalities to
subdivide, service and sell lots; (iv) the broadening of CFC's
activities towards the financing of municipal and private land
development; and (v) the phasing out of SIC's past activities and
its refocusing towards assistance to the development of the private
housing sector.
1.26      Government has already initiated implementation of this strategy by
extending MINUR's terms of reference to include operational responsibility for
major urban road works and extension and rehabilitation of urban infrastruc-
ture. This requires a close partnership with the local governments through
the regional offices of MINUH which will guide them in assuming responsibility
for operating and maintaining the networks implemented by MINUH. Government
has also undertaken, iyith French technical assistance, the identification of
appropriate mechanisms to improve the financing of urban investments and to
.efocus the activities of the parapublic enterprises in the framework of the
adjustment of the housing strategy to the prevailing financial constraints.
In addition, a "Project Special Unit"  (PSU) was created within MINUR by
Presidential  Decree 88/202  of  February 4, 1988  to  coordinate,  under  the
authority of a Project Director, the activities of the various departments
involved in the proposed project and act as che technical secretariat of the
Steering Commitcee to be created to coordinate implementation of the urban
policy (para 2.11).
F. Bank Extaerience
1.27      The First Urban Development Project (Ln. 2244-CM) for US$20.0 M, was
approved in Mi,rch 1983. The project's main objective was to develop appropri-
ate institutional mechanisms to upgrade unserviced squatter settlements. It
included:  (a) basic infrastructure and public facilities in Nylon, a 700 ha
settlement, housing 15% of Douala's population; (b) land development and land
tenure regularization of a 50-ha pilot neighborhood; and (c) assistance to
community economic and social development. The project is being implemented
by ARAN (para 1.08), with the assistance of the Swiss Development Cooperation
and Humanitarian Aid (DDA) which finances public facilities and provides
support to community development. The First Urban Development Project also
provided funds for the strengthening of MINUH's project preparation and
management capability including engineering studies for the proposed project.
1.28      The First Urban Development Project proved instrumental in develop-
ing and implementing adequate mechanisms for replicable squatter upgrading
operations. Procedures were developed to streamline land rights assessment
and reglstration within irregular settlements.   Land development based on
detailed land surveys and physical plans has started, and actions to regular-
ize tenure and recover costs within the 50-ha pilot neighborhood are



- 11 -
proceeding well. The program of communitv development implemented with the
assistance of local and foreign NGOs proved successful in trairning small-scale
contractors and assisting households with houses and latrines construction, in
providing housing  financing  through  the  integration  of  the neighborhood
savings associations ("tontines") within the formal banking system, and in
associating the local population in community works and land tenure regular-
ization. Appropriate procedures were also developed to resettle and compen-
sate the households displaced from the infrastructure right-of-way (see
working document in the project file). The same procedures would be followed
for the resettlement component under the proposed project (para 1.20). Two
thousand serviced plots have been completed to resettle the households, and
house construction and cost recovery procedures are proceeding satisfactorily.
A central market, sites for small-scale enterprises, schools and clinics were
built under DDA financing.
1.29      Civil works in Nylon were initially delayed by about three years due
to the complexity of the land tenure situation (para 1.19), inadequate coordi-
nation between various levels of Government (para 1.06), and slow procurement
of the major project components. Difficulties have now been largely overcome,
construction contracts have been awarded and implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily.   However,  infrastructure construction, mostly roads, which
started early in 1987, ran into unanticipated geotechnical difficulties
requiring the construction of special road bases insensitive to water. This
led to substantial increases in costs. Also, due to the Government's current
financial constraints, the Bank agreed in 1987 to increase its share of
project financing so as not to delay implementation of the replicable upgrad-
ing operation which is expected to provide substantial economic benefits to
the urban population and, in particular, to the inhabitants of Nylon. All
these difficulties, combined with the depreciation of the US dollar, have
resulted in project cost overruns in CFAF terms. Despite reduction of the
project description to priority comDonents, total expected costs exceed
available funds by about US$20 M which would be financed under the proposed
project. Loan 2244-CM was fully committed as of June 30. 1988.
1.30      The experience  gained through the implementation of this first
project and the institutional mechanisms which were developed will be contin-
ued and reinforced under the proposed project. In December 1987, DDA and the
Government signed a new CFAF 3 billion complementary agreement to continue
community development in Nylon through the construction of community facili-
ties and support to neighborhood associations and small-scale enterprises.
This complementarv agreement also covers the 35-ha resettlement area for the
proposed Second Urban Project (para 2.06 (a)). Furthermore, DDA has started a
study on the replicability of the first operation which will include a criti-
cal analysis as well as a socio-economic assessment of the project's impact on
the population.  The conclusions of this study will lead to the detailed
formulation of a community development action program to be implemented in
conjunction with the infrastructure upgrading actions, which will be continued
under the proposed project.



- 12 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin, Objectives, and Description
Background
2.01      The proposed project  results  from a continuous sector dialogue
between the Government and the Bank since 1977. The Fir - Urban Development
Project was approved In 1983 and an urban sector strategy paper was discussed
with Government in 1984 (Report No. 4540-CM). The strategy paper identified
the priorlty areas  for Bank-supported urban  investments.   These  include:
(a) priority infrastructure in Douala; (b) improvement in the land rights,
assessment and registration procedures; (c) reorientation of public interven-
tion in housing and land development activities; and (d) strengthening of
municipal capabilities.   The Government requested the Bank to consider a
Second Urban Project focusing essentially on the upgrading of urban transport
and drainage infrastructure in Douala. Engineering studies, financed under
the First Urban Project, began in early 1985 and appraisal of an Infrastruc-
ture Project for Douala took place in February 1986. However, while detailed
engineering continued, the Government -eviewed the appraised project, and in
September 1987, requested that it be broadened in scope to complete elements
of the First Urban Development Project, to undertake priority infrastructure
improvements in Yaounde and other cities, and to support policy actions in
line with its strategy for the urban sector including improved resource
mobilization. A revised project was appraised in November 1987.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.02      The proposed project would provide the means to continue implementa-
tion of the Government's urban development strategy at a time when, because of
financial constraints, the country's continued emphasis on the strengthening
of its urban centers to support its future economic growth is at risk. The
Bank would provide the financial means to the Government to continue implemen-
tation of a replicable urban upgrading program started under the First Urban
Development Project and to continue its urban development strategy while
giving municipalities the necessary time to carry out studies and adjustments
of the tax basis to mobilize new resources for the sector. The Bank's partic-
ipation at this crucial junction would help the Government consolidate poli-
cies which would enable strengthening of sector institutions and increased
participation of the private sector.  The Bank's experience, analysis and
advice on the specific elements of the urban strategy would help Government
address key issues appropriately. Moreover, various central, parastatal and
local institutions would be given incentive to work together.  The Bank's
assistance to the sector would also stimulate a coordinated and concerted
international donor community participation. The French Ministry of Coopera-
tion has already agreed to provide technical assistance (16 advisers) in
support of the proposed urban strategy, and DDA has extended its support to
community  development  in Nylon  (para 1.28).   Other  support  for  strategy
implementation would be forthcoming from other donors and various NGOs already
operating in the sector, which provide basic urban services and promote
population participation in the development and upgrading activities.



- 13 -
Proiect Objectives
2.03      The main objective of the project is to consolidate, through its
three-pronged approach of resource mobilization, infrastructure improvement
and institutional strengthening, rhe basis for sustainable urban development
initiated under the First Urban Development Project. The project would also
improve distribution of  -sponsibilities between the central Government and
municipalities and betv n public and private providers of urban services
while raising urban living and working conditions, especially of the poorer
sections of the populstion now settled in the least developed parts of the
urban centers.  Urban poverty ':ould be alleviated and urban employment stimu-
lated as a result of better access to economic and social services.  The
project would also strengthen management capabilities of urban agencies and
prepare for implementation of replicable urban operations financed through
improved cost recovery and local resource mobilization mechanisms. Building
upon past involvement in the sector, the project would be a stepping stone for
the implementation of Government's urban strategy leading to a broad-base
sectoral approach in future lending.
Project Description
2.04      The project would have three major components:  (a) an urban re-
sources mobilization component; (b) a priority urban infrastructure improve-
ment program; and (c) a policy and institutional development component. These
components are summarized below and described in detail in Annex 2-1.
2.05      The  urban  resources  mobilization  component  would  include  four
subcomponents, all of which would ultimately benefit the financing of urban
services:
(a) The fiscal cadastre subcomponent would include continuation of
preparation works for the establishment of cadastral base maps in
YaoundA and Douala. In addition to support for the Surveys Depart-
ment through the financing of cartographic works, equipment, techni-
cal assistance and training, this subcomponent would include the
means  to  improve  implementation  of  a property  tax  established
July 1, 1988.  A program satisfactory to the Bank was prepared by
MINUR and finalized at negotiations.
(b) The land resources management subcomponent would consist of techni-
cal assistance and support in equipment and t-:aining for MINUR's
Surveys Department and Lands Department to proceed with:  (i) the
identification and demarcation of state-owned lands and lands owned
by local collectivities; and (ii) the improvement and implementa-
tion, with Canadian assistance, of a computerized land data base for
Yaounde and Douala.  A program satusfactory to the Bank was prepared
by MINUR and finalized at negotiations.
(c)  The municipal finance  improvement subcomponent would consist of
technical assistance to help MINAT implement an action plan to be
recommended by the municipal finance study (para 1.12). This would
include strengthening of financial accountability and improvement of
tax billing and collection through updating of tax registers and the
possible creation of a new urban development tax.  The municipal
finance study is expected to be completed by March 1989 and at
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that an



- 14 -
action plan would be prepared and furnished to the Bank by
March 31, 1989 for comment, and carried out taking the Bank's
comments into account, and that a report on municipal finances would
be submitted annually to the Bank for review and comments (pa-
ra 1.12).
(d) A Municipal Credit Fund of FCFA 2 billion administered by CFC would
be created for medium-term lending at interest rates, at least
equivalent   to   those   of   the   Bank   Loan,   for   municipal
income-generating projects such as markets, truck and bus terminals
and commercial or industrial sites development. The initial line of
credit provided by the Bank would be FCFA 1 billion.  CFC would
provide  1 billion FCFA  from  its  own  resources.   Municipalities
throughout  the  country would  be  eligible  to borrow.   Projects
prescreened by MINAT would be studied by FEICOM on CFC's behalf and
proposed for financing to CFC. Eligibility criteria and sub-loan
apDroval procedures would be defined by the municipal finance study
(para 1.12). Onlending terms, including Government and municipali-
ties' own contributions, would be such that the Municipal Credit
Fund can continue to lend on the basis of the disbursements of
subsidiary loans, after serving the Bank loan.  At negotiations,
agreement was reached with the Government and CFC that eligibility
criteria and lending terms would be prepared as part of the munici-
pal finance study and agreed with the Balik by March 31, 1989.
2.06      The priority urban infrastructure improvement program would consist
of civil works to complement, upgrade and rehabilitate urban infrastructure in
the country's main economic centers. The program, confirmed at negotiations,
includes:
(a)  The Douala Priority Infrastructure Program consisting of:  (i) traf-
fic management improvements in the central business district through
the rehabilitation of about 17 intersections to be equipped with
traffic signals and street markings and the upgrading of about 20 km
of sidewalks; (ii) road improvement through the upgrading or con-
structior of about 10 km of primary roads providing access to
commercial and industrial areas; (iii) drainage improvement through
widening, deepening and lining of about 4.5 km of storm water drains
in the central business district; (iv) continuation of civil works
in the Nylon district including primary infrastructure, land devel-
opment of a 50-ha pilot neighborhood and housing credit; and (v) the
development of a resettlement area of about 35 ha to relocat- an
estimated 1,000 households currertly settled on the right-of-way of
roads and drains to be improved under the project, including compen-
sation and housing credit.  Appropriate sites have already been
acquired and would be developed as part of the project. DDA would
provide for complementary investments in community facilities
(para 1.30). At negotiations, Government confirmed that the 35-ha
resettlement area is reserved for the project, that appropriate
engineering documents have been prepared and that resettlement will
be done in accordance with a resettlement action plan satisfactory
to the Bank (Annex 2-1, paras 13 and 14).
(b)  The  Yaound4  Priority  Infrastructure  Program  will  comprise:
(i) traffic management improvements through the rehabilitation of
about four intersections in the central business district and



-15 -
completion of a traffic managefient study for central Yaound6;
(ii) ro_d improvements through the upgrading of a 6-km segment of
the ring road giving access to the new General Hospital; and (iii) a
rehabilitation program for Yaounde's paved road network.
(c) The Secondary Cities Priority Infrastructure Program will include:
the continuation of rehabilitation and upgrading programs of the
urban road and drainage networks in about five secondary cities,
including paving and upgrading of the road networks, lining of storm
water drains, and improvement of access roads to commercial and
industrial developments as well as social services.
2.07      The policy and institutional development component would assist the
Government in implementing its urban strategy, which would also facilitate
future international assistance to the sector including that of the Bank.
This component includes the following subcomponents:
(a)  Implementation of a policy action )lan (Annex 1-1) to consolidate,
through the implementation of a program of studies, technical
assistance and policy decisions, the Government's urban strategy.
The action plan includes the definition of institutional and financ-
ing nechanisms and the preparation and coordination of appropriate
investment programs. As a first s.ep in the policy action plan, the
Government has set-up an Urban Development Steering Committee whose
role would be to oversee implementation and coordination of the
program.  At negotiations, agreement was reached on the detailed
scope and content of the action plan, as well as on the establish-
ment of the Urban Development Steering Committee (para 2.11).
Further, at negotiations, agreement was obtained from the Government
that by June 30 of each year starting June 30, 1989, the Bank and
the Government will exchange views on the implementation of the
policy action plan on the basis of a report to be prepared by PSU
(para 2.11) and endorsed by the Urban Development Steering Committee
prior to being furnished to the Bank for review and comments.
(b)  Strengthenirg  of MINUH's  project management  capability  through:
(i) the provision of technical assistance lo coordinate and super-
vise project implementation; and (ii) on-the-job and overseas
training. A program satisfactory to the Bank for technical assis-
tance and training has been prepared by MINUH and was finalized and
confirmed at negotiations.
(c)  Preparation and implementation of action plans to reorganize the
parapublic enterprises in the urban and housing sectors. Based upon
the recommendations of the ongoing diagnosis by a special Government
Committee on parapublic enterprises to be completed by November 15,
1988, detailed action plans taking account of modifications in the
role of the enterprises being considered by the Government would be
prepared for the reorganization of the enterprises of the urban and
housing sectors (SIC, MAETUR, CFC and FEICOM) including the possible
selling of their assets. At negotiations, agreement was obtained
from the Government that by December 31, 1988, MINUH will prepare
and furnish to the Bank for review and comments, a detailed action
plan for each of the parapublic enterprises concerned and, there-
after, that Government will cause each action plan to be implemented
in accordance with the plan agreed with the Bank.



- 16 -
(d) Strengthening of MHunicipalities' project preparation, infrastructure
maintenance,  and  flnuacial  umnageent  capabilities  t'rough  the
provision of training,  technlcal assistance, equipment and pilot
programs  for CUD,  CUY, and other secondaTy cities.   This would
include  the  improvement of solid waste management  and  a  pilot
program to train small contractors In the constructlon of improved
latrines. A program satisfactory to tte bank has been prepared and
was confirmed at negotiations.
B. Project Costs and Financing
2.08      The project  costs,  confirmed at negotiations,  are  estimated at
US$253.5 M, including taxes and duties of US$31.1 M. Base cost estimates are
in June 1988 prices. The project would be esxcuted over the five-year period
1989-93. Physical and price contingencies are Included. Inflation rates for
local and foreign costs are estimated at 72 for 1988-90, and 4Z thereafter. A
summary of cost estimates is presented in the table which follows. Detailed
project costs are provided in Annex 2-3.
Table 2.1 Estimated Costs
MUS$ million)
^ of
Item                  Local    Taxes    Poreian    Total   Base Cost
A.  Urban Resources Mobilization     2.9       1.8        8.8      13.5        7
Bl. Douala Infrastructure           34.9      ll.S       52.8      99.2       52
B2. YaoundA Infrastructure           8.5       4.1       19.0      31.6      1I
B3. Secondary Cities Infrastructure  8.3       4.2       19.0      31.5       17
C.  Institutional Development        2.1       1.8        9.7      13.6        7
Base Cost                       S6.7      23.4      109.3     189.4      100
Physical Contingencies           5.S      2.0         9.5      17.0        9
Price   Contingencies           14.1      5.8        27.2      47.1       25
Total Project Cost              76.4      3         146.0     253.5      134
Percent                           30       12         58        100
2.09      The Bank would fianmce technical assistance, studies, equipment,
vehicles, materials,  supplies, and training for the implementation of the
following  programs:   (i) the  fiscal  cadastre  (para 2.05 (a));  (ii) land
resources management (para 2.05 (b)); (iii) uunicipal finance (para 2.05 (c));
(iv) policy action plan (para 2.07 (a)); and (v) MINUR and other munici-
palities institutional strengthening (para 2.07 (b) and (d)). Financing for
the Municipal Credit Fund component (para 2.05 (d)) would be for goods and
services needed for the income-generating projects proposed by the Municipali-
ties and approved by the Municipal Loan Coulttee. Rehabilitation of para-
public urban and housing sector enterprises (para 2.07 (c)) would involve the
financing of audit, preparation of rehabilitation pvograms, technical assis-
tance, training, as well as equipment and supplies. For the priority urban
infrastructure program (para 2.06), the loan would finance consultants'
services for detailed engineering studies, technical assistance for bid



.- 17 -
evaluation, civil works, construction supervision, special expertise assign-
ments, and traffic management equipment. For the civil wLrks in the Nylon
neighborhood (para 2.06 (a), (iv)) the Bank would finance the cost overrun on
the infrastructure and land development works and construction supervision
contracts started under the First Urban Project (para 1.27).  These include
primary infrastructure works as well as the upgrading of the 50-ha pilot area.
For the project's additional 35-ha resettlement area, Bank financing would be
limited to technical assistance, civil works for land development, and consul-
tants' servi'.es for construction supervision.  The Government would finance
compensation for displaced households while MAETUR would finance plot develop-
ment.   For the secondary cities,  the Bank would finance civil works and
consultants' services for detailed engineering and construction supervision.
2.10      The proposed IBRD loan of US$146.0 M would finance 58% of total
project costs representing 100% of the foreign exchange cost of the project.
The Government would cover all remeir.ing costs. The proposed financing plan,
reviewed and confirmed at negotiations, is as follows:
Table 2.2 Financing
Source       Local, Plus Taxes    Foreign    Total  %
Government         107.5            ---     107.5     42
IBRD                              146.0     146.0     58
Total               107.5         146.0     253.5    100
Retroactive financing of eligible expenditures incurred after January 1, 1988,
for a total amount not exceeding US$7.0 M, is included for technical assis-
tance, detailed engineering studies, expenditures for the Nylon infrastructure
and land development contracts started under the First Urban Development Proj-
ect, and infrastructure rehabilitation in secondary cities.
C. Implementation Schedule and Responsibilities
2.11      The project would be implemented through existing institutions.
Overall responsibility for project management would rest with MINUH. As the
first step in the Policy Action Plan (Annex 1-1), an Urban Development Steer-
ing Committee, including MINPAT, MINAT, MINFI, MINMEN, MINTPT, and MINUH, or
their representatives, has been set up to coordinate urban development poli-
cies and programs (para 2.07 (a)). MINUH would be responsible for the general
supervision of the resettlement action plan (para 2.06). A Project Special
Unit (PSU) was established February 4, 1988 within MINUH to be directly
responsible for the administrative coordination of the proposed project. This
inclvAes the management of procurement, general project supervision, account-
ing, disbursement monitoring and follow-up. The PSU would also be responsible
for informing the Urban Development Steering Committee, on a monthly basis,
and on a quarterly basis the Bank, on the status and progress of the project's
components and policy actions. PSU would be headed by a qualified project
manager and assisted by adequate staff.   The Decree establishirg PSU is
available in the project file. The project manager, procurement specialist,
chief accountant and principal economist of PSU would be nominated in agree-
ment with the Bank. CFC would be responsible for the Municipal Credit Fund



- 18 -
and for the financing of the land development components being executed by
MABTUR (paras 2.14 and 2.15).
2.12      MINUH would be directly responsible for implementing the roads and
drainage imptovement and maintenance programs in Douala, Yaoundt and th.e
secondary cities with the assistance of the relevant municipal technical
departments. MINUH, through its Surveys and Lands Departmernts, would imple-
ment the fiscal cadastre and land management compone..ts and liaise with the
Taxes Department of MINFI for the feasibility study of the property tax (pa-
ra 2.05(a)).   MINUH would also be  responsible  for implementation of the
institutional development components including the urban policy action plan
and the housing sector parapublic enterprises rehabilitation program. MINAT,
through its Directorate cf local governments would implement the municipal
finance subcomponent (para 2.05(c)) and assist in the strengthening of mnitici-
palities (para 2.07(d)).
2.13      CUD and CTY would suervise  implemertation of their respective
traffic management and municipal strengthening subcomponents.   They would
also, through their respective technical departments, assist MINUH in imple-
menting the road and drainage improvement programs.  CUD, CUY, and the secon-
dary cities would be responsible for maintaining their infrastructure.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that CUD, CUY and secondary cities
benefitting from the project would develop and carry ou! road maintenance and
drainage programs agreed with the Bank but financed from their own budgets.
For this purpose, CUD, CUY and the secondary cities will prepare and furnish
to the Bank, for review and comment, beginning March 31, 1989 and by March 31
for each year thereafter, a report on municipal finances for the current year
including current and investment expenditures and a work program and draft
budget for the following year.
2.14      CFC would administer the FCFA 2 billion Municipal Credit Fund with
the technical assistance of FEICOM, who would study the technical proposals
submitted by the Municipalities and screened by MINAT. CFC would be the
direct beneficiiry of the line of credit. Funds from the loan would be onlent
to CFC on terms at least equivalent to those of the Bank loan. Eligibility
criteria, procedures for the use of the loan funds and onlending terms would
be defined by the Municipal Finance Str.dy and agreed with the Bank by
March 31, 1989 (para 2.05(d)). Agreement was obtained from the Government at
negotiations that conclusion of a financing agreement betwpen the Government
and CFC acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of effeotiveness of the
loan.
2.15      MAETUR/ARAN would be the executing agency for the *ontinuation of
the civil works in the Nylon district of Douala and the v"pgrading of the 50-ha
pilot neighborhood for which contracts are under execution (para 2.09).
MAETUR/ARAN would also be the executing agency for the 35-ha resettlement area
related to the other infrastructure components, which would be financed
through CFC on terms at least equivalent to those of the Bank loan but could
include a margin for CFC. The serviced plots would be sold by MAETUR/ARAN to
qualified individuals at prices covering at least the aggregate cOsts to
MAETUR/ARAN. At negotiations, agreement was obtained from Go-ernment that
conclusion of financing agreements between the Government and CFC and CFC and
MAETUR/ARAN, on terms satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
effectiveness.



- 19 -
D. Procurement
2.1S        Amounts and procurement methods are given in Table 2.3.   These were
confirmed at negotiations.
Table 2.3 Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million)
------------------- Procurement Method /a -------------------
Project Element                I_B           LCB         Other          N/A            Total
1. Civil Works
(a)  Douala                     87.9           2.9           ._          13.9 /b         104.7
(48.4)        (1.6)         ---          (---)           (50.0)
(b)  Yaouade                    38.0           2.9                                        40.9
(20.9)        (1.6)         ---           ---            (22.5)
(c)  Secondary Cities           40.3           ---          ---           ---             40.3
(22.2)         ---          ---           ---            (22.2)
(d)  Nylon                       ---           ---         16.2           ---             16.2
(13.8)         ---             (13.8)
2. Materials, Equipm nt               2.7          1.0           0.5          ---               4.2
(2.2)        (0.8)        (0.4)          ---             (3.4)
3.  Works, Goods, and Services for   ---           ---           8.8 d                         8.8
Municipal Credit Fund Projects   ---           ---          (4.4)         ---              (*.4)
4.  Land Dovelopment
(a) Nylon (50 ha)                ---                        2.9 IA        --               2.s
,__          ---         (2.5)          ---             (2.5)
(b) Resettlement (35 ha)         4.0           ---          ---           ---              4.0
(2.2)         ---           ...__                        (2.2)
5.  Consultantl' Services             ---          ---          31.5          ---              31.5
and Training                      ---                      (5---  .)       ---            (25.0)
Total                           172.9          6.8         (59.9)        13.9             253.5
(95.9)        (1.o)       (46.1)        (----)          (146.0)
,/a Amounts between parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
/b Compensation not subjoct to procurement.
/c Cost overrun on contracts awarded after ICB under the First Urban Project (Loan 2244-CM).
/d Financed through CFC, the financial intermediary.
2.17           All major civil works for infrastructure improvement in Douala and
Yaound4 and in the secondary cities, including civil works for infrastructure
in the 35-ha resettlement area, totalling US$170.2 M, would be carried out
through contracts awarded on the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank Guide-
lites  for  procurement.   Cost  overrun  for  the  Nylon  infrastructure  and  land
development started under the First Urban Development Project (para 1.27) and
totalling US$19.1 M would be carried out under the existing contracts which



- 20 -
were awarded after ICB under the First Urban Development Project. Civil works
for traffic management in Douala and Yaound6 consisting of about 12 contracts
totalling US$5.8 M with individual costs too small to be attractive for ICB,
and spread over a three-year period according to needs, would be awarded
following LCB procedures which have been reviewed and are acceptable to the
Bank.
2.18      Equipment and materials for the resource mobilization components,
with the exception of the Municipal Credit Fund projects, and for the institu-
tional strengthening components totalling US$4.2 M, would be procured as
follows:   (a) equipment and materials grouped into lots exceeding US$0.5 M
would be procured through ICB; (b) equipment and materials which cannot be
grouped into US$0.5 M lots for a total estimated cost not to exceed US$1.0 M
would be procured through LC8; and (c) small items of equipment costing less
than US$50,000 each for a total amount not exceeding US$500,000 would be
procured through local shopping after quotations from at least three suppli-
ers.
2.19      The income-earning municipal projects financed through the Municipal
Credit Fund (pare 2.05 (d)), totalling US$8.8 M, would be procured following
local procedures which ersure that the goods and services are purchased at a
reasonable price, account being taken of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery, efficiency and reliability of the goods, availability of mainte-
nance facilities and spare parts and, in case of services, of their quality
and the competence of the parties rendering them. Estimated cost of individu-
al projects shall not exceed US$300,000 and projects with an estimated cost of
US$150,000 or more will be subject to prior Bank review and approval.
2.20      Consultants' services for about 30 different assignments ralated to
technical assistance for the resource -obilization component (US$8.6 M); to
studies and construction supervision of the priority infrastructure component
(US$8.2 M); and to the implementation of the urban policy action plan and the
institutional development component (US$14.7 M), would be procured in accor-
dance with Bank Guidelines on the use of consultants.
2.21      All contracts with a value of US$300,000 will be subject to prior
re,iew by the Bank, and any variation in contracts exceeding 10% will be
reviewed by the Bank prior to notification.   Procurement procedures were
reviewed and confirmed at negotiations.
E. Disbursements
2.22      Disbursements ficm the loan will be made against toplications based
on contracts eligible for Bank financing as follows.



- 21 -
Table 2.4 Allocation and Disbursement Categories
Loan Allocation    Expenditures
Category                        (US$ million)    to be Financed
(a) Civil Works for
(i) Douala                             42.5             55%
(ii) Yaoundd                            19.1             55%
(iii) Secondary Cities                   18.9             55%
(iv) Nylon                              11.7             85%
(b) Materials and Equipment                  2.9             80%
(c) Goods & Services for                                     50%
Municipal Credit Fund Projects
(d) Land Development
(i) Nylon (50 ha)                       2.1             85%
(ii) Resettlement (35 ha)                1.9             55%
(e) Consultants' Services & Training         21.2            80%
(f) Unallocated                              22.0
Total                                    146.0
The IBRD loan of US$146 M is expected to be disbursed over a six-year period
(Annex 2-4). Disbursements for infrastructure works and their related reset-
tlement areas (35 ha) to be carried out over a five-year period, starting in
1989, would be financed at 55%. Infrastructure construction and land develop-
ment in the Nylon neighborhood and its resettlement area (50 ha) would contin-
ue to be financed at 85% as under the First Urban Project, to help the Govern-
ment continue this high priority replicable program, which is expected to
generate resources for municipalities (CUD) and MAETUR during the period of
financial difficulties. The Nylon works are expected to be completed in 1990.
Disbursements related to financial intermediation by CFC (Categories (c) and
(d)), would be based on statements of expenditures and made according to the
financing agreements between the Government and CFC, and CFC and MAETUR, and
CFC and eligible municipalities, which are to be on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.  Disbursements would also be against certified
statements of expenditures for civil works, equipment, and services with a
contract value below US$50,000 equivalent, for an approximate total not to
exceed US$1 M to be monitored by the PSU. The supporting documentation for
disbursements under statements of expenditures would be retained by the CFC
and PSU, respectively, for these categories, made available for review during
Bank missions, and audited annually. All disbursements would be fully docu-
mented. These procedures were confirmed with Government during loan negotia-
tions.
2.23      To maintain an adequate flow of funds to finance project expendi-
tures with a minimum of administrative delays, during negotiations, agreement
was obtained from the Government that it will establish in a commercial bank
two separate special accounts, one sufficient to cover about four months of
general project expenditures (i.e., about US$10.0 M) and a second one suffi-
cient to cover about four months of Municipal Credit Fund Expenditures (i.e.,
about US$1.0 M). The special accounts would be operated as revolving funds
for eligible project expenditures with a minimum replenishment application
requirement of US$1,000,000 for the first account, on the basis of withdrawal
requests supported by the necessary documentation, and of US$500,000 for the



- 22 -
second account. The initial deposit from the Bank loan would be US$10.0 M and
US$1.0 M equivalent. respectively. Records of the Special Account transac-
tions would be sent to the Bank for replenishment.
F. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
2.24      Consolidated project  accounts would be maintained  by  the  PSU.
MINAT, MAETUR/ARAN, CFC, CUD, and CUY, as well as secondary cities, would
maintain separate accounts for project components for which they are responsi-
ble and would provide PSU with necessary accounting data for consolidation.
The PSU's consolidated accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, according to terms of reference agreed with
the Bank. The audit report would convey the auditor's opinion on the adequacy
of the procedures used for the preparation and verification of statements of
expenditures and their accuracy, eligibility for financing in accordance with
legal agreements, and the standard for record keeping and internal controls.
Special accounts would be subject to annual audit.  The Government would
forward the audit reports to the Bank within six months after the close of
each project fiscal year.  Quartetly reports on project progress would be
prepared by PSU and submitted through MINUH to the Bank. The PSU would also
prepare a project completion report within six months of the Closing Date.
CUD and CUY would submit to the 3ank, no later than six months after the close
of each fiscal year, an activity report including suitable justification on
progress made witb the implementation of the municipal finance action plan,
the infrastructure maintenance program, and the projects financed by the
municipal credit fund. The auditing and reporting arrangements were discussed
and agreed upon during negotiations.
G. Beneficiaries, Justification, and Risks
2.25      Beneficiaries.  The beneficiaries of the project will be mainly the
inhabitants of Douala, Yaounds, and the secondary cities participating in the
project tnrough improved sanitary conditions, reduced pollution as a result of
improved road and drainage systems and, in general, less costly and better
access to economic activities.  Although it is difficult to define direct
beneficiaries of the project components as well as the respective proportions
benefitting the urban poor, it is expected that a larger than proportional
share of these benefits will accrue to the poorer segments of the urban
population.  This is particularly true for the Nylon neighborhood.  Studies
carried out during 1981 have shown that about 22% of Cameroon's urban popula-
tion have incomes below the urban poverty threshold of US$310 per capita in
1981 terms. The proportion of urban poor in the areas directly affected by
the project is substantially higher, since these areas are the least developed
of the cities. In the course of project execution, specialized studies would
be carried cut under the supervision of the PSU with the assistance of NGOs
already active in these urban areas to assess the income distribution as well
as other direct measurable benefits in the areas affected by the project
(para 1.28). A program satisfactory to the Bank was diacussed and agreed with
Government during negotiations.
2.26      Justification.  The proposed project constitutes a balanced program
of resource mobilization actions, key infrastructure construction, maintenance
and rehabilitation, urban institutions development and policy reforms. This
would,result in a more efficient and sustainable provision of urban services
and would support the development of economic and social activities and the
improvement of the residential and economic environment.  Clarification of



- 23 -
urban agencies responsibilities, rationalization of urban investments program-
ming, improvement of urban services financing and land resources management,
and reformulation of the housing policy, would promote better resource alloca-
tion in the sector, increase the volume of private savings and productive
investments in housing and economic urban activities, and stimulate private
sector participation. Improved access to urban services would also promote
employment-generating activities In Douala, Yaounde and major secondary
centers as well as improvement of the productivity of their hinterlands. The
benefits expected from the institutional development component would be a
greatly improved capacity of the central and local urban institutions to plan,
finance, implement and maintain urban services and infrastructure.
2.27      Resourc. Mobilization.  Through improved registration and billing,
the proposed fiscal cadastre would significantly increase the yield of exist-
ing land-related  taxes,  including business  taxes  (patentes).   The  fiscal
cadastre would also provide the basis for the implementation of a property
tax, the feasibility of which would be evaluated during project implementa-
tion.   Conservative  estimates  indicate  that  an  additional  CFAF 6 billion
revenues from taxes could be expected annually in Douala and in Yaounde after
implementation of the fiscal cadastre and property tax. This would ultimately
depend, however, on a sustained effort to improve tax collection according to
the action plan to be recommended by the Municipal Finance Study by the end of
1988. The implementation of this action plan would also significantly improve
the yields of other municipal taxes and fees (markets, parking, trucks and bus
terminals,  building  permits,  etc.).   Through  the  financing  of  eligible
income-generating projects, the Municipal Credit Fund would improve not only
municipal finances but also delivery of key urban services.  Inventory and
demarcation of state-owned lands and lands owned by local collectivities would
enable Government to improve the management of these important assets which
co-er about 5,700 ha in Douala and Yaounde and represent an estimated value of
CFAF 80 billion.
2.28      Economic Analysis.   The benefits expected from improved traffic
management and primary road networks would be savings in vehicle operating
costs and transportation time.   Measures of these benefits were used to
estimate benefit streams for a broad range of road links and technical alter-
natives to select the highest priority operations (Annex 2-5). Cost streams
exclude taxes and duties but include:   (a) civil works,  studies,  project
supervision and physical contingencies; (b) routine and periodic maintenance;
and (c) technical assistance. Local unskilled labor was shadow priced at 0.7,
skilled labor at 1.14, and imported material and equipment at 1.14 (standard
conversion factor for Cameroon). Sensitivity analysis was used to examine the
impact of lower benefits, higher costs, and delays in project execution on the
economic rates of return (ERR).
2.29      Data allowing for economic analysis are only available  for the
Douala infrastructure program, whereas complementary engineering and economic
studies and surveys are currently under way for Yaounde and the secondary
cities infrastructure subcomponents prior to their implementation.  The ERR
for the Douala traffic management improvement would be 124%, and for the
Douala road improvement 32%, both excluding time savings benefits.  It is
expected that ERRs for Yaounde and secondary cities would reach equivalent
levels. At negotiations, agreement was obtained from the Government that, to
be eligi'ble for financing under the project, the Yaounde and secondary cities
components would yield ERR of at least 12%. No disbursements would be made
for projects which do not meet the criteria.  Assuming a minimum rate of



- 24 -
return of 12X for all components, and considering a weighted average for the
project as a whole, the ERR, excluding time savings, is estimated to be 20%.
2.30      Risks.   The  Government's  continued  financial difficulties might
present a major risk for the project because of the Government's inability to
provide counterpart funding. This has been minimized through annual reviews
by the Bank of urban investment programs (para 1.12). Also, implementation of
the project resource mobilization components should increase financing capaci-
ty of municipalities which could improve project financing over the later
years.   Another risk in the project arises from the involvement of manv
implementing agencies (four ministries: CUD, CUY, CFC, and MAETUR) and from
the resulting difficulties in coordinating their actions and policies.  To
minimize this risk, an Urban Development Steering Committee was established.
Government slowness in implementing policy changes, should this occur, is not
expected to seriously affect project execution since all anticipated policy
actions are in line with Government current policy for the sector.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.01      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that:
(a)  the three-year urban Investment program would be updated annually
and furnished to the Bank for review by March 31 of each year
starting March 31, 1989 (para 1.14);
(b  by March 31, 1989, it will prepare an action plan to improve munici-
pal finances on the basis of recommendations resulting from the
ongoing municipal finance study, including the definition of eligi-
bility criteria and on-lending terms for the Municipal Credit Fund
to be channelled through CFC and furnish said plan and criteria to
the Bank for comment and approval and carry out the plan taking the
Bank's comments into account (para 2.05(c, and (d));
(c)  35 ha c'f land suitable for resettlement are reserved for Douala
households displaced from roads and drains rights-of-way, that
appropriate nhvsical plans are available, and that a resettlement
action plan including compensation and land rights regularization
procedures similar to the ones developed under the first urban
project has been prepared (para 2.06);
(d)  by June 30 of each year, starting June 30, 1989, it will exchange
views with the Bank on the implementation of the urban policy action
plan on the basis of a report prepared by PSU and endorsed by the
Urban Development Steering Committee prior to being futnished to the
Bank for review and comments (para 2.07);
(e)  by December 31, 1988, MINUH will prepare and furnish to the Bank for
review and comments, a detailed action plan on each of the para-
public enterprises under its supervision and thereafter implement
such action plan in accordance with the plan agreed with the Bank
(para 2.07(c));



- 25 -
(f) by March 31 of each year starting March 31, 1989, CUD and CUY and
secondary cities benefitting from the project will submit to the
Bank for review and comment a report on municipal finances for the
current year including current and investment expenditures and a
work p-wgram and draft budget for the following year's road and
drain maintenance work, including current and investment expendi-
tures (para 2.13); and
(g) special accounts sufficient to cover about four months of general
project expenditures and Municipal Credit Fund operations will be
established in a commercial bank in accordance with procedures
agreed with the Bank (para 2.23).
Conditions of Effectiveness
3.02      A condition of effectiveness would be the conclusion of satisfactory
financing agreements on terms acceptable to the Bank between CFC and the
Government for the Municipal Credit Fund and land development by MAETUR and
between CFC and MAETUR for the Nylon land development operation and for the
35-ha resettlement area (paras 2.14 and 2.15).
Condition of Disbursement
3.03      A condition of disbursement for financing infrastructure improvement
for Yaound4 and the secondary cities would be the provision to the Bank of
satisfactory evidence that these components yield an ERR of at least 12%.
3.04      Subject to the above terms, the project constitutes a suitable basis
for a Bank loan of US$146.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Cameroon.
AF1IN
October 3, 1988



- 26 -                                                                  AM=   1-1
Page 1 of 4
REPUIC OF CAMERO
SECIMD URRUl PROJECT
Pol.ey Actton Plan
C8J:VW  It  110K0   INECRIJI SIWEN URB  OPERATIONS AND EfOZNOtC DE9ELPIERT
Specific  Objectives                                   Actiona  to  be  Undertaken                     Participants          Date  Set
1.1  Clarity the respectivo responstbilitits of             flaintain an Urban Development Steering Cem_ttee           tXDti                    To be
central. paratatal and mnicipal *uthorittes            (CCDU), to supervise implementation of the policy                                   created In
with respect to identification, conatruction           action plan. coordinate operations of the vartous                                   1988 and
and atntenance of urban infrastructure,                participants and monitnr executton of the Second                                    maintained
Urbin Project.                                                                      throughout
project
tmplementa-
tion.
Poller-up the studies related to the  ieplentation         ctX                      07/90
of the pottcy actton plan. Analyze and discuss the
recomeendations of these studies. Sup -vise the
|tplementattin of adequate financial and institu-
ttonal mechantsmes alloing for izproved sharing of
responsibilities between central, parastatal and
mtnicipl authorities.
1.2  Identify prtority invesamnts to strengthen             Update the diagnostic studies on the economic dev-          ttNU[/hlFPAT            07W/9
the economic role of the major urban centers.          elopasnt prospects of the major urban centers tn
tervs of employment creation and urban-rural link-
ages (1984 Sector Report).
Conduct feasibility studies of proposed                     1KNUH                   07/90
investments.
Establish Integrated investment progras compatible          lnrdR                   12/89
with available resources, on the basis of the
emiaetig urban planning d4cumentation and the
economic dianostic studies (includitng adaptatton
of technical standards).
1.1  mprove urban planning coordinatton and tnte-           Prepare three-year rolling invest ent and expend-           CDU                     Tbroughout
gration of tnvestent program  vtth macro-             tture programs and deftne and set up meebisms for                                   project
econmic goals.                                         convrting intersectoral investment programs into                                    implementa-
sultiaannual budgets.                                                               tion.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/.



-27-                                                                   ARM    1-1
Pop 2 of 4
O& zw2 2a  STR1I          TON l   WAiT1C1I1lA E   CAPACt to KANAC AND SUPVtISE URbN DUELOPKENT
Specific  Objectives                                   Acttions  to  be  Undertaker.                   Parttcipants          Date  Set
2.1  Provide urban tintitutions vith thE ftnanctal          Recomend financins cchantes for urban tnfra-               CCDU                     07/89
reources to carry out the  perattons for               structure construction and matntenance. Recomend
which -hey are responsibl.                             mechanisms for recoe"ring urban investmnt costs
and conditions for isplementing them.
Isplemnt recomndttons.                                      HhI/KlIMThAT/           12/89
HINUl/HINPAT
2.2  lep-ove resurce mobtlizatton and financial            bIplemet the rece_endations of the unicipal                  MINAS                   12/89
manageent by the  rwicipatitfes.                       fi ans study concerning tiproveaot of collection
of extsting taxes and creation of nea taxes.
Produce multipurpos maps and study the feasibility          HINN/HINN               12189
of   plementing a land tax and a ftscal cadastre.
Deftne eligibility criteria end selection and               HUWAT/CCDU              03/89
approval procedures for mtuneipal subloo9e.
Implement the apprnpriate Institutional mchantsis.
Set up a Itne of credit to finance tncome-                  CFC/FE1COH/CCDU         03/R9
generattng municipal investmnts and define loan
requests proceasing procedures.
2.3  Strengthen the umicipalities  urban infra-             Provide the major  unletpelities vith the essential       KINAT                   12/SS
structure tdentificatton, constructitn and             personnel or techntcal assistance for execution of
mtntennc  capabtlittes.                                the tasks entrusted to them.
Identify municipal personnel training needs.                NINAT                   07/89
Define and tiploemt appropriate procedures to
plan. prepar, evaluate and follov-up on training
programs.



- 28 -                                                                 ARMm     1-1
Pag 3 of 6
O8JECTVE 3: DEOM     TO15 ftllOKC OF Tvgf tAND NAMOEM AND THE KANACPJ   OF STATE LAND ASSfIS
Specific  Objectives                                   Aettons  to  be Undertaken                      Parttctpants          Date  Set
3.1  Streamline the land rights regularisatton and          Produce multipurpose mps for Yaounde nd oDuala.            m1um                     07/90
registr ton procedures.                                                                                            (Surveys Dept.)
Clarify the procedures for regulsrts.ng the rights          11N                     07/89
of occupants of  tpontaneous and pert-urban                (Msnds Dept.)
neighborhoods.
Draw up Implementing procedures and supporting              HlNUH                   12/89
legal documents for he existtng land legislation.           (Lands Dept.)
Strengthen the capacity of the lands Depsrtuent to          HMIN                    12/89
regtster land rights and transfers theretn. e.g.,           (Lands Dept.)
through an oraniztion study of the production of
land titles and the feasibility of computerizing
them.
3.2  Iprove the .snap_nt of public lands.                  Identify and demarcate State and public authority            lHINU                   12/89
properties.                                                 (Surveys Dept.)
Define and implement measures to increase revenues          ItNIH                   12/89
from public land assets.                                    (Lands Dept.)
.  -           ,                           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.



-29 -                                                              AM     1-1
pae 4 of 4
OJW    f 4:  tEVUO  THRE PU1rnOP 0?   VICID LOTS AND THE 1ILlZAtal OF SAVINGS FOR HOUSING F}UU
Specific  Objecttve                                 Actions to be Undertaken                     Participants         Date Set
4.1  Increas the role of the  tiiitipalities nd         Demarcate the rights-of-vay of primary and second-       KIMUI (Urban           07/69
tbe prirete sector tn the production of             ary rodo and comunty factitttes on the basts of          Planning Dept.)
serviced *ttea.                                    existing toun-plsnning documentation and photo-
graietric base maps.
Integrate the corresponding land pareels Into the       imn                    12/89
publitc domain and the local collectivittes.             (lndS Dept.)
Draw up specificftiona deftning the works for which     MINIU/MaIlt/           07/89
private developers are responsible end define           NIA
mechfnis to recover the costs of secondary
iafraetructure.
4.2 Speed up the upgrading Of spontaneoas               Draw up and calculate the cost of a standard pro-        HNIt/NAESUR            07/89
settleents.                                         ram of mtnim  upgrading to tiprove the viability
of spontaneous settleents.
Define the institutional and financial arrangements     MIWUR/ATUR             07/89
for implementing these operations.
4.3 Scify the role of the praetat tI                    Draw up a technical and financial diagnostic of          MINPAT                 12/88
bhstsg-sector agenctes.                             SIC, HAETUR CFC and F6IC0  as part of the eaudit of
parastatal enterpritses.
Review bousing and serviced-site subsid, policies.      CCVU/NlJNAT            12/88
Iplement the recndations of the diagnostic             COW/MID/SIC            07/89
Studies in the contest of the redefinition of these      YAR/CFC/
agenies' responstbtlittes.                              NIN/FEKCXA
Implement the musures to mdzse revenues frm             SIC/KAtUR              12/89
the land and butidtig assets of S - and HAETDR.
4.4 Increae private savings mobilization to fi-         Set up mectaLisms for increasing CIPCs resources         MINF M//CFC            07/89
nance housing nd land development.                  and extending Its citentele to include unmicipal-
ties. private developers and non-wage hweholds.
t  AFIIN
|          ~~Augsut 4, 1988



- 30 -                          ANNEX 1-2
Page 1 of 11
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Implementing Institutions
A. The Institutional Setting
1.        Execution of the Second Urban Project will rely on the three types
of governmental entities that share responsibility for managing urban develop-
ment in Cameroon:
(i) the ministries, particularly MTNUH, which is responsible for
urban planning, and MINAT, which has supervisory jurisdiction
over local authorities;
(ii) the parastatal agencies, which are the ministries' investment
executing agencies: MAETUR and SIC, supervised by MINUH; CFC
supervised by MINFI; and FEICOM supervised by MINAT; and
(Iii)  the local authorities, which are responsible for operating and
maintaining the basic urban services.
B. The Ministries
Ministry of Town Planning and Housing (MINUH)
2.        MINUR was formerly a department of the Ministry of Public Works and
Transport (MINTPT). In 1979 it became a iull, separate ministry responsible
for:  (i) the national domain, land and cadastral policy; (ii) general urban
development and housing policy; (iii) drafting administrative and technical
regulations pertaining to urban development and housing and supervising their
application; and (iv) technical supervision, preparation and execution of
urban development operations and urban networks. Following the reorganization
of February 13, 1985 (Decree No. 85/187) MINUH now comprises, in addition to
the General Administration Department, four central operational departments:
-    The Urban Development Department (Direction de l'Urbanisme -- DU) is
responsible for preparing all urban planning documents and, through
its Urban Networks Division (Sous-Direction des R4seaux Urbains),
for programming and technical supervision of the execution of road
and utility works.
-    The Surveys Department (Direction du Cadastre -- DC) is responsible
for preparing and archiving cartographic, survey and land-tenure
documents, Identifying properties and persons, noting rights encum-
bering property, and drawing up cadastral maps.
-    The Lands Department (Direction des Domaines -- DD) is responsible
for drafting and applying the land and domain legislation, managing



- 31 -                          ANNSX 1-2
Page 2 of 11
national and State land properties and administering anid settling
expropriation compensation.
--   The Housing Department (Direction de l'Habitat -  DH) is responsible
for defining policy, evaluating needs, and programming public-sector
activities.
Decree 85/187 further provides for the possibility of creating services or
project spectal units (PSU) to implement specific projects when the program or
volume of work so requires. The setting up and organization of such special
services or units shall be approved by decree (Article 36).
3.        MINUH is represented in the provinces by a delegation which compris-
es services corresponding to each headquarters department.  The Provincial
Office of Urban Development is also responsible for providing technical
assistance to the municipalities. MINUH's direct urban planning responsibili-
ties, its control over land-related procedures and operations and its supervi-
sory jurisdiction over the ager-4-s that implement the urban developmeuc and
housing programs (SIC, MAErJ) make it the key agency in the urban sector.
Human and Financial Resources of MINUH
4.        MINUH has more than 1,900 employees, of whom 110 are assigned to
headquarters in Yaounde, 200 to the Littoral Province Department in Douala and
the others to the remaining nine provinces. However, it has only 29 engineers
and 30 senior managers.   Over the last few years, MINUR's investment and
operating budgets have been as follows:
uduet Categories
(CFAF billion)
Category     1981/82  1982183  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
Extra-budgetary    11.50   16.60    5.00   19.37    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Investment        4.81    7.00   11.34   11.95   23.95   27.70   10.00   12.00
(39-900)
Total Investment   16.31   23.60   16.34   31.32   23.95   27.70   10.00   12.00
Operations        6.72    8.24    9.71   12.05   14.98   16.80   15.58   14.00
These budgets do not  incorporate  those of the parastatal agencies under
HINUR's supervision.
Works Projects
5.        Urban road works, carried out originally by MINTPT and now by MINUH,
have been financed largely from the extra-budget category. The same is true
for development operations carried out by MAETUR, the only difference being
that under MAETUR operations, secondary and tertiary infrastructure costs have
been fully or partially paid for by the beneficiaries while primary



- 32 -                          ANNEX 1-2
Page 3 of 11
infrastructure costs have been subs.Ldized by the State.  To date, drainage
works have been included in development operations or road infrastructure
works.
Transport Taxes
6.        In the transport  sector,  the State levies the following taxes:
(a) customs duties on the import of vehicles and spare parts; (b) specific
taxes on carriers (carte bleue); (c) specific vehicle taxes (road fund taxes),
vehicle registration and sale fees; (d) driver's license fees; (e) taxes on
gasoline production; and (f) special taxes on the sale of petroleum products.
The special tax on petroleum products, which was introduced in 1984/85, is now
CFAF 105/liter of super and CFAF 104/liter of regular gasoline. Transporta-
tion and taxi companies are also subject to general taxes and fees (licenses,
etc.). Most of these taxes are collected nationally, and the income from them
is not differentiated on a regional or local basis; however, it is clear from
the distribution of traffic volume that consumption of petroleum products is
much higher in the cities than in the rest of the country.
Ministry of Territorial Administration (MINAT)
7.        MINAT  is responsible,  through  its Local  Authorities  Department
(Direction des Collectivites Publiques Locales -- DCPL) for exercising super-
vision over local governments and in particular for:  (i) defining the output
and improving the quality of municipal services; (ii) monitoring all actis-
ties conducive to improving the setting and quality of rural and urban life;
(iii) supervising the functioning of the municipal councils and municipal
administration; and (iv) all studies aimed at strengthening participation by
local authorities in development and production activ4ties.
8.        The DCPL has three divisions (services):  Administrative Assistance,
Financial Assistance, and Trai.ing. Because of inadequate qualified person-
nel, it is unable to perform fully this role of training and assistance for
the municipalities and rural communes.
9.        MINAT exercises its supervision over the local authorities through
the governors and prefets. Major decisions of the municipal councils (munici-
pal budget, administrative accounts, management of municipal property, and
recruitment and termination of personnel) have to be submitted for prior
approval by MINAT. MINAT also supervises the Special Fund for Municipal
Equipment  (Ponds  Sp4cial d'Equipemen.  et d'Intervention Intercommunale --
FEICOM) and the Municipal Administration Training Center (Centre de Formation
pour l'Administration Municipale -- CEFAM).
Other Tachnical Ministries
10.       The Ministry of Public Works and Transport  (MINTPT) has so far
carried out -ost of the road infrastructure works in Cameroon. However, it
has no specific responsibilities for drainage and sanitation. It builds and
maintains such works as part of its road construction and maintenance activi-
ties. MINTPT's responsibilities for urban road works (except for national
roads) have been transferred to MINUH. MINTPT is also responsible for devel-
oping the various modes of transportation and supervising the Urban Transport
Company (Societe des Transports Urbains du Cameroun -- SOTUC).



- 33 -                          ANNEX 1-2
Page 4 of 11
1!.       The Ministry of Mines and Energy (MINMEN) is responsible, through
its Water and Sanitation Division (Sous-Direction de l'Eau et de .'Assainisse-
ment) for urban water supplv and sanitation. It is responsible either direct-
ly or througb the National Water Committee (ComitA National de l'Eau) for
setting water rates as well as for supervising the Water Company (SociWt
Nationale des Eaux du Cameroun -- SNEC) and the Electricity Company (Socigt6i
Nationale d'Electricit4 du Cameroun -- SONEL).
C. The Parastatal Agencies
Urban and Rural Land Development Agency (MAETUR)
12.       MAETUR is an autonomous public establishment which was created in
1977 (Decree No. 77/193 of June 23, 1977) and placed under the supervisory
jurisdiction of MINUH. Its purpose is to carry out, or cause to be carried
out, land development operations in order to promote property and housing
development.   Its responsibilities include the study,  execution  (as prime
developer) and supervision of the projects and deployment of the necessary
financial resources. Its resources derive mainly from State and local author-
ity subsidies and project study and supervision fees.  MAETUR's essential
function is to develop and service urban lots. It can also assume operational
responsibility for urban development programs, such as that of the Vall6e de
la Gare in Yaounde. MAETUR currently has four divisions: Administration and
Finance, Technical, Marketing, and Programming.  Its staff of 210 includes
30 qualified Cameroonian managers nd a few expatriates. It has headquarters
at Yaounde, a regional office at Douala and a technical office at Garoua. The
Douala office began operation in 1982 with the Akwa-Nord project, now in
progress. It is also responsible for the projects at Edea, Buea and Limbe.
It currently has 30 employees, including one expatriate manager, four engi-
neers, four technical assistants and two surveyors.  It acts both as works
developer and supervisor of its operations. All the studies are subcontracted
or carried out at headquarters in Yaounde.
Nylon Land Development Agency (ARAN)
13.       ARAN is a unit of MAETUR which was set up in 1981 chiefly to build
the infrastructures and community facilities in the Nylon district provided
for in the First Urban Development Project.  ARAN's responsibilities range
from general studies (urban development plan) to land restructuring.   Its
competence is currently limited geographically to the Nylon district but the
need for resettlement sites is leading it to develop serviced lots in Ndogbas-
si. ARAN's current organization comprises five sections, headed by a manager
and an assistant manager:
-   Administration
--   Urban Infrastructure
-   Community Facilities
--   Urban Development
--   Liaison and Land Management
ARAN has a staff of nine managers and forty employees. Its ops-rating budget
is about CFAF 300 million.



- 34-                          ANNEX 1-2
Page 5 of 11
Housing Bank of Cameroon (CFC)
14.       The CFC is a commercial public establishment with jvridical person-
ality and financial autonomy.  It is under the supervision of MINFI.  Its
organization includes:
--   a Board of Directora comprising representatives of the Office of the
President, the supervising ministries and the public savings and
insurance agencies; and
-- a general management, responsible for implementing the decisions of
the Board of Directors, which is divided into two departments:
Finance and Operations.
CFC has branch offices in Cameroon's major cities.  Its purpose is to provlt
financial assistance for the execution of all projects desigDed to promot.
housing.  To that end It is empowered to:
-- finance the servicing of land development operations for serviced
sites or social housing;
-- seek and set up financing facilities for the land and housing
development companies;
--   collect and receive deposits by natural and juridical persons and
grant medium- and long-term loans; and
carry out all financial, commercial and movable or immovable proper-
ty operations related to the projects that fall within its responsi-
bility.
Resources
15.       In addition to State grants and subsidies and the deposits of savers
and public and private entities, CFC's resources include earmarked receipts
consisting of a compulsory contribution by wage-earners and employers calcu-
lated on salary, allowances and emoluments. The contribution rate has been
set at 1% for wage-earners and 2.5% for employers. In 1986 this contribution
brought in CFAF 12.6 billion.
Indlstrial Land Development and Management Agency (MAGZI)
16.      MAGZI is an autonomous entity responsible for developing, maintain-
ing and operating industrial districts. It was formerly under the supervisory
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry but is now under the
Miinistry of the Plan and Regional Development (MINPAT). It has 60 employees.
?.AGZI builds and maintains infrastructure works, particularly drainage and
s,nit&tion networks. Its resources derive from industrial sites rental and
State subsidies.  It has a branch office at Douala where it has developed two
large industrial districts which are currently in process of occupation.
Special Fund for Municipal Equipment (FEICOM)
17.       FEICOM, which is under the supervision of MINAT, was set up in 1974
to promote mutual assistance among municipalities, help finance municipal



- 35 -                         ANNEX 1-2
Page 6 of 11
investment and assist in the training of municipal staff.  To perform these
tasks FEICOM should theoretically have the following resources:
--   municipal contributions assessed on the proceeds of the flat-rate
tax, business and general license fees and livestock tax;
-   State subsidies;
-- drawbacks granted by the National Marketing Produce Board (Office
National de Commercialisation des Produits de Base - ONCPB); and
--   municipal taxes, it_ whole or in part.
18.       Examination of FEICOM's administrative accounts from the time it was
effectively set up reveals a marked disparity between projections and actual
results, particularly with respect to the ONCPB contribution. From its first
year, 1977/78, when FEICOM's structures were put in place and its operations
started up, the contributions actually made by the stabilization funds amount-
ed to only CFAF 1,250 million instead of the projected CFAF 2,500 million.
The situation subsequently worsened, and with ONCPB ceasing to pay its contri-
bution from 1981 (FY81/82) FEICOM was unable to pursue its operations on the
scale originally prescribed.
D. The Municipalities
19.       The statute governing the municipalities is set forth in Law 74-23
of December 15, 1974 on municipal organization.   Municipalities  are made
responsible for implementing and managing the urban planning documents. In
particular, they isr-ue building and alignment permits and all road authoriza-
tions, such as the laying of utility lines along the public right-of-way.
More generally, the municipalities are responsible for managing municipal
property and for taking all hygiene and public safety measures, particularly
action to eradicate slums and the installation and repair of standpipes, water
supply lines, sewers, latrines, etc. Municipal receipts are of four kinds:
--   fiscal revenue, including:
-    the flat-rate tax;
-    business and general license fees;
-    the livestock tax;
-    the additional hundredths; and
-    direct and indirect municipal taxes;
the proceeds of operation of municipal property and services;
drawbacks granted by the State; and
miscellaneous and casual receipts, including aubsidies and loans.



- 36 -                         ANNEX 1-2
Page 7 of 11
The Urban Communities
20.       The establishment by Law No. 15 of July 15, 1987 of urban communi-
ties (communaut6s urbaines - CUs), created at YaoundA and Douala, reflects
the allocation of increased responsibility to local authorities through the
creation of district communes (mairies d'arrondissement) and strengthening of
the management and organizational capacities of the municipal council.  Urban
communities are administered by a Government Delegate (executive organ),
appointed by decree, and a municipal council (deliberative organ), which
includes all the commune mayors and five councillors from each commune,
elected by their peers. MINAT retains supervisory authority. However, with
the exception of orders issued by the Government Delegate, the budget, the
administrative accounts, labor contracts, and agreements approved by the
Minister, day-to-day administrative acts are fully binding 15 days after they
have been submitted to the Ministry.  The deliberations of the municipal
council and the decisions of the Government Delegate, except for the budget
and the administrative accounts, become binding one month after they have been
deposited with MINAT if they have been neither approved nor rejected.
Strengthening of the Urban Community of Douala
21.       Financial  Reso-rces.   The  Urban  Community  of  Douala  possesses
substantial resources.  The last administrative accounts (85/86) show that
resources for the fiscal year totaled close to CFAF 11 billion.  Operating
expenditure, including the refuse collection contract with the enterprise
HYSACAM, is of the order of CFAF 3 billion. The available capital development
and works budget is thus close to CFAF 7 billion (including the contribution
to FEICOM, which exceeds CFAF 1 billion). Up to now, deficiencies in munici-
pal organization and management have led to an incapacity to spend the revenue
collected. As a result, a surplus has been built up over the years which
stood at about CFAF 13 billion in 1986. In this context there has been no
incentive to increase city revenue. However, this surplus is likely to be
consumed gralually over the next five years as the city's activities and
spendings are boosted by new commitments. Although per capita city revenue
remained stable, at between CFAF 13,000 and CFAF 15,000 in real terms (about
US$50) through 1985, it is currently far below its potential level.  This
revenue consists of 90% of direct taxes, assessed and collected by provincial
offices of the Ministry of Finance, and 10% of various fees collected directly
by the local government.  The diagnostic study of the Urban Community of
Douala carried out in 1987 as part of the preparatory work on the present
project recommends a number of measures, some relating to the city's financial
services and others to the supervisory authority.   The proposed measures
include:
-- improvement of the efficiency of the local taxes assessment and
collection process;
-   reconstruction of the business and general license rolls;
-- updating of rolls and revaluation of assessments;
--   improvement of collection of the major taxes; and
--   cree;ion of new municipal taxes, particularly a "viabilization tax."



- 37 -                          ANNEX 1-2
Page 8 of 11
Reorganization of Technical Services
22.       In coordination with preparation of the Second Urban Project, the
French Ministry of Cooperation has carried out a diagnostic study of the
current situation of the Urban Community of Douala's technical services and
identified necessary measures to reorganize and strengthen them. The proposed
organization is based on the creation of a Municipal Technical Services
Department (Direction des Services Techniques Communautaires - DSTC), headed
by a Director, grouping together all the services involved in the city's
development. To clarify the division of responsibilities without seriously
disrupting it, it is proposed as a first step to organize the technical
services by creating two divisions grouping together all servtces with related
functions:
An Infrastructure Division  (Sous-Direction des Infrastructures)
grouping together all services with operational responsibilities in
the various fields of development of the city:
Service                           Responsibilities
Roads Service                     Design, equip, maintain and manage tt-e
(Division de la Voirie)          roads system (except national roads).
Drainage and Sewerage Service    Design, equip, maintain and manage
(Division de l'Assainissement)   drain and sewer networks.
Traffic and Transport Service    Implement the traffic plan.  Design and
(Divisior de la Circulation      coordination.
et du Transport)
Concessions and Utilities         Supervise urban services operated under
Service (Division des Conces-    concession.   Coordinate  the  agencies
sions et R4seaux Publiques)       that build and operate utilities.
Technical Center                  Perform maintenance work on force
(Centre Technique)               account.  Manage and maintain the ve-
hicle fleet.
A Development and Construction Division  (Sous-Direction de l'AmA-
nagement et de la Construction) grouping together all services
respoT.sible for urban regulation., management of public buildings
and management of land affairs:



- 38 -                         ANNEX  1-2
Page 9 of 11
Service                          Responsibilities
Architecture Service              Design,  eq-ip,  maintain  and  manage
(Division de l'Architecture)     public buildings.
Land and Public Domain Service   Manage land subdivisions, administer
(Division des Affaires Fonci-    land  titles,  monitor  public-utility
ares et Domaniales)               declaration (dAclarations d'utilit4
publique -- DUPs) and expropriation
procedures;                  statistics.
Parks and Gardens Service         Design, equip, maintain and marage
(Division des Espaces Verts)     parks and gardens.
23.       The Urban and Economic Planning Unit  (Cellule de Planification
Urbaine et Economique), under the direct authority of the Government Delegate,
would be a small, compact unit, composed of high-level professionals. Its
chief tasks would be:
=-   to carry out planning, both public and private; and
-- to promote and regulate economic activities and develop urban
employment.
24.       In January 1987, acting at the request of the municipal authorities
and through MINUH, the French Ministry of Cooperation set up a multidisciplin-
ary technical team to support the activities for institutional strengthening
of the Municipality of Douala. The team comprises:
--   an architect/town planner, as technical adviser on urban development
to the Office of the Government Delegate;
a civil engineer/development economist, as adviser to the technical
services director; and
--   a DPLG landscapist, as adviser to the chief of the Parks and Gardens
Division.
From the start of the Second Urban Project, the team will be strengthened by
the addition of:
--   a roads and utilities engineer (drainage expert), as adviser to the
chief of the Drainage and Sewerage Division;
--   a civil engineer (road problems expert), as adviser to the chiefs of
the Roads, Traffic and Transportation divisions; and
a municipal finances expert, as adviser to the head of the Finance
Department, whose chief task would be to examine municipal
revenue-raising problems.



- 39 -                         ANNEX  1-2
Page 10 of 11
25.       In addition to the presence of this strengthened t'chnical team,
short missions by experts of French public or private entities (local authori-
ties, profesqional organizations, specialized consultants) could be organized
to contribute their know-how and technica' organization and management exper-
tise to the institutional strengthening project undertaken by the Urban
Community of Douala. The French Ministry of Cooperation has also decided to
set up a line of credit of FF 3,260,000 which would be used to finance a
number of operations with the object of reinforcing technical assistance and
introducing innovation into certain areas of activity of the force-account
services.
E. Implementation of the Fifth Plan (1981-86)
26.       Originally, CFAF 253 billion was entered in the Fifth Plan for urban
development and housing. To date more than CFAF 40Ut billion has been spent
but only 40% of the physical goals of the Flan have been achieved.   The
following are the major achievements during this period:
27.       Ministry of Town Planning and Housing (MINUH)
-- Preparation of master plans for Yaounde, Douala and eight
secondary cities and of urban development plans for 14 towns,
at a cost of CFAF 3.5 billion; construction of urban roads, at
a cost of CFAF 83.9 billion, and administrative buildings at a
total cost of CFAF 129 billion.
28.       Parastatal Enterprises
SIC:      Construction of 8,327 housing units, at a total cost of
CFAF 91.0 billion, mainly in Douala and Yaounde.
MAETUR:   Development of 376 ha for the SIC programs, at a total
cost of CFAF 51.5 billion.
Development of serviced sites totaling 499 ha (7,105 lots)
for private households, at a cost of CFAF 26 billion.
CFC:      Approval  of  loans  totaling CFAF 85 billion,  comprising
CFAF 49 billion for the parastatal sector (SIC and MAETUR)
and CFAF 36 billion for private households. CFC has made
4,150 loans to individuals, mainly under SIC and MAETUR
operations, to purchase a dwelling or to purchase a
serviced lot and build a dwelling.
MAGZI:    Construction  of  a  110-ha  industrial  zone  at  Douala
(Bassa), at a cost of CFAF 4.7 bill,on.
Urban Community of Douala
29.       Using consultants to prepare the bid call documentation and for
supervision, and private contractors to execute the works, a total of nearly
12 km of access roads was surfaced during FY84 and FY85, at a total cost of
CFAF 3.6 billion; the target for FY86 was 30 km. During the same period,
1984/85, 20 km of drains was cleared, at a total cost of CFAF 1 billion, and



- 40 -                         ANNEX  1-2
Page 11 of 11
another 10 km was cleared during FY86.  In addition, the technical services
spent CFAF 1.8 billion on current and periodic road maintenance work during
FY84 and FY85 and scheduled maintenance work totaling CFAF 1 billion for FY86.
F. Operations Scheduled for the Sixth Plan (1986-91)
30.       The Sixth Plan calls for investments totaling CFAF 693 billion for
the urban planning and housing sector, i.e., about 17% of total investment
scheduled for the country. These investments will be distributed as follows:
Type of Investment            CFAF billion            Agency
Operational Urban Development            63.8        MINUH                      9
(Studies and Works)
Cadastre and Land Operations             48.3         MINUH                     7
Housing                                  190.3        MINUR, SIC, MAETUR       27
Drainage and Sewerage                    84.9         MINUH, MINMEN            12
Water Supply                             127.1        MINMEN                   18
Administrative Buildings                  74.7        MINUH                    11
Industrial Land Development              45.6         MINPAT, MAGZI             7
(Industrial Zones)
Research, Studies                        58.0         Various                   8
Total                                   692.7                                 100
This objective is now seriously compromised becauise of reduced Government
revenues resulting from the drop in commodity prices, in particular oil, in
CFAF  terms.   Already  in  1987/88,  MINUH's  expected  annual  investment  of
CFAF 66 billion was reduced to CFAF 10 Billion.
AFlIN
September 16, 1988



- 41 -                        ANNEX  2-1
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SFCOND URBAN PROJECT
Detailed Description of Project Components
A. Resource Mobilization
A.1 - Preparation of the Fiscal Cadastre
1.        This component includes the preparatory work for the implementation
of a fiscal cadastre allowing for the improvement of collection of the exist-
ing taxes and for the institution of a property tax. It comprises the financ-
ing of multipurpose mapping for Yaound6 and Douala, equipment, technical
assistance (10 man-months) and training to enable the Surveys Department to
continue updating the property maps and also a fiscal cadastre and property
tax feasibility study.
2.        Multipurpose  mapping  of  Yaound6  and  Douala  will  consist  of
1:1000 base maps which will be available in graphic and ntumeric form.  the
production of these maps will include the following work:
(a) 1:6000 aerial coverage of Yaound4 and Douala for the areas that
could undergo urban development by the year 2000 (25,000 ha for each
city); and
(b)  numeric restitution, using photogramnetric techniques, of the areas
that could undergo urban development by the year 1990 (18,000 ha at
Douala and 12,000 ha at Yaounde). Restitution will comprise contour
lines, road networks, infrastructures, buildings, fences, water-
courses and vegetation visible on the aerial photographs.
These multipurpose maps will be used not only to implement the fiscal cadastre
but also to identify public land assets (para 4) and tor the technical studies
of the urban infrastructure projects (para 21).  The mapping work will be
entrusted to a firm specializing in photogrammetrv. A program satisfactory to
the Bank was prepared by MINUH (Surveys Department) and finalized at negotia-
tions.
3.        The purpose of the fiscal cadastre feasibility study will be to
define both the expected financial results of the institution of a property
tax and the means to be deployed to identify the taxpayers and the physical
composition of the properties. These measures will include improvement of the
operations involved in the taxation process -- survey and preparation and
issue of assessment notices - and also installation of a system of effective
updating of cadastral registers. The feasibility study will include a pilot
operation of survey of plots, premises, owners and occupiers in six test
zones, comprising a total area of about 200 ha, in order to verify the feasi-
bility and value of the proposed measures. A program satisfactory to the Bank
was prepared by MINUH (Surveys Department) and finalized at negotiations.



- 42 -                         ANNEX  2-1
Page 2 of 10
A.2 -- improvement of Land Resource Management
4.        This component comprises logistical support (technical assistance,
equipment, vehicles, training) for the Surveys Department and Lands Department
to enable them to:
(a) identify and demarcate State and local collectivity private land
properties, which in Douala and Yaounde represents assets of about
5,700 ha valued at CFA-. 80 billion; and
(b) improve the facilities and procedures for classifying, archiving and
updating the land tenure docurientation through study of t   feasi-
bility of computerizing the management of land documentacion and
continuation of the activities urdertaken, with the assistance of
Canada, to set up a computerized land data base. A work program was
prepared by MINUH and finalized at negotiations.
A.3 -- Improvement of Municipal Finances
5.        This component comprises technical assistance  (40 man-months)  to
help MINAT's Local Authorities Department implement the recommendations of the
municipal finances study carried out under Technical Assistance Project II
(Credit 1168-CM) and due to be completed in December 1988, particularly:
(a)  improvement of collection of the existing municipal taxes by updat-
ing tax rolls, revaluing tax assessments, simpl fying the procedures
for coordination between the agencies involved in the taxation
process and the proposals for the creation of new municipal taxes,
particularly an initial installation "viabilization tax"; and
(b) the conditions of implementation of the Municipal Credit Fund within
CFC, particularly the prior legal formalities, the composition and
responsibilities of a National Municipal Loans Committee (Comit4
National des Pr^ets Municipaux) responsible for monitoring the status
of the fund, defining the eligibility criteria and loan requests
processing procedures and establishing standard loan agreements
between the CFC and the municipalities. The action program proposed
by the municipal finances study will be discussed and finalized with
the Bank by March 31, 1989.
A.4 -- Municipal Credit Fund
6.        This Fund will be set up in the form of a specialized line of credit
in  CFC  for  medium-term  financing  of  the  construction  of  municipal
income-generating facilities, such as markets, bus and truck terminals, and
artisanal or commercial lots.  In addition to the initial line of credit of
CFAF 1 billion provided by the Bank, CFC will provide CFAF 1 billion from its
own resources; these financings will be onlent to the municipalities. Techni-
cal and economic appraisal of the projects prescreened by MINAT will be
performed with the assistance of FEICOM. The operational procedures of the
Municipal Credit Fund will be defined by the municipal finances study and
submitted to the Bank for approval by March 31, 1989.



- 43 -                         ANNEX  2-1
Page 3 of 10
B. Priority Infrastructure Program
B.1 -- Douala Priority Infrastructure Program
7.        Traffic Management Improvements.  The traffic difficulties in the
city center are due mainly to the bad state of the roads and in particular the
lack of sidewalks, car parks and proper signals. The main purposes of the
traffic improvement program are to expand the capacity of the network, improve
traffic flow and enhance road safety.
8.        The proposed program relates in priority to the central districts of
Bonanjo and Akwa. It comprises:
(a) upgrading of about 17 intersections;
(b) rehabilitation of about 20 km of sidewalks; and
(c) installation or improvemeint of traffic signs and street markings
along about 13 km of existing roads.
The detailed study of these improvements was financed under the First Urban
Development Project (Loan 2244-CM). The entire set of bidding documents will
be available by December 30, 1988.
9.        Improvement of the Primary Roads Network.  A program of construc-
tion, widening and upgrading of primary roads is proposed with the object of
improving traffic conditions in the whole of the city and particularly the
links between center, industrial districts and residential areas.  This will
make it possible, in particular, to complete:
(a) the first internal ringroad (the "Rocade des 5 kms"), which links
the Wouri Bridge, the industrial district of Bassa and the airport
together and into the national roads network; and
(b) service of the administrative and business center and of the port
from the entry point of the Douala-Yaoundt new highway.
10.       This program comprises:
(a)  Wouri Bridge.  This essential link in the regional and national
roads network and the railway system carries peak traffic loads in
excess of 2,500 vehicles/hour and is close to saturation.  It is
planned to improve the left bank Wouri Bridge intersection.  A study
for strengthening and upgrading the bridge will be done under the
project, together with urgent reinforcement works. Any new bridge
would be built as part of a road project.
(b)  Boulevard de la Reunification.  This is the main artery between the
Wouri Bridge and the residential district. It has a peak traffic
load in excess of 3,500 vehicles/hour which will increase when the
"Rocade des 5 kms" bypass, of which it forms part, is completed.  It
is planned to widen the boulevard to three lanes in each direction
over a lungth of about 2.3 km, build sidewalks and upgrade six
intersections.



- 44 -                         ANNEX  2-1
Page 4 of 10
(c)  Avenue de Japoma.  This radial road links the eastern neighborhoods
with the "Rocade des 5 kms" and the city center. It is planned to:
(i) widen the Avenue to three lanes in each direction, with a
separate bus lane, over about 2.2 km;
(ii) build lateral service lanes over 1.2 km of the section forming
part of the "Rocade des 5 kms";
(iii) build sidewalks and drainage channels; and
(iv) upgrade three main intersections.
(d) Deido-Bassa road. This road serves all the northern districts of
the city and provides the main access to the university campus and
the telecommunications center. It is planned to widen it to four
lanes over 1.3 km between Tongo Bassa and the Avenue de la Republi-
que and rehabilitate it over 400 meters between the Avenue de la
Republique and the Deido road at Akwa-Nord and also to build side-
walks and drainage channels and upgrade four intersections.
(e) Boulevard Est. This boulevard, which serves the Nylon district, was
built under the First Urban Project. Under the Second Project it
will be lengthened by 100 m and the intersection linking it with the
Boulevard de l'Aviation will be upgraded and equipped with traffic
lights.
(f)  Boulevard de l'Aviation.   This boulevard will be  lengthened by
1.2 km between the Boulevard des Nations Unies and the Avenue de
Japoma, thereby completing the "Rocade des 5 kms" bypass. It will
be built with three lanes in each direction. The works will include
crossing of the railway, upgrading of the intersections at both ends
and accesses to the industrial district.
(g) Besseke Valley. This valley, located in the center of Douala, is
occupied by the old railway and the now disused railway station.
The valley will be developed to create an essential road link
between the port, the city center and the entry point of the Yaound4
highway and avoid heavy traffic having to use the secondary roads
network of the city center. Since the outlet of the valley is to
undergo major urban development with the construction oL the new
city hall, only the upstream part of the valley as far as the Joss
Bridge will be uipgraded definitively. It is planned to:
(i)  build a 2 x 3 lanes road from the Avenue Charles de Gaulle
(entry point of the Yaounde highway) to the Joss Bridge over a
length of 2.3 km;
(ii) make a provisional passage under the Joss Bridge and build two
separated lanes as far as the Marine intersection over a
distance of 0.5 km downstream, pending definitive development
of this area;
(iii) upgrade four major intersections; and



- 45 -                         ANNEX  2-1
Page 5 of 10
(iv) construct the central storm drain in the valley.
The detailed study of these improvements Was financed under the First Urban
Project (Loan 2244-CM). The entire set of bidding documents will be available
by December 30, 1988.
11.       Drainage Improvement.  Apart from the works carried out under the
road programs, the emergency drainage improvement program focuses on the
Bessoussoukou-Besseke basin. It comprises:
(a) reconstruction and lining of the main Bessoussoukou drain over a
length of 4.5 km;
(b) reconstruction of the Besseke outlet in the port area over about
200 m; and
(c) construction of 13 crossing works.
12.       Continuation of Upgrading of the Nylon District.  Continuation of
the Nylon district upgrading works will be financed under the Second Urban
Project, as follows:
(a)  upgrading of the service lanes along the Boulevard Est;
(b)  construction of a road link between the Madagascar market,  the
Boulevard Est, the Dibom II district and the Yaoundg highway; and
(c) rehabilitation of 50 ha in the pilot area.
13.       Resettlement Program.  Road and drainage improvements in Douala, as
part of the Second Urban Project, lead to the relocation of an estimated
1,000 households currently settled on the rights-of-way of these infrastruc-
tures. A resettlement Action Plan has been prepared and was confirmed during
negotiations to ensure that people displaced under the project will have the
opportunities to become established and economically self-sustaining in the
shortest possible period at living standards that at least match those before
resettlement.
14.       The procedures which will be followed under this resettlement action
plan are based on the successful implementation of the Nylon resettlement
component (Loan 2244-CM) and are described in a working paper in the Project
File (Annex 3, B 4). Tnese procedures comprise:
(a) a detailed survey of all households to be dis;olaced and resettled
based upon photogrammetric base maps and detailed engineering was
completed. This survey includes the inventory and evaluation of
properties to be destroyed, the identification of the households to
be displaced, the assessment of their present socio-economic condi-
tions and the evaluation of their essential needs for service,
infrastructure and transportation;
(b) the appraisal of compensation rights for the first group of
584 households would be conducted by the official expropriation
commission by January 1, 1989 and for the remaining 238 households
by January 1,  1990.   This action would be undertaken with the



- 46 -                         ANNEX  2-1
Page 6 of 10
assistance of the Urban Community of Douala and technical support
from MINUH and MAETUR/ARAN. Compensation rights will be appraised
following the procedures which were developed as part of the First
Urban  Development  Project  and  consist  of:   (i) first  right  of
purchase of a resettlement plot to all displaced households, includ-
Ing illegal squatters against payment of servicing costs within two
years of plot allocation.  The difference between the market price
and the cost price of these plots is considered as adequate compen-
sation for the effects of dislocation;  (ii) compensation for land
and construction for the holders of land titles; (iii) compensation
for construction only for the occupants of National Lands with
customary tenure rights;
(c) the earmarking of appropriate funds under the national budgets to
allow MINUH to pay said compensations.  This cost is included as
part of total project cost;
(d) the development by MAETUR/ARAN of a 35-ha, 1000-plot resettlement
area. An appropriate site has been reserved in Ndogbassi as part of
the land reserve which was acquired by Government in 1985. This
site is adjacent to the resettlement area of the First Urban Devel-
opment Project and provides satisfactory access to markets, employ-
ment and services.  This resettlement area will be developed and
serviced with roads, water, and electricity by June 1, 1989.
MAETUR/ARAN will provide satisfactory evidence to the Bank that
resettlement options are designed so that serviced plot costs can be
paid by the households to be resettled and that no regulations
restrict the development of economic activities on the plots or
impose minimum housing design standards;
(e) a program of information, and assistance in relocation and community
development to be conducted by March 31, 1989 by MAETUR/ARAN with
the assistance of NGOs. This assistance will include transportation
of household goods, training with house and latrines construction,
and formal support to the mutual credit associations through a link
to Credit Foncier du Cameroun (Housing Bank); and
(f) the design and implementation by MAETUR/ARAN of a monitoring and
evaluation system to trace the progress of individual households and
identify those which may need relocation assistance prior to moving
any households.
15.       Agreement was reached during appraisal and confirmed during negotia-
tions that a 35-ha, 1000-plot resettlement area will be developed in the
Ndogbassi site where appropriate land is available adjacent to the reset-
tlement areas of the First Urban Development Project. This new resettlement
area can be developed very rapidly in continuity with existing operations and
with appropriate sites for public facilities and economic activities. Plot
servicing will include access roads, demarcation and standpipes and their cost
should not exceed one million CFAF. The experience of the First Urban Devel--
opment Project has shown that all households, including illegal squatters,
were able to mobilize this amount of resources. The support of NGOs and of
the UNDP-Bank Regional Waste Sanitation Group will also be available to assist
households with house and low-cost sanitation construction. Detailed physical



- 47 -                          ANNEX  2-1
Page 7 of 10
plans for this 35-ha resettlement area have been prepared by MINUH and were
reviewed during negotiations.
B.2 -- Yaounde Priority Infrastructure Program
16.       Traffic Management  Improvements.   The traffic plan study, whose
terms of reference were prepared by MINUH and reviewed at negotiations, will
allow to:
(a) define the works to be carried out under the road improvement
program;
(b)  coordinate the activities of the Urban Community of Yaound4 (CUY)
and MINUR;
(c) take full advantage of the major roads networks recently carried
out, particularly development of the Vallee de la Care; and
(d) upgrade four major intersections: la Poste, Warda, place Djoungolo
and Elig Essono.
17.       The road improvement program will focus in priority on construction
of the access to Yaound6 General Hospital over about 6 km, forming a section
of the Rocade Est bypass.  The detailed study of th.-se road networks is
underway and the bidding documents will be available by December 31, 1988.
18.       Rehabilitation Program.  This program comprises rehabllitation of
8 km of paved primary roads, including upgrading of storm gutters and side-
walks essential to the durability of these works. In coordination with the
CUY, MINUH will define the content of this first section of rehabilitation
works, which will have to be integrated into the long-term action program of
the CUY. The works to be undertaken will be defined by a study, financed
under the project, intended to verify that the investments are economically
justified and meet the project eligibility criteria.
B.3 -- Secondary Cities Priority Infrastructure Program
19.       This component comprises continuation of the provincial cities road
improvement program started by the Government under the Fifth Development
Program and suspended because of financial constraints.  It would include
upgrading of 20 km of primary roads in secondary cities, of which the works at
Kumba, Ebolowa, Maroua, Dschang and Ngaound6re have already been identified.
At negotiations, MINUR furnished a diagnostic study of the situation of the
ongoing contracts and worksites and a works and financing status report.
MINUR will submit a technical and economic appraisal of those works whose
continuation, resumption or completion is found to merit priority, together
with specific proposals for further action to be taken on the various con-
tracts.



- 48 -                         tIIR     2-1
Page a of 10
C. Institutional Development
C.1 -- Policy Action Plan
20.       This component comprises preparation of the action programs needed
to implement the Government's strategy for the urban sector  (Annex 1-1),
particularly to:
(a) improve integration between urban operations and the country's
economic development, by:
(i)  clarifying the responsibilities of the central, parastatal and
municipal authorities with respect to urban infrastructure
identification, construction and maintenance (e.g., sanitation,
drainage, and private and municipal land development projects);
(ii)  providing the various urban institutions with the financial
resources to carry out the operations for w1.ich they are
responsible;
(iii) identifying the priority investments needed to strengthen the
economic role of the major urban centers; and
(iv)  improving urban planning coordlnation and integration between
investment programs and macroeconomic goals;
(b) strengthen the municipalities capacity to manage and supervise urban
development, by:
(i) improving their resource-raising and financial management
capacities; and
(ii)  strengthening   their  urban   infravcructure   Identification,
construction and maintenance capabil:ties;
(c)  improve the functioning of the land market and the management of
State land assets, by:
(i) speeding up the land rights assessment, regularization and
registration procedures; and
(ii)  identifying and implementing measures to increase revenues from
public land assets; and
(d) develop the production of serviced sites and the mobilization of
savings for housing finance, by:
(i) increasing the role of the municipalities and the private
sector in the production of lots;
(ii) speeding up the operations of restructuring of spontaneous
settlements;



- 49 -                        ANN4A  2-1
Page 9 of 10
(Iii)  redefining the role of the parastatal housing-sector agencies;
and
(iv)  increasing private savings mobilization to finance housing and
serviced sites.
21.       The preparation and implementation of this action plan calls for the
execution of a number of sectoral studies, whose terms of reference (An-
nex 2-2) were finalized at negotiations, and also technical and economic
studies of the urban infrastructures that could be financed under a possible
third urban project. Technical assistance (42 man-months) will be furnished
to MINUH for coordination and supervision of these various studies.
C.2 -- Strengthening of the Ministry of Town Planning and Housing (MINUV)
22.       In the context of MINUH's overall responsibility for project manage-
ment, directing and coordinating operations and supervising works execution,
it is planned to provide technical assistance of 126 man-months in order to:
(a)  set up administrative and financial procedures and work organiza-
tion;
(b)  ensure the satisfactory implementation of the operations;
(c)  train local personnel; and
(d)  furnish expert consultancy services on specific problems.
23.       The technical assistance to MINUR will comprise:
(a) an adviser to PSU's Project Manager for three and a half years;
(b) a civil engineer to supervise works in Yaound6 and secondary cities
for three years;
(c) a civil engineer to supervise works in Douala for three years; and
(d) consultants short missions (twelve months).
24.       Training  and  Organization.    This  subcomponent  will  comprise
specifically-targeted training activities for KINUH personnel and a study on
improving information management within MINUH, particularly between the Urban
Planning Department, the Surveys Department and the Lands Department, so as to
streamline land management procedures. It is planned to carry out the follow-
ing:
(a) A Training Program. As part of its day-to-day activity within the
ministry, local personnel will receive the necessary practical
training to enable them to perform their duties and acquire the
necessary experience for their professional development. To enable
the most dynavic staff members to round out their theoretical and
practical knowledge, it is planned to assume the cost of nine
three-month courses and twelve three-week seminars abroad.



- 50 -                        ANNEX  2-1
Page 10 of 10
(b)  An Organizational Study.  With a view to establishing functional
linkages essential to MINUH's decision-making process, a study will
be conducted on information management within the department,
focusing particularly on the technical approval procedures and
supervision of its application.
C.3 -- Program of Rescructuring of Parastatal Enterprises in the Urban Seccor
25.       Following the diagnostic studies of urban-sector parastatal enter-
prises carried out by the Special Government Committee, this component will
comprise the study of an action plan to define the measures to be taken (a) to
mobilize revenues from the land and buildings owned by the parastatal enter-
prises; and (b) adapt their structures to the sectoral strategy goals, which
include developing the role of the municipalities and private developers in
the production of serviced sites, speeding up the operations of restructuring
of spontaneous settlements and stepping up the mobilization of private savings
to finance housing and the production of serviced sites. The terms of refer-
ence for the study of this action plan (Annex 2-2) were agreed upon at negoti-
ations.
C.4 -- Strengthening of the Municipalities
26.       Urban Community of Douala.  This subcomponent comprises logistical
support in the form of technical assistance to the Urban Community of Douala
to strengthen its technical services, improve solid waste collection and
treatment, and provide training ari guidance for small contractors in low-cost
sanitation techniques (improved latrines) which could be implemented rapidly
as part of the resettlement operations.
27.       Urban Community of Yaound6.  This subcomponent comprises logistical
support to the Urban Community of Yaound4 in the form of the services of a
road maintenance expert and supply of the necessary equipment for routine
highway maintenance  (patching).   The expert will also be responsible for
studying ways of improving road works maintenance contracting.
28.       Municipalities of Provincial Cities.  This subcomponent, managed by
MINAT, comprises logistical support in the form of technical assistance and
equipment to the municipalities of provincial cities that are to be the
subject of an emergency road improvement program (see component B.3).
AFIIN
September 16, 1988



- 51 -                        ANNEX  2-2
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Training, Technical Assistance and Sectoral Studies
1.        This annex summarizes the goals and general objectives of the
training and technical assistance activities and sectoral studies to be
undertaken, a general description of which is given in the project dossier
(Annex 3).
A. Training Program
2.        MINUR.  As part of their day-to-day activity within the Ministry,
local personnel will receive the necessary practical training to enable them
to perform their duties and will acquire the necessary experience for their
professional development. To enable the nost dynamic staff members to round
out their theoretical and practical knowledge, it is planned to defray the
cost of nine three-month courses and twelve three-week seminars abroad. The
technical assistance to the Surveys Department (DC) and Lands Department (DD)
will include practical training for the personnel assigned to the Project, for
example as part of the installation of a computerized land data bank. It will
also include identification of the training needs in land law and procedures,
geodesy, photogrammetry and surveying, and com-puterilzcd pr-cos4ing of l ^d
data and of the training facilities that need to be put in place to strengthen
the technical capacity of the Surveys and Lands departments.
3.        Municipalities.  The technical assistance made available to MINAT
will include training for municipal technical and administrative staff and
identification of the training facilities that need to be put in place to
improve their operational skills.
B. Technical Assistance
(1) Preparation of the Fiscal Cadastre and Management of Land Resources
Executing agency:   Surveys Department, MINUH
Purposes:           (a)  Supervision of multipurpose maps production and
of the fiscal cadastre feasibility study.
(b) Identification and demarcation of land assets.
Scale:              20 man-months, 1989-1991
Cost:               CFAF 100 million



- 52 -                         ANNEX  2-2
Page 2 of -10
(2) Improvement of Municipal Finances
Executing agency:   Local Authorities Department, MINAT
Purposes:            (a)  Implementation of the recommendations of the
municipal finances study.
(b) Definition of the conditions of implementation
of the Municipal Credit Fund.
Scale:               42 man-months, 1988-1991
Cost:                CFAF 210 million
(3) Sectoral Action Plans
Executing agency:   MINUH
Purposes:            Coordination and control of execution of the studies
relating to implementation of the sectoral strategy
and formulation of an integrated investment program.
Scale:               42 man-months, 1988-1991
Cost:                CFAF 210 million
(4) Direction and Coordination of Operations
Executing agency:   MINUR
Purposes:            Technical, administrative and financial coordination
of execution of the Second Urban Project.
Scale:               126 man-months, 1988-1991
Cost:                CFAF 630 million
(5)  Strengthening of Municipalities
Executing agency:   MINAT, CUn
Purposes:            Strengthening of the technical services of CUY
(Municipality of Yaounde), and MINAT logistical
support for municipalities of provincial cities.
Scale:               72 man-months, 1988-1991
Cost:                CFAF 360 million



- 53 -                        ANNEX  2-2
Page 3 of 10
C. Studies toncerning Implementation of the Government's
Urban Sector Strategy
Objectives
4.        The purpose of these studies is to de lne the activities to be
undertaken to implement the Government's strategy for the urban sector. The
goals of this strategy (Annex 1-1) are to:
(a) integrate urban operations more closely with national economic
development;
(b) strengthen the municipalities' capacity to manage and supervise
urban development;
(c) improve the functioning of the land market and the management of
state land assets; and
(d) develop the production of serviced lots and the mobilizatiOn of
savings for housing finance.
5.        A variety of actions for implementing this sectoral strategy will be
carried out under the Second Urban Project. Supplemental studies are needed
to identify more precisely other actions pertaining to adaptation of existing
s-    res ^and institutions or sectoral reforms which will take longer to
implement.
(Zeneral Organization of the Studies
6.        In light of the above goals, the practices of the existing institu-
tions need to be modified in a number of ways to enable the proposed sectoral
reforms to be implemented under satisfactory conditions. The institutional
aspect of the studies is therefore of decisive importance: it determines the
general organization of the studies, which will have to be carried out in
three phases:
(a)  Phase 1:  firming up and confirmation of the diagnostic study that
justified the new sectoral strategy, based on a balance sheet of
planned operations in the major urban centers during the last ten
years and assessment of the action capacities of the central,
parastatal and municipal authorities and the private sector in the
production of the urban fabric;
(b) Phase 2: proposal of a short- and medium-term action program for
improving the sector's efficiency through institutional, financial
and legal measures clarifying the responsibilities of the public
sector (at the central, parastatal and municipal levels) and the
private sector in the identification, execution, maintenance and
financing of urban infrastructure projects; and
(c) Phase 3: on the basis of agreement of the Cameroonian authorities
on this program, detailed study of the content of a priority urban
investments plan suitable for financing by the World Bank: prelim-
inary projects of the first operational programs, financial apprais-
al, economic justification, institutional setup.



- 54 -                         ANNEX  2-2
Page 4 of 10
7.        Coordination and general supervision of the study will be undertaken
by MINUH. In view of the many administrations and institutions concerned, the
Urban Development Steering Committee (Comit6 de Coordination pour le Develop-
pement Urbain - CCDU) set up under the Second Urban Protect will serve as
liaison organ between the consultant and all the entities involved for data
collection and appraisal of institutional, technical and financial proposals.
The study will be carried out in three separate periods:
(a) In the first period, the consultant will prepare an intermediate
report devoted to the diagnostic study and to the proposals concern-
ing the short- and medium-term program.
(b) In the second period, the Cameroonian authorities will examine and
discuss the consultant's proposals with a view to approving, follow-
ing any comments and amendments, the document describing the techni-
cal, Institutional and financial content of the proposed program.
This document will then be submitted to the Bank for its review and
comment.
(c) The third period will be devoted to the actual feasibility study of
the project from the various standpoints:  technical (preliminary
projects), economic and financial (appraisals) and institutional
(detailed setup). The action program will have to allow for testing
of the proposed institutional and financial mechanisms. The des-
cription of the program will need to include all necessary informa-
-son f    vp_''    rjct  1-Atabl-e fnr f-Ineing hy the Bank.
Description of Tasks
(a) Diagnostic Study of Uroan Development
xi) quantitative and qualitative importance of the various produc-
tion streams (planned, administered, spontaneous) in urban
evolution over the last ten years;
(ii) impact of the land situation on the various production streams;
(iii) balance sheet of public sector (central, parastatal and munici-
pal) activities in the area of urban infrastructure, assessment
of the action capacities of the various institutions, and
identification of legal, organizational, technical or financial
constraints on their activities; and
(iv) strategy of the individual agencies and of the private sector
concerning housing production, site selection, access to land,
financing, and current mobilization of household savings.
(b) Short- and Medium-term Action Program
In light of the findings of the diagnostic study, the consultant
will propose suitable measures to overcome the legal, institutional,
financial and technical constraints identified, including action to:
(i) redefine and clarify the roles and responsibilities of the
private and public sectors (at the central, parastatal and



- 55 -                         ANNEX  2-2
Page 5 of 10
municipal levels) in urban infrastructure identification,
construction and maintenance, including the equipping and
restructuring of residential neighborhoods;
(ii) establish financing mechanisms that enable the various partici-
pants to undertake the operations for which they are responsi-
ble, and install mechanisms for recovering public urban infra-
structure investment costs;
(iii)  propose mechanisms  for converting urban investment programs
into multiannual budgets for the public sector agencies in-
volved;
(iv) improve the functioning of the land market by simplifying the
procedures for regularizing the rights of and/or compensating
occupiers of squatter and urban-periphery neighborhoods,
including the drafting of enabling regulations for land legis-
lation;
(v)  speed up land rights registration and transfer and subdivision
procedures, for example through an organization study of the
production of land titles and the feasibility of computerizing
it;
!(vi) realize a return on public land assets through proposals
regslating the transfer of land to public or private promotcrs,
tax measures to capture land-value appreciations in order to
finance urban development, and legal and physical measures to
protect these assets against speculative encroachment;
(vii) simplify land subdivision and consolidation procedures, includ-
ing their legal and institutional framework, notably by estab-
lishing schedules of conditions and specifications defining the
improvements for which promoters are responsible and the method
of recovering secondary infrastructure costs; and
(viii) propose measures to deal with any other constraints identified
during the diagnostic phase of the study.
(c) Medium-term Investment Program
On the basis of this action program, the consultant will identify
and justify a priority urban investments program in the context of
preparation of the Seventh Plan (1991-96). These proposals, organ-
ized in the form of a coherent strategy in technical, financial,
legal and institutional term6, will concern in particular:
-    the physi_al development works program;
-    technical standards and unit costs;
-    the institutional resources to be created or strengthened; and
-    the legal aspects.



-56 -                            ANNEX  2-2
Page 6 of 10
Coherence between mobilizable financing sources, technical standards and
volume of development works will be secured through an "iterative" approach
(reasoning by successive approximations). The formulation of this investment
program will comprise the following tasks:
(i) identification of priority measures to strengthen the economic
role of the major urban centers by updating the diagnostic
studies of their development prospects in terms of employment
creation and urban-rural linkages (updating of the 1984 sector-
al report);
(ii) formulation of investment programs for the major urban centers
on the basis of the economic diagnostic studies and the exist-
ing urban planning documentation, and verification that they
are compatible with the available resources (including adapta-
tion of technical standards) and that the proposed operations
are reproducible;
(iii) demarcation of rights-of-way of primary and secondary roads and
community plant on the basis of the multipurpose maps and
existing urban planning documentation, with respect both to
restructuring of squatter neighborhoods and physical develop-
ment of urban-periphery neighborhoods; and
(iv) formulation of infrastructure programs, including operations of
restructuring squatter neilghborhoods and physical development
of expansion zones for the major urban centers.
This development works program will be accompanied by a preliminary estimate
of the cost of the infrastructure works (road, drainage and valley crossing
works) and also a construction and financing requirements timetable that takes
into account the "coming on stream" of the operations in both financial and
institutional terms.
D. Study of the Parastatal Urban igencies' Restructuring Program
I. Context of the Study
8.        In June 1986 the Government set up a Rehabilitation Mission to
prepare and implement a process of reform of the public and parastatal sector
designed to:
--   reduce the burden of the public and parastatal sector on the
economy and the public finances;
-    improve the performance of the enterprises to be retained in
the state portfolio; and
-    rationalize policy for state participation.
9.        To that end,  in June 1987 the Government set up the mission's
Technical Committee and requested UNDP and World Bank assistance for execution
of the initial studies required.   In the first phase of this operation,
studies are being conducted of some 60 enterprises to determine the viability



- 57 -                         ANNEX  2-2
Page 7 of 10
of each enterprise and recomm.-nd whether the Government should retain it, duly
reorganized, or privatize or liquidate it.
10.       The only housing sector enterprise among those studied is the Urban
and Rural Land Development Agency (Mission d'Amdnagement et d'Equipement des
Terrains Urbains et Ruraux -- MAETUR), which is the core of the system of
production of sites developed on behalf of other public agencies or marketed
directly to private parties.
II.  Purposes of the Study
11.       The present study seeks to integrate the results of the diagnostic
study of MAETUR into a broader approach that embraces all public housing
sector agencies. It will therefore cover simultaneously:
--   NAETUR, which produces serviced sites;
--   SIC (Cameroon Real Estate Company), which builds housing; and
-= CFC (Housing Bank of Cameroon), which finances site develop-
ment, housing construction and the acquisition of serviced
sites or dwellings by private persons; and
== FEICOM, which provides financial and technical assistance to
municipalities.
12.       The purposes of the study will be:
(a) to confirm the findings of the diagnostic study of MAETUR in the
housing sector context;
(b) to extend the diagnostic study to MAETUR's major partners, i.e., SIC
CFC and FEICOM; and
(c) to propose a program for restructuring these agencies, redefining
(i) the degree of state participation in the sector; and (ti) the
respective roles of the agencies in this new setup.
III. Content of the Study
13.       The study will comprise two phases:
(a)  Phase 1:  diagnostic study of each agency and of the role of the
public sector in the production of serviced sites and housing and in
the assistance to municipalities.
(b) Phase 2: formulation of proposals for restructuring the sector so
as to optimize public sector action and the utilization of public
funds and increase municipal and private initiatives in land devel-
opment and housing construction activities. This phase will culmi-
nate in an action program concerning the role, resources and organ-
ization of the public housing sector agencies.



- 58 -                        ANNEX  2-2
Page 8 of 10
IV. Diagnostic Study
14.       The diagnostic study will extend both to the housing sector in
general and to each of the enterprises concerned, integrating the findings of
the MAETUR study already carried out.
15.       The sector study will cover the policy followed during the past ten
years (Fourth and Fifth Plans), the technical and financial resources deployed
and the results achieved by the parastatal agornies in producing and marketing
serviced sites and dwelling units, and assisti_g municipalities.
16.       The achievements and performance of the public  sector will be
collated in a general balance sheet for the housing sector and compared with
those of the private sector and other participants  (municipalities).   A
projection of the sector's needs for the next ten years (Sixth and Seventh
Plans) will be prepared as a basis for more accurate assessment of the fore-
seeable degree of public sector participation and testing the coherence of the
measures proposed in Phase 2.
17.       The diagnostic study of the four parastatal urban sector agencies
will need to cover the entirety of their functions and activities. Special
attention will be paid to the existing technical and financial links both
between these enterprises and with the supervisory agencies. The indicative
list of aspects to be examined given below will need to be adapted to the
individual characteristics of each enterprise.
18.       Institutional Aspect:  Examination of each enterprise's charter and
its implications in terms of competence, organization, management and financ-
ing.
19.       Financial Aspect:  Assessment of the enterprise's financial situa-
tion, including in particular:
(a) the status of arrears and commitments and the extent to which these
are binding on the state;
(b) the immediate cash-flow problem and ways of alleviating it;
'-) the structure of the enterprise's long-term debt and ways of reduc-
ing the constraint it represents;
(d) fixed asset depreciation and renewal;
(e) suitability of the financial organization;
(f)  structure, presentation and reliability of the enterprise's general
and cost accounting and cost-price calculation methods;
(g)  quality of the accounting and of its control via auditors, the board
of directors and the supervisory ministry; and
(h)  a  five-year  trend projection  of the  enterprise's receipts  and
expenditures, demonstrating the financial constraints upon it.



- 59 -                         ANNEX  2-2
Page 9 of 10
20.       Management:  The following aspects will be examined:
(a)  the enterprise's organization, hierarchical relationships, depart-
mental structure and decision-making centers;
(b)  the nature and effectiveness of its permanent management control
(organization, indicators, reports) and internal audit procedures;
(c)  personnel policy, particularly:
(i) recruitment;
(ii) structure, level of training;
(iii) justification for the numerical composition of the staff in
terms of managers, supervisors and foremen, and operatives; and
(iv) basic and refreshe. training; and
(d)  wage and productivity incentive policies.
21.       Commercial and Rates Policy:  The following will be examined:
(a)  definition, quality and market-suitability of the products offered
(lots and dwellings in the cases of SIC and MAETUR, lending policy
i.. the cse vf CFC, and assistance to municipalities in the case of
FEICOM);
(b)  method of price determination and particularly the role of state
subsidies and the justification for them in light of cost prices,
commercial imperatives and their tie-in with the country's economic
and development policies; and
(c) quality and efficiency of commercial services.
V. Proposal for Restructuring the Sector
22.       After the diagnostic report drawn up at the end of Phase I has been
examined by the Government and the Bank, Phase 2 will be devoted to formulat-
ing a proposal for partial or total restructuring of the sector and of mea-
sures to improve the participants' service and product quality, productivity
and financial return. This proposal will include an appraisal of the transfer
of certain activities to the private sector and the financial framework within
which the restructuring and re avery measures will be implemented.
Financing of the Sector
23.       The following aspects will be examined, in particular:
(a)  the level and type of state subsidies to the sector and the proce-
dures for allocating them;
(b)  arrangements for increasing the capture of household savings by
agencies able to recycle them in the form of land or housing loans;



- 60 -                         ANNEX  2-2
Page 10 of 10
(c) arrangements for steering CFC loans to the municipalities and
private operators (developers, promoters, lot purchasers, non-wage
self-help builders, etc.);
(d) legal or fiscal measures for increasing the share of institutional
savings in the financing of land and housing operations;
(e) technical and legal measures whereby the range of guarantee proce-
dures and borrower categories can be expanded without increasing the
lender's risk; and
(f)  in general, all measures tlat can help achieve the goals of private
financing of housing and serviced sites.
24.       Works Control and Institutional Strengthening.  The proposed action
strategy will include all necessary measures for the setting up and permanent
functioning of a works control unit, adequately funded, to supervise the
production of serviced sites in the various urban centers. On the basis of
the diagnostic report drawn up at the end of Phase 1, the principles of
organization of this works control unit will be set forth, including defini-
tion of the tasks that are the specific responsibility of MINUH's headquarters
and regional departments, the municipalities, MAETUR, private promoters and
financing entities.
25.       Measures Specific to the Parastatal Housing Agencies.  On the basis
of the diagnostic study carried out in Phase 1 and of the housing sector
restructuring proposal, specific measures will be put forward for rehabilitat-
ing, reorganizing or liquidating the parastatal agencies studied.  In the
cases of SIC and MAETUR, the conditions of transfer of some of their activi-
ties to the private sector and the possibilities for realizing a return on
their real estate and financial assets will be examined.
AF1et
September 16, 1988



1DIW310  DI CUllUt/RLIC OF CAMOI
-UXIE3l PRmau 0UASEAtIWO  UnU PlROET
Tableu riae des coats du grojet/lury nd Dbtaited Cost Table.
(Coot de base  de join 1988  SEm - 290 FdA/Ise Cost: as of June 1988, lSS - CFAF 290)
-   (millions FCFA/CAF millions) ----i- ------  illions USSIUsS  ,illione) ------
mnaie Locale               Deniae.              monate Locale             Devises                  Coot oe Dean
Cat6gorldCoponent                                      (14cl)        Sans    (Fo Tign)    otal         (Loal)        Taxes   (Foreign)  Total          (Base  Coat)
Mobilieation 4es reasources/Resource Nobiliztion
-- Cadstre fiscal/Fiscal Cadestre                                                      54         195        1251       1500         0.2          0.7        4.3       5.2                3
*- Patrimoine fondcer/Land  Nagment                                                    21          26          153       200         0.1          0.1        0.5       0.7               --
Finances runicipa l e/Inictpal Finances                                             36          26          138       200         0.1          0.1        0.5        0.7              --
-P Fonds de crddit municipal/lbnicipal Credit Pund                                    721         260         1019      2000         2.5          0.9        3.5        6.9               4
Sous-total/Subtotal                                                                   832         507         2561      3900          2.9         1.8        8.8       13.5               7
Infrastructures de Douala/Douale infrastructure
CirculationSraffic ftnagement                                                      247         133         642       1022         0.9          0.5        2.2        3.5               2
Voiries/Ro4sd                                                                     39 s        1944        9014      14953        13.8          6.7       31.1       51.6              27
-- Drinage/Drange                                                                    1367         622         2793      4781         4.7          2.1        9.6       16.5               9
-T Travaim de Pylon/lton Works                                                       1201         539         2401      4140         4.1          1.9        8.3       14.3               8
Lotissement de recaement/Res ttlent                                                287         113          470       870          1.0         0.4         1.6       3.0               2
L-tbration des eupriaes/Clopenstion                                               3000           0            0      3000         10.3         0.0        0.0       10.3               5
Soua-totel/Subtotal                                                                 10097        3350        15320     28766         34.8        11.6       52.A       99.2              52
Infrastructures de YaoungddCtound4 Infrastructure
Circulstion/Traffic Menagmeat                                                      538         265         1237      2039         1.9          0.9        4.3        7.0               4
-- Voiries/Roads                                                                      465         224         1036      1725         1.6          0.8        3.6        6.0               3
Entretien/Rdahbilitation                                                          1459         703         3242      5404         5.0          2.4       11.2       18.6              10
Saua-total/Subtotal                                                                  2462        1192         5514      9168         e.5          4.1       19.0       31.6               17
Infrastructures Ces centres secondaires/Secondar, Cities Infrastructure
-- RMbbilitation/Rehabilitation                                                      2448        1187        5493       9128         6.4          4.1       18.9       31.5              17
Sous-tot&L/Subtotat                                                                  2448        1287         5493      9128         8.4          4.1       18.9       31 5               17
Ddpe noem t institutionnl/Inastitutional Development
Plan dsection aectorieltPolicy Action Plan                                         259        1l7           994      1440         0.9          0.6        3.4        5.0                3
-R Renforcemnt do IMWW/MDIMB Strengthening                                            171         138          750      1058         0.6          0.5        2.6        3.6                2
-- Entreprises per,-publiques/Parastatal Enterprises                                   1S          13           69       100         0.1          0.0        0.2        0.3              -
-- !4nicipalit6&Municipalities                                                        168         176        1007       1350         0.6          0.6        3.5        4.7               2
Sos-total/Subtotal                                                                    616         513         2819      3949          2.1         1.8        9.7       13.6                7
CoOt de B3ue/Bee Cost                                                               16454        6748        31707     54910        56.7         23.3      109.3      189.3             100
luprdw     physiques/PI sical Contigeneies                                           1602         584         2754      4939          5.5         2.0        9.5       17.0                9
Proviston variation de przPrice Contgencies                                          4076        1697         7913     13676         14.1         5.8       27.3       47.2               25
Total                                                                               22132        9019        42375     73525         76.3        31 1      148.0      253.5              134
AP          41
acot/Aguat 4, 1988.



- 62-                                                  Anex 2-3
Page 2 of 6
Detailed Cost table
(Obse Cost as o4 June 19991
115$ a 290 CFPA)
nlln.on C!         -        -- -lsillnC  UISt----------- l---------l0:Ilion CAF----------
Local    Taxes   Foreign   Total      Local   Taxes  ForeLgn  Total   1999199  i9999   190!91  1991192  1992193
RESOURCE 9061U  10A11O
1. FPtAil Cadistr,
- Kiultxpurrose Happing           0.0    156.   1,044.0  1,200.0       0.00    0.54    3.60    4.14      243.0    240.0    360.0    360.0       0.0
- St.dei                         45.0      32.5    172.5    250.0     0.16    0.11    0.59    0.86         0.0    125.0    125.0      0.0       0.0
- Technical Assistance            9.0       6.5     34.5     50.0      .03       2    0.12    0.17        0.0      25.0     25.0      0.0      0.0
Stb-Total                           54.0   1I5.Q  1,251.0  1,500.0       0.19    0.6t    4.31    5.17       240.0    390.0    510.0    360.0      0.0
2. Land RanageteRt
- Equipeets                       12.0     19.5    118.5    150.0     0.04    0.07    0.41    0.52         0.0     60.0     60.O     30.0      0.0
- Technical Assistance            9.0       6.5     34.5     50.0     0.03    0.02    0.12    0.17         0.0     20.0     20.0      10.0     0.0
Sun-Total                           21.0      26.0    153.0    200.0     0.07    0.09    0.53    0.69        0.0      80.0     80.0     40.0      0.0
3. %nicipil Finance - Tech. bst.    36.0      26.0    139.0    200.0     0.12    0.09    0.48    0.69        0.0      80.0     80.0     40.0      0.0
4. Runicxpal Credit Fund
- Sub-los for sorks              703.0    247.0    950.0  1,90.0       2.42    0.85    3.28    6.55        0.0    390.0    570.0    570.0    390.0
- Technical Assnstance            18.0     13.0     69.0    100.0      0.06    0.04    0.24    0.34        0.0     50.0     50.0      0.0       0.0
Sub-Tntal                          721.0    260.0  1,019.0  2.000.0      2.49    0.90    3.51    6.90        0.0    430.0    620.0    570.0    380.0
SUR-TOTAL BASE COST                   832.0    507.0  2,561.0  3, 9O.0       2.9      1.7     8.9    13.4     240.0    990.0  1,290.0  1,010.0    380.0
PHYSICAL COITIRGENCIES                 83.2     50.1    256.1    390.0      0.29    0.17    0.98    1.34       24.0     99.0    129.0    101.0      39.0
PRICE COlTIllEICIES                   215.9    121.5    597.0    934.3      0.74    0.42    2.06    3.22       19.5    156.3    319.3    304.4    135.9
SUe TOTAL: RESOUCE M11II1T10O      1,131.0    679.2  3,414.1  5,224.3      3.90    2.34   11.77   18.01      292.5  1,234.3  1,738.3  1,415.4    !53.9
11. OALA IWRSTRUCTURE
1. Trafftc flnagcnent Works
- Donanjo                       92.2      41.3    184.4    318.0     0.32    0.14    0.64    1.10        0.0      63.6     95.4     95.4      63.6
- Akia                          132.8     59.5    265.6    458.0      0.46    0.21    0.92    1.58        0.0     91.6    137.4    137.4      91.6
Sub-Total: Works                   225.0    100.9    450.1    776.0     0.78    O.'S    1.55    2.69        0.0    155.2    232.8    232.9    155.2
Traffic Signals
- Baninj                          7.t     10.1     60.9     78.0      0.02    0.03    0.21    0.27        0.0     15.6     23.4     23.4      15.6
- Akia                           15.1     21.8    131.0    16.0      0.05    0.08    0.45    3.58        0.0     33.6     50.4     50.4      33.6
Sub-Total: Signals                 22.1      32.0    191.9    246.0     0.09    0.11    0.66    0.95        0.0      49.2     73.8     73.8     49.2
I              Sub-Total: Bas Cost                   247.2    132.9    642.0  1,022.0       0.9     0.5      2.2     3.5       0.0    204.4    306.6    306.6    204.4
*              Physical Contingencie                  24.7      13.3     64.2    102.2     0.09    0.05    0.22    0.35        0.0     20.4      30.7     30.7     20.4
Price Contingencies                    66.3     35.6    172.1    274.0      0.23    0.12    0.59    0.94        0.0     32.6      75.9     92.4     73.1
Sub-total: Circlatlin                  338.2    181.8    878.2  1,399.7     I.i7    0.63    3.03    4.92        0.0    257.4    413.1    429.7    297.9



- 63 -                                                    Annex 2-3
Page 3 of 6
Detailed Cost Table
(Base Cost as of June 1986)
(US$  290 CFAF!
-----------illion  FAF                              illion USI-----------    ----------------- iz::ion CFAF------------------
Lacal     Taxes    Foreign    Total      Locil   Taxes   Foreign   Total    1988/89  1S0S9C   :9Si/SI   1991/9i2   1992!9
2. Raads
works
- Pont du Nourn                     97.0      S9.0     174.0     300.0      0.30     i.13     0.60     1.03        0.0       0.0    300.0        0.0       0.0
- Deido Bassa                     477.1      213.9    954.1   1,o45.0       1.65     0.74     3.29     5.67        0.0    329.0    493.5    49'.5        329.0
- Reunification                    493.9    221.4    997.7   1,703.0        1.70     0.76     3.41     5.87        0.0    340.6      510.9    510.S    340.6
- Japoan                           704.7     315.9   1,409.4   2,430.0      2.43     1.09     4.86     8.39        0.0    416.0      729.0    729.0    486.0
- Aviation                         737.2    330.5   1,474.4   2,542.0       2.54     1.14     5.08     8.77        0.0    508.4    762.6    762.6    509.4
- Besseke                          925.7    415.0   1,851.4  ',192.0        3.19     1.43    6.38    11.01         0.0    638.4    957.6    957.6    63e.4
- Ndoaoti                          106.1      47.6    212.3    366.0        0.37     0.16     0.73     1.26        0.0      73.2    109.9    109.8        73.2
- BlIE/Aviattoo                     63.6      29.t    127.6    2^0.0        0.22     0.10    0.44      0.76        0.0      44.0      66.0      66.0      44.0
- Retmoris                          92.2      41.3     114.4    318.0       0.32     0.14     0.64     1.10        0.0      63.6      95.4      95.4      63.6
Sub-Total:  aorks                  3,698.6   !,65'.1   7,375.3  .2,7!6.0     12.72     5.70    25.43    43.95        0.0   2,493.2   4,024.8   3,724.8  2,483.2
TrWf4c Signals
- Deido lassa                       13.3      19.2     115.4     148.0      0.05     0.07     0.40     0.51        0.0      29.6      44.4      44.4      29.6
- Aeftn-ficatl:ou                   14.3      20.7     124.0    159.0       0.05     0.07     0.43     0.55        0.0      31.9      47.7      47.7      31.9
- Japoea                           29.7       42.9    257.4    330.0        0.10     0.15     0.89     1.14        0.0      86.0      99.0      99.0      66.0
- Aviation                          2'.4      32.4     194.2    249.0       0.08     0.11     0.67     0.96        0.0      49.8      74.7      74.7      49.B
- Besseke                           19.1      27.6    t65.4      212.0      0.07     0.10     0.57     0.73        0.0      42.4      6'.6      63.6      42.4
- Ndakoti                            3.7       5.3      32.0      41.0      0.01     0.02     0.11     0.14        0.0       8.2      12.3      12.3       8.2
- BIElAviation                       2.3       3.3      :9.5      25.0      0.01     0.01     0.07     0.09        0.0       5.0       7.5       7.5       5.0
- Networks                          26.6      41.3    248.0    318.0        O.1G     0.14     0.86     i.10        0.0      63.6      95.4      95.4      63.6
Sub-Total: Singals                    133.4    192.7   1,156.0   1,482.0        0.5      0.7      4.0      5.1        0.0    296.4    444.6    444.6    296.4
Studies/Control
- Pont du Notri                    46.0       26.0    128.0    200.0        0.16     0.09     0.44     0.69        0.0      40.0      60.0      60.0      40.0
- Oeido Bassa                       12.4       7.0      34.6      54.0      0.04     0.02     0.12     0.19        0.0      10.8      16.2      16.2      10.8
- Reuification                      12.9       7.3      35.8      56.0      0.04     0.03     0.12     0.19        0.0      11.2      16.8      16.9      11.2
- Japoa                             t9.1      10.8      52.1      83.0      (.07     0.04     0.19     0.29        0.0      16.6      2t.9      24.9      16.6
- Aviation                          12.9       7.3      35.8      56.0      0.04     0.03     0.12     0.19        0.0      11.2      16.9      16.9      11.2
- Bessuke                           15.6       8.9      43.5      68.0      0.05     0.03     0.15     0.23        0.0      13.6      20.4      20.4      13.6
- Ndokoti                            3.2       1.8       9.0      14.0      0.01     0.01     0.03     0.05        0.0       2.8       4.2       4.2       2.9
- BUE/Aviation                       2.1       1.2       5.9       9.0      0.01     0.00     0.02     0.03        0.0       1.9       2.7       2.7       1.9
- Laboratory Testing                49.5      28.0     137.6    215.0       0.17     0.10     0.47     0.74        0.0      43.0      64.5      t4.5      43.0
Sub-Total: Studies                    173.7      99.2    483.2    755.0        0.60     0.34     1.67     2.60        0.0    151.0      226.5    226.5      151.0
Sub-Total: Base Cost                    3,S94.7   1,943.9   9,014.4  14,953.0    13.77      6.70    31.08    51.56        0.0   2,930.6  4,695.9   4,395.9  2,S30.6
Physical Contingencies          3          19.6     155.5    721.2   1,196.2       1.0      0.54     2.49     4.12        0.0     234.4    375.7    351.7       234.4
.rice Contingencies                     1,049.6     510.8   2,369.1   3.929.5      ;.e2     1.76     8.1?    13.55        0.0    459.9   1,141.1   1,300.9   1,028.6
Oub-Total:  Roads                      5,363.9   2,610.2  12,104.6  20,079.9    18.50       9.00    41.74    69.24        0.0   3,624.0  6,212.7  6,049.4  4,193.7



- 64 -                                              Annex 2-3
Page 4 of 6
Detailed Cost Tible
(Base Cost as ol June 1981)
(US  290 CFAF)
--NmllonCF---                            -             U          ------ilihon CF------------ - - - Cf--
Lacal    Taxes   Foreign   Total      Local   Taxes  Foreagn  Total   1199)9   I"919890   19)1  1991)92  1992193
-- - --    -- - --   -- -- - --   -- - --  - - - --   - - - --  -P- -- .- --  -- .-----  -- _-- - --  ----   ----
. Drainage
Works
- lesseke vallee       Y          9.6      44.2    197.2    340.0      0.34    0.15    0.48    1.17        0.0      69.0    102.0    102.0      68.0
- bssouss3ukou aunt            672.5    Z01.5  1,345.0  2,319.0       2.32    1.04    4.64    9.00        0.0    463.8    695.7    695.7    463.8
- Besseke aval                  520.8    233.5  1,041.7  1,796.0       1.80    0.81    3.9    6.19         0.0   359.2    5398.    538.8    359.2
Sub-Total:  Works                1,292.0    579.2  2,593.9  4,455,0       4.5      2.0     9.9    15.4        0.0    E91.0  1,336.5  1,n36.5    891.0
Studels/Control
lesseke vallee                  2.5       1.4      7.0      11.0     0.01    0.00    0.02    0.04        0.0       2.2      3.3      3.3       2.2
- Desowissoukou amnt             16.8      9.5      46.7     73.0      0.06    0.03    0.16    0.25        0.0      14.6     21.9     21.9      14.6
- Besseks aval                   13.1      7.4      36.5     57.0     0.05    0.03    0.13    0.20         0.0      11.4     17.1     11.1      11.4
- Laboratory Testing             42.6      24.1    118.4    195.0      0.15    0.08    0.41    0.64        0.0      S7.0     55.5     15.5      37.0
Sub-total: Studies                  75.0     42.4    209.6    326.0       0.       0.1     0.7      1.1       0.0     65.2      97.8     97.9     65.2
Sub-Total: ease Cost                 1,366.9    621.5  2,792.5  4,781.0       4.7     2.1      9.6    16.5        0.0    956.2  1,434.3  1,434.3    956.2
Pbysical Contingencies                  68.3     31.1    139.6    239.1       0.2     0.1      0.5     0.9        0.0     47.8     71.7      71.7     47.8
Price Contingendies                    349.8    159.0    714.6  1,223.4      1.21    0.55    2.46    4.22         0.0    145.6    339.9    412.6    326.3
Sub-total: Drainage                  1,79S.1    811.6  3,646.7  6,243.4       6.2     2.8    12.6    21.5         0.0  1,149.6  1,844.9  1,918.7  1,330.3
4. Nylon - lorks                 1,200.6    538.2  2,401.2  4,140.0      4.14    1.86    8.29   14.29   1,656.0  1,656.0    829.0         0.0      0.0
Sub-Total: base Cost                 1,200.6    539.2  2,401.2  4,140.0       4.1      1.9     8.3    14.3   1,656.0  1,65.0    B29.0         0.0      0.0
Physical Contingencies                 60.03    26.91   120.06       207     0.21    0.09    0.41    0.71        82.9     92.8     41.4         0        0
Price Contingencies                    165.1     74.0    330.3    569.5      0.57    0.26    1.14    1.96       121.7    252.1    195.6       0.0      0.0
Sub-Total: Nylon                     1,425.9    639.1  2,951.5  4,916.5       4.9      2.2     9.8    17.0   1,860.5  1,990.9  1,065.0        0.0      0.0
5. Resattleeent
- Expropriation               3,000.0      0.0       0.0  3,000.0    10.34    0.00    0.00   10.34         0.0  1,200.0  1,200.0    600.0       0.0
- Land  mstlopeent              297.1    113.1    469.8    970.0      o.9    0.39    1.62    3.00        348.0    349.0    174.0       0.0      0.0
Sub-Total: Base Cut                  3,287.1    113.1    469.8  3,970.0      11.3     0.4      1.6    13.3      348.0  1,548.0  1,374.0    600.0       0.0
Fbyscal Ctontingestcu                  493.1     17.0     70.5    590.5       1.7     0.1      0.2     2.0       52.2    232.2    206.1      90.0      0.0
Prite Contingencies                    742.9     17.0     70.8    930.7      2.56    0.06    0.24    2.t6        28.0    259.1    355.5    199.1       0.0
Sub-Totall   mattleunt               4,523.1    147.1    611.0  5,2t1.2      15.6     0.5      2.1    18.2      429.2  2,038.3  1,935.6    979.1       0.0
S91-TOTAL BASE COST                 10,096.5  3,349.6  15,319.9 28,766.0    34.82   11.55   52.83   ".19    2,004.0  7,295.2  8,638.8  6,736.8  4,091.2
PHYSICRL CINT1EICIES                   965.7    243.7  1,115.5  2,325.0      3.33    0.84    3.95    8.02       135.0    617.7    725.5    544.0    302.7
PRICE COITIW9EIIIES                  2,373.7    796.6  3,656.9  6,827.0      8.19    2.75   12.tI   23.54       149.7  1,147.4  2,107.0  1,995.0  1,429.0
SUB TOTALt NW1. INFRRSTRUCTURE      13,435.9  4,399.9 20,092.2 37,91B.0      46.3    15.1    69.3   130.9   2,299.7  9,060.3  11,171.3  9,275.9  5,321.9
._ -         .. . -------   .. - _.__ ____.  _.  _________ ..__ _ _



- 65 -
Page 5 of 6
Detailed Cost Table
law" Cost is of Jauo 193
(US$ a 290 CFAFI
- Nillaic CFAF------         ---------ia   S                 -------------lilon CFAF---------------
Leai    Tames   Fore:gn   Total     Local   Taxes  Fare%qn  Total   198B/89  199190  1990!91  19"9192  1992tS5
111. YADlDE INFRASTRUCTURE
1. Traflbc Ianagment
- Marks                        449.5   201.5   819.0  1,550.0      1.55    0.69    3.10    5.34       0.0    310.0    465.0   4b5.0    310.0
- Traffic Signals              15.8    22.0    1;6.5    175.0    0.05    0.08    0.47    0.60        0.0    35.0    52.5    52.5    35.0
- Stuadi/Control               72.2    40.8   201.0   314.0    0.25    0.14    0.69    1.09          62.8    94.2    94.2    82.8        0.0
Sub-Total                        537.5    265.1  1,236.5  2,039.0      1.9    0.9      4.3     7.0     62.8   439.2    611.7   580.3   345.0
2. Roads
- Works                        449.5   201.5   899.0  1,550.0    1.55    0.69    3.10    5.34        0.0   310.0    465.0   465.0    310.0
- Traffic Signals              15.8    22.B    136.5    175.0    0.05    0.08    0.47    0.60        0.0    35.0    52.5    52.5    35.0
Sub-Total                        465.3   224.3  1,035.5  1,725.0       1.6    0.8      3.6    5.9       0.0   345.0   517.5    517.5   345.0
3. Upgrading
- larks                      1,410.6   632.3  2,821.1  4,984.0     4.96    2.18    9.73   16.77       0.0   972.8    972.8  1,459.2  1,459.2
- TraffiC Signals              48.6    70.2   421.2   540.0    0.17    0.24    1.45    1.86           0.0    109.0    109.0    162.0    162.0
Sub-Total                       1,459.2    702.5  3,242.3  5,404.0    5.0    2.4    11.2   10.6         0.0  1,00.8  1,00.8  1,621.2  1,621.2
SUB-TOTaL BASE COST                2,461.9  1,191.8  5,514.3  9,168.0    8.49    4.11   19.01   31.61      62.8  1,865.0  2,210.0  2,719.0  2,311.2
PHYSICAL CONTINEMC!ES                246.2    119.2   551.4   916.8      0.95    0.41    1.90    3.16       6.3    186.5   221.0   271.9   231.1
PRICE CODTINSEICIES                  670.9   324.4  1,499.8  2,495.0    2.31    1.12    5.17    9.60        4.8   297.5   547.0    819.5    B26.3
SUB TOTAL: YMOUME INlFRASTRUCTURE  3,379.0  1,635.4  7,565.5 12,579.8    11.7    5.6    26.1    43.4       73.9  2,349.0  2,978.0  3,810.4  3,369.6
IV. SECNDIARY CITIES
Upgrading
- Marks                        2,277.7  1,021.0  4,555.3  7,854.0     7.9    3.5    15.7    27.1        0.0  1,570.8  1,570.8  2,356.2  2,356.2
- Traffic Signals                 78.8    113.8   612.5   875.0        0.3    0.4    2.4      3.0       0.0    175.0   262.5   262.5    175.0
- Studies/Contral                 91.8     51.9   255.4   399.0       0.3     0.2     0.9      1.4     79.8    119.7    119.7    79.8       0.0
SUB-TOTAL M01E COST                2,448.2  1,196.6  5,493.2  9,129.0     9.4    4.1    18.9    31.5       79.9  1,865.5  1,953.0  2,699.5  2,531.2
PhYSICAL CDITIUIEECIES               244.8    118.7   549.3    912.8      0.8     0.4     1.9    3.1        8.0   I16.6   195.3   269.9   253.1
PRICE CONTINCIES                     674.9    325.7  1,504.7  2,505.3    2.33    1.12    5.19    8.64       6.1    297.5   483.4   813.3    904.9
SUB TOTAL: SECOIIDRY CITIES        3,367.9  1,631.0  7,547.2 12,546.1    11.6    5.6    26.0    43.3       93.9  2,349.6  2,631.7  3,781.7  3,6B9.2



- 66 -                                               Anne  2-3
Page 6 of 6
Detailed Cost Tatle
(Base Cost as of ung 1989
(US$ s 290 CFAF)
----------Miallion CFAF              ------Million USt------------------ 1l--                CFOF---------
Local    Taxes   Foreign   Total     Local   Taxes  Foreign  Total   11189  I919390   1910191  1991/92  1992193
V. !HSTITUTIONAI DEVELOPMElT
1. PoILcY Action Plan
- Studies                       110.7     80.0    424.4    61S.0     0.39    0.28    1.46    2.12      123.0    134.5   14.5    123.0        0.0
- Consultants                   110.7     90.0    424.4    615.0     0.38    0.28    1.46    2.12        0.0    123.0    184.5    194.5    123.0
- Technical Assistance          37.8      27.3    144.9    210.0     0.13    0.09    0.50    0.72       42.0     63.0      63.0     42.0      0.0
Sub-Total                         259.2    187.2    993.6  1,440.0       0.9     0.6      3.4     5.0     165.0    370.5    432.0    349.5    123.b
2. HINUH Stronqthxning
- Studies                        18.0     13.0     6.0    100.0      0.06    0.04    0.24    0.34       20.0     30.0      30.0     20.0      0.0
- Technical Assistance          152.6    110.2    585.1    848.0     0.53    0.39    2.02    2.92      169.6    254.4    254.4    169.6       0.0
- Training                       0.0      14.3     95.7    110.0     0.00    0.05    0.33    0.38       22.0     33.0      33.0     22.0      0.0
Sub-Total                          170.6    137.5    749.8  1,059.0      0.6     0.5      2.6     3.6     211.6    317.4    317.4    211.6       0.0
3. Housing Entreprisus - Studies   18.0      13.0     69.0    100.0     0.06    0.04    0.24    0.34       50.0     20.0     20.0      10.0      0.0
4. Municipalittes Strengthening
E4u:peent
- Yaounde                       20.0      32.5    197.5    250.0     0.07    0.11    0.68    0.96        0.0     50.0      75.0     75.0     50.0
- Douala                        20.0      32.5    197.5    250.0     0.07    0.11    0.69    0.86        0.0     50.0      75.0     75.0     S0.0
- Secondary Cities              20.0      32.5    197.5    250.0     0.07    0.11    0.69    0.86        0.0     50.0      75.0     75.0     50.0
Sub-Total: Equipsent               60.0     97.5    592.5    750.0       0.2     0.3      2.0     2.6       0.0    150.0    225.0    225.0    150.0
Technical ssistance
- Yaounde                        36.0     26.0    138.0    200.0     0.12    0.09    0.48    0.69        0.0     40.0      60.0     60.0     40.0
- Douala                         36.0     26.0    138.0    200.0     0.12    0.09    0.49    0.69        0.0     40.0      60.0     60.0     40.0
- Secondary Cities              36.0      26.0    139.0    200.0     0.12    0.09    0.48    O.6         0.0     40.0      60.0     0.0      40.0
Sub-Total: Techntcal Assistanct   109.0     78.0    414.o    600.0       0.4     0.3      1.4     2.1       0.0    120.0    180.0    180.0    120.0
Sub-Total: Municiplaities         169.0    175.5  1,006.5  1,350.0       0.6     0.6      3.5     4.7       0.0    270.0    405.0    405.0    270.0
SUB-TOTAL eASE COST                   615.8    513.2  2,818.9  3,948.0       2.1     1.8     9.7    13.6      426.6    977.9  1,174.4    976.1    393.0
PHYSICAL CONTI16ENCIES                 61.6     51.3    281.9    394.8      0.21    0.18    0.97    1.36       42.7     97.9    117.4     97.6     39.3
PRICE CO8TINlfEHCIES                  140.5    118.8    654.9    914.2      0.4     0.41    2.26    3.15       32.3    156.0    290.7    294.2    140.5
SUB TOTAL: INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT    818.0    683.4  3,755.6  5,257.0     2.8     2.4    13.0    18.1      502.1  1,231.7  1,532.5  1,367.9    572.8
TOTAL: B1SE COST                   16,454.4  6,748.3  31,707.3 S4,910.0     36.7    23.3   109.3   199.3   2,813.2 12,993.6 15,26.2  14,140.4  9,706.6
PHYSICAL CONITINHEICIES             1,601.5    583.6  2,754.2  4,939.4       5.5     2.0     9.5    17.0      215.9  1,186.5  1,308.3  1,234.4    864.2
PRICE CONTIIEICIES                 4,075.9  1,686.9  7,913.1  13,675.9     14.1     5.8    27.3    47.2      212.0  2,054.7  3,747.3  4,226.4  3,435.5
S5SGGS ca.           sza :s=:s    =Gs  S           a= ==-  GlS"SS SfuhZ  t=   f nS   3l    m
6RAND TOTAL                        22,131.8  9,018.8 42,374.7  73,525.3     76.3    31.1   146.1   253.5   3,241.2 16,224.8 20,401.7 19,651.2  14,006.4
zs =--GGS    GGz:  ffZ=    "2 SS: ZS: === 2Sf:=:= -5252                 5=55     Ssn-G :*m===  Sfl.n    *S.fI



- 67 -                          ANNEX 2-4
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD              Sectoral
Fiscal Year        Disbursement
and               Profile           Semester Cumulative         Cumulative
Semester               %              --- USS  Million ---            %
FY89   S1
S2               2.0             6.5             6.5             4.4
FY90   Si               6.0            16.1            22.6            15.5
S2              13.0            16.1            38.7            26.5
FY91   Si              19.0            19.7            58.4            40.0
S2              26.0            20.4            78.8            54.0
FY92   SI              37.0            17.5            96.3            66.0
52             47.0             14.6           110.9            76.0
FY93   SI.             57.0            13.1           124.0            85.0
S2              66.0            10.3           134.3            92.0
FY94   51              78.0             7.3           141.6            97.0
S2              85.0             4.4           146.0           100.0
FY95   SI              91.0
52              96.0
FY96   SI             100.0
AFIIN
October 3, 1988



- 68 -                           ANNEX 2-5
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Douala Infrastructurs Project
Economic Justification
A. Road and Traffic Improvements in Douala
Underlying Principle of the Analysis
1.        Selection of the traffic and road components of the project was
based on analysis of the recommendations contained in the Land Use and Urban
Development Master Plan (Sch4ma Directeur d'Amenagement et d'Urbanisme -
SDAU) prepared by MINUH (PUFAC unit) in 1983 and the priority operations
proposed by MINUH, MINEQ and the Municipality of Douala. On these bases the
economic appraisal identified the following:
(a)  existing road segments and intersections urgently In need of im-
provement because of their role in the structure of the system and
in its present and future capacity; and
(b) linkages lacking in the main highway network that are important for
their impact on the functioning of the system.
2.        Over the last few years, traffic volume in Douala has risen by 101 a
year while the city roads system has remained practically unchanged. This has
led to increasing congestion of central neighborhoods and main intersections.
Douala's paved road/population ratio is one of the lowest in Africa. In 1985,
average speed during the four daily urban traffic peak times was well below
20 km/hr on most main streets in the city center. The growing congestion
particularly affects heavy trucks entering or leaving the port and industrial
areas and public transport (buses and taxis), which accounts for about 40% of
all motor-vehicle trips. Many road segments and important intersections have
already reached saturation point and it is expected that they will be 30-40%
overloaded in 1991 and average speeds will fall to 10 km/hr if nothing is
done.
Quantification of Benefits
3.        The chief quantified benefits used in this analysis are vehicle
utilization cost and trip time savings. Other benefits, such as reduction of
atmospheric pollution and noise, reduction in number of accidents and better
structuring of urban space, cannot be quantified precisely and have not been
taken into account. For example, pollution research is still inadequate and
sufficiently detailed data is lacking on numbers of accidents in the city of
Douala.
4.        Vehicle Operating Cost Savings.  These savings derive from three
types of traffic improvements: reduced road surface roughness, higher speeds
(up to a certain level), and fewer stops. In Douala, the roughness coeffi-
cient of paved roads is three times that of a new asphalted road, and that of



- 69 -                          ANNEX 2-5
Page 2 of 6
unpaved roads six times as high. As a result, vehicle operating costs are,
respectively, 15% and 90% higher. Higher speed lowers operating costs by
reducing the number of times the driver brakes or accelera;es; an increase in
speed from 5 km/hr to 25 km/hr reduces vehicle operating costs by 42%. Fewer
stops reduce the operating costs due to vehicles standing still with their
engines idling.
5.        The flow of benefits in terms of vehicle operating cost savings is
calculated for each year as the difference between the total road-vehicle
operating costs with and without the project. These savings represent the
major benefit category (54% of total benefits) and suffice to justify all the
road components of the project.  The economic rate of return on paving im-
provements is 37% for operating cost savings alone, and 67% for all three
categories of benefits combined.
6.        Trip-time  Savings.   This  is  the second most  important benefit
category, representing 40% of total road-component benefits.  The following
hypotheses were used to assess time savings:
(a) savings on business trips made during work hours were evaluated at
100% of hourly wage;
(b) savings on trips from place of residence to place of work were
evaluated at 25% of hourly wage; and
(c) other trips were evaluated at 10% of hourly wage.
The average wages used are CFAF 1,600 for drivers of private cars and CFAF 425
for passengers (business trips and trips from place of residence to place of
work) and CFAF 27 for other trips.
Impact of the Project
7.        All the road components  show a high economic rate of return.
Traffic improvements head the list, mainly because intersections can be
improved for a relatively low investment cost and because traffic regulation,
management and parking control can, in some cases, double the traffic capacity
of streets previously clogged by parked vehicles and vendors or obstructed for
lack of left-turn lanes or bus-stop lay-bys.  The average speed for the entire
system in 1991 is estimated at nearly twice what it would be if the project
were not carried out, i.e., 21 km/hr instead of 11 km/hr. However, this is
still lower than the average speed in 1984 of 34 km/hr.  This means that,
urgent as the proposed investments are, they will not suffice to maintain the
overall level of the services provided by the system. Maintaining that level
would call for supplemental investments, particularly in the construction of
new arteries and improvements to intersections. Table 1 shows the economic
rate of return and net discounted value for each project component.



- 70 -                              ANNEX 2-5
Page 3 of 6
Table 1. Rate of Economic Return for Each Road Wbrks Category
With Time Saved        Without Time Saved
ERR /a     NDV Ab       ERR La      NDV lb
CatezOrv                     _ %    (CFAF Billions)     %    (CFAF Billions)
I. TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENTS
Zones
B- onanjo                                   249        10,1         122         3,5
-- Akwa                                     251        20*3         125        7.2
Subtozal                                    250        30,4         124        10,7
In. RoAD IMPROVEMENTS
Wouri Bridge                                 78         1,1          28         0,2
Boulevard de la Rdunification                61         5,0          38         1,9
Boulevard d l'Estt/Boulevard de l'Aviation  173         3,3          72         1,1
Deido-8assa Road                             73         4,9          34         1,2
Avenue de Japoma                             36         4,0          12         ---
Ndokoti Intersection                         80         2.1          41         0.7
Subtotal                                     80        20,4          44         5,1
'I1. ROAD CONSTRUCTION
Boulevard de l'Aviation, Extension           74        30,7          54        13,2
Bessekd Valley Road                          36         4,9          22         1,5
Subtotal                                     57        52,0          32        19,8
Total                                        71        82.4          38        30,5
/a EUt - Economic rate of return
A NDV - Net discounted value (i - 12%)
B. Drainage Improvement in Douala
8.         All the diseases caused directly or indirectly by water are present
in endemic form in Douala. The most widespread are malaria, intestinal worms
and serious diarrheas. Cholera and sleeping sickness epidemics are also cause
for very serious concern. According to the Provincial Health Department, the
city neighborhoods where sanitation conditions and the health status of the
population are most disturbing are:
(a)  Nylon, a neighborhood currently being improved under the First Urban
Development Project; and
(b)  Bessousoukou, a densely populated central neighborhood  (more than
300 people per hecta.e) where contamination by human excrement is an
important health danger.
9.         In  the  Bessousoukou  watershed,  an  area  of  24 hectares  suffers
frequent flooding and 90% of the inhabitants live under sanitation conditions



- 71 -                           ANNEX" 2-5
Page 4 of 6
classified as bad or very bad. The works of extension of the Boulevard de la
Republique carried out by the Municipality of Douala and the development of
the Besseke Valley provided for in this project moreover call for complete
rehabilitation of the Bessousoukou main drain.
Quantification of Benefits
10.       The rate of return was calculated using the benefits deriving from
the estimates of reduction of physical damage due to flooding caused by
tropical storms. The major benefit category is reduction of damage to homes
(53%). Next follows gain in productive worktime (27Z). The remaining 20X is
accounted for by savings on drainage system maintenance, damage to vehicles
and surface erosion. The economic rate of return is 12X.
11.       In addition to these quantified benefits, the project also offers
benefits in terms of improvements in public hygiene.   A drainage system
represents only one of the five elements that are necessary for overall
improvement of the public health situation.  (The five elements are:  uncon-
taminated drinking water, removal of household refuse, discharge of human
excrement, storm drainage, and personal hygiene -- including hygienic food and
water handling practices.) The impact of the drainage improvement component
on the urban public health situation in Douala cannot, therefore, be quanti-
fied separately. It will, however, strengthen the impact of the supplemental
activities currently under way in Douala concerning improvement of water
supply, refuse collection and education of children in hygiene.   Without
improvement of the drainage system, the public health improvements to be
expected from the other activities are likely to be ineffective.
Road Improvement in Yaounde and Provincial Cities
12.       As Cameroon's capital city, in the early 1980s Yaound4 received
la-ge investments in major urban road works. Howeve., its hill-slope topogra-
phy funnels the main traffic flows into a few iatersections, making them
traffic  bottlenecks.   The  four  main  intersections -   Poste,  Djoungolo,
Elig-Essono and Warda -- are very close to saturation, and the projected
improvement works would substantially improve driving conditions and traffic
flow in the central area for a moderate investment.
-.3.      Yaounde General Hospital will be open by the end of 1988.  Improving
the accesses to the hr--'ital will link it to the major highways via a network
of good roads formiL, the first  (North East)  segment of the bypass.  In
addition to the benefits in terms of improvement of local traffic and hospital
access, this project will stimulate the development of artisanal and commer-
cial activities in the city's northeastern neighborhoods.
14.       Maroua, which recently became the capital city of the Extreme Nord
province, is developing rapidly and with a population of 150,000 is Cameroon's
third largest city. Most of its road network is still unpaved and substantial
reconstruction work has to be done following each rainy season. The develop-
ment works concern the city's main roads network.  The following are the
ixpected economic benefits:
(a) reduction of maintenance and reconstruction costs;



- 72 -                           ANNEX 2-5
Page 5 of 6
(b)  improvement of tra'fic,  particularly heavy truck traffic toward
Chad;
(c) elimination of nuisances and improvement of the level of living of
the inhabitants; and
(d)  development of commercial actLvities.
15.       Ebolowa, a cocoa and coffee collection center, recently became the
capital city of the Sud province. It is traversed by a large volume of heavy
truck traffic bound for Yaounde or Kribi (wood). The project benefits are:
(a) improvement of transit of the cif:y by heavy through traffic;
(b) service of the recently built administrative plant and housing;
(c) development of commercial activities; and
(d) elimination of nuisances and improvement of the level of living of
the inhabitants.
16.       NgaoundAr6 is the terminus of the railway from Douala and Yaound6.
It has substantial heavy truck traffic bound for northern Cameroon and the
Central African Republic.  The project benefits are:
(a)  improvement of traffic and service of  the railway station and
storage depots;
(b) development of commercial activities; and
(c) elimination of nuisances.
17.       Dschang is a university center and an important health resort.  The
project concerns the central through road, which is the urban segment of the
highway linking Douala with the Ouest province. The project benefits are:
(a) improvement of transit traffic;
(b) development of commercial activities; and
(c) elimination of nuisances.
18.       Kumba is an important economic center of Western Cameroon.   The
project concerns the urban segment of the highway linking Douala with the
Nord-Ouest province. The project benefits are:
(a) improvement of transit traffic;
(b) development of commercial activities; and
(c) elimination of nuisances.
19.       The detailed project and economic justification studies have been
started for the Yaound6 and provincial cities road components. Their economic
rate of return is unlikely to be below 12%, which is a condition of their



- 73 -                           ANNEX 2-5
Page 6 of 6
eligibility for financing under the present project.  The overall economic
rate of return for the infrastructure components of the project was calculated
using this minimum rate for those components for which no specific economic
analysis has yet been performed.
AFIIN
September 16, 1988



- 74 -                                            ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIQUE DU CAMEROUN/REPUBLJC OF CAMER00N
DEUXIEME PROJET URBAIN/SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Documents Principaux dans le Dossier de Projet
Documents in the Project File
Refdrence                                            Documents                                   Code de AISC
AISC Code
A. Documents Sectoriels/Sector Related Documents
-- Etude du Secteur Urbain et Propositions d'lintervention,
Rapport No. 4540-CM, WAPUR, 5 juillet 1984.                         D 17495
-- Les Centres Urbains au Cameroun: Typologie et perspectives de
ddveloppement, Francois Lagier, juin 1982.                          D 174196
-- Cameroon: Rerional Centers Sector Work, Working Document,
WAPUR, February 1987.                                               D 17497
=- Organisation Communale. Republique du Cameroun.                     D 17498
B. Documents lids au proJet/ProJect Related Documents
31. Mobilisation des ressourceslResource Mobilization
-- Prdparation du Projet Cadastre National.
Direction du Cadastre, MINMU, Yaoundd, aout 1986.              D 17499
-- Plan Cadastral et rdgularisation fonciere.
Document de Travail, Francois Lagier, juillet 1987.            D 17500
-- Mise au pied d'un centre informatique a la
Direction du Cadastre du MINUM, Photosur-Lavalin,
juin 1986.                                                     D 17501
-- Etude des moyens d'linvestissement communal,
George Pallacio, avril 1984.                                   D 17502
-- Termes de rdfdrence de l'dtude sur lea finances
communales et les perspectives de developpement
municipal au Cameroun. MINAT, Yaounde, juillet 1986.           D 17503
-- Diagnostic financier de la ville de Douala,
BREEP, Paris, mars 1987.                                       D 17504
... ....



- 75-                                            ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Reference                                            Documents                                    Code de AISC
AISC Code
B2. Programme d'infrastructures prioritaires
Priority Infrastructure Programs
-- Etude pour 1'dtablissement d'un projet de drainage             229.055
a Douala, liaskoning; Yaounde, ao(it 1986.
-- Etude pour l1dtablissement d'un projet voirie-circulation
-transport a Douala, DIWI-SCET, Yaounde, 1986.                 229.061
-- Termes de reference pour l'dtude de replicabilite du
projet d'amdnagement et de restructuration de la zone
Nylon a Douala. Direction de la Coopdration au
D6veloppement et de l'Aide Humanitaire, DDA, Berne,
17 juillet 1987.                                               D 17505
-- Memoire sur le projet d'infrastructure et de restruc-
turation de la zone Nylon a Douala, MAETUR-ARAN,
5 novembre 1987.                                               D 17506
-- M6moire sur les zones de recasement de NDOGBASSI,
MAETUR-ARAN, novembre 1987.                                    D 17507
-- Termes de reference pour l'dtablissement d'un plan de
circulation a Yaounde, MINUH, Yaounde, decembre 1980.          D 17508
B3. Composante institutionnelle/Institutional Develogment
-- Termes de reference de l'assistance technique au MINUB,
MINUH, d6cembre 1987.                                          D 17509
-- La formation du personnel du MINUH, CEREP, Yaounde 1981.       D 17510
-- Projet de Developpement Municipal & Douala. Rapport
d'dvaluation, Ministere Frangais de la Cboperation,
juillet 1987.                                                  D 17511
-- D6cret No. 88/202 du 04 f6vrier 1988 portant creation
d'une cellule spdciale au sein du MINUH.                       D 17512
B4. Composante recasement/Resettlement Component
-- Working paper: First and Sccond Urban Projects
Resettlement Component.  B. Delaval, February 1988             D 17513
AFlIN
4 aoUt/August 1988



IMALI   I                                                                                                      I.n,mao   
eA              ~~SUDAN       ..mao a
EURKINA \,,__,kt_\A
FASO                                  c H A D CHk,-A
rsENINy                 j  S            r    t            ''"''*~'' ''"'k\'                                 f cb           - 
LN_    a's       f ma                                                -         'DJAMENA
C_ENTRAL AFRICAN             aoaoaovaoo                                                                 ,2
GHAN Ns_t l' ,                 REPUBLIC     ,j  2'12 
'\___ JECAMEROON'\             t                  KtLOMETERS 0  20 40 60 80 lOt 120 140 160
G / f ,  GUINE\ I          .            ZAIRE               MiLES0   2C   40   60   50    00                                             C   H   A   D
G>m,, fUINEA k; .- PEOPLE fiy   Z A I R E                                                                         wI              V 
fZ!1ANrC OC-FA          GABON    NT                                           N  I G  E R I A                 T REM E  .
CAME ROON
MAJOR URBAN CENTERS                                                                                           Mdif
*  Notional capitols
0  Province capitals                                                            ..u..-*%.    .         -
@  Division capitals                                C.           /    /                                  a
Paved roods, national               0  Sub-divis,.n capitals
Unpaved roads, national             o  District capitalss
- ---  Unpaved roads, provincial           a  Other towns
--------Unpaved roads, district           *  Airports
Railroads
Rivers                                 Province  boundories
4u  Ports                           -*.-International boundories
Settlements with over 50000 popaulason In 186                                  Poli             1
600-9_ eq aoo .' M0                  7                                    r 
r                 \                                        )ys             <    I fsf/                             \R \   y    e~I 
SD_.,100                                                                                                     ,-i--
N I G E R I A                               FNORD-,        D  A J             ADAAOU
N(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
~~~r         g            e         t ~~~~~  C E N T R A L
REPRBLIC
Itun.rt    ;;;g; N ~oNe CRE                                                               ) l   
O Li               R        /          I        . (
SU. O>    *) b.  (                                                           /                                                               F -D
4-                                                               Ar~~~~~~~~~~~55d \ -                          NdS41 -
'U~~~~~A
I, ~~~'fns  / ~EST 
EQUATORIAL
GUINEA
[INSULAR iSUINEAI
A T/A tV/rC                                  SD            Mmv~
OCEAN                ~            oo 
EQUATORIAL GUINEAGAB0 N                                                 PEPESRE
- SorNer' NatfoMI D lrectoP of       ICONTINENTAL GUINEAI                                               O -   OF   THE    CONGO
<   S"^es raoun0.S.    i  lo                  |            Zr                       v              ,.                                               ls



CAME RO( C4
IDOUA.A INFRAS- ZUC -                            OO EC 
DOUALA DIAGNOSTIC MAP                                         R                           I
ROADS: 
ROADS        WITH VOLUME/CAPACITY RATI4
-   INTERSECTTONS I  (SATURATIONI OVER 10% '                                   J
DRAINAGE 
T~~ b~aIo  ~ ~      77J P~REQUENTOLY FLOODED AREAS                             ~
UNSAN TART CONDITIONS ALONGSIDE DRAIN                           RJ
URSAN GROWTH (INSET)                                                    4/
1964 URBANIZED AREA                                                             V
1974 URBANIZED AREA                                                                 /
410                                                                                          H   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1984 URBANIZED AREA
&4v SoXobRo         -. .. A                                                                                        DA DELOPMENT CONSTRAINTS 
ICIx1 ."                                                                                          GENERAL D  4 iRoCTIC. N OF UNCONTROLLED                               '          /
OVA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     -        ~          w       / 9t020                                                            00     -ADul 
S         _                                           URBAN GROWTH                                                          ' 
C-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
z                                                                                                                                        1984~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DE     mpol~~~~~~~                                                        URBAN   GROWTH~~~~~~~~~
NourE                       T.  V ..1
DE~~~~~
BUILLT-UP AREAS, 1984~198
UA RBAN GROWTH
10 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~A0
I  ITO        2000          3000~~~~~~NIER 10
MEER                              AT     r~~-
ROlLTOP~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~GAO ARAS)19
T. Y-d. ~  ~    IVR. RAN



