Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2999 CM
Loan Agreement
(Second Urban Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 25, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 2999 CM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 25, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 of is Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out, inter alia, by Credit Foncier du 
Cameroun (CFC) and Mission d'Amenagement et d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains et 
Ruraux (MAETUR) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to CFC and MAETUR part of the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement;
(C)
the Borrower intends to seek further external financing to assist in the 
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of foregoing, to extend 
the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and 
in the Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and CFC and MAETUR, 
respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Accounts" means the Borrower's Special Account and the CFC 
Special Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(b)
"MINUH" means Ministere de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat, the Borrower's 
Ministry responsible for town planning and housing;
(c)
"PSU" means the Project Special Unit established within MINUH by the 
Borrower's Decree No. 88-202 dated February 4, 1988;
(d)
"MINAT" means Ministere de l'Administration Territoriale, the Borrower's 
Ministry responsible for territorial administration;
(e)
"Urban Development Steering Committee" means the Steering Committee 
established by the Borrower's Decree No. 88-1603 dated October 25, 1988, to coordinate 
urban development policies and programs;
(f)
"CUD" means the Communaute Urbaine of Douala and "CUY" means the 
Communaute Urbaine of Yaounde, operating pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 87-15 of 
July 15, 1987, instituting urban communities, and respectively established pursuant to 
the Borrower's Decrees No. 87-1366 and No. 87-1365 of September 24, 1987;
(g)
"Secondary City" means an urban commune, other than CUY and CUD, located 
in the Borrower's territory, which may benefit from an infrastructure upgrading 
program under Part B.3 of the Project;
(h)
"CFC" means Credit Foncier du Cameroun, an etablissement public a 
caractere commercial of the Borrower governed by the provisions of Decree No. 77-140 
of May 13, 1977, modified by Decree No. 236 of June 17, 1981;
(i)
"MAETUR" means Mission d'Amenagement et d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains 
et Ruraux, an etablissement public a caractre industrial et commercial of the Borrower 
governed by the provisions of Decree No. 77-193 of June 23, 1977, modified by Decree 
No. 82-599 of November 25, 1982;
(j)
"ARAN" means Agence de Restructuration et d'Amenagement de Nylon, a 
cellule within MAETUR;
(k)
"FEICOM" means Fonds Special d'Equipement et d'Intervention 
Intercommunale, the special council support fund for municipal assistance of the 
Borrower created by Law No. 74-23 of December 5, 1974, and governed by the provisions 
of Decree No. 77-85 of March 22, 1977, modified by
Rectificatif No. 174 of May 27, 1978, and Decree No. 85-130 of January 31, 1985;
(l)
"CFC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CFC of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the CFC Project Agreement;
(m)
"MAETUR Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and 
MAETUR of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the MAETUR Project 
Agreement;
(n)
"CFC Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and CFC pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the CFC 
Page  3
Financing Agreement;
(o)
"MAETUR Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between CFC and MAETUR pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the MAETUR 
Financing Agreement;
(p)
"Subsidiary Financing" means a loan made or proposed to be made to a 
local collectively by CFC, out of the Borrower's contribution and out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, for an incomegenerating project in accordance with Section 2.02 (a) (ii) 
of this Agreement; and
(q)
"CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means the Franc de la Communaute Financire 
Africaine, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred forty-six million dollars ($146,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
(i)
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect 
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for 
the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (except 
Part A.4 thereof) and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; and
(ii)
for amounts disbursed (or, if the Bank shall so agree, for 
disbursements 
required to be made) under Subsidiary 
Financings in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services 
required for Part A.4 of the Project and to be 
financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and the Schedule to the CFC Project Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project (except Part A.4 
thereof), open and maintain in CFAF a special account (the Borrower's Special Account) 
and, for the purposes of Part A.4 of the Project, open and maintain in CFAF a special 
account (the CFC Special Account), in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including 
the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
Page  4
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
expressed as a percentage per annum, 
as reasonably determined 
by the Bank.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall:
(i)
carry out, through MINUH, Parts A.1 and 2, B.1 (b), (c) and (e)(i) 
of the 
Project with the assistance of CUD; Parts B.2 
(b) and (c) of the Project with 
the assistance of CUY; Part B.3 
of the Project with the assistance of the 
Secondary 
Cities; Part C.1 of the Project under the coordination of the Urban 
Development Steering Committee; and Part C.2 and 3 (a) of the Project;
(ii)
carry out, through MINAT, Parts A.3 and C.3 (b) of the Project;
 
(iii)
cause CUD to carry out Part B.1 (a) of the Project;
 
(iv)
cause CUY to carry out Part B.2 (a) of the Project; and
 
(v)
carry out or cause to be carried out Part C.4 of the Project with 
the 
assistance of MINAT, CUD, CUY and the Secondary 
Cities;
all, with due diligence and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and urban management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause CFC and MAETUR to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the CFC Project Agreement and the MAETUR Project 
Agreement all their respective obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to 
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CFC and MAETUR to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall ensure that MINUH, through the PSU, be responsible for the overall 
management, coordination and financial administration of the Project. The PSU shall 
act as the technical secretariat of the Urban Development Steering Committee and shall 
be at all times headed by a Project Manager assisted by competent staff in adequate 
numbers.
Section 3.02 (a) The Borrower shall: (i) relend the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated to Categories (3) and (4) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement and required for Parts A.4, B.1 (d)(ii) and B.1 (e)(ii) of the 
Project to CFC under a financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
CFC, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank; and (ii) 
cause CFC to further relend said proceeds of the Loan allocated to said Category (4) 
and required for Parts B.1 (d)(ii) and B.1 (e)(ii) of the Project to MAETUR under a 
financing agreement to be entered into between CFC and MAETUR under terms and 
Page  5
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the CFC Financing Agreement 
and shall cause CFC to exercise its rights under the MAETUR Financing Agreement, in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the CFC Financing Agreement or any 
provision thereof, nor permit CFC to assign, amend, abrogate or waive the MAETUR 
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)
The Borrower shall make available to MAETUR the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated to Category (1) (d) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement and required for Part B.1 (d)(i) of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A.4 and 
B.1 (d) and (e)(ii) of the Project shall be carried out by CFC and MAETUR, 
respectively, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the CFC Project Agreement and the MAETUR 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall, 
through MINAT:
(a)
prepare an action plan on the basis of the recommendations of the 
on-going municipal finance study; 
(b)
not later than March 31, 1989, furnish said plan to the Bank for its 
comments; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan in accordance with the recommendations 
determined by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower, through its Urban Development Steering 
Committee, and the Bank shall, from time to time, at the request of either party, and 
at least by June 30 of each exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying our 
the policy action plan included in Part C.1 of the Project,
(b)
Prior to such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank 
for its review and comments a report on the progress achieved in carrying out said 
policy action plan, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Part C.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall, 
through MINUH:
(a)
prepare a detailed action plan for each of the parapublic enterprises 
concerned;
(b)
not later than June 30, 1989, furnish said plans to the Bank for its 
comments; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plans in accordance with the recommendations 
determined by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall carry out, through MINUH, and cause MAETUR to 
carry out the action plan for resettlement included in Part B.1 (e) of the Project in 
a manner satisfactory to  the Bank.
Section 3,09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take 
all steps necessary to ensure that, upon completion of Parts B.1 (b) and (c), B.2 (b) 
and (c) and B.3 of the Project, the facilities included in said Parts of the Project 
Page  6
shall have been transferred to CUD, CUY and the Secondary Cities for operation and 
maintenance and on terms and conditions which shall enable the Borrower to fulfill its 
obligations under this Agreement in respect of CUD, CUY and the Secondary Cities.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
separate records and accounts and consolidated accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible 
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
including the 
Special Accounts, for each fiscal year, 
audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to 
the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
accounts and the 
audit thereof and said records as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report thereof contains, in 
respect of such separate 
accounts, a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the 
statements of expenditures submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause CUD, CUY and the Secondary Cities to 
develop and carry out a program of road and drain maintenance satisfactory to the 
Bank. For this purpose, the Borrower shall cause said entities to prepare and furnish, 
beginning March 31, 1989, and thereafter 
not later than March 31 of each year, to the Borrower and the Bank for review and 
comments: (a) a report on municipal finances for the current year, including current 
and investment expenditures; and (b) a work plan and draft budget for the following 
year's road and drain maintenance work, including current and investment expenditures.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, through MINUH: (a) not later than March 31, 
1989, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments its three-year urban 
Page  7
investment program; and (b) by March 31 of each year thereafter, update said urban 
investment program and furnish it to the Bank for its review and comments.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CFC or MAETUR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the CFC Project Agreement or the MAETUR Project Agreement, respectively.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CFC or MAETUR will be able to perform its obligations under the CFC Project 
Agreement or the MAETUR Project Agreement,
respectively.  
(c)
The Borrower's Decrees No. 77-140 and No. 236 dated May 13, 1977, and 
June 17, 1981, or Decrees No. 77-193 and No. 82-599 dated June 23, 1977, and November 
25, 1982, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of CFC or MAETUR to perform any of their 
respective obligations under the CFC Project Agreement or the MAETUR Project 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CFC or MAETUR or for the 
suspension of their respective operations.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing 
of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms 
of the agreement providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources and on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
Page  8
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the CFC Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and CFC; and
(b)
the MAETUR Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of CFC and 
MAETUR.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the CFC Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
CFC and is legally binding upon CFC in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the MAETUR Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
MAETUR, and is legally binding upon MAETUR in accordance with its terms;
(c)
that the CFC Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and CFC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CFC in accordance 
with its terms; and
(d)
that the MAETUR Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by CFC and MAETUR and is legally binding upon CFC and MAETUR in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for the plan and regional 
development is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of the Plan and
   Regional Development
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPAT
8203-KN
Yaounde
With copy to:
Ministry of Finance
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFI
8260-KN
Yaounde
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Page  9
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Paul Pondi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ismail Serageldin
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated           % of
                                (Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works
    (a) Douala                    42,500,000        55%
        infrastruc-
        ture
    (b) Yaounde                   19,100,000        55%
        infrastruc-
        ture
    (c) Secondary                 18,900,000        55%
        Cities in-
        frastructure
    (d) Nylon infra-              11,700,000        85%
        structure
(2) Materials                      2,900,000        80%
Page  10
    and equipment
(3) Goods and                  
 3,700,000        50%
    services
    financed under
    Part A.4 of the
    Project
(4) Land development
    (a) under Part B.1             2,100,000        85%
        (d)(ii) of the
        Project
    (b) under Part B.1             1,900,000        55%
        (e)(ii) of the
        Project
(5) Consultants'                  21,200,000        80%
    services and
    training
(6) Unallocated                   22,000,000
        TOTAL                    146,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$7,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) (c) and (d), (4) (a) and (5) on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1988;
(b)
payments for any Subsidiary Financing in respect of Category (3) unless 
the policies and procedures set forth in the Schedule to the CFC Project Agreement 
have been complied with; and
(c)
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category 1 (b) and (c) 
unless the Bank is satisfied that any action proposed in Yaounde or a Secondary City 
under Part B.2 and 3 of the Project will attain an economic rate of return of at least 
12% and adequate arrangements have been made for the procurement, execution and 
supervision of the completion of works.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to consolidate the basis for sustainable urban 
development through: (i) improving resource mobilization; (ii) improving 
infrastructure; (iii) better defining functional responsibilities for the provision of 
urban services; and (iv) strengthening management capabilities of urban agencies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Urban Resources Mobilization
 
1.
Carrying out of preparatory cartographic works for the establishment of a fiscal 
cadastre and of a feasibility study for the possible levy of a property tax for CUD 
and CUY.
2.
Land resources management in CUD and CUY through the identification and 
demarcation of state-owned lands and lands owned by local collectivities and the 
development of a computerized land data base.
Page  11
3.
Municipal finance improvement in tax billing and collection.
 
4.
Carrying out of a program of loans to urban communes and communities for 
income-generating projects.
Part B:
Priority Urban Infrastructure
 
1.
Carrying out of a program in Douala including:
 
(a)
traffic management improvements of about 17 intersections to be equipped 
with traffic signals and street markings, and upgrading of about 20 km of sidewalks;
(b)
road improvement through upgrading or construction of about 10 km of 
primary roads;
(c)
drainage improvement through widening, deepening and lining of about 4.5 
km of storm water drains;
(d)
continuation of the development of the Nylon neighborhood undertaken 
under the Urban Development Project (Loan No. 2244-CM), through: (i) primary 
infrastructure construction; (ii) land
development to upgrade an area of about 50 ha; and (iii) provision of housing credit 
to purchasers of lots under the land development program referred to in (ii) above; 
and
(e)
resettlement of households to be displaced in order to permit clearing of 
road and drain rights-of-way required for the execution of Part B.1 (b) and (c) above, 
in accordance with an
action plan including: (i) compensation of displaced households; (ii) development of 
small lots with basic services in a resettlement area of about 35 ha and sale of said 
lots to displaced households; and (iii) provision of housing credit to purchasers of 
lots referred to in (ii) above.
2.
Carrying out of a program in Yaounde including:
 
(a)
traffic management improvements of about 4 intersections and completion 
of a traffic management study for central Yaounde;
(b)
road improvement through upgrading of about 6 km of primary roads; and
 
(c)
rehabilitation of the paved road network.
 
3.
Carrying out of a program in the Secondary Cities for maintenance, 
rehabilitation and upgrading of the urban road and drainage networks.
Part C:
Institutional Development
 
1.
Implementation of a policy action plan to consolidate the Borrower's urban 
strategy for defining institutional and financing mechanisms and identifying 
investment programs, through the provision of technical assistance.
2.
Strengthening MINUH's project management capabilities, through:
 
(a)
provision of technical assistance to the PSU to coordinate and supervise 
Project implementation; and
(b)
on-the-job and external training.
 
3.
Carrying out of action plans concerning the parapublic enterprises: (a) in the 
urban and housing sectors, namely, Societe Immobiliere du Cameroun (SIC), MAETUR and 
CFC; and (b) in the communal credit sector, namely, FEICOM.
4.
Strengthening CUD'S, CUY's and the Secondary Cities' technical and financial 
management capabilities, through the provision of technical assistance and training 
and the acquisition of equipment.
*  *  *  *  *
Page  12
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1994
through February 1, 2005
6,085,000
 
On August 1, 2005
6,045,000
 
____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 
and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to the
balance outstanding on the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
Page  13
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Cameroon may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works for traffic management under Part B.1 and 2 of the Project estimated 
to cost an aggregate amount of $6,000,000 equivalent, and equipment and materials 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $500,000 but more than the equivalent of 
$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Items or groups of items for equipment, vehicles and materials estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A hereof and of the preceding paragraphs 
1 and 2, goods and services financed under Part A.4 of the Project shall be purchased 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 (a)(ii) of the Schedule to the CFC 
Project Agreement.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Page  14
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ or cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall 
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on 
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by 
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means in the case of the Borrower's 
Special Account Categories (1), (2), (4) and (5) and, in the case of the CFC Special 
Account, Category (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A, B and C of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and deposited in each of the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) 
of this Schedule, equivalent to $10,000,000 in the case of the Borrower's Special 
Account and $1,000,000 in the case of the CFC Special Account.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Accounts 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify on the basis of such 
Page  15
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into a Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by 
the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions 
of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this 
Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, 
minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, 
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of a 
Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank 
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
