Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2999 CM
(Second Urban Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MISSION D'AMENAGEMENT ET D'EQUIPEMENT
DES TERRAINS URBAINS ET RURAUX
Dated January 25, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 2999 CM
MAETUR PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 25, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and MISSION D'AMENAGEMENT ET  D'EQUIPEMENT 
DES TERRAINS URBAINS ET RURAUX (MAETUR).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Cameroon (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent  to one hundred forty-six million 
dollars ($146,000,000) on the terms and  conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that  MAETUR agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth  in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a financing agreement to be entered into between CFC and MAETUR, part 
of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to MAETUR on the terms and conditions set forth in said MAETUR Financing 
Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS MAETUR, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. MAETUR declares its commitment to the objectives of the  Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end,  shall carry out 
Part B.1 (d)(i) and (ii) and B.1 (e)(ii) of the Project, through ARAN, and cooperate 
with, and assist, CFC in the carrying out of Parts B.1 (d)(iii) and B.1 (e)(iii) of 
the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and urban development practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other  resources required for said Parts of the Project.
Secton 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, MAETUR shall, in carrying 
out Parts B.1 (d)(ii) and B.1 (e)(ii) of the Project, ensure that the sale price of 
lots to beneficiaries shall cover at least the aggregate  costs to MAETUR of: (a) land 
acquisition; (b) design, supervision and  overhead cost for construction of on-site 
infrastructure; and (c) the cost of such construction (including interest paid by 
MAETUR on sums borrowed therefor). A portion of said costs in respect of certain items 
of on-site infrastructure, to be determined by agreement between the Borrower, the 
Bank and MAETUR, shall not be required to be so covered for beneficiaries.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the  provisions of Section 3.03 of 
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. MAETUR, shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions  (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,  records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in  respect of the MAETUR Project 
Agreement and Parts B.1 (d)(i) and (ii) and B.1 (e)(ii) of the Project.
Section 2.05. MAETUR shall duly perform all its obligations under the MAETUR 
Financing Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, MAETUR shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the MAETUR Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) MAETUR shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B.1 (d) and (e) of  the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and  under the MAETUR Financing 
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
MAETUR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B.1 (d) and  (e) of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the  performance by MAETUR of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the MAETUR Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of MAETUR
Page  3
Section 3.01. MAETUR shall carry on its operations and conduct its  affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, economic, financial and  urban development 
practices under the supervision of qualified and  experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. MAETUR shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property and, from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with  sound engineering, financial and 
management practices.
Section 3.03. MAETUR shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance  against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, MAETUR shall at all times 
take all steps necessary to maintain its right to carry on its  operations, and to 
acquire and to retain such interest in land and  properties, and to acquire, maintain 
and renew such concessions, licenses,  consents, franchises or other rights, as may be 
necessary or useful for the execution and operation of the Parts of the Project for 
which it is responsible.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) MAETUR shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
MAETUR shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year 
as so audited,and (B) the report of such audit by 
said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.O2. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of MAETUR 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify MAETUR thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  4
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's  address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are: 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For MAETUR:
Mission d'Amenagement et d'Equipement
   des Terrains Urbains et Ruraux (MAETUR)
Boóte Postale 1248
Yaounde
Cameroun
Telex:
8571-KN
Section 6.02. Any action required  or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of MAETUR, may be 
taken or executed by its President du Conseil  d'Administration or such other person 
or persons as MAETUR shall designate  in writing, and MAETUR shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ismail Serageldin
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
MISSION D'AMENAGEMENT ET D'EQUIPEMENT DES
   TERRAINS URBAINS ET RURAUX
By /s/ Paul Pondi
Page  5
Authorized Representative
