Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2999 CM
(Second Urban Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CREDIT FONCIER DU CAMEROUN
Dated January 25, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 2999 CM
CFC PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 25, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CREDIT FONCIER DU CAMEROUN (CFC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Cameroon (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent  to one hundred forty-six million 
dollars ($146,000,000) on the terms and  conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that CFC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as 
are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CFC, 
part of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to CFC on the terms and conditions set  forth in said CFC Financing 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS CFC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the  General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CFC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end,  shall carry out 
Part A.4 of the Project and, in cooperation with MAETUR,  Parts B.1 (d)(ii) and (iii) 
and B.1 (e)(ii) and (iii) of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate  administrative, financial and housing credit practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for said Parts of the Project.
(b)
For the carrying out of the program of loans for income-generating 
projects included in Part A.4 of the Project, CFC shall cause said projects  to be 
carried out in accordance with the policies and procedures set forth  in the Schedule 
in this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the  provisions of Section 3.03 of 
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. CFC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating  to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and  reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the CFC Project Agreement and Parts A.4, B.1 
(d)(iii) and B.1 (e)(iii) of the Project.
Section 2.04. CFC shall duly perform all its obligations under the CFC Financing 
Agreement and the MAETUR Financing Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, CFC shall not take or concur in any action which  would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the CFC Financing Agreement, the MAETUR 
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CFC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views  with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A.4, B.1 (d)(iii) and  B.1 (e)(iii) of 
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this  Agreement, the CFC 
Financing Agreement and the MAETUR  Financing Agreement and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CFC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A.4,  B.1(d)(iii) and B.1(e)(iii) of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by CFC 
of its obligations under  this Agreement, the CFC Financing Agreement and the MAETUR 
Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CFC
Section 3.01. CFC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs  in 
accordance with sound administrative, economic andfinancial practices  under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by  competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CFC shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property and, from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
Page  3
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound   engineering, financial and 
management practices.
Section 3.03. CFC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, CFC shall at all times 
take all steps necessary to maintain its right to carry on its  operations, and to 
acquire and to retain such interest in land and  properties, and to acquire, maintain 
and renew such concessions, licenses,  consents, franchises or other rights, as may be 
necessary or useful for the execution and operation of the Parts of the Project for 
which it is responsible.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CFC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
CFC shall:
 
(i)
Have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year 
as so audited,and (B) the report of such audit by 
said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02. CFC shall:
(a)
plan its housing credit operations until completion of Parts B.1 (d)(iii) 
and B.1 (e)(iii) of the Project on the basis of a program agreed upon between the 
Borrower, the Bank and CFC and reflecting the amount of  financial resources known to 
be or to become available to CFC during such  period for the financing of housing 
credit;
(b)
continuously monitor its financial resource position, the availability of 
the resources required for the carrying out of such program and the prospects for 
mobilizing additional resources for housing credit lending; and
(c)
inform the Bank of its expansion forecasts and programs. 
 
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, CFC shall use the proceeds 
of the Loan relent to MAETUR under the MAETUR Financing Agreement and to urban 
communes and communities under Part A.4 of the Project, as and  when they are repaid 
by MAETUR and under the Subsidiary Financings, respectively, and to the extent the 
amounts so repaid are not yet required to meet CFC's repayment obligations to the 
Borrower under the CFC Financing Agreement, for making further loans to MAETUR and to 
urban communes and  communities for projects similar to the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Page  4
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.O2. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CFC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CFC thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For CFC:
Credit Foncier du Cameroun (CFC)
Boóte Postale 1531
Yaounde
Cameroun
Telex:
8368-KN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CFC, may be 
taken or executed by its Directeur General or such  other person or persons as CFC 
shall designate in writing, and CFC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  5
By /s/ Ismail Serageldin
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
CREDIT FONCIER DU CAMEROUN
By /s/ Paul Pondi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Policies and Procedures for the Execution of
Part A.4 of the Project
I.
CFC shall: (a) with the assistance of MINAT, prepare proposals regarding 
eligibility criteria and lending terms to be applied to Subsidiary Financings under 
Part A.4 of the Project, on the basis of the recommendations of the on-going municipal 
finance study; (b) not later than  March 31, 1989, through MINUH, furnish said 
proposals to the Bank for its comments and approval; and (c) upon receipt of the 
Bank's approval, apply said criteria and terms when granting a Subsidiary Financing.
II.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, without limitation upon the provisions 
of Section I above, Part A.4 of the Project shall be carried out  in accordance with 
the following operating policies and procedures:
1.
Income-generating projects (hereinafter called the sub-projects) to be financed 
by Subsidiary Financings under Part A.4 of the Project shall be  for municipal 
priority investments designed to improve urban services such as markets, truck and bus 
terminals and commercial or industrial sites development.
2.
Proposed sub-projects, previously selected by MINAT, shall be submitted to CFC 
which shall arrange for their appraisal with FEICOM's assistance.  The appraisal 
report for each sub-project shall include:
(a)
the technical feasibility, financial viability, economic  justification 
including land consideration (location, acquisition and  compensation) and, where 
applicable, commercial soundness and availability of markets;
(b)
an economic rate of return calculation; only sub-projects with an 
economic rate of return of at least 15% shall be approved;
(c)
appropriate consideration to the technical and managerial capability of 
the individual, group of individuals or entity proposed to carry out the sub-project 
and the choice of technology, timing, location and justification thereof; and
(d)
the adequacy of the arrangements for the recovery of service charges.
 
3.
The estimated cost of any sub-project shall not exceed $300,000 equivalent.
 
4.
All sub-projects shall be submitted for approval to CFC and, when estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more each, to the Bank.
(a)
When presenting a Subsidiary Financing for a sub-project estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more to the Bank for approval, CFC shall furnish to 
the Bank an application, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a 
description of the entity to carry out the sub-project and an appraisal thereof, 
including a description of the  expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Subsidiary 
Financing, including the schedule of amortization of the Subsidiary Financing; and 
(iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Page  6
(b)
Each request by CFC for authorization to make withdrawals from  the Loan 
Account in respect of a Subsidiary Financing for a sub-project  estimated to cost less 
than $150,000 equivalent shall contain: (i) a  summary description of the sub-project 
and the entity to carry it out, including a description of the expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of 
the  Subsidiary Financing.
(c)
Except as the Bank and CFC shall otherwise agree, applications and  
requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall be 
presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1992.
5.
(a)
The entities selected to carry out the sub-projects shall promptly enter 
into written arrangements with CFC, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
pursuant to which CFC shall, inter alia, obtain rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Bank and CFC, including the right of CFC to:
(i)
require the entity to carry out and operate the sub-project with 
due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial and 
managerial standards and to 
maintain adequate records;
(ii)
require that: (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
`
the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, 
account being taken also of 
other relevant factors such as 
time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of 
the goods, 
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor 
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of the 
parties rendering them; and (2) such goods and services shall be 
used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the sub-project;
 
(iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank and 
CFC if the 
Bank and CFC shall so request, such goods and the 
sites, works, plants and 
construction included in the 
sub-project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant 
records and documents;
(iv)
obtain all such information as the Bank or CFC shall reasonably 
request 
relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial 
condition of the 
entity carrying out the sub-project, if appropriate, and to 
the benefits to be derived therefrom; and
(v)
suspend or terminate the right of the entity carrying out the 
sub-project to 
the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon 
failure by such entity to perform its 
obligations under its 
arrangements with CFC.
(b)
CFC shall exercise its rights in relation to each sub-project in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and CFC; (ii) comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
