Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1908 CHA
(Teacher Training Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 11, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1908 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 1988, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.O1. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in  the  General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"SEdC" means the Borrower's State Education Commission and any successor 
thereto;
(b)
"Project Provinces" means the provinces, autonomous regions and 
municipalities of the Borrower listed in the Annex to Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
"IOEs" means Institutes of Education, which provide in-service teacher 
training for lower secondary school teachers at the provincial, municipal and 
prefectural levels;
(d)
"Project IOEs" means the IOEs listed in the Annex to Schedule 4 to this  
Agreement  as provincial, municipal or prefectural IOEs;
(e)
"Project Implementation Agreements" means the agreements to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Project Provinces pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 36,800,000).
Section 2.O2. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or such later date  as  
the  Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time 
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that year specified in 
Page  3
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be 
applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association  shall  reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1
commencing November 1, 1998 and  ending May 1, 2023. Each installment to and including 
the installment payable on May 1, 2008 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms 
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association 
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall 
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SEdC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate educational and  management practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Part A of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Page  4
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit for Part A of the 
Project available to the Project Provinces on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 3.O2. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause Part A of the Project to be carried 
out under project implementation agreements, acceptable to the Association, to be 
entered into between the
Borrower and each of the Project Provinces, including the terms and conditions set 
forth in Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Project Implementation Agreements or any 
provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower (including the Project Provinces) responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than eight months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
Page  5
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) furnish to the Association for comment, by 
April 1 of each year, commencing April 1, 1989, a report on the progress during the 
previous year in implementation of the measures listed under the objective of the 
Project in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(b)
between April 1 and September 30, 1991, review with the Association the 
progress achieved in implementing such measures. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any party to one of the Project 
Implementation Agreements shall have failed to perform its obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the
General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Implementation Agreements have been executed on behalf of all 
parties thereto; and
(b)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Implementation Agreements have 
been duly authorized or ratified by all parties thereto, and are legally binding upon 
the parties in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Goods                      29,700,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 75%
                                                 of local ex-
                                                 penditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
(2)  Consultants'                  400,000       100%
Page  7
     services
(3)  Overseas and local          3,500,000       100%
     training and
     fellowships
(4)  Unallocated                 3,200,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  36,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in implementing its 
universal basic education policy by improving its lower secondary school teacher 
training system, including the
achievement by 1993 of: (i) alleviating inequality by increasing the number of 
teachers trained in IOEs from underrepresented areas; (ii) increasing the teaching 
hours of IOE faculty; (iii) revising the IOE curriculum to prepare teachers to teach 
two subjects each; (iv) increasing female participation in in-service training; (v) 
increasing funding to equip adequately science laboratories; and (vi) increasing the 
proportion of lower secondary teacher trainee enrollment at provincial-level IOEs. In 
particular, the Project is intended to improve the quality and increase the number of 
graduates of in-service training for lower secondary school teachers at the Project 
IOEs and to improve the management capability of national, provincial and municipal 
education administrators concerned with lower secondary school teacher training.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Project IOEs
 
1.
Improving lower secondary school in-service teacher training at Project IOEs, 
through:
(a)
construction and equipping of classrooms, libraries and laboratories and 
provision of instructional books, teaching materials and vehicles;
(b)
training IOE teaching staff in study programs inside and outside China; 
and
(c)
provision of computing and related equipment for IOEs and bureaus of 
education in the Project Provinces to support an IOE information network.
2.
Upgrading the specialized programs of the municipal Project IOEs, through:
 
(a)
undertaking studies on alternative delivery systems, dual-subject teacher 
training, and increasing female participation;
(b)
provision of computing and related equipment to support an IOE 
Page  8
information network; and 
(c)
provision of specialist services, in such fields as data processing, 
management and evaluation, to assist IOE management and fellowships in those fields 
for IOE staff.
Part B:
Management of Teacher Training
 
Improving the management of the teacher training system at national and local 
levels, through training of staff inside and outside China, provision of consultancy 
services and provision of computing and related equipment for SEdC.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items that are proprietary or needed for standardization with existing equipment 
may be purchased directly from suppliers in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
2.
Item or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $24,000,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Books and instructional materials, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $3,600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines or 
through direct purchase, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with Part A 
hereof, the first contract to be awarded under Part C.2 hereof, and all subsequent 
contracts to be awarded under Part C.2 hereof which are estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
Page  9
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance 
with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Project Implementation
Part A:
Implementation Program
 
1.
The Borrower shall cause: (a) the studies under Part A.2 (a) of the Project to 
be carried out by the municipal IOEs in accordance with terms of reference and timing 
agreed with the Association; and (b) the results of such studies to be furnished to 
the Association for comment, promptly upon completion.
2.
The Borrower shall cause the training under Parts A.1 (b), A.2 (c) and B of the 
Project to  be carried out in accordance with programs agreed with the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall cause each Project IOE to maintain a Project Implementation 
Office with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Association, and with 
qualified staff in adequate numbers.
4.
The Borrower shall establish by December 31, 1988, and thereafter maintain, a 
Coordinating Committee in the SEdC, with functions, composition and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Association, to coordinate the research activities and specialist 
services of the municipal IOEs under Part A.2 of the Project.
Part B:
Project Implementation Agreements
 
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, each of the 
Project Implementation Agreements shall contain the provisions listed in Part A of 
this Schedule, as appropriate, and the following other provisions:
1.
Each of the Project Provinces shall declare its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.
Each of the Project Provinces shall agree to carry out its respective 
component(s) of Part A of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate educational and management practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
such component(s).
3.
Each of the Project Provinces shall operate and maintain its Project IOEs and 
Page  10
facilities in accordance with sound administrative, financial and educational 
practices.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
Project IOEs
     Province,
     Region or        Provincial       Municipal     Prefectural
     Municipality     IOE              IOE           IOEs
1.   Shaanxi          Shaanxi                        Xianyang
                                                     Xian
                                                     Weinan
2.   Guangdong        Guangdong                      Zhaoqing
                                                     Guangzhou
3.   Hebei            Hebei                          Tangshan
                                                     Cangzhou
                                                     Shijiazhuang
4.   Heilongjiang     Heilongjiang                   Jiamusi
                                                     Harbin
5.   Henan            Henan                          Xingyang
                                                     Puyang
                                                     Zhenzhou
                                                     Jiaozhou
                                                     Nanyang
6.   Hubei            Hubei                          Jinzhou
                                                     Xiangfan
                                                     Wuhan
                                                     Huanggang
7.   Hunan            Hunan                          Zhuzhou
                                                     Xiangxi
                                                     Chenzhou
8.   Neimonggu        Neimonggu                      Wumong
                                                     Chifeng
9.   Anhui            Anhui                          Hefei
                                                     Fuyang
     Province,
     Region or        Provincial       Municipal     Prefectural
     Muncipality      IOE              IOE           IOEs
10.  Jiangsu          ----                           Nanjing
                                                     Yangzhou
                                                     Wuxi
                                                     Huaiyin
11.  Liaoning         Liaoning                       Shenyang
                                                     Dalian
                                                     Chaoyang
                                                     Tieling
12.  Shandong         Shandong                       Yantai
                                                     Weifang
                                                     Lingyi
                                                     Qingdao
                                                     Heze
                                                     Dezhou
Page  11
13.  Shanxi           Shanxi                         Yuncheng
14.  Sichuan          Sichuan                        Chongqing
                                                     Fuling
                                                     Zigong
                                                     Leshan
                                                     Deyang
                                                     Neijiang
                                                     Nanchong
                                                     Wanxian
15.  Xinjiang         Xinjiang                       Xinshi
16.  Yunnan           Yunnan                         Qujin
17.  Zhejiang         Zhejiang                       Ningbo
                                                     Hangzhou
     Province,
     Region or        Provincial       Municipal     Prefectural
     Muncipality      IOE              IOE           IOEs
18.  Beijing                           Beijing
19.  Tianjin                           Tianjin
20.  Shanghai                          Shanghai
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
3,600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Page  12
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such documents and other 
evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was 
made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations
first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the 
amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit into the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or 
refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
