Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3706 RU
                              Loan Agreement
             (Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project)
                                  between
                             RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated June 22, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3706 RU
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1994, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
    (B)  the Borrower has obtained from the United States of America a grant
in an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in the agreement entered into between the
Borrower and the United States of America; and
    (c)  the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Page  2
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
    further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
    provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
    Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
    (a)   "FHD" means the Federal Highway Department within MOT;
    (b)   "MOT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport;
    (c)   "PIU" means Project Implementation Unit established within FHD;
    (d)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 6.01
(a) of this Agreement, maintained by the Borrower in local currency and to
be used for financing the Borrower's contribution to Project expenditures;
    (e)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated September 10, 1992 and May 15, 1993 between the Borrower and
the Bank;
    (f)   "Regional Road Administration" means a regional road
administration agency in charge of road construction and maintenance;
    (g)   "Road Funds" means the funds established in accordance with the
Law of the Russian Federation "On Road Funds", dated October 18, 1991, to
finance all construction and maintenance activities for both the federal and
regional public road network; and
    (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals
of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of
the date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance
Page  3
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
                Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                (a) of this Section.
        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
          amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
          at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
          pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
          the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
Page  4
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out the Project through MOT and FHD with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon any of its obligations under paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain the Project Account
referred to in Section 6.01(a) of this Agreement, and shall replenish said
account promptly before each quarter so that the amount deposited in the
account at the beginning of each quarter shall not be less than the
equivalent of $500,000; (ii) use said account for financing the Borrower's
contribution to Project expenditures, including but not limited to
expenditures for rent, maintenance and repair of laboratories and office
buildings and transportation; and (iii) ensure that sufficient annual
allocations will be made within the Road Funds for the Borrower's
counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project.
    (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    (b)   For the purposes of bid evaluation, the Borrower shall set up a
bid evaluation committee within FHD which shall include, on ad hoc basis,
a representative from each Regional Road Administration in whose territory
the contract is to be executed.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                of this Section including those for the Special Account and
                the Project Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than six months after the end of each such year,
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                shall from time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
Page  5
                reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the
                Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
                and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
    (a)   the Borrower shall have opened a Project Account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank with an initial deposit
in local currency equivalent to $500,000;
    (b)   the bidding documents for contracts to be executed in 1994 shall
have been prepared and submitted to the Bank for its approval; and
    (c)   FHD shall have appointed consultants to strengthen the PIU's
project management capacity pursuant to Section II of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
    Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance  of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          103097, Moscow
          Ilyinka Street 9
          Russian Federation
                                         Telex:
                                           112008
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  6
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                       RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                       By /s/ Aleksandr N. Shokhin
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Wilfried P. Thalwitz
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works              233,800,000        90%
(2) Equipment,                 3,500,000        100% of foreign
    materials and                               expenditures,
    supplies                                    100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3) Consultants'              20,600,000        100%
    services,
    training, and
    studies
(4) Refunding of                 750,000        Amount due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
Page  7
(5) Unallocated               41,350,000
                             ___________
         TOTAL               300,000,000
                             ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also
that of another country from the territory of which the goods and services
are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall
be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (i) rehabilitate and improve
maintenance of major federal and regional roads; (ii) to strengthen FHD's
capacity in the highway management system; (iii) to initiate reform of the
financial and institutional structure of the road construction industry; and
(iv) to increase the capacity of MOT to develop a policy, legal and
institutional framework for transport sector.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Road Rehabilitation
(1)       Rehabilitation of about 1,500 km of high priority links of federal
roads selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
(2)       Maintenance and road improvements on about 9,500 km of federal
roads and 500 km of regional roads selected in agreement with the Bank, in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
Part B:   Equipment, Materials and Supplies
    Acquisition of equipment and materials for laboratories, field testing,
traffic counts and vehicle weighing; computers and other office technology
and supplies and vehicles for surveying, field inspection, design and
supervision of works for FHD to improve its capacity for road management.
Part C:   Consultants' Services, Training and Studies
(1)       Design, preparation of bidding documents and supervision of road
rehabilitation and maintenance works.
(2)        Development of FHD staff and local consulting capabilities in
highway planning, financing, design and supervision of construction and
maintenance, and environmental assessment through provision of consultants'
services and training.
(3)       Training to prepare local contractors to bid for and contract road
works.
(4)       Carrying out of a study to improve the management and efficiency
of public expenditures on roads.
Page  8
(5)       Implementation of a pavement management system for the federal
road network.
(6)       Assistance for MOT to develop the policy, legal and institutional
framework for the transport sector and to restructure the MOT.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
    beginning August 15, 1999
    through   August 15, 2010            12,500,000.00
And on February 15, 2011                 12,500,000.00
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                   Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                   by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
    not more than 11 years
Page  9
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for the period to be established in the bidding
document by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local
currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.  Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph
2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.  To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Russian Federation may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $95,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank,
including prequalification of local contractors.
2.  Items or group of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $800,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three
different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.  Items or group of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Page  10
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.  Contracts for goods which are of proprietary nature or which require
standardization with existing equipment, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,200,000, may be awarded after direct negotiations with
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of prequalification:
    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2
and Part C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works and goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
3.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultant's services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent each. However, this
exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $75,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
Page  11
                          Implementation Program
1.  For the purpose of administration of the activities to be carried out
under the Project, except for Part C(5) of the Project, the Borrower shall
maintain within FHD the PIU to be headed by a full-time project coordinator
to be employed in accordance with Section II of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, who shall be assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
2.  The Borrower shall carry out or cause FHD to carry out an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include:
    (a)   exchange of views on the program of road reconstruction,
rehabilitation and maintenance during the annual budget preparation;
    (b)   development of accounting and auditing system for the Federal Road
Fund by January 31, 1995;
    (c)   development of a maintenance strategy for the Russian federal road
system based on a model calibrated for Russian road conditions. The Borrower
shall submit the maintenance strategy for the Bank's review by December 31,
1994;
    (d)   preparation of a road safety program by December 31, 1994; and
    (e)   development of an adequate system of environmental assessments of
road maintenance and construction by July 1, 1994.
3.  The Borrower shall:
    (a)   by March 1, 1994, implement the results of a study to develop
cost-escalation formulae to be included in civil works contracts;
    (b)   by March 31, 1995, on the basis of a study to be carried out under
Part C(3) of the Project, prepare recommendations for improved road
financing, including a timetable to implement said recommendations; and
    (c)   consult with the Bank on any proposed changes to the road
financing system.
4.  Not later than one month after the end of each quarter, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports, of such coverage,
detail and format as the Bank may reasonably request, and review,
thereafter, with the Bank issues related to the execution of the Project.
5.  Not later than June 30, 1996, a mid-term review shall be carried out by
the Borrower and the Bank, in order to evaluate and assess, inter alia:
    (a)   the overall progress of Project implementation;
    (b)   the adequacy of the Borrower's counterpart fundings; and
    (c)   the results of recommendations of completed studies and the
ongoing technical assistance and training programs.
6.  The Borrower shall retain the auditors, acceptable to the Bank, to
review the accounting systems and supporting internal procedures and
practices for the Special and Project accounts and statement of
expenditures, and recommend any needed changes which shall be implemented
by the Borrower after Bank agreement not later than November 30, 1994.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
Page  12
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
Page  13
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
