Document of             FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2471-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
STATE RAILWAY OF THAILAND WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
February 22, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution nd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not therwise be disclesed without World bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit   -     Thai Baht (B)
US$1.00         -     B 20.45
B 1.00          -     US$0.494
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                     -   3.281 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)            -   35.315 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (kg)                =   0.621 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)      =   0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                  -   2.471 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)                 -   2.206 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton                    -   1,000 kilograms (kg)
hp                              -   horsepower
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -     Asian Development Bank
c.i.f.    -     Cost, insurance, freight
CPCS      -     Canadian Pacific Consulting Services
EGAT      -     Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
EPA       -     United States Environmental Protection Agency
IEAT      -     Industrial Estates Authority of Thailand
IFCT      -     Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
MEA       -     Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MOF       -     Ministry of Finance
MWWA      -     Metropolitan Water Works Authority
NESDB     -     National Economic and Social Development Board
OECF      -     Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PEA       -     Provincial Electricity Authority
RTG       -     Royal Thai Government
SRT       -     State Railways of Thailand
TOT       -     Telephone Organization of Thailand
TRC       -     Traffic Rate Committee
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1-September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:            State Railway of Thailand (SRT)
Guarantor:           Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:              $16.7 million
Terms:               20 years, including five years' grace, with interest at
7% p.a.
Project
Description:  The project is a part of SRT's investment program for the
years 1977-1981 and will enable the Borrower to meet increas-
ing demand for railway services while further improving the
railway's operating and financial performance. The economy
as a whole will benefit from increased capacity to meet
projected demand and through savings in transport costs for
commodities carried. The project includes: (a) acquisition
of 30 1,800 hp diesel locomotives; (b) manufacture of 79
passenger coaches and 103 freight cars; (c) rehabilitation of
track and bridges; (d) modernization of telecommunications and
signalling systems; and (e) improvement of workshop facilities.
The Bank loan will cover the foreign exchange cost of materials
to be procured for rolling stock manufacture; bridge and
workshop rehabilitation; procurement of monoblock concrete
sleepers and fasteners for two block concrete ties; and
telecommunications and signalling.
Project Cost:                                         ----- $ million -----  % of
Local  Foreign  Total  Total
Acquisition of Motive Power           6.3      32.4    38.7    38
Acquisition of Rolling Stock          4.5       6.3    10.8    11
Track and Bridge Rehabilitation    13.5        15.8    29.3    29
Telecommunications and signalling   0.9         4.0     4.9      5
Workshop Facilities                   1.7       1.5      3.2     3
Other                                 5.1         0      5.1     5
32.0     60.0    92.0
Contingencies:
Physical                            2.2       1.8     4.0      4
Price                               3.4       1.5     4.9      5
5.6      3.3      8.9
Total                           37.6      63.3   100.9   100
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:                                          $ million -----  % of
Local  Foreign  Total  Total
IBRD                               0      16.7    16.7    17
Bilateral Financing                0      32.4    32.4    32
Government                      25.2       9.0    34.2    34
SRT                             12.4       5.2    17.6    17
37.6     63.3   100.9   100
Estimated Disbursements
from Bank Loan:                            -------- $ million ----------
Bank FY:       1979      1980     1981      1982
Annual:         1.9      11.1      2.9       0.8
Cumulative:     1.9      13.0     15.9      16.7
Rate of Return:      17%
Appraisal Report:   No. 2070a-TH, dated December 26, 1978



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE STATE RAILWAY OF THAILAND WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND FOR THE FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the State Railway of Thailand (SRT), with the guarantee of the
Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $16.7 million to help finance the
Fifth Railway Project. The loan will have a term of 20 years including
5 years' grace, with interest at 7%. The Borrower is arranging necessary
financing (about $32 million) from the Federal Republic of Germany and France
for the purchase of locomotives included in the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report forges a link between the overall development
of the economy and the extent and incidence of poverty. It concludes that
Thailand's rapid economic growth over the past 15 years has led to a signifi-
cant reduction in absolute poverty, but that nevertheless important groups
have lagged behind. It identifies the essential characteristics of these
groups and points to the need for continued rapid overall development as well
as the initiation of specific measures to deal with the poverty problem
particularly in rural areas. It further discusses the constraints that will
have to be faced if these policies are to be successfully implemented.
Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Despite frequent changes at the top levels of government, there is
a fundamental stability in Thai society and the bureaucracy. Recent changes
in governments have mainly reflected differences in view about Thailand's
external relations and on the political decision-making process within the
country. With regard to external relations, the civilian government formed
in November 1977 under the Prime Ministership of General Kriangsak Chomanan,
then Commander in Chief of the Army, has moved successfully to consolidate
Thailand's external position by improving and stabilizing relations with
Thailand's Indochinese neighbors and by strengthening relations among its
ASEAN partners. Domestically, under the interim constitution promulgated by
the Kriangsak Government, a general election was to be held within one year
of its formation. However, the new constitution has not yet been approved
and elections are likely to be postponed until early 1979.
4.        A broad concensus has been developing over the last several years on
the priorities for socioeconomic development. This is reflected in the fact
/1 Parts I and II are essentially the same as in the recent President's
Report (No. P2367-TH), dated November 30, 1978 for the Bangkok Traffic
Management Project in Thailand, distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 1, 1978 under cover of Secretary's memorandum (R78-261L).



- 2 -
that all recent governments have endorsed the objectives and major strategies
of the country's Fourth Five-Year National Economic and Social Development
Plan (1977-81). There is now increasing concern to achieve a widespread
distribution of the benefits from growth. The Government is increasingly
turning its attention towards socioeconomic issues, recognizing that an
improvement in the conditions of the poorest farmers and those living in the
more remote areas is not only desirable by itself, but would also counteract
insurgency in the long run.
Past Socioeconomic Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  Although
there was some deceleration in recent years, the average annual real GDP
growth rate from 1960 to 1977 was 7.6%, or 4.4% per capita. Real agricultural
growth of 5% was a leading factor sustaining this expansion. The cultivated
area increased by about 4% per year, water control was improved, irrigation
expanded and the cultivation of relatively new crops including maize, cassava,
kenaf, sugar and rubber grew rapidly.  As a result, agriculture has also been
a major contributor to export growth. The Government maintained economic and
price stability throughout the period and encouraged private savings and
investment. As a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and
24%, and total investment between 20% and 27%. The high level of private
investment contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% and a real growth
of manufactured exports of 30% per year since 1970. All this was achieved
with a limited inflow of foreign resources; until recently the resource gap
remained below 5% of GDP, and in most years it was considerably smaller.
6.        The growth in incomes has, however, not been evenly distrLbuted
throughout the country and at present there are very significant regional
differentials in incomes and access to economic and social infrastructure.
While the regions are very different in terms of topography, climate, soils,
urbanization, etc. and present quite distinct problems for future development,
there appears to be a close correlation between development and proximity to
the center. The Central Region, including Bangkok, has the highest average
per capita income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools,
public health and other services than the other three regions, the North,
Northeast and South. The incidence of poverty is estimated at only around
10% in the Center, around 25% in the North and South, and around 35% in the
Northeast. Within the regions there is also considerable variation, implying
a high incidence of poverty in some of the subregions. The most important
group which has lagged behind is that of rainfed rice farmers in the Northeast
and North. Given a well-functioning labor market, the low incomes of this
large group have tended to depress labor incomes throughout the economy.
7.        Overall, the rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s to 6.4% p.a.
In addition to external factors (the oil price increase and its aftermath),
the major domestic factor responsible for this deceleration is the increasing
scarcity of land. Production has been pushed into less fertile soils causing
a decline in agricultural growth to about 4% p.a. since 1970. During 1973 and
part of 1974, this secular deceleration was hidden by very high prices for
Thailand's main export products and a domestic investment boom. In conjunction
with rapid domestic inflation, the latter led the Government to curtail sharply



- 3 -
public investments in 1974 and 1975. As economic growth slowed, however, the
newly elected government increased its expenditures in 1976 and 1977 for
countercyclical as well as structural reasons. In addition, 1975 and 1976
were years of major political uncertainty in Southeast Asia. The economy
has demonstrated considerable resiliency in the face of external shocks and
real GDP growth rate never fell below 5% and exceeded 6% for the period
1976-77. Price stability has largely been restored and private domestic
investment remains high at 17-18% of GDP.
8.        Thailand's terms of trade and agricultural export prospects are now
less favorable than in the early 1970s. The balance of payments, which
recorded surpluses in 1973-74, has since been running large deficits. The
current account deficit reached $1,092 million, or 6% of GDP in 1977. The
Government has significantly increased its foreign borrowing from traditional
sources, from the Eurodollar market and from the IMF to finance these defi-
cits. Temporarily, foreign exchange reserves have also been used. To
contain the balance of payments deficit, the Government, in March 1978,
raised tariffs on 141 "nonessential" imports and increased excise taxes on a
number of items, most notably gasoline.
Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
9.        Thailand is currently in the second year of its Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan (1977-81). The first two Plans concentrated on providing
necessary economic infrastructure to facilitate and accommodate the rapid
growth that was taking place in the economy. The strategy proposed in the
Third Plan moved beyond the noninterventionist, growth-supporting strategies
of the previous Plans to "alleviate problems related to the widening income
gap and inequitable distribution of social services." However, actual
budgetary allocations have not always reflected these priorities, as year-to-
year changes in allocations have been too small to effect the major shift in
expenditure patterns which would be required. A major factor impeding reallo-
cation of resources has been that the senior staff of the ministries are
concentrated in Bangkok and that the ministries are highly centralized at the
level of the Directors-General. These officials have a great deal of indepen-
dence of action within their respective ministries. As a result, there is
little regional delegation of authority, and the close cooperation within and
among ministries necessary to implement new-style integrated development
projects effectively has been lacking. These problems have been recognized
and the Government is implementing a number of long-and-short-term measures
to modernize its development administration and expedite project execution,
including a major reform in 1976 of the civil service personnel, planning and
staffing procedures, establishment of special project committees, and implemen-
tation of a revolving fund scheme to speed implementation of Bank-funded
projects. Continued improvement in development management will be one of the
principal objectives of our policy dialogue with the Government.
10.       The Fourth Plan continues the gradual shift in emphasis started in
the Third Plan. Its principal objectives include a growth target of 7%,
equitable distribution of income, reduction in the rate of population growth,
faster generation of employment opportunities and a balanced development of
the different regions. Projected public sector development expenditures



amount to $12.5 billion for the Plan period, a 90% increase in real terms over
the Third Plan. However, the Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies
only in broad terms, and concrete policies and programs to meet the Plan's
economic and social objectives remain largely to be defined. The Bank has
initiated an intensive program of economic studies to help the Government
define a policy and investment framework to help achieve the objectives of the
Fourth Plan. These studies, as well as concurrent work under way within the
Government, are focusing on problems of employment, income distribution,
industrial policy, and regional development.
11.       In looking ahead towards the 1980s, it is clear that the Thai economy
has many positive features which have sustained a rapid rate of economic growth
over the past two decades, and which augur well for rapid and broadly distri-
buted growth in the future. These include a relatively equitable distribution
of rural land; responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved technology; extensive,
albeit uneven, provision of infrastructure by the Thai Government; and dynamism
of the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also major gains have
been made in family planning in recent years, as the annual rate of population
growth slowed from 3% during the 1960s to 2.5% in 1977./L
12.       However, some less favorable domestic factors are emerging.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the past, the labor force is expected
to grow at 3% over the next decade, necessitating a very high rate of job
creation. At the same time, additional fertile land, which has provided an
essential outlet for new entrants into the labor force and has supported
agricultural export growth in the past, is becoming increasingly scarce. In
view of these factors, continued reliance on the past development model would
lead to a deceleration in agricultural and overall growth in the next decade,
resulting in persistently large balance of payments deficits, higher rates of
unemployment or underemployment, and stagnating or declining real incomes of
the poorer segments of the population, especially in rural areas and among
unskilled workers. Thus, a shift in the development pattern is necessary not
only for social, but also for economic reasons.
13.       The central development issue in Thailand today, therefore, is how to
shift the economy from a pattern of growth based on the extension of land under
cultivation and on import-substitution industries to one based on increasingly
intensive use of land and on industries producing for domestic and export
markets under competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs will be
necessary to ensure that economic growth is maintained and income disparity
not widened during this period of transition. In the past, the Government's
role has been confined to largely short-term economic management, where its
performance has been good, and to the provision of basic economic and social
services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth transition, the Government
will now have to undertake more coordinated and longer-term actions.
14.       For the time being it is clear that agriculture, which produces
one-third of GDP, provides about 65% of exports, employs 70% of the labor
force, and on which most of the country's poor depend for their livelihood,
/1 This is a further decline from the 2.9% average growth recorded in
Annex I for 1970-75.



remains the key sector. Future growth of the sector will have to be based
mainly on more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, improvement in
yields, continued diversification of crops, including, in some areas, dif-
ferent forms of cropping patterns and farming practices, and availability of
agricultural credit. All of these require increased government assistance to
the rural sector. As a matter of high priority, special programs will have
to be formulated to accelerate income growth for that significant part of the
rural population which has not fully participated in the recent growth in
rural income. Specifically, these programs would attempt to develop upland
and other rainfed areas through research, extension services and rural
infrastructure development. In addition, wherever technically feasible,
irrigation development, with the associated introduction of high-yielding
varieties, greater use of fertilizers and other commercial inputs would be
continued.
15.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the burden of sustaining future growth
will have to shift progressively to the industrial sector. Industry, construc-
tion and services will have to provide an increasing share of employment for
the growing population. This will require modifications of industrial policy
and programs with the prime objective of creating jobs for the rapidly growing
labor force at rising levels of productivity and wages. Greater effort will
be required to encourage the location of industries outside Bangkok and to
promote small-scale and rural industries. While continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports is essential, the large domestic rural sector also offers
opportunities for a balanced industrial growth strategy based on production of
low-income consumer goods, agricultural inputs and equipment, and processed
agricultural products. Our policy dial(ogue will concentrate on efforts to
reduce price distortions, increase the aLvailability of credit, and eliminate
impediments to efficient production for domestic and foreign markets so that
the dynamic private sector can realize its potential for spurring growth and
creating jobs.
16.       The Consultative Group for Thailand met in Paris December 5 and 6,
1978 under the chairmanship of the Regional Vice President for East Asia and
the Pacific. The group noted with satisfaction the positive results of past
development efforts in Thailand as summarized in the recently issued economic
report (2059-TH). The group also supported the conclusions of the report and
of the analysis of the Thai delegation, led by the Minister of Finance, that
major new efforts were needed to continue to reduce the incidence of poverty
and to maintain the past rates of growth. Programs to accelerate rural
development, raise productivity, and thereby accelerate poverty alleviation
were called for as the first priority. In addition, it was recognized that
expanding industrial production along the lines of Thailand's comparative
advantage was essential to the country's long-term prospects. The Thai
delegation presented a new village development program which was favorably
received by the donors, who were generally supportive of the Thai development
program.
Resource Requirements
17.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate
of economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public



expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GNP (13.4% in 1977) is low compared to
other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. The
Government has recently improved resource mobilization through increased
taxation of property and income and better collection efforts. It is currently
investigating other more efficient tax systems, such as the value added tax.
Such changes would also make it feasible to reduce taxation of foreign trade,
particularly on rice and other exports, which has inhibited agricultural growth.
18.       During the coming 5-10 years, there will be significantly greater
demands on external resources than has been the case in the past as the cost
of any attempt to reduce the presently existing resource deficit rapidly would
be high in terms of growth and employment opportunities foregone. Despite an
average real growth of exports in excess of 8% and a modest improvement in the
terms of trade, large trade and current account deficits are expected through
the mid-1980s. Because of the large present deficit, the percentage growth in
exports would have to be significantly larger than that in imports even to
keep the deficit stable in absolute terms. The needs for capital goods
imports for industry and for modern inputs to raise agricultural productivity
are such that the current deficit is noi: expected to decline rapidly. In the
longer term, the exploitation of the natural gas fields in the Gulf of Thailand,
further development of its lignite resources, the continued growth of manufac-
tured exports and the development of Thai industries should restore external
equilibrium and significantly reduce the current account deficits in the
second half of the 1980s. Although the levels of foreign borrowing needed to
finance these deficits are high in relation to Thailand's past experience,
they are nct high in relation to the current needs of the Thai economy or in
comparison to other countries at similar stages of development. With a
dynamic private sector and a long history of conservative monetary and fiscal
policy, Thailand should be able to use the resources effectively and service
the debt.
19.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been able to expand their programs to meet a part of the rising requirements.
The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond markets, and
by the utilization of IMF resources for 1978/79, totalling about $200 million.
The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to coordinate
and approve all foreign borrowing by the Government and public sector. The
Bank of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing
abroad in order to keep track of total foreign debt. Thailand's external
public borrowing requirements to the end of the Fourth Plan period (1981) and
the level of concessionality were reviewed at the meeting of the Consultative
Group held in Paris on December 5 and 6, 1978. It was agreed that, although
high, the aid requirements were consistent with Thailand's development strategy
and sustainable for the economy. The desirability of continued substantial
support on concessional terms was emphasized.
20.       It is likely that net disbursements will more than double in current
terms for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private borrowing
by 1985, although in real terms the growth is much less. Even with this
increase in borrowing, the debt service ratio on public debt (2.5% in 1976)



would remain below 10% through 1985 and decline thereafter. The debt service
ratio on total civilian borrowing, currently about 11%, would not exceed 20%.
IBRD exposure in Thailand would fall as other donors increased their programs.
Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion
of manufactured exports, these debt service requirements will be within
Thailand's capacity and will not endanger its credit standing. It should be
noted, however, that these projections assume a significant level of conces-
sional assistance from other donors, particularly Japan, in view of that
country's announced intention to expand its foreign aid program.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
21.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received 46
loans amounting to $1,241 million, net of cancellations. Most of these have
been for transportation ($295.5 million), irrigation ($236.3 million) and
power/energy and rural electrification ($245.9 million) with, in addition,
one for a dual-purpose power and irrigation project ($65.8 million). The
remaining loans have been for water supply ($55 million), telecommunications
($153 million), education ($52.3 million), industry ($42.8 million), rural
developmermt ($21 million), livestock ($5 million), rubber replanting ($50
million), national agricultural extension ($28 million); and two projects in
Bangkok-sites and services and traffic management ($24.6 million); the rural
development and livestock loans were made under the terms of the Interest
Subsidy Fund. Thailand has also received four IDA credits: one for $19.5
million fcr an education project; two credits totaling $12.5 million for
irrigation improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population
project. In general, Bank-financed projects have been carried out satisfac-
torily and in accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as notes on
the execution of ongoing projects as of January 31, 1979.
22.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending to
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastructure
projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a program
which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts to
reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for only about 40% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 45%
of lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a program balanced
between irrigation (including land development and support services to the
farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside the
central flood plain (rubber replanting; livestock, agriculture extension,
research and rural development). Projects in the social sectors - which prior
to FY75 were limited to three in education accounting for 6% of the program -
have both diversified and grown; such projects have in recent years included
education, population and low-income housing for about 13% of the program.



23.       The findings of the recent Basic Economic Report not only verify
the appropriateness of the above shift, but also underscore the need to move
even further to design programs which help the rural population, and partic-
ularly those farmers in rainfed areas who have so far been largely bypassed
by recent economic growth. In the agricultural sector, therefore, we are
redoubling efforts to develop a package of investments to lift the rainfed
farmers out of a subsistence existence. A combination of education, agricul-
tural research and extension, credit and improved infrastructure is foreseen,
though a viable package for the poorest and most remote farmers has yet to be
developed. Expansion and improvement of irrigation systems will continue,
with increased emphasis on reaching those farmers with irrigation potential
in the northern and northeastern regions. The program of transportation,
power, water supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to
have a rural focus. A key element of the strategy outined in the Basic
Economic Report is the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased economic
activity away from Bangkok. The bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrial
lending is, therefore, being directed to the provinces as well as to assist
the Government in the preparation of projects to enhance the attractiveness
of regional urban centers.
24.       The Bank strategy of placing an increasing share of our program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will
be difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward
project preparation. The Bank's regional mission in Bangkok will continue to
play a vital role in identifying and preparing such projects. Promoting
overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand and is a necessary element
in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource requirements for infrastruc-
ture development are large and the Bank is concentrating its remaining funds
in projects where it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy changes,
mobilizing other resources, and directly facilitating growth in rural areas.
The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector through its
economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order to help orient
industrial policy toward more labor-intensive and dispersed activities to
complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation and in reducing income
differentials in the agriculture sector.
25.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$309 million, as of December 31, 1976, representing about 38% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (5.2% of GDP in 1976). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below
30% of total public external debt by 1982. The Bank Group's share in total
debt outstanding would remain at about 20%, and its share of debt service is
not expected to exceed 10%.



- 9 -
26.       IFC has made two equity investments totaling $380,000 in the Indus-
trial Finance Corporation of Thailand; three loans and an investment, totaling
$32.17 million, in the Siam Cement group; a loan of $300,000 to Concrete
Products; an equity investment of about $300,000 in Mutual Fund Company; and
a loan of $2.5 million and an equity investment of $200,000 in United Sugar
Terminal Company; a loan of $4.85 million and an equity investment of
$250,000 in the Bangkok Glass Industry Company and a loan of $36 million
and equity investment of $4 million in Siam City Cement Company. IFC has
recently approved a line of credit of $2.0 million for small- and medium-
scale enterprises to be administered by Siam Commercial Bank. IFC has also
completed the appraisal of a project for producing carbon black. Prospects
for other IFC operations are reasonably good. IFC has been asked to arrange
the debt financing of approximately $50 million for a $90 million zinc mining
and refinery project. Other likely operations are the development of pri-
vately sponsored industrial estates and a project to expand cement produc-
tion. At the Government's request, the Capital Markets Department carried
out a reorganization study of the Government Housing Bank, which is currently
being implemented by the latter institution.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
27.       Transport in Thailand has re!gistered an impressive growth over the
past ten years. Roads are the dominant mode of transport for both passengers
and freight, with approximately 86% of total passenger traffic and 70% of
total freight transport being carried on roads (1976). However, the railways
and inland waterways continue to prov:ide vital functions in the sector while
contributing to the objective of developing an efficient, multi-modal transport
system. Most of the country's freight: transport takes place in the Chao Phya
basin between Bangkok and northern Thailand, where all three modes operate.
Transport Demand
28.       Annual growth over the past decade for the combined freight traffic
of road, rail and inland waterways was about 9%, as compared to an average
real growth in the GDP of 7%. Allowing for sustained growth of the economy,
transport in Thailand can be expected to increase at about the same rate
until the early 1990s, resulting in at least a tripling of traffic over the
period, provided sufficient capacity is made available.
29.       Roads and railways share trunk line traffic, and in the Chao Phya
basin, inland waterways have also captured a sizeable portion of this traffic.
Direction and size of the flows reflect Bangkok's central location and domin-
ance as a port and national consumption center, the rural character of
the outlying provinces and the advanced agricultural development of the
central plain. An estimated one-third to one-half of the country's total
1976 freight comprised agricultural products, of which approximately 50%
were exported, mostly through Bangkok.



- 10 -
Sector Investments
30.       Transport expenditure targets during the last Plan period (1972-76)
were about US$1.04 billion equivalent, with 80% allocated to roads and 12% to
railways. Transport accounted for 20% of development expenditures. The
proposed investment in transport under the current Five-Year Development
Program (1977-81) is about $1,500 million (about 12% of total planned
national development expenditures) with allocations for the road sections of
about $1,100 million; and railways, civil aviation, inland waterways and
ports sharing the remainder. The program emphasis is toward developing an
integrated transport system through construction or improvement and mainte-
nance of national, provincial and rural roads; improvement and rehabilitation
of rail infrastructure and expansion of rail capacity; improvement of inland
waterways transport; and deep sea port and small coastal ports development.
31.       E;y tentative calculations, public expenditures under each of the
Five-Year Flans 1982-86 and 1987-1991 should reach an average of US$ 1.9 bil-
lion equivalent (in 1977 prices), an 80% increase over the 1972-76 amount.
Railways wculd receive US$120-150 million in each Plan period, representing
11% of the combined public investment for rail, road and waterways transport.
By 1991, the railways' share should be about 17% for public passenger trans-
port (rail and roads combined), and 10-12% for freight transport (ton-km of
rail, road and inland waterways traffic combined). SRT's Investment Program
and the proposed project is consistent with the railway's projected market
share of the transport sector.
Transport Services
32.       Roads.  National highways, the primary road system, total nearly
13,000 km, and radiate from Bangkok to the national borders. More than 90%
of national roads are paved. Provincial roads, the secondary road system
connecting provincial towns and other major population centers with national
roads, total more than 22,000 km. Despite increasing traffic requirements,
most provincial roads are in poor condition. About 60% (13,000 km) are
unimproved and often not passable in rainy weather. Of the remaining 40%
(9,000 km), half are paved and half have gravel surfaces. The Department of
Highways in the Ministry of Communications is responsible for construction
and maintenance of the national and provincial road systems. A program for
upgrading secondary roads is under way, partly assisted by the Bank's Sixth
Highway Project (Loan 1519-TH).
33.       Tertiary roads are defined as roads not classified as national,
provincial or urban. They connect villages and hamlets with the primary and
secondary road systems, railways and inland waterways, and, in some cases,
are little more than tracks. Estimates place their length at between 40,000-
60,000 km, but regional coverage is imbalanced. A few thousand kilometers of
these roads have been improved in recent years, but maintenance has been
limited. They are administered by a number of overlapping national, provincial
and local agencies. Appropriate steps for improving tertiary roads are under
study, also as part of the Bank's Sixth Highway Project.



- 11 -
34.       Railways.  The railway system totals over 3,800 km and, like the
national highways, radiates from Bangkok to outlying provinces. It is of
primary importance for carrying long-haul, bulk commodities, including rice,
one of the country's most important exports. Historically, passenger traffic
has dominated railway operations but SRT is adapting its operations as increas-
ing road competition is slowing down this traffic growth. Details on SRT's
organization, operations and finances are given in paragraphs 49 to 61 below.
35.       Inland Waterways.  The inland waterways system consists of the
rivers and canals in the central plains and some sections of the Mekong river.
Navigable waterways in the central plains comprise about 1,600 km in the rainy
season and 1,100 km in the dry season. During the rainy season (July to
December), barges up to 80 tons and two meters draft can negotiate the waterways
from the gulf of Thailand to Uttaradit (about 700 km). In the dry season
(January to June), navigation is restricted to the lower half of the system as
far as Nakhon Sawan. Apart from a string of landing places, built'mainly for
private use, no river port facilities exist. The fleet of mostly wooden
barges numbers about 7,000, of which 50% exceed 40 tons and 10% (steel barges)
have a dead weight range of 100-300 metric tons. Most of the fleet is privately
owned. Public investment in waterways transport has been very limited in the
past; a project to improve the system is currently under preparation, the
study being financed under the Bank's sixth highway project.
36.       Sea Ports.  There are some 35 sea ports in Thailand, which can be
broadly divided into two groups according to location, size and function. The
first group includes Bangkok, Si Racha and Sattahip, all of which are within
200 km of the capital and serve as Thailand's principal external trade outlets.
Bangkok, the country's most important port, dominates international waterborne
traffic, accounting for 90% of dry cargo imports and exports except bulk
agricultural exports handled at Ko Sichang deep water anchorage. Si Racha is
the port of discharge for most oil imports; Sattahip, built as a military
facility, handles little commercial cargo at present. The Government, however,
has decided to develop Sattahip as a major commercial deep sea port. The
first phase of investment is scheduled for the early 1980s. The second group
consists of the southern ports, which are scattered over 750 km of the southern
peninsular coast between its northern tip and Malaysia. These ports have
primarily regional significance.  About half of them serve exclusively as
fishing ports, while the other half combine coastal transport, imports and
exports and fishery functions.  Songkhla and Pattani on the east eoast of the
peninsula and Phuket and Kan Tang on the west coast are the largest of the
southern ports.  Only Songkhla and Pattani have the potential for deep sea
port development.  Domestic transport to, from and within the southern peninsula
is predominantly land-based. Coastal shipping therefore plays a limited role
in the transport sector. The extent to which coastal ports can assume larger
transport functions is being studied under the sixth highways project.
37.       Civil Aviation.  Thailand's international and domestic air traffic
is centered at Don Muang airport, in the vicinity of Bangkok, which serves as
a joint civilian and military facility. Outside Bangkok, there are about 40
airfields of various sizes; of these, close to half receive scheduled flights.
Domestic air transport competes with long-distance road and rail passenger
traffic and, though not comparable in volume to these modes, serves an essential



- 12 -
transport function. The domestic air carrier, Thai Airways, is owned by the
Government and has a de facto monopoly on internal routes. Thai International,
of which the Government is the principal share holder, is the Thai carrier
for international traffic.
Planning and Coordination
38.       The Ministry of Communications, through its Highways and Harbor
Departments, and through individual transport enterprises such as the State
Railways of Thailand and the Port Authority of Thailand is concerned with
transport planning and operations. Recognizing that transport planning would
become increasingly complex, the Ministry set up a Transport Planning Unit in
1974 with assistance provided under the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 870-TH).
This unit acts as the focal point of transport planning, preparing policy
papers and plans as well as helping to formulate the sector investment program;
it is now developing a management information system to provide an improved
data base for coordinating future sector development, evaluating projects and
setting up sectoral priorities.
Bank Lending to the Sector
39.       The Bank presently is involved in all transport modes (except civil
aviation, for which Thai development capabilities are adequate) and has helped
finance 13 transportation projects in ThaiLand.  Three loans, totalling
$20.3 million, have been made for port development. The first two port
projects were completed on schedule, and the third project was completed in
May 1976, about two years behind schedule, largely because of delays in
awarding civil works contracts. The Bank has made six loans, totalling
$261.6 million, for construction and maintenance of national and provincial
roads; the first in 1963 and the most recent in 1978. The four completed
projects were executed efficiently and with substantial savings in cost. The
quality of construction throughout was good; domestic prices remained stable
and there was strong competition among contractors. The fifth project is
expected to be completed by about mid-1979, despite cost overruns and delays
caused by sharp increases in prices which required rebidding of several
contracts. The sixth project has just begun and provides for the upgrading
of approximately 700 km of provincial roads, improving highway maintenance,
and strengthening planning in the Department of Highways and the Ministry of
Communications (Transport Planning Unit). Studies are included in the same
project for the preparation of rural roads, provincial roads, inland water-
ways and coastal ports projects. At the request of the Government, the Bank
is also providing assistance for the preparation of a port development
project at Sattahip. In addition, about 1,300 km of village access roads are
being constructed by the Office of Accelerated Rural Development under the
Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project (Loan 1198T-TH).
Bank Loans to Railways
40.       The Bank has made four loans, totalling $52 million, to help
implement SRT's development plans. All four projects have been completed
satisfactorily; about $7.5 million of the loan amount for the third project
was cancelled when the Government chose to purchase the locomotives through
direct negotiations. Replacement and rehabilitation of motive power, rolling



- 13 -
stock and track, and increased attention to marketing activities and economic
and financial planning under Bank-supported railway projects have helped the
railway achieve a high level of operational efficiency and thus serve the
growing demand for railway services. The proposed project would continue
efforts initiated under previous projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
41.       SRT first approached the Bank for assistance in financing its
1977-81 Investment Plan in early 1977 during supervision of the Fourth
Railway Project. The project was subsequently prepared by SRT and appraised
by the Bank in November 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
from November 6 to November 14, 1978. The Thai delegation was led by HE Klos
Visessurakarn, Thailand's ambassador to the United States, assisted by Khun
Sanga Navicharern, General Manager, State Railway of Thailand.
Project Description
42.       The project comprises the last three years (1979-1981) of SRT's
ongoing Five-Year Investment Plan which seeks to improve further SRT's
operational efficiency and to expand capacity in line with projected demand.
The project includes the following:
(a) acquisition of 30 diesel locomotives;
(b) manufacture of 79 passenger coaches and of 103 freight cars;
(c) rehabilitation of track and bridges;
(d) replacement of telecommunications equipment and improvement of
signalling; and
(e) improvement of workshop facilities.
Details are provided in the report, "Thailand - Staff Appraisal of a Fifth
Railway Project" (No. 2070a-TH, dated December 26, 1978), which is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Components
43.       Motive Power.  Eleven of the 30 diesel locomotives (1,800 hp) are
to replace locomotives over 17 years old which are unreliable and beyond
economic repair. The other 19 are required to meet the growing freight and
passenger traffic.
44.       Rolling Stock.  Of the 79 passenger coaches included in the project,
44 will replace existing cars and 35 will cater to new traffic. All 103 of
the freight cars to be manufactured will be to increase rolling stock capacity.
All materials required for the manufacture of freight cars and part of the



- 14 -
requirement for passenger cars are already in stock; additional material as
required will be procured under the project and the cars will be assembled by
SRT at its workshop in Makkasan.
45.       Track and Bridges.  Rehabilitation of track and bridges included in
the project is part of SRT's continuous renewal program to allow further improve-
ments in train operation and safety. Over the project period about 650 km of
track will be renewed, rail joints over approximately 270 km of track will be
welded with continuous rail between stations, and concrete sleepers will be
installed over 165 km. Train speeds are severely restricted on many of the
system's bridges. The project includes strengthening of 60 steel bridges and
replacing of 118 timber bridges to cope with the 13.75 ton axle load of new
diesel locomotives at the line speed limits. Equipment for track maintenance
will also be provided.
46.       Telecommunications.  SRT's telecommunications system, which consists
of a carrier telephone network and teleprinter facilities, is over 20 years
old and inadequate for the growing needs of administration and train operation.
SRT's 300-line telephone exchange at Bangkok is 25 years old and spare parts
are unavailable. Consequently, there are frequent communication breakdowns.
The project provides for the installation of a 12-channel carrier telephone
network, 51 sets of teleprinter equipment and a 500-line telephone exchange at
Bangkok, to replace the existing old equipment.
47.       Signalling.  Only 220 of SRT's 450 stations have mechanical inter-
locking with adequate signalling. On 60 stations interlocking is hand-operated
and as a result train operations are slow and unsafe. Installation of full
mechanical interlocking at 15 stations and tokenless block instruments
and color light signals at 30 stations are included in the project. As a
result, there will be an average gain of two minutes per station in train
passing where tokenless block instruments are installed, and time gains will
be even greater where mechanical interlocking is introduced.
48.       Workshops.  Improvement of workshops under the project consists of
(a) reconstruction of the old steam locomotive shop (at Makkasan), dismantled
in 1977 because it was unsafe; and (b) procurement of two new 25-ton capacity
overhead cranes and other essential equipment for diesel locomotive overhaul.
These investments are expected to reduce the time for major locomotive overhaul
from the present 23 days to 18 days and to improve locomotive availability
from 81% to 84%.
The Borrower - the State Railway of Thailand (SRT)
49.       Organization, Management and Staff.  SRT was established in 1951,
under the Ministry of Communications, as a semi-autonomous state enterprise
responsible for operation and maintenance of the railway system. A Board of
Commissioners formulates policy and supervises the general affairs of SRT.
The Board appoints, with Cabinet approval, a General Manager who is responsible
for the management and administration of SRT.
50.       SRT has competent officers and staff morale and discipline are
good. The employees numbered approximately 30,000 at end FY77, having



- 15 -
decreased by about 4,000 since 1972. Staff productivity in terms of traffic
units (passenger-km plus net ton-km) per employee is high (approximately
290,000 in 1977) compared with other railways in the region. SRT's staff
training facilities are generally adequate. During the project period, SRT
has a program for training more supervisory staff in costing, marketing and
planning.
51.       Facilities, Traffic and Operations.  The SRT system, which is
predominantly single track, consists of 3,800 route-km of meter gauge lines.
Bangkok is the central point of the network, from which four trunk lines
radiate (Map 13621): (i) north to Chiang Mai, (ii) northeast to the Laotian
border, (iii) east to the border of Kampuchea, and (iv) south to the Malaysian
border. The network includes 8 branch lines with a total length of 630 route
km. With the exception of about 250 km near Chiang Mai in the mountains of
northern Thailand, the main railway lines contain low gradients and large
radii of curvature.
52.       As of September 1977, SRT's motive power and rolling stock consisted
of 243 diesel locomotives, 39 steam engines (in emergency reserve), 102 rail
cars, 1,052 passenger cars and 9,267 freight cars. There are three regional
workshops for maintenance and repair and a central workshop at Makkasan
handles major overhauls of locomotives and rolling stock as well as the
manufacture of passenger and freight cars.
53.       In 1977, passenger traffic accounted for 56% of total revenue train-
km and 54% of total revenues. Passengers and passenger-km have increased
over the last ten years by approximately 2% p.a. and 5% p.a., respectively.
However, when tariffs were raised for the first time in more than 20 years in
1975, the number of passengers fell by about 7% and passenger-km growth
levelled off in the following year. SRT passenger services are operating
against serious competition from road transport, and passenger traffic growth
(passenger-km) during the project period is estimated by the Bank at no more
than 3% p.a. In contrast, freight traffic appears to have an established
market based on the railway's cost advantages over competitors. Freight
traffic, measured in ton-km, grew by over 4% p.a. from 1967 to 1977. Petro-
leum products, cement/marl and rice dominated SRT's freight traffic, with an
approximately constant combined share of 50% of total ton-km. Over the
1977-81 period, this percentage of total freight volume is expected to remain
unchanged, and freight traffic (ton-km) is expected to grow at between 4.5%
and 5% p.a.
54.       SRT's operating efficiency remains high and has significantly
improved since the completion of the dieselization program in 1976. The
average turnaround time for freight cars has improved from 9 days in 1975 to
7.3 days in 1977. During the same period, the average load per car has
increased from 12.4 tons to 13.0 tons. Further, net ton-km per available box
car (four wheeler), an important index of efficiency, has also risen from
239,000 ton-km to 302,000 ton-km p.a. During 1972-77, the car-km per avail-
able car-day has increased by 9% and 31% for freight and passenger cars,
respectively, and the average speed of freight trains has improved by 27%.
On the other hand, expected increases in the availability of locomotives and
freight cars at 81% and 92.5%, respectively, are lower than the feasible



- 16 -
targets of 85% and 95%. However, improvements in workshop and shed facili-
ties planned under this project should improve the situation. During nego-
tiations, SRT agreed to submit to the Bank, by March 31, 1979, an action plan
for achieving agreed operational targets (Section 4.02 (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
55.       Financial Position.  Although SRT's operating costs per traffic
unit decreased in real terms during the 1972-76 period as a result of improved
operations, financial performance was substantially weaker than the appraisal
forecast of the Fourth Railway Project (Loan 898-TH) and the returns on fixed
assets in use were consistently less than the 2% required under Section 5.05
of the Loan Agreement. SRT's financial performance in these years can be
largely explained by the Government's failure to increase tariffs sufficiently
to offset increases in operating expenses, a situation which not only weakened
the financial viability of the Railway, but also threatened to introduce
distortions in the intermodal distribution of traffic. SRT's operating
finances were substantially improved through the tariff increases in FY76,
combined with a limitation on wage awards, but the financial ratios for FY77
and FY78 remained less than satisfactory. Further tariff increases will be
required if SRT is to maintain a sound financial position and generate suffi-
cient funds internally to make a meaningful contribution to its 1977-81
Investment Plan.
56.       The tariff increases assumed by the Bank in developing the financial
forecast were 15% and 12% respectively, for passenger and freight on September
30, 1979; and 7% and 5% respectively, for passenger and freight on September
30, 1980. Based on the Bank's projected traffic, these or similar tariffs
are forecast to produce annual rates of return on net fixed assets of 0.4% in
FY79, 2.5% in FY80 and 3.0% in FY81. SRT has agreed, in light of its project-
ions, that it shall earn not less than 1% in FY79, 2.5% in FY80, and 3%
thereafter (Section 5.06(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The rate of return
of 1% in FY79 represents a compromise between divergent viewpoints of SRT and
the Bank. While SRT is confident that it would achieve a rate of return well
in excess of 1%, the Bank, primarily due its lower projections of passenger
traffic combined with expectations of higher working expenses, has forecast
only 0.4%. The resulting projected shortfall in achieving a 1% return in
FY79 is less than 2.5% of expected revenues, an amount which would not
materially affect SRT's financial performance. The agreement on 1% return in
FY79 reflects SRT's confidence in its capability to attract additional
traffic and to limit expenses. Nonetheless, should SRT's projections prove
optimistic as FY79 evolves, SRT and the Government are committed to undertake
all measures, including the adjustment of tariffs, necessary to achieve the
agreed 1% annual rate of return in FY79. Also, to assist in attaining the
target rates of return, SRT has agreed to carry out an annual review of its
rates and charges commencing in FY79 and effect tariff increases as necessary
to earn the required return in FY80 and thereafter; and to submit such reviews



- 17 -
for the Bank's information and comments (Section 5.06(b) and (c) of the draft
Loan Agreement). SRT's decisions on tariff increases will be further facili-
tated in FY80 and FY81 through a study to be undertaken by SRT, prior to
December 31, 1979, to determine the profitability of its services (Section 3.06
of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       SRT's assets have not been revalued for about 25 years, resulting
in depreciation charges which distort the railways' financial results, and a
pricing of services which does not adequately reflect costs. During negotia-
tions, SRT agreed to revalue its assets by March 31, 1980 and every four
years thereafter (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). Upon the
initial revaluation of assets, SRT and the Bank would review the adequacy of
the agreed rates of return specified above (Section 5.06 (a) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
58.       The adequacy of SRT's cash flow is particularly sensitive to the
assumption that its capital expenditures will not exceed the planned program.
SRT has therefore agreed that it will limit its capital expenditures on items
outside the Investment Plan to 20 million bahts annually (Section 5.07 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
59.       From 1974 to 1976, procurement of excessive stock for construction
of freight/passenger cars and delayed payment of Government subsidy for
operating deficits had resulted in a rapid deterioration of SRT's liquidity.
More recently, however, with the receipt in 1977/78 of government funds for
past operating deficits, SRT's liquidity has improved to a satisfactory
level. The Government and SRT have agreed to maintain appropriate levels of
liquidity through timely injection of Government funds (Section 3.03 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement) and to establish improved procurement procedures to
ensure adequate material control (Section 4.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
On its part, the Government has also assured prompt reimbursement for SRT's
operating deficits (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
60.       SRT has agreed to complete the analysis of the financial losses
incurred as a result of the operation of its uneconomic branch lines by
September 30, 1979 (Section 3.05(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). In turn,
the Government has agreed to establish a procedure under which SRT will be
promptly reimbursed for such branch line losses (Section 3.05(c) of the draft
Loan Agreement and Section 3.02(a) of the draft Guarantee Agreement). SRT
will forward to the Bank, for its review and comment, a study by and recommen-
dations of NESDB, both with respect to uneconomic branch lines and alternative
methods of providing transport facilities currently handled by such uneconomic
branch lines (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates
61.       The total cost of the project is about $101 million equivalent
with a foreign exchange component of about $63 million equivalent or 63%.
Project costs are based on estimated quantities and prices as of June 1978,



- 18 -
adjusted for inflation and physical contingencies. Physical contingencies of
10% were included for all items, except for locomotives, and for new 80 lb/yd
rails for which contracts have already been awarded. As in the past, most
project items (rolling stock, reconditioned rails, two block concrete sleepers
and bridges) will be manufactured and/or installed in SRT's workshops; costs
and quantities, therefore, are well controlled. Price contingencies have
been included for all items, except for locomotives and new 80 lb/yd rails
ordered at firm prices and materials in stock for manufacture of rolling
stock. Assumed annual price increases for local currency expenditures are
7.5% in 1978 and 1979, and 7% in 1980 and 1981. For foreign currency expendi-
tures the assumed increases are 6.5% in 1978 and 1979 and 6% in 1980 and 1981.
Financing
62.       Project costs will be met by the proposed Bank loan of $16.7 million
(covering 17% of total costs), by bilateral credits amounting to $32.4 million
from West Germany and France for purchase of locomotives. Government and SRT
contributions totalling $51.8 million would include Government contribution
of $34.2 million (including $9.0 million in foreign exchange) and SRT's funds
of $17.6 million (including $5.2 million in foreign exchange).
Project Implementation and Procurement
63.       SRT will be responsible for implementing the project.  Rolling
stock will be manufactured in SRT's workshop with imported material and
components and making appropriate use of such material already in stock;
manufacturing costs will be, on average, about 25% lower than c.i.f., cost
of imported fully assembled. All items to be procured under the proposed
loan, except mono block sleepers and associated machinery, will be subject to
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Off-the-shelf items to meet urgent requirements costing less than $5,000 each
and $250,000 in the aggregate will be procured through normal government
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. A preference margin of 15%,
or the prevailing custom duty, whichever is lower, will be extended to local
manufactures in the evaluation of bids. Concrete mono block sleepers and
associated machinery will be procured under local competitive bidding procedures,
acceptable to the Bank; imported machinery and materials required for the
manufacture of these sleepers will be purchased through negotiations with
qualified suppliers.
Disbursements
64.       Disbursements will be made at the rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange costs of directly imported equipment and material, 100% of the
ex-factory cost of items manufactured locally and at the rate of 65% of total
expenditures for imported items procured locally.
Justification, Benefits and Risks
65.       The railway plays a vital role in the economy of Thailand.  While
road transport has become the dominant mode overall, the railway remains the
most economic means of moving bulk commodities over medium and long distances.



- 19 -
It is imperative that rail capacity be sufficient to handle this traffic on
which the country's continued development depends. The project will help
ensure an efficient multimodal transportation system in Thailand by improving
services for existing railway users, expand railway capacity to meet increasing
demand, and increase operational productivity and efficiency.
66.       Based on savings in transport costs and increases in transport
capacity, economic rates of return were computed on individual project items
and range from 12% for track rehabilitation to 64% for workshop improvements.
The overall economic return on the evaluated items, representing about 73% of
investments, is 17%. Additional benefits due to improved safety of train
operations have not been quantified. The returns are attractive and demon-
strate SRT's careful definition of its 1977-81 Investment Plan. Even if
benefits are 20% less than estimated and costs are 10% more, the project
remains justified, yielding an overall rate of return of 11%.
Ecology
67.       The project will have no adverse ecological effects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the State Railway of
Thailand, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
69.       Special conditions of the proposed project are listed in Section III
of Annex III of this report.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                                               by Ernest Stern
February 22, 1979
Washington, D.C.






Annex I
PaRe l of 5
TABLE 3
TRAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AEiGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND Sq.   .)                   TRAILAND                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            514.0                                                     SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     238.5                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP je
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   100.0       200.0      410.0            616.0      432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       64.0        247.0     284.0            522.0       251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         26.6         36.3      44.1
URBAN POPULATION (P!RCENT OF TOTAL) 12.7          15.0       16.8             30.1       24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        52.0         71.0       86.0            156.8       42.7         50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    112.0         152.0      185.0            794.8       95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.1         44.8      43.7             40.8        44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                          52.9         52.3      53.2              55.4       52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6          2.9        3.1              3.2        3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.2          3.0        2.9              2.3        2.7          2.5
URBAN                               5.1          5.0        4.6              5.1        8.8          4.7
CRUOE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       44.9        41.4       34.9             34.6        42.2        37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       13.8        10.7        8.9              8.7        12.4        10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..         3.2        3.1              2.6         3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       405.6    2680.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    .           14.0       37.0             22.1        14.2        20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              68.0        100.0      104.7            106.8      104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIP.EMENTS)                   96.0        103.0      107.0            108.7       99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           47.0         52.2       50.0             57.7       56.8         63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         8.4           *-       14.6             17.0       17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       10.4         5.3         ..              4.0         7.5         8.D
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    49.0          55.5       58.0             59.0        53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        80.0       56.3             44.0        82.5        53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *-        17.0       25.0             21.9        31.1        56.8
URBAN                                 *-        60.0       69.0             58.3        68.5        79.0
RURAL                                 *-        10.0       16.0              9.8        18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *-        17.0       40.0             28.6        37.5        30.9
URBAN                                ..         65.0       58.0             66.6        69.5        45.4
RURAL                                ..          8.0       36.0             14.8        25.4        16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            7800.0      7070.0    6750.0            4103.1      9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..      6650.0    4330.0            1520.2      2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1340.0 /f    890.0      770.0            657.1       786.5       493.9
URBAN                                 *-       280.0      290.0            145.5      278.4        229.6
RURAL                                 *-      1380.0    1140.0            1011.8      1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        31.0       19.0             19.0        19.2         22.1
EOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.5 Lf      5.8        5.5              5.2          ..5.2
URBAN                                5 3  i      5.9        5.5              5.2                      5.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                                                                                 2.0
URBAN                                                                                    2.3-         1.5
RURAL                                ..           .*         *-               *-          .3          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                                      24.6             39.1        28.3         64.1
URBAN                                           63.0                                                 67.8
RURAL                                ..         13.0         ...                        10.3         34. 1



Annex I
Page 2 of 5
TABIL 3A
THAILAID - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERACES
THAILAND                                               /
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPRIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb      REGION /e   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                136.0         81.0      78.0             95.6       75.8        99.8
FEKALE              128.0         77.0      75.0            93.7        67.9        93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  8.0         17.0      25.0             43.3       17.7         33.8
FEMALE                6.0         14.0      21.0            38.6        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 19.0         24.0      13.0             11.3        7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMART                           36.0         35.0      30.0             30.0       34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                         20.0         16.0      21.0             25.4       23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        68.0        79.0      82.0             84.0       63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         5.0       7.0              9.3        7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0        78.0     135.0             97.6       71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                          2.3         7.0      17.0             21.8       14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0        24.0         ..            25.9       16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..       1.7              4.6        1.6          4.6
EHPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    12757.0      16163.0   18514.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  48.3         47.3      46.9             33.2       28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              82.0        78.0      76.0             48.4       54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.7         7.4        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.3        46.6      45.6             38.9       37.8         33.8
MALE                                 52.7        49.3      48.6             48.6        50.3        48.1
FEMALE                               49.8        43.9      42.6             28.4       20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         1.1        1.2             1.2         1.3         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8 /h      23.8 L    14.0             17.3       19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9 Ph      49.7 /i   42.2             45.6       48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2 /h       6.1 /i    7.6              6.5        5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9 /h      15.9 /i   19.1             17.3       15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     120.0            140.8      155.9        191.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      90.0            112.8       97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..       143.7       319.8
RURAL                                ..          ..      93.0             76.8       87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..       11.0            27.7        22.9        19.8
RURAL                                ..          ..      28.0             40.4        36.7        35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Lwer Middle Income (5281-550 per capita 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle Income
(S551-1135) per capita, 1976);  /f  1962;  /R  Percent of population in Bangkok metropolitan area;
/h  1962-63, rural only;   Li  Rural only.
September 1978



Annex I
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                       Page 1   of   5
Kaig: The, adjuated group averages for sach indicator are population-.eighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countriesa among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Doe to lark of data,
group averages f or Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and igndicators of acceas to water and excrete disposali, housing, Income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric mbeans without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AMI  (thousand sq. km)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total, urban. and. rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area. comprieing land area and inland weters.                         urban, and rural) divided by their respective ouxber of hospital beds
Aericultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural ares used temporarily                   available in public and private general and speciulised hospital and re-
ar permanently f or crops, pastures, machat and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staf fad by
lie fallow,                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
cars are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA fUS$) - GNP per capita esiatsa  currant market prices.                        cal. tasters not permanently staffed by a physician (hut by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Sank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistaoc, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient acconamodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                                provide a limited range of medicel facilities.
Admissions Per hospital bed - Total number of admiseions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PERL CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                     from hospit-als divided by the number of bsds.
(coal en lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     gOUSING
Avrg  sias  of household (persona Per household) - total, urban. end rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total populetion. mi-yar(illions) - As of July 1; If not available,                         and their mtoi  meals.  A boarder or lodger may or nay not be included in
averge otwoendyear estim ate; 1960, 1970, end 1977 data,                             the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population CPercent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban eraee  may effect comparability                   Average number of Persons oer room  - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                                  ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings emelude non-persmaent structures and
Per  so. ka. - Mid-year population pet square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (prerent of dwellings) - total, urban. and rural -
Per so. km. agriculture land - Computed as above f or agricultural lend                    Conventional dwellings with electrtcity In lIvIng quarters as perenmtage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population ass etructure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and ratired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year populatioc.                                                                      Adjusted enrollmet ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total. and urben - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year* populationa for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (par thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        differentt lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending In 1960 and                      cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and fiva-3ear average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                       above the official school age.
Crude death rats (eec thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and femal  - Coxputad as shows; oscondory aduco-
year populatios; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 antd 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year averege ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                            vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughtrer  a woman vill hear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal seproductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - VocationAl institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           cluod  technical, industrial, or other progrems which operate tndependently
Family planning - acceptors, annua  (thousands) - Annual nmber of                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices order auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary. and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family Planning - users (Peccan.t of married woman) - Percentage of                         sponding levels.
married womn of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birch-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adulta (able to read and write) a
devices to all married women in smem  age group,                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSACTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                    Passenger cars (per thousand pultion) - P"assener cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all fund commodities.                                       setn  ls   hn  Ih,pros   ecludea ambulances, hearses and Military
Per capita supply of caois(percent of resuiremence) - Computed from                       vehicle..
energy equivalent of nat food supplies available in country per capita                Radio receivers (Per thousand population) - All types of receivrer  for radio
per day.  Avsilable supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of pcpulation; occludes unlic..ensd
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio soet  was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; data for recent yearo nay not be comparable since moust countries
quirements wore estimtatd by PAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
me1 activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to Senaert
weights, age end sex distributions of population , and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at household level,                                                        tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita suPpply1of.pr?otein (gr!am  per day) - Protein content of per                 Newspa:per circulation (per thousan.d population) - Shows the averege circula-
capita net suppy of fodpe  day.  Net supply of fond is defined as                         tio  of  dily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all contries established by USDA provide for                     cation devoted primarily to recording ganeral news.  It is conaidered to
aMinimums allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grmam                    be  'daily" if it appears at least four tines a week.
of animal and polses protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Baoed on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                       unite.
fIAG In the Third World Fond Survey.
per capita Protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of fond                DIPLOYMET
derived from animals and pulses in grmam  per day.                                    Total labor force (thousanda) - Pconcmically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, stodents, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                tiaon  in various countriea are not comparable.
Faemal (percent) - Pesnale labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                    Azriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Lif  exapectancy at birth (yearse) - Average number of years of life                        as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in siing, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water end gee as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participation rate (percent) - total, male. and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                 female labor force as percenta ges of their respectiva populati.on.
Access to safe water (Percent of pnoulation) - total, urban. and rural -                    These are  TLO's  djustad partiripation races r-fectingJo-e
Number of pample (total, urban, and rural1) with reasoable access to                      structure of the population, end 1ong time trend.
safe wacer supply (includes treated surface w&tar  or untreated but                    Econmic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 1  enod 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as chat from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 yeats.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban sees a public fountain or standpost located not mare.                     INCONE DISTRIBUTION
chai  200 masee. from a house may be considere.d as being within ems-                  Percentage of private income (hoth in cash and hind) received by richest 5
sonable acces s of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                    percent, richest 20 paerent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or memaboer  of the household do not have to                     of households.
spend a disproportionate pert of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to ancreca disposal (percent of population) -  0total.urbant ed              -     stimated absolute poverty Income level (U5$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (tutal, urban, and rural) served by ancet                           abolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Etcr5ta                        nutritionally adequate diet plus esse*ntial non-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                         affordable.
treatment, of human excretaeand waste-water by water-borne systems                     Estieated relative poverty income, level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                      Relative poverty income level is that income level less then one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                        pee capite personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                        Estimsatd Population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural-
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                              Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                          "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Econo.nic sod Socia1 lets Division
tcnnoxlc Analysts and Projections Departeen.t



ANNEX I
Page 4 of S
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual                  Est.                Projected                    Growth rates (x)            1975 share
1965      1970      1976       1977     1978       1979      1980       1985   1965-77  1977-79  1979-85  1985-90  of GDP (x)
A. National Accounts
(Million US$ at 1975 prices)
1.  Gross domestic product        6,843.8  10,323.0  15,712.6  16,685.5  18,022.2  19,395.2  20,692.9  29,256.7    7.7         7.8      7.1      7.0        100.0
2. Gains froa terms of trade        -44.3      42.8   -507.7    -978.1    -629.0   -572.9    -533.8    -518.2                                                -3.2
3.  Gross domestic income         6,799.5  10,365.8  15,204.9  15,707.4  17,393.2  18,822.3  20,159.1  28,738.5    7.2         9.5      7.3      7.0         96.8
4.  Imports                       1,659.9   2,989.4   3,699.1   4,460.8   4,700.6   5,082.8   5,440.4   7,507.8    8.6         6.7      6.7      6.8         23.5
5.  Exports - volume             -1,593.2  -2,274.8  -3,808.4  -4,506.9  -4,145.1  -4,481.1  -4,862.1  -7,448.5    9.1        -0.3      8.8      8.7         24.2
6.  Exports - adjusted for TOT  -1,548.9  -2,317.5  -3,300.7  -3,528.8  -3,516.2  -3,908.1  -4,328.3  -6,930.3    7.1          5.2     10.0      8.8         21.0
7.  Resource gap - adjusted
for TOT                       111.0     671.9     398.4     932.1   1,184.5   1,174.7   1,112.1       577.5                                             2.5
8.  Total consumption             5,302.3   8,007.0  11,709.5  12,370.3  13,839.7  14,809.7  15,740.4  21,253.9    7.3         9.4      6.2      6.1         74.5
9.  Investment                    1,608.2   3,030.6   3,893.8   4,269.2   4,738.0   5,187.2   5,530.8   8,062.0    8.5        10.2      7.6      7.5         24.8
10.  National savings              1,576.4   2,500.8   3,477.7   3,312.5   3,603.0   3,970.7   4,300.3   7,037.7    6.4        9.5      10.0      9.6         22,1
11.  Domestic savings adjusted
for TOT                     1,497.2   2,358.7   3,495.5   3,337.1   8,553.5   4,012.6   4,418.7   7,484.6    6.9        9.7      10.9      9.3         22.2
12.  GDP at current 3S$            4,052.9   6,543.3  16,284.3  18,156.9  20,917.6  24,093.0  27,401.6  55,355.9   13.3        15.2     14.9     13.4
B. Sector Output
(Share of GDP)                4,052.9   6,543.3  16,284.3  18,156.9  20,917.6  24,093.0  27,401.6  55,355.9   13.3         15.2     14.9     13.4
1.  Agriculture                      0.391     0.346     0.301      0.281     0.272     0.264      0.258     0.229
2.  Industry                         0.208     0.227     0.269      0.288     0.296     0.304      0.309     0.335
3.  Services                         0.401     0.427     0.430      0.431     0.431     0.432     0.432      0.437
C. Prices (1975 - 100)
1.  Export price index               46.43     48.04     91.65     89.35    103.13    113.40    123.48    172.32    5.6        12.7      7.2      5.1
2.  Import price index               47.76     47.15    105.75    114.12    121.58    130.03    138.71    185.20    7.5         6.7      6.1       5.0
3. Torms of trade inde               97.22    101.88     86.67      78.30     84.83     87.21      89.02     93.04   -1.8       5.5      1.1      0.1
4.  GDP deflator (US$)               59.22     63.39    103.64    108.82    116.07    124.22    132.42    189.21    5.2         6.8      7.3      6.0
5.  Annual average excharge rate    20.80      20.80     20.40      20.40
D. Selected Indicators                       1965-77  1977-79  1979-85  1985-90
1.  ICOR                                  3.56     3.32     3.80      3.97
2.  Import elasticitr                     1.09     0.87     0.95      0.97
3.  Average national savings rate         0.24     0.20     0.23      0.26
4. Marginal national savings rate         0.18     0.25     0.32      0.35
5.  ITport6/GDP                           0.27     D.26     0.26      0.26
6. Investment/GDP                         0.27     0.26     0.27      0.28
7.  Resource gap/GDP                      0.04     0.06     0.04      0.01
Value added /b                       Labor force /c                    V.A. per worker /b /c
E. Output, Labor Force and Productivity in 1975              US1 million             2               Millio ..                           US$            2 of average
1. Agriculture                                               4,559             31.3              13.4             75.7               340                41.5
2.  Industry                                                  4,442            30.4               1.4              7.9             3,170               356.7
3. services                                                   5,588            38.3               2.9             16.4             1,930               235.4
Total/average                                         14,589            100.0              17.7            100.0               820               100.0
F.  Public Finance (2 of GDP)                 1965       1970      1974      1975     1976        1977/a
(Central Government)
1. Current revenue                        13.5      13.8       14.5      13.6      13.4     14.6
2. Tax revenue                            12.3      12.5       13.5      12.0      12.1      13.3
3. Current e-perditu-es                   10.5      12.6       10.7      12.1      13.0      12.5
4.  Budgetary savings                      2.9       1.2        3.7       1.5       0.4       1.1
5. Total public investment                 6.5       7.7        3.8       4.9       5.3       5.4
G. FPol Iports (Current US0 millions)         63.0      112.0     628.6     711.7     833.7      923.0
(% of total imports ncl. NFS)              8.3       8.0       18.4      20.0      21.1      19.7
/a Preliminary.
/b At current market prices.
/c  Ettimate.



ANNEX I
Page Sof 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL A, SISTANCE. DENY ADD CEEDISOORtHI
(Current 1195 milliOns)
Actal                            Nat.                       Peolected
1973       1974        1975        1976       1977 Ia   79T           1979       1980         1985        1990
Summary or t lanoce of Payments
Exports (Excluding NFl)                            2,084.7    3,025.4    2,796.5    3,490.6    4,027.1    4,274.9    5,081.7          6,004.0    12,835.0    24,967.7
Imports (iEcluding NFS)                            2,258.3    3,353.2    3,487.3    3,911.9    5,090.8    5,715.0    6,609.1          7,546.7    13,904.5    24,630.4
Iesaerm-  balance                                   -173.6     -327.8      -690.8      -421.3  -1,063.7   -1,440.1   -1,527.4    -1,542.7    -1,069.5             317.3
Net factor uervice income                            -20.8        -0.7         5.4      -41.6      -72.6        -9.6      -134.3       -243.4       -925.0    -1,412.5
Net internal payment.                                7.0       36.0        69.0        26.1        32.1       31.0       -81.7       -187.9       -766.9    -1,70.7
Of vinch n public M & LT  o.n.                   -25.1      -28.1       -34.5       -44.3      -59.6       -95.5      -133.1       -174.5      -487.1       -882.0
Dirent Investment Ecoume                           -28.0      -37.0       -64.0       -66.1      -74.0       -62.0       -75.5        -80.0      -192.5       -290.0
Worke-a rerittacceS (net)                            0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       21.4        22.9         24.5         34.4         48.2
Currexnt t.n.fnr.  (set)                             145.5      241.0        80.1        22.8        44.5       70.0        80.0         80.0        100.0        110.0
Balance on current arcount                           -48.9      -87.5      -605.3      -440.1   -1,091.8   -1,379.7   -1,581.7    -1,706.1    -1,894.5           -985.1
Peiv-ie  dir ct inneut-ext                            67.0       135.6       85.5        79.1       106.1      120.0       140.0        156.8        276.3        487.0
Grants & grant-like  lonu                              0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0          E.G          4.0          0.0
Public M & LT loans
Diabur_e.ents                                       69.0       95.9       149.2       241.7      251.7       666.7       816.6      1,010.8      1,960.4     2,697.6
Adorti-ation                                       -29.8      -32.3       -38.7       -43.4      -66.8       -97.5      -164.1       -222.1       -620.1    -1,092.7
Bat diab-u-emests                                   39.2       63.5       110.5       198.3       184.9      569.2       652.5        788.7      1,340.3     1,604.9
Other h 4 LT ..ans
Dib--henenta                                      178.9      326.2       299.6       279.7      303.2       531.8       672.1      1,028.8      1,393.0        462.2
Atorti-ation                                      -223.1     -197.2      -235.1      -245.9     -260.7      -401.4      -202.8       -266.5       -850.6    -1.167.8
Bat dixbh-uemeota                                  -44.2      129.3        64.5        33.8        42.5      130.5       469.3        762.3        542.4      -705.6
Use of IMP teanurcex                                   0.0         0.0        0.0        77.1        17.1      100.0       100.0        -30.O        -30.0          3.0
Short-term capital transoctitos                       42.0        55.      127.5       136.2       250.1      110.0       120.0        128.4        180.1        152.6
Capital tran-acti-ox NEI                              57.9        96.3       77.2       -11.4       138.8        0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Change i rererva-  (- -inc_n_a)                     -113.0     -392.7       140.1       -73.0       352.4      350.0       100.0       -100.0       -414.8       -54.5
Net .o-eigo each-age re-e-ra. /b
(nod of perind)                                  1,306.0    1,599.0    1,406.0    1,444.0    1,395.0    1,045.0          945.0      1,045.0      2,634.5     5,320.9
Grant nod Loan Coxn,titxeatx
OffIcial greats                                        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Total publir M 6 LT loana                             87.1      436.5       223.4       372.3       633.0    1,031.0
IBDESs 050                                                    142.0        93.0       158.0       137.8      211.0o
I"A                                                 25.0        7.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        27.0
Otbhr n,atilatneal                                   6.4       77.2        62.7        92.1       47.0       119.
Goerenunots                                         24.0      200.5        47.7        22.2       106.4      264.0
Of chich ceotrally placd nonoles /                   0. 0        0.0        0.0         0.          00         0.0
Supplinrs                                            0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        85.0
Pi axcial ioatitotianu                              16.7        9,7        18.0       100.0      341.9       325.0
Othar 5 S LT loans (cher-  avitlabln)                178.9      415.9       392.5       360.2       348.9      531.8
Baxeorandox Items
Geant element of total co-tainta (Y)                44.600      31.400     16.700      11.500      10.200      14.869
Average int-rest (I)                                 U.044      0.057       0.074       0.001       0.080      0.072
A.veroge aturity (yearn)                            29.100     23.800      23.500      18.500      14.000     12.832
Medium- and ton--Tern Dhbt (Disbor.ad only)
Total debt outstaodig  (DOD end 0f period)          903.9    1,160.7    1,345.6    1,606.8    1,931.9    2,217.4
lrluding i adisbur-ed                             1,182.4    1,770.0    2,009.5    2,404.0    3,145.9    4,054.7
Publlc debt samia                                    -54.9       -60.4      -73.2       -87.7      -126.4     -193.1
Late.es.                                            -25.1       -28.1       -34.5       -44.3      -59.6       -95.5
Other h 6 LT debt aervice                           -255.0     -266.8      -314.5      -245.9      -326.6     -421.9
Tntal debt -errire                                  -310.7      -327.2     -387.7      -333.6      -453.0     -614.9
Dabt service ratin                                    14.9        10.8       13.9         9.6        11.3        14.4
Debt service cali  /d                                 16.2        12.0       16.2        11.5        13.1        15.8
Dlbe service lDP                                       2.9         2.5        2.7         2.0         2.5         2.9
Public debt aevice/oveemmentevenue                     4.3         2.5        3.5         3.7         4.4        0.0
Terms ( X )
Imteret on total DOD/total DOD                         5.7         3.5        5.6         5.4         5.7         5.2
Total dabt serviOe/total 3OD                          12.4        11.8        11.9       10.7        12.0        27.7
Dependency Eaelna ioar h 5IT Debt (X)
Groan dinbornementslimpnrmm (including 001)           11.0        12.6       12.9        13.3        10.9        21.0
Net tranafer/imports (inclading NFS)                  -2.8         2.8         1.8        4.8         2.0        10.2
Net team .fe/grone dimb-rae-exti                     -25.3        22.5       13.6        36.0        18.4       48.7
topastee (X)
IB1D ditb-ri-eD ts/grosa  total disbarsements         14.8         8.0         9.1        8.3        12.0         9.3
Bask Group diobu- esnnta/grn.a total disbu-ementx 14.8             8.3        9.7         9.3        13.6         9.9
0810 D0D/tato1 D00                                    24.2        20.0       20.0        18.6        17.9       20.2
ealk Group D00/total DOD                              24.2        20.9       20.4        19.2        18.9       21.3
0BD debt aervice/total debt nervice                   8.0         8.5         8.3       10.9         9.8         7.8
sank Gra.p debt  me-vice/tata1 debt sevrm              8.0         8.5        0.3        10.9         9.8         7.8
Internal Debt (Oimbcraed onaly)                           OutetanAlng 12/30/76
(Cuereot US$ milliana)                                   AMount          X
IB00                                                       345.7        32.9
Ea=k Grcup                                                 365.2        34.7
Other multilater.l                                         137 .5       13.1
Devermnents                                                379.7        36.1
Of bhirh rentrally planted ncoelan It                      0.0         0.0
Fxpplie-n                                                   156         '49
Bonds                                                        0.0         0.0
Public debt met                                               0.0        0 0
Total public M 6 LT debt                                 1,052.1       100,0
Other b & IT debt                                          879.8        83.6
Total public debt (including  -ndisbursed)               2,266.1       215.4
Total M 6 LT debt (including  -ndimbursed)               3,145.9       299.0
/a Prelimina3ry.
/b Net foreign auxeta: US$ eqnivalent nf Line 31.
77  Includms CtEA cMontnixa, Penpies Napublic of China, NBrth Eorem, Nnrth Viet Nae.
7d lncluditg met direct investment inrmmm.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A; STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1979)
Loan or                                                             Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                              Less Cancellations
Number  Year    Borrower                 Purpose           Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans and one credit fully disbursed          388.9      5.5        -
822     1972       RTG                   Education         15.4        -      6.0
864     1972       TOT                   Telecomm          37.0        -      3.6
870     1972       RTG                   Highways          28.6        -      1.0
369     1973       RTG                   Education             -    19.5      5.9
461     1974       RTG                   Irrigation            -     7.0      1.2
977     1974       EGAT                  Power             75.0        -    20.3
992     1974       IFCT                  Industry          12.0        -      0.7
1021    1974       MWWA                  Water             55.0        -    13.1
1149    1975       RTG                   Irrigation        95.0        -    76.5
1198    1976       RTG                   Rural Dev.        21.0 (TW)  -    12.3
1199    1976       RTG                   Livestock          5.0 (TW)  -       3.5
1243    1976       RTG                   Rubber            50.0        -    41.5
1253    1976       TOT                   Telecomm          26.0        -    10.9
1271    1976       RTG                   Education         31.0        -    25.8
1327    1976       IFCT                  Industry          25.0        -    20.5
1393    1977       RTG                   Agriculture       28.0        -    24.9
1468    1977       RTG                   Irrigation        55.0        -    48.0
1485    1977       EGAT                  Power             50.0        -    42.8
1492    1977       IEAT                  Industry           4.8        -      4.5
767     1978       RTG                   Population          -      33.1/a  33.1
1519    1978       RTG                   Highways         110.0        -   101.6
1527    1978       PEA                   Power             25.0        -    25.0
1556    1978       RTG                   Housing            8.6        -      8.5
s-10    1978       NGOT                  Energy              4.9       -      4.1
1620    1978       TOT                   Telecom           90.0        -    90.0
1630    1978       RTG                   Irrigation /b    17.5         -    17.5
1638    1979       RTG                   Urban /b          16.0        -    16.0
Total                                        1,274.7    65.1   658.8
of which has been repaid                      187.2       -
Total now outstanding                         1,087.5    65.1
Amount sold /c                      68.6
of which has been repaid         36.6         32.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                1,055.5    65.1
Total undisbursed                               618.6    40.2
/a  Of which $3.1 is NORWAY grant participation.
lb Not yet effective.
/c Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1979)
Amounts ($ million)
Year         Company            Type of Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construc-
Aggregate Co. Ltd.       tion Materials             0.30       -     0.30
1964/  Industrial               Development                      -   0.38     0.38
1970   Finance Corporation      Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group        Cement and
1975                              Construction
Materials                   28.33   3.75    32.08
1977   Mutual Fund              Money and Capital
Company Limited          Market                        -   0.30      0.30
1977   United Sugar             Food and Food
Terminal Limited         Processing                 2.50   0.20      2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries           2.00      -      2.00
1978   Sinm Cement Group        Cement and Construc-
tion Materials                -   0.09      0.09
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited       Glass Containers             4.85   0.25      5.10
1979   Siam City Cement         Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited         tion Materials            36.00   4.00    40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                   -   0.15     0.15
Total gross commitments                                73.98   9.12    83.10
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                48.51   2.56    51.07
Net held by the Corporation                            25.47   6.56    32.03
Total undisbursed                                      42.85   0.25    43.10



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of January 31, 1979)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date:
July 31, 1980
This project involves development of Kasetsart Agricultural University
and the relocation of the faculty of Veterinary Science and expansion of the
faculties of Agriculture, Engineering and Economics and Business Administration
on a new campus. Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of
the project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years behind
schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procurement. The
delays in civil works result from (i) 10-15 months delay in contracting
architectural consultants; (ii) 15-20 months delay in completing tender
documents; and (iii) 3-9 months delay in awarding contracts. Progress has
improved on contract awards: all civil works and 70% of equipment packages
have been awarded. Furniture and the remaining equipment packages are being
contracted. Contracted construction is progressing satisfactorily. The
specialist services program under the project is nearly completed. Out of 26
experts, 21 have completed their assignment, two are in post and three are
being recruited. Recommendations of experts for improvement of teaching,
research and extension activities are considered worthwhile and have been
implemented by the university staff. All the fellowships have been awarded;
94 recipients have completed their training. The fellowship program has
greatly improved the qualifications of the staff. Total project cost will
exceed appraisal estimates by about 35%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project finances construction and equipping of a National
Curriculum Development Center (NCDC), ten Teacher Training Colleges, of which
three require only equipment, and 32 Rural Secondary Schools (RSS) of which 11
require equipment only, all under the Ministry of Education; an extension of
the Prince of Songkla University and supporting technical assistance. Project
implementation is about 20 months behind schedule due to (i) ineffective
project management, (ii) cumbersome review of procurement; and (iii) shortage
of budget funds. However, substantial progress was made during the last three
years. Contracting has reached 98% of civil works and 77% of equipment.
Almost 75% of the construction at project institutions has been completed.
All project schools have started operation. The NCDC is playing a key role in
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
the development of new curricula at primary and secondary levels as part of a
comprehensive educational reform program. An in-depth evaluation of RSS is
being carried out, but preliminary indications are that the new curriculum for
diversified secondary education is working well in the RSS. The expert
services program is virtually completed and ninety-five percent of fellowship
funds have been committed. The component of the project with greatest problems
is that including the ten teacher training colleges where physical execution
is slow and status of the colleges is in a state of flux as teacher training
is being upgraded from secondary to postsecondary level. The Government is
likely to submit to IDA a request for a postponement of the Closing Date by
about nine months.
Loan No. 1271    Fourth Education Project; $31 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project finances construction of 50 diversified secondary
schools (DSS) and the first phase of a nationwide adult education system
(AES). Progress in project implementation follows the appraisal estimate with
minor delays (3-6 months), mainly related to the AES component. Of the civil
works which are carried out in three phases; the first phase is almost com-
pleted, the second is under construction and the third is still to be awarded.
Equipment contracts have been awarded as follows: 70% for DSS and 25% for
AES. Construction at four secondary schools has been completed. Technical
assistance contracts have been signed for both components. Out of 100 DSS
principals and assistant principals, 52 have completed an overseas training
program on education and 24 are being trained. Out of 46 fellowships for AES,
11 have been concluded and 13 are ongoing. Five out of eight experts are in
post. Satisfactory progress is being made with the implementation of special
covenants in the loan agreement. An Interministerial Committee has studied
procurement review procedures and has submitted a report to the Steering
Committee of MOE.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is generally maintaining the revised time schedule
established in 1975, following initial delays. The Bank loan is fully committed
and US$33.4 million (90%) disbursed up to January 31, 1979. Over 90% of the
local telephone network expansion has been completed; the balance is expected
to be completed by June 1979. After a year's delay in procurement under a
bilateral loan, the installation of the long distance transmission equipment
is now progressing satisfactorily. The project is expected to be completed by
the end of September 1979, two years and nine months behind schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
US$15.1 million (58%) disbursed up to January 31, 1979. Local telephone
network expansion is expected to be completed on schedule by mid-1979. After
a year's delay in procurement under a bilateral loan, the installation of long
distance transmission equipment is progressing satisfactorily. The project is
now expected to be completed by the end of September 1980, nine months behind
schedule.
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30. 1983
The loan was effective on January 3, 1979. Bid documents for procure-
ment of all project items are expected to be issued by mid-1979. Action has
been initiated on the following items as required under institutional covenants:
(a) maintenance of waiting lists for potential telephone subscribers, (b) better
utilization of installed capacity in local telephone networks, and (c) the
Economic Study of Telecommunications in Thailand.
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Project: $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Works under the project have been divided into nine contracts, of
which four have now been completed. Work on seven of the contracts was
interrupted in 1974 because rapid increases in costs led to financial problems
for the contractors. Work was resumed on three contracts after renegotiation
of the contract prices with the Government. The other four contracts were
terminated by agreement between the Government and the contractors; new
contracts were awarded and work was resumed in early 1976. Over 80% of the
work has been completed. Because of higher prices in the bids for completing
the unfinished work, total cost of the project is expected to be around
$75 million, or about 30% above the appraisal estimate, with Government
financing the overruns. Despite these difficulties the project is likely to
be completed no more than one and a half years behind the original schedule.
The highway maintenance study and feasibility studies for future projects
have been completed, and detailed engineering of the roads found to be
feasible has been completed.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Loan No. 1519    Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project:  $110 Million
of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Loan was declared effective on June 22, 1978. Procurement
of maintenance equipment is under way, with most contracts expected to be
awarded in early 1979. Construction of project roads is well under way, with
most contracts on schedule. Bids for the final group of road contracts are
being evaluated and awards are expected to be made during the first quarter of
1979. Overall progress is satisfactory.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project will be completed two years behind schedule as a result
of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving equip-
ment. During the 1977/78 working season there was a marked improvement in the
pace of construction, especially on the tertiary canals. Work on rehabilitation
of main canal systems has been satisfactory and will be completed in 1979.
The estimated project cost is $30.3 million, compared with $12.5 million
at appraisal. In part, the increased cost is due to price inflation being
higher than foreseen at appraisal. Also, a large part of the increase is due
to a decision to provide new tertiary canals over an area of 34,700 ha rather
than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and the adoption of higher standards
for tertiary development than envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are
compensated for by increases in projected commodity prices and the economic
rate of return is now estimated at 24% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress
on the rainfed rice component is satisfactory.
Loan No.        Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of November 14, 1978; Effective Date:
Closing Date:
Signed on December 4, 1978 but not yet effective.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Although the start of major construction was delayed by about
a year, prospects are good that the project can be completed on schedule
in 1984. A contract for the diversion dam was awarded in October 1977 and the
first of three contracts for canal construction was signed in April 1978.
Most of the equipment for the project is now delivered or on order. The
on-farm works are proceeding on schedule, with four pilot projects in operation
and construction of the first large block under way. The consulting services
for the project were recently reorganized to provide a nucleus of resident
staff and a greater level of assistance in project management. Systems for



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
monitoring project benefits and water-associated diseases are being established
and the reporting of project progress has improved. The first phase of the
Chao Phya Basin Study, also financed from the loan, has been completed and
the next phase is continuing. Consultants appointed in August 1978 for the
RID Administration and Organization Study will shortly complete their first
phase reports.
Loan No. 1468    Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project;
$55 Million of September 23, 1977; Effective Date:
December 23, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 5,300 ha were completed in the 1978
construction season. Project preparation for about 40,000 ha in the Stage II
area of Maeklong should be completed by January 1979. A project monitoring
system is being set up and the Chao Phya Project area is now served by the
National Agricultural Extension Project.
Loan No. 1198T  Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project: $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants good progress
is being made on the engineering of the village roads. The first contract for
construction of 114 km has been completed and work has begun on two contracts
for a total of some 250 km. Procurement problems have delayed the water
supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has now been delivered
and drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained. Progress on
rural electrification is excellent and this component will be completed in
June 1979. Progress on agricultural extension, upland crop and land settle-
ments is satisfactory. After a slow start-up, the upland crop components are
progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million of February 27,
1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
The seed production and pasture development programs are progressing
reasonably well and the loaned-bull and artificial insemination programs,
hitherto hindered by the delay in importation of cattle, are expected to
improve with the delivery of 400 imported Brahman cattle. Furthermore, the
number of permanent project staff has been increased from the initially
approved 121 to 223, and the New Zealand Government has agreed in principle to
provide additional technical assistance for the remaining project period.
Disbursements are still considerably behind schedule but are expected to
increase with improvement in the preparation of procurement documents and
importation of cattle. The Department of Livestock Development has agreed to
conduct a livestock sector review to prepare an integrated development plan,
and to reassess the project, following which proposals will be made for



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
reallocating project funds to take account of the fact that some of the
project components are either being financed from other sources or are
no longer considered to be of higher priority.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
The project is about one year behind schedule as a result of a
corresponding delay in loan effectiveness. Otherwise, progress of the project
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million of
May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977:
Closing Date: December 31. 1982
Project implementation in the field is progressing well with most
staff appointments completed in fifteen provinces. There is already some
encouraging evidence of adoption of new technology by farmers as a result of
improved extension services. Procurement is on schedule, but the civil works
program is about one year late because the scope and cost of the proposed
civil works program was larger than envisaged at appraisal and allowed by the
Budget Bureau. A reduced construction program was agreed to and rebidding is
in progress for works in eleven provinces. Disbursements are also behind
schedule because of the delays in the civil works program. Both the civil
works program and disbursements are expected to progress as scheduled during
1979. Extension and civil works consultants provide DAE with excellent
assistance.
Loan No. 977   Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The overall progress of civil works is about 85% complete. Construc-
tion of the dam embankment was completed on May 14, 1978 with a total volume
of a little over 12 million cu m. All other works are being carried out
satisfactorily. The installation of the turbine generating units is proceeding
and is expected to be completed not later than March 1980, as scheduled. The
diversion tunnel was closed in August 1977 but in the first wet season the
reservoir did not reach the level anticipated. 1978 has been a good hydro
year and the water situation in the reservoir is much better. Project costs
are likely to be about 20% over estimate due, mainly, to additional grouting
work required beneath the main embankment. Disbursements indicate that the
foreign costs will increase further as a result of the recent devaluation of
the US dollar againt the Japanese yen. The progress of resettlement has been
satisfactory, and almost all of the 814 families involved have now been
moved into their new homes.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
Loan No. 1485  Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million of September 23,
1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satisfactorily.
Implementation is about one month behind schedule. Initial delay was caused
by slow mobilization of the contractor and poorer than expected rock conditions
at the downstream ends of the diversion tunnels. Orders for all major equipment
(financed by the Kuwait Fund) have been placed. Construction of the resettle-
ment project is progressing according to schedule. Disbursements are generally
in line with appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1527  The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project covers the electrification of about 4,500 villages,
mainly in northeast Thailand. The project is in the early stages of implemen-
tation primarily for preparation and procurement. There was an initial delay
of about four months in the preparation of bid documents but procurement is
now under way and should present no further problems. Field construction
crews have been organized and have been working on pole setting and conductor
stringing since the middle of 1978, utilizing materials available in stock.
Loan S-10      Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million of
July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Loan declared effective on September 25, 1978. The engineering
work is proceeding on schedule. The follow-up project loan is at the appraisal
stage.
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision of
construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. The quality of
work on the ADB portion of the project - the transmission and distribution of
pipes - has not been satisfactory but MWWA is taking corrective measures.
Because of the initial delays in contract awards, the project is expected to
be completed in late 1979, about 20-21 months behind the original schedule.
Extension of the June 30, 1979 Closing Date by about 9-12 months would be
required for full disbursement of the loan. Due to inadequate tariffs, which
were last revised in May 1972, MWWA's financial performance continues to be
poor. MWWA's proposals for raising the water tariffs in line with the
increased operating costs have been recently reviewed by the Cabinet which has



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
approved in principle that water tariffs may be substantially increased from
July 1, 1979 (when some water benefits from the project are expected to
materialize). MWWA has also received approval to increase tariffs every two
years following the initial increase so as to enable MWWA to achieve its
covenanted rate of return of 8%.
Loan 1556-TH   Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million of June 15,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Loan declared effective on September 22, 1978. Project implementa-
tion is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979
The Loan has been signed but has not yet been declared effective.
However, the implementation of the project is generally ahead of schedule.
Signal equipment will be installed this spring, some two years earlier than
had been expected, as a result of the consulting and procurement work done
under contracts for which the Bank provided retroactive financing.
Loan No. 1492   The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project;
$4.75 Million of December 5, 1977; Effective Date:
March 24, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Construction
of on-site infrastructure is proceeding on schedule and land sales are well
ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 992   Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974; Original Closing Date: September 30,
1978; Current Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The full amount of the $12 million Loan has been committed. The
commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have also
been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's
financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Proiect; $25 Million of December 8, 1976; Effective
Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of sharply
depressed investment climate in 1976. Capital structure and liquidity position
have improved, however, with success of share capital increase. Satisfactory
progress has been made on institution-building aspects of project.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million of February 27, 1978;
Effective Date: July 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
RTG has, in accordance with the Credit Agreement: (a) established
and staffed the Project Coordinating Committee, which has met frequently;
(b) established and staffed the Project Administration and Financing Unit
(PAFU), which is responsible for coordinating project administration; (c)
appointed a project director, deputy director and two assistant project
directors and a health planner/economist; and (d) initiated most of the
key project activities at the national level and in the 20 Accelerated Family
Planning and Health Provinces. With regard to the civil works, furniture and
equipment, vehicle and special equipment components of the poject, positive
progress has been made in completing design work, preparing vehicle and
equipment lists/specifications and in selecting and acquiring sites. IDA
approval has been given to all designs. The furniture and equipment lists and
related cost estimates for all project facilities, except for the rural health
facilities, have also been reviewed and generally approved. However, due to
delays in staffing PAFU, the high turnover of the staff of the Special Project
Unit in the Construction and Design Division, and delays in securing Budget
Bureau approval for the supplementary budget for FY1978, key project activities
were held up initially and major elements are around six months behind schedule.
During the last four months, the supplementary budget for FY1978 budget have
been allocated, external donor support secured, and most of the important
national, provincial and district level posts established and funded and the
project is now ready to move ahead with implementation. The major contributing
factors to the problems facing the project have been weak project management
and insufficient attention to project coordination and to removing the impedi-
ments to speedy implementation. The Ministry of Public Health is aware of
this situation and is taking appropriate action to ensure that the Project
Director and his Deputy are more directly involved in project execution.



ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
FIFTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) The project was prepared over a period of approximately 17 months
from June 1977 to October 1978.
(b)  The project was prepared by the State Railway of Thailand.
(c)  The project was first proposed to the Bank in early 1977.
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:  November 1977
(e)  Completion of negotiations:  November 14, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectivenss:  June 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action: None.
Section III: Special Conditions:
(a) The Borrower has agreed to:
(i)  submit to the Bank by March 31, 1979, an action plan for
achieving operational targets (para. 54);
(ii) take all measures necessary, including tariff adjustments,
to earn an annual return on net fixed assets of not less
than 1% in FY79, 2.5% in FY80 and 3% thereafter; and review
the necessity for such increases annually with the Bank
(paras. 56 and 57);
(iii) undertake not later than December 31, 1979 a profitability
study of its services and implement the findings in agreement
with the Bank (para. 56);
(iv) revalue its assets by March 31, 1980 and every four years
thereafter, and review the adequacy of targeted rates of
return in light of such revaluation (para. 57); and



ANNEX III
Page 2
(v) makes arrangements with the Government for adequate compen-
sation for operating uneconomic branch lines; and complete
its analysis of uneconomic branch lines not later than
September 30, 1979 (para. 60).
(b) The Guarantor has agreed to:
(i)  enable SRT to meet its rate of return requirements (para. 56);
and
(ii)  implement procedures ensuring SRT's prompt reimbursement for
(a) annual operating deficits (para. 59), and (b) losses
incurred on uneconomic branch lines (para. 60).



r z4? 5 )  ~k'                                                                                   iIf 
U                 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
0- O: f1I-                         D
r X XZ > 0 
rr,t~Z
U~~~~' 



