CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1662 TH
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Railway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE RAILWAY OF THAILAND
Dated April 23, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1662 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 23, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and STATE RAILWAY OF THAILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "State Railway Act" means the State Railway of Thailand
Act B.E. 2494 (1951) of the Kingdom of Thailand pursuant to which
the Borrower has been established, as such Act has been amended by
the State Railway of Thailand Act (No. 2) B.E. 2502 (1959) and the
State Railway of Thailand Act (No. 3) B.E. 2509 (1966) of the
Kingdom of Thailand;
(b) "baht" means the currency unit of the Kingdom of
'rhailand;


﻿- 2 -
(c) "Railway" means the railway owned, operated and
administered by the Borrower and includes all railway property,
equipment and materials owned, operated and administered by the
Borrower;
(d)  "Investment Plan" means the Borrower's five-year
Investment Plan, which is annexed hereto as Annex 1 of Sched-
ule 2, covering fiscal years 1977 through 1981 and designed to
improve the Borrower's operational efficiency, rehabilitate its
assets and enhance its capacity to accommodate projected traffic
increases;
(e) "Uneconomic Branch Lines" means the nine railway branch
lines, a list of which is annexed hereto as Annex 2 of Schedule 2,
as such lines have been identified pursuant to Section 3.05 of
Loan Agreement No. 898 TH dated June 1, 1973 between the Borrower
and the Bank;
(f) "Subsidiary" means any limited company or partnership,
corporation or state organization or enterprise effectively con-
trolled by the Borrower or by one or more subsidiaries of the
Borrower or one or more of its subsidiaries; and
(g) "remittances to the Guarantor's Treasury" means the
remittances established pursuant to the Guarantor's Cabinet
Resolution (No. Sr 0503/V.90) of December 7, 1965, as the same
may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million
seven hundred thousand dollars (US$16,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven per cent (7%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and railway practices.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction (and operation) of the facilities included in the
Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than September 30, 1979, or such later date as
may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, complete,
and submit to the Bank the analysis of the financial losses
incurred as a result of the operation of each of the Uneconomic
Branch Lines, such analysis to be completed in accordance with a
methodology agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
(b) forward to the Bank for its review and comment the study
carried out by NESDB relating to Uneconomic Branch Lines, together
with NESDB's recommendations with respect thereto, including inter
alia, NESDB's study and recommendations relating to alternative
methods of providing services handled by such Uneconomic Branch
Lines; and
(c) unless and until the Uneconomic Branch Lines shall be
discontinued, maintain with the Guarantor an appropriate arrange-
ment satisfactory to the Bank ensuring the Borrower's adequate
and prompt reimbursement by the Guarantor for losses incurred by
the Borrower in operating such Uneconomic Branch Lines.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1979, or such later date as may be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank, carry out a profitability study of its
services under terms of reference agreed to between the Borrower
and the Bank, (ii) submit to the Bank for its review and comment
the findings of such study, and (iii) promptly thereafter imple-
ment all such measures as shall be deemed mutually appropriate
by the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, at all times, manage
its affairs, plan its future expansion and carry out its opera-
tions, all in accordance with appropriate business, financial,
engineering and railway practices, under the supervision of
experienced and competent management assisted by qualified and
competent staff.


﻿-6-
(b) Not later than March 31, 1979, the Borrower shall
submit to the Bank for its comment and review an action plan for
achieving the operational targets listed in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall effect all such procedural measures
relating to the procurement of material as may be necessary
and satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure timely availability of
material and adequate material control.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall, at all times, take all
steps necessary to acquire, maintain and review all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business and. for the execution and operation of
the Project;
(b) The Borrower at all times shall operate the Railway
and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with appropriate engineering and railway practices;
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall obtain and maintain title to all goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan free and clear of all
encumbrances; and
(d) Except in the normal course of its business, the
Borrower shall not, without the prior approval of the Bank, sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property -r
assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of its
business and undertaking.
Section 4.04. Before the Borrower shall take any action to
create any Subsidiary, the Borrower shall first have satisfied the
Bank that such action would not adversely affect the Project or
the financial condition of the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory -o the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan-; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any long-term debt
unless the amount of its net revenues for the fiscal year next
preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended
prior to such incurrence, whichever amount shall have been the
greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service
requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all long-term
indebtedness incurred by the Borrower (including the debt to be
incurred). For the purposes of this Section:


﻿- 8 -
(a) The term "long-term debt" means any debt maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred, including any debt represented by bonds;
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date the loan contract or agree-
ment providing for such debt is entered into, and (ii) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee is entered into;
(c) The term "net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources adjusted to take account of railway tariffs in effect at
the time of incurrence of the debt even though they were not in
effect during the twelve consecutive months to which such revenues
relate, less operating and administrative expenses, including
provision ior taxes (if any) and remittances to the Guarantor's
Treasury but before provision for depreciation and interest and
other charges on debt;
(d) The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund contributions, if
any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(e) Whenever it shall be necessary to value in baht debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the rate of exchange at which such other currency is
obtainable by the Borrower, at the time such valuation is made,
for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other currency
is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange reasonably
determined by the Bank.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
March 31, 1980, or such later date as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, and every four years thereafter, have its
fixed assets revalued in accordance with sound valuation prin-
ciples for railway operations satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank; and (b) furnish the Bank with a full report within two
months of completion of such revaluations.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall from time to time take or cause to
be taken all such measures (including, without limitation, adjust-
ments to the levels of its railway tariffs) as shall be required
to produce an annual return of not less than one per cent (1%) in


﻿- 9 -
fiscal year 1979, not less than two and one half per cent (2.5%)
in fiscal year 1980 and not less than three per cent (3%) in each
of its fiscal years thereafter. A revision of these rates of
return may be agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank after the
completion of the first revaluation of the Borrower's assets
pursuant to Section 5.05 (a).
(b) Before June 30, 1979 the Borrower shall: (i) on the
basis of realistic forecasts, review the adequacy of passenger and
freight tariffs and submit such review 'or the Bank's comments,
and (ii) not later than October 1, 1979, based on such review and
the Bank's comments, effect an increase of 10% in passenger
tariffs, or such other increase as may be necessary, to produce
the annual rate of return of 2.5% in fiscal year 1980 as specified
in Section 5.06 (a) of this Agreement.
(c) Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years beginning
fiscal year 1980, the Borrower shall on the basis of realistic
forecasts review the adequacy of its tariffs to meet the require-
ments set forth in paragraph (a) above for the next following
fiscal years, and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review
upon its completion for the Bank's information and comment.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated in
respect of each fiscal year by relating net income
for that year to the average of the net value of
fixed assets in operation at the beginning and end
of that year;
(ii) The term "net income" means all railway revenues,
except dividend and interest income from long-term
investments, less all operating expenses;
(iii) The term "operating expenses" includes: direct
costs of operation, administration, overhead and
adequate maintenance    expenses; straight-line
depreciation based on the useful life of assets;
remittances to the Guarantor's Treasury; but
does not include interest and other charges on
debt;
(iv) The term "net value of fixed assets in operation"
means the gross value of fixed assets in operation,


﻿- 10 -
less accumulated depreciation, as valued in accor-
dance with methods of valuation acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall restrict its annual capital expenditures on items
not included in the Investment Plan to amounts which in their
aggregate do not exceed twenty million baht (B20,000,000).
Section 5.08. Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement No. 898 TH
dated June 1, 1973, between the Borrower and the Bank is amended
to read as provided in Sectioa 5.06 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The State Railway Act shall have been amended,
suspended, repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely
affect the conduct of the Borrower's operations, financial condi-
tion or the performance of its obligations under this Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any credit, grant or loan made to
the Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, 'cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or
(B) any such credit or loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the


﻿- 11 -
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions con-
sistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely the events specified in para-
graphs (a) and (b) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The date July 23, 1979, is hereby specified for
the pur.ose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The General Manager of the Borrower and such
other person or persons as he shall appoint in writing are
designated as authorized representatives of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
For the Borrower:
State Railway of Thailand
Bangkok
Thailand
Cable address:
STATERAILS
Bangkok
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
STATE RAILWAY OF THAILAND
By /s/ Klos Visessurakarn
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Acquisition of rolling         3,600,000    )
stock: components for                      )
manufacturing passen-                      )
ger cars included in                       )
Part B of the Project                      )
) 100% of foreign
(2) Track and bridge re-           4,300,000    ) expenditures for
habilitation: track                        ) directly im-
material and related                       ) ported items,
equipment included in                      ) 100% of the ex-
Part C of the Project*                     ) factory cost of
) locally manu-
(3) Improvement of Tele-           4,000,000    ) factured items,
communication and                          ) and 65% of the
signalling: material                       ) cost of items
and equipment in-                          ) procured locally
cluded in Part D of                        ) (off the shelf)
the Project                                )
(4) Improvement of work-           1,500,000    )
shops: equipment and                       )
facilities included                        )
in Part E of the                           )
Project                                    )
(5) Unallocated                    3,300,000
TOTAL         16,700,000
*    Are excluded about 35,000 tons of 80 lb./yd. rails already
ordered and financed by the Government.


﻿- 14 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "items procured locally" means items procured
in the territory of the Guarantor in accordance with local com-
petitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Borrower and the
Bank.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿- 15 -
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is composed of the Borrower's investment program
for the fiscal years 1979-1981 which is part of the Borrower's
five year Investment Plan described in Annex 1 hereof and consists
of the following Parts:
Part A:   Motive Power
The purchase and placing in service of a maximum of 30 diesel
locomotives of about 1800 hp each, including spare parts and
tools.
Part B:   Rolling Stock
Provision of components required for the manufacture of about
80 passenger coaches and about 100 freight cars.
Part C:   Track and Bridge Rehabilitation
Renewal of about 650 km of rails, welding rail joints on
270 km of track with continuous rail between stations,
acquisition and installation of about 240,000 concrete
sleepers, rebuilding of about 120 wooden bridges and of about
60 steel bridges and acquisition of equipment for track
maintenance.
Part D:   Telecommunications and Signalling
1.    Modernization of telecommunications systems by (i)
replacement of about 20 three-channel carrier telephone
equipment with twelve-channel equipment, (ii) replacement of
about 50 teleprinters with new ones, and (iii) replacement of
one 300-line telephone exchange with one 500-line telephone
exchange.
2.   Modernization of signalling systems through installation
of mechanical interlocking at about 15 stations, and instal-
lation of tokenless block instruments and color light signals
at about 30 stations.


﻿- 17 -
Part E:   Workshop Improvement
Rebuilding of locomotive overhaul shed at Makkasan and
provision of necessary facilities and equipment at Makkasan
and district workshops.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 18 -
ANNEX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2
Schedule of SRT's 1977-1981 Investment Program
and 1979-1981 Project
Total
5 Yrs
Invest.              Total
Plan               Project
Quan-   FY    FY   Quanti-   FY    FY    FY
tities 1977   1978   ties    1979 1980   1981
1. Acquisition of
Motive Power
and Rolling
Stock
1.1 (Locomotives
(with          (No.)       30    -     -      30     -     16    14
(spare parts
1.2 Passenger cars (No.)      130    16    35     79     32    26    21
1.3 Freight cars   (No.)      273    50   120    103      30   73    -
2. Track Rehabilitation
2.1 Rail replace-
ment with new
rails          (km)       416    -     -     416     113   200   103
2.2 Rail replace-
ment with re-
conditioned
rails          (km)       233    -     -     233      40  100    93
Rail in track
welding        (km)       615   180   165    270      90    90    90
2.3 Concrete )     (km)       192    -     27    165      42   40    83
ties     )(No.-'000)      275    -     39    236      60    57  119
2.4 Bridge Rehabilitation
Timber Bridges (Units)    263    85    60    118      40    40    38
(4,482 meters) (Spans) 1,121    354   234    533     185  184   164
Steel Bridges  (Units)     69    -      9     60      21    24    15
(2,875 meters) (Spans)     86    -     11     75      25   31    19


﻿- 19 -
Total
5 Yrs
Invest.              Total
Plan               Project
Quan-   FY    FY   Quanti-   FY    FY    FY
tities 1977 1978     ties    1979 1980   1981
2.5 Equipment for
track mainten-
ance           (No.)   7 + 18    -     -    7 + 18  7+18   -     -
(7 motor trolleys
and 18 trailers)
3. Improvement of Telecom
and Signalling
3.1 Telecom equipment          Lot  -     -       Lot    -    Lot    -
3.2 Signalling equipment       Lot   -    -       Lot    -    Lot    -
4. Improvement of Workshops
4.1 Makkasan and District
Workshops                  Lot   -     -       Lot    -   Lot    -


﻿- 20 -
ANNEX 2 TO SCHEDULE 2
Uneconomic Branch Lines
1.   Eastern Line, Bangkok - Aranyaprathet
2.   Ban Dara Junction - Sawankhalok
3.   Nong Pla Duk Junction - Suphan Buri
4.   Nong Pla Duk - Nam Tok
5.   Ban Thung Pho - Khiri Ratthanikhom
6.   Thung Song - Kan Tang
7.   Khao Chum Thong - Nakhon Si Thammarat
8.   Hat Yai Junction - Songkhla (closed down as of July 1978)
9.   Mae Klong Railway Line


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1984
through   September 15, 1998                   555,000
On March 15, 1999                                    605,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1.05%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                       2.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                3.85%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                5.60%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                6.30%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                7.00%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in subparagraphs A.4 and A.5 hereunder,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the
basis of international compk-titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for dorestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
4.   Contracts for the purchase of equipment which do not exceed
the equivalent of $5,000 each and which, in the aggregate, do not
exceed the equivalent of $250,000, may be procured in accordance
with local competitive procedures acceptable to the Borrower and
the Bank.


﻿- 24 -
5.   Concrete mono-block sleepers under Part C of the Project may
be procured under local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Imported machinery and materials required to manu-
facture concrete monoblock sleepers may be purchased on the basis
of negotiated contracts with qualified suppliers.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Thailand may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Thailand if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Thailand equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Thailand.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 25 -
s all be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comVarison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, i- sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 26 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
cnange order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5
Operational Targets
Actual           Forecast
1977     1979     1980     1981
1.   Average availability (%)
1800 hp main line diesel
locomotives               82       83       85       85
Other main line diesel
locomotives               81       82       83      83
Diesel railcars             93       90*      91*      93
Passenger cars              87       90       91       93
Freight cars (box and
tank cars)              92.5       93       94      95
2.   Net ton-km per annum of
available 1800 hp freight
locomotive (million)
New acquisitions            -        -        -        65
Existing locomotives        65       65       65       65**
3.   Locomotive-km per annum
per available locomo-
tive (000)
Freight service            132      136      140      144
Passenger service          242      245      245      245
4.   Net ton-km per train-km
1800 hp locomotive           400      410      416     422
5.   Passenger car-km per
available passenger car
per annum (000)              190      195      200     204
*    Overdue heavy overhauls will be carried out in 1979-80 with
an average of three sets always under repair; consequently,
railcar availability will decrease in this period.
**   Because of redeployment of locomotives and traffic flows, new
1800 hp locomotives may produce less than 65 million ton-km
per annum.


﻿- 28 -
Actual           Forecast
1977     1979     1980     1981
6.   Net ton-km serviceable box
car available (4-wheeler
equiv) per annum (000)       395      405       415      424
7.   Net ton-km per serviceable
oil tank car available per
annum (000)                  680      710       750      795
8.   Turnaround of freight cars
(days)                       7.3      7.1      6.8      6.5


