Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. P-4029-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 200.0 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS PROJECT
April 18, 1985
This docment has a restricted distribution and may be ued by recipiens only in the perfornmace o
thir fiEehd dutk& Rs contet may not odwrwise be dbisdsd Yntbou World Bank agMorinflon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 16, 1985)
US$1.00       =  Rs. 12.20
Rs 1.00       =  US$  0.82
Rs 1 million = US$82,000
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 12.0,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DTR     -   Directorate of Transport Research, MOST
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return
GOI     -   Government of India
HPG     -   Highways Planning Group
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
IIT     -   Indian Institute of Technology
IR      -   Indian Railways
LCB     -   Local Competitive Bidding
MOST    -   Ministry of Shipping and Transport
NTPC    -   National Transport Policy Committee
PWD     -   Public Works Department
RUCS    -   Road User Charges Study
SU      -   Supervisory Unic
TCC     -   Transport Coordination Committee
VFMS    -   Vehicle Fleet Modernization Study



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumwary
Borrower:        India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:   The States of Gujarat, West Bengal, Punjab, Haryana,
Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh, and the Government of India's
(GOI) Ninistry of Shipping and Transport.
Amount:          US$200.0 million
Terms:           Repayment over 20 years, including 5 years' grace, at
the applicable variable rate of interest. GOI will bear
the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:     The project comprises:
(i) Construction and rehabilitation of various sections of
national highways in six States, which were selected
because of their high priority in the national plan,
and also because each subproject embodies a solution to
particular technical or institutional problems that is
representative of conditions found in many Indian roads.
Specifically, the proposed project would finance about:
(a) 92 km of a new dual-carriageway express-way; (b) 65
km of a new two-lane road; (c) 217 km of an additional
two-lane carriageway and strengthening of the existing
two-lane carriageway; (d) 93 km of strengthening the
existing two-lane carriage-way; and (e) 30 km of a new
two-lane bypass.
(ii) Procurement of specialized imported equipment to be used
to monitor road conditions, facilitate bridge
inspections, and test vehicle conditions.
(iii) Technical assistance and training of professionals in
central and state highway organizations to keep them
abreast of modern techniques developed abroad.
(iv) Studies by both consultants and local research organiza-
tions to determine the extent and direction of modern-
ization appropriate for India's vehicle fleet and the
desirable levels of road user charges.
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
the official duties. Is contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
(v) Support efforts by the Government in establishing a
transport coordinating committee and improving MOST's
highway planning capability.
Estimated Cost: a/         Item                        Local   Foreign   Total
------US$ Million---
A. Road System
1. Freeways                    77.7     29.0    106.7
2. Dual Carriageways           88.7     34.4    123.1
3. Major Bypasses              23.7      9.0      32.7
4. Two-Lane Roads              27.2      13.7     37.9
Sub-total                217.3      83.1    300.4
B. Training & Research/Test        0.2       5.4      5.6
Equipment
C. Studies                         0.1       0.5      0.6
Project Base Costs       217.6      89.1    306.7
Physical Contingencies         21.8      8.9      30.7
Price Contingencies            61.4     26.1      87.5
Total Project Costs      300.7    124.0    424.7
Financing Plan:                                         Local   Foreign   Total
=-US$ Million  -
IBRD Loan                         76.0    124.0    200.0
GOI                              224.7       0.0    224.7
Total                     300.7    124.0    424.7
Estimated Disbursements:      IBRD FY      FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
FY91   FY92 - -- - --US$ Million                        -
Annual        8.0   31.4   57.4   51.2   20.9   20.9   10.2
Cumulative   8.0   39.4   96.8  148.0  168.9  189.8  200.0
Economic Rate of Return:         About 26Z.
Appraisal Report:             No. 5435-IN, April 19, 1985.
a/ Includes taxes and duties of US$24.7 million.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO INDIA
FOR THE NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IBRD loan
to India in an amount of US$200.0 million equivalent on standard terms to help
finance the upgrading of major highways in six states throughout India and
strengthen the capacity of the various state and central authorities involved in
highway planning, construction and maintenance. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government of India (GOI).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1J
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian Economy -
A Medium Term Perspective't (4962-IN, dated April 16, 1984), was distributed to
the Executive Directors on April 23, 1984. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 mil-
lion (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those who own little or
no land. Growth of value-added in agriculture - 2.2Z since 1950/51 - has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.3Z per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 52% in 1950/51 to about 33% in 1981/82, while the share of industry
rose from 20% to around 26%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to
absorb the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income leveLs. As a
result economic growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging
about 3.6% per annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita income
rising by about 1.4Z per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production.  Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: the gross national savings rate more than doubled from
10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 22.7% in 1983/84, while the gross domestic
investment rate rose from 12.5% of CDP to 24.8Z in 1983/84. Foreign savings
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Second National Agricultural Extension Project
(No.P-3983-IN), dated March 5, 1984.



-2-
(balance of payments deficit on current account) have never financed a major
portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the
early 1960s. Currently, foreign savings account for about 8X of investment.
External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita
terms, never rising above 3Z of GDP and averaging below 1% for the past five
years. Net use of foreign savings has never risen above 3% of GDP, and
presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export promo-
tion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports between
1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume growth of
imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s, however,
India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the 1960.,
deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various policy
measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of India's
exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole, a perfor-
mance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible. While expand-
ing world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed to this
growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective export incen-
tives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As a
result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added sub-
stantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging 5.3%,
3.3Z and 8.1Z, respectively, during the 1975/76 to 1978/79 period. In 1979/80,
however, this momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent years, com-
bined with a doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply shortages,
led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening
up of a relatively large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also
emerged after several years of virtual price stability. These setbacks coin-
cided with the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program
of adjustment that aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastruc-
tural bottlenecks and ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the
economy of 5.2Z per annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of the
second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to 1982/83),
GDP growth averaged almost 5Z per annum, while between the two recovery years
(from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5% per annum - substantially higher than
India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%. Continued rapid economic growth has
resulted from a development strategy which includes higher investment levels and
liberalized policies on imports, industrial licensing, prices, and commercial
borrowing. These policies, by easing constraints on the supply of infrastruc-
ture and basic commodities, were a determining factor in the improved perfor-



-3-
mance of the economy and the industrial sector. This overall improvement in
performance, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82 and
1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate
of wholesale prices declined from over 18X in 1980/81 to only 2.6Z in 1982/83,
but rose to over 9Z in 1983/84, mainly due to the effect of the 1982/83 drought
on food prices. Further improvements in the policy environment will be required
to maintain these higher levels of economic growth and investment without put-
ting undue pressure on the balance of payments or reviving inflationary
expectations.
8.      Economic growth in the early 1980s has not been steady, mainly because
of the effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural production during the period.
In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered from the 1979
drought, with real GDP growing by 7.6Z and 5.3%, respectively. While industrial
output expanded by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.62 in 1981/82, recovery was particularly
robust in agriculture where normaL weather helped output to rise by more than
15Z and 5.5Z, respectively. The supply of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was further expanded in 1981/82, recording growth
rates of about 1OZ, 9.6% and 12.5%, respectively. This overall improvement in
the Indian economy was halted in 1982/83 by a severe drought in mid-1982 which
reduced agricultural production by 4%, brought down the GDP growth rate to 1.8%,
and put further strains on the already difficult balance of payments and domes-
tic resource situation. The timely implementation of various economic policies
relating to foodgrain imports, procurement and distribution, and the allocation
of power to irrigation pumps mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of
the poor monsoon. The economy recovered in 1983/84, led by a robust agricul-
tural sector - GDP grew by about 6.5% to 7% with agricultural production growth
in the 9%-10% range and industrial growth of 4.5%. The major factors contribut-
ing to the good economic performance during 1983/84 were the excellent monsoon,
combined with adequate agricultural policies and programs, and satisfactory
performance of the coal and transport sectors. The power sector, however,
emerged again as a constraint on higher growth, especially in industry.
9.      Agricultural production rebounded strongly in 1983/84 in response to
the monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of irrigation.
Overall foodgrain production rose by lO%-12X over the previous year, reaching
a new record of 142-144 million tons, a substantial increase over the previous
peak of 133 million tons in 1981/82. Corrected for weather variations,
foodgrain production continues to grow at a trend of 2.6% per annum-sufficient
to maintain a broad balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic
demand. Nonetheless, the balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain
imports to maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from
time to time. Thus, adequate management of foodgrain stocks and programs to
expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of other
agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Baqic infrastructure services had a mixed performance in 1983/84, par-
tially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half of the



-4-
year but also due to a failure to maintain the productivity gains of 1980-82.
Electricity generation grew only by about 3.7% due to low reservoir water levels
during the first half of the year, delays in the commissioning of new capacity,
and a deterioration of capacity utilization in thermal plants. As a result,
power generation was about 11.5% below requirements and constituted a major
bottleneck in the economy. Key industries which were adversely affected by
power constraints included steel, fertilizers, cement, and coal. To improve
performance in the power sector, the Government recently increased incentives
for higher labor and management productivity in thermal plants. Railway freight
traffic, measured in ton-kms, grew by only 0.5% in 1983/84, reflecting sluggish
demand. Coal production increased by about 6.5% in 1983/84 reaching 139 million
tons. When combined with stocks already available this level of production was
sufficient to meet the relatively slow demand growth. Infrastructural con-
straints would have emerged much more sharply had the pace of industrial growth
and demand been more rapid. It is therefore critically important that India
maintain the pace of invest:uent in these key sectors, mobilize sufficient
resources to do so, and implement programs to enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus in
the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap between gross invest-
ment and national savings increased from negligible lev7els during the late 1970s
to an average equivalent to 2.1% of GDP in 1980-84. India's gross national
savings rate, which averaged 22.6% of GDP in the last four years, is high by any
standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large proportion
of its population below the poverty line. The scope for a substantial increase
in the savings rate is therefore quite limited. If India is to maintain invest-
ment at about 25% of GDP, a major effort will be required to raise additional
domestic resources particularly in the public sector. Future increases in
savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. This would also allow a marginal
decline in the use of foreign savings from the recent 2.1Z-2.3% of GDP to
l.5%-1.8X, to ensure a sustainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the late
1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from 1976/77 to
1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1% of GDP during
1980/81 to 1983/84. Several developments contributed to these relatively larger
current account deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated sharply in
1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and continued to move
against India during the first three years of the 1980s. Second, a more liberal
import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued. Third, net invisibles
declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittances stagnated (reflecting
slower development activity in the Middle East), and payment of interest on
higher levels of foreign debt increased. Faced with severe infrastructural
constraints and a deterioration in its balance of payments, India initiated an
adjustment program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth rate from its his-
torical level of 3.6% to 5.2% while adjusting the country's external balance to



-5-
the adverse price developments in the world markets. The main elements of this
strategy, which is being successfully implemented, are export promotion, import
substitution where economically justifiable, implementation of a coherent energy
policy designed to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth
of oil imports, and continued movement toward a more liberal import policy aimed
at providing producers with access to inputs for higher capacity utilization,
greater efficiency, improved technology and capacity expansion.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the reduction
in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9 billion in 1983/84
despite unfavorable world market conditions and import liberalization. Export
volume growth and import substitution of oil and petroleum products, metals and
fertilizers more than offset the substantial increase in "other" imports. These
"other" imports consist mainly of industrial imports and capital goods which
historically have been in chronic short supply and which are of critical impor-
tance to capacity utilization, product quality, and plant modernization and
expansion. A major factor in the decline of the trade deficit was the lower net
import bill for petroleum, which dropped from US$6.7 billion in 1980/81 to
US$3.4 billion in 1983/84 in response to a successful oil development program
that reduced import needs and allowed crude oil exports, which totalled about
US$1.5 billion in 1983/84. These structural changes in the balance of payments
are to a significant degree the result of India's development and adjustment
efforts over the past three years. It is expected that the balance of payments
will continue to be under strain for the next severaL years, since the adjust-
ment strategy will continue to require high levels of imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need external
capital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable future, given
the low per capita income level in the country, the already high savings rate,
and the structural adjustment process. Faced with a growing need for external
capital inflows and stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance,
India decided at the start of the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and commercial banks to substantial levels.
In the period covering the fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983/84, India drew SDR 3.9
billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the INF. In addition, India borrowed
significant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and
increased the use of suppliers' and export credits. In the period 1980-84,
India contracted commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and suppliers'
credits of over US$1,000 million.  The bulk of this borrowing has been used for
specific development projects in the public and private sector (mostly for
petroleum exploration and development, steel, power, aluminum and shipping).
India's favorable debt service position and the nature of its borrowings, for
project-related purposes instead of direct balance of payments support, enabled
it to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads. This larger commer-
cial borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement with the IMF has
stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen to less than four
months of import coverage in 1981/82.



-6-
Development Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared to
many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity as
well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India also has a
wide range of institutions capable of fostering development and is well-endowed
with human resources. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in
terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also
gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign
savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will lay
down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is expected
to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy development,
export promotion, domestic import substitution where economically justifiable
and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall Sixth Plan performance
has been encouraging, with aggregate real investment projected to be about 30X
higher than in the period 1975-80-a creditable performance indeed. The Sixth
Plan expenditure targets, however, will not be fulfilled as resource mobi-
lization by the public sector will fall short of the financing requirements of
planned public investment. Actual aggregate real investment is projected to be
about 7% below the original target for the period 1980-85, private investment
being 5% to 10% higher and public investment about 20% lower in real terms than
actually projected. In terms of meeting Plan expenditure targets, the perfor-
mance of the Central Government is considerably better than that of the State
Governments. The Central Government's Plan outlays are likely to reach about
80% to 90% of the original Plan allocation in real terms, while the States' will
probably achieve only about 50% of their targets, due principally to shortfalls
in resource generation. Bottlenecks in key sectors such as power, transport and
irrigation are likely to persist as a consequence of real investment shortfalls
relative to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's capital
formation rates have increased from 22.6% in 1975-80 to 24.7% of GDP in 1980-84.
Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for future income growth,
but returns to invesrment have so far been relatively low.  Much of this
phenomenon relates to India's stage of development, in which a Large and growing
proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic infrastructure serv-
ices which have inherently high capital-output ratios. However, there is scope
to reduce capital-output ratios through improvements in efficiency. As dis-
cussed in greater detail in our recent economic reports, performance in the
basic service sectors can be improved through better planning and management,



-7-
thus leading to higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the
economy. At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In
the case of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified
on the grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power
and transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the
requirements of the rest of the economy will be vital for sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development program
backed by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the program has
been excellent with real investment and oil production levels running well ahead
of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration
and development were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and
products. While the gap between domestic consumption of petroleum and produc-
tion remains large, India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% of con-
sumption in 1979/80 to about 41% in 1983/84 and is expected to decrease to about
33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly expanding level of exploration
activity, combined with the possibilities for accelerated offtake from known
fields, offers much encouragemeat for India's longer-term energy prospects. At
the same time, the increases in domestic petroleum prices have helped encourage
conservation and slow demand growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
This will require the continuation of the current development strategy which
assigns high priority to export promotion, public finance discipline, improve-
ment of economic efficiency, and investment in infrastructure, supported by
adequate flows of external borrowing and aid. In the short term, a relatively
large level of external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences
of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India
with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional
assistance since India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector
and enormous investment requirements for human development and basic
infrastructure. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing
on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather than
accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. Nevertheless, with a more
open trade policy and expanded efforts to remove constraints on the growth of
productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of both foreign and
domestic savings, India-is demonstrating that it can sustain a rate of growth
closer to 5.0% per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6% per annum. If the
rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth
rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of per capita income of
1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts would make a significant difference to
the prospects of easing poverty in India.



-8-
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
to accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated there was
no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained about 2.2Z per annum
in the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fertility rates.  The population
growth rate failed to decline in the past decade due to a reduction in the
infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy, reflecting larger
availability of food and health services. While this is a welcome development,
it implies a greater strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the need for con-
tinuing efforts to strengthen the health and family planning programs in a broad
range of activities and services. These efforts are given high priority in the
Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the proportion of protected couples in the
reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35Z
by 1984/85. The Government is reviewing its population policy for the Seventh
Plan, with indications of a determination to retain the emphasis on the
implementation of family pLanning, health, education and literacy programs aimed
at reducing fertility ratea.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic and
social policy. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
Lhan 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40X of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Significant reductions in poverty
will depend primarily on an acceleration of economic growth, particularly in
agriculture, combined with effective implementation of poverty alleviation
programs. India's poverty alleviation strategy appropriately recognizes that
production-oriented programs, which aim at accelerating the overall pace of
economic growth, and poverty alleviation programs, targetted at those least able
to participate in the general growth of the economy, can be mutually reinforcing
rather than substituting for each other. Major poverty programs operating on a
nationwide basis at present include: the Minimum Needs Program (CIP), the
Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), and the National Rural Employment
Program (NREP). The IRDP and NREP are targeted programs aimed at increasing the
incomes of the poor rapidly, either through the transfer of productive assets or
direct employment. The MNP, aims at broadening the provision of social
infrastructure and basic services which enhance the human capital of the poor
and improve living standards. These programs represent a vitally important
commitment of the Government to address the needs of the poorest. The scale
of the poverty problem in India, combined with the inherent difficulties in
implementing poverty programs in any country, imply the need for continued
efforts to enhance the effectiveness of these programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 82 loans and 165 development credits
to India totalling US$6,526 million and US$12,268 million (both net of
cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,524 million has been
repaid, and US$6,207 million was still undisbursed as of September, 30, 1984.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through



September 30, 1984 totalled US$171 million, representing a decrease of about
40 percent over the same period last year.  Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1984.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$223
million, of which US$34 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and
US$34 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$98 million, US$91 million repre-
sents loans and US$7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements
as of September 30, 1984, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic
growth in India, particularly through power generation and distribution, and
railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided
financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises,
primarily in the private sector, through its support of development finance
institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability to satisfy
the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group has supported
nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as well as water
supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant with
Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan and in the approach being
taken by GOI in the preparation of the Seventh Plan. First, high priority will
continue to be given to GOI's agricultural program. While India has made siS-
nificant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to be sustained
to improve the balance between food demand and supply and to contribute to
poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will continue to
support irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and agricultural
extension and credit. Second, alongside GOI's efforts in promoting greater
efficiency and faster development of the industrial sector, increased assistance
will be provided for industrial development.  Third, the review of performance
under the Sixth Plan confirms the high priority that should continue to be given
to the expansion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure cipacity and to
the development of India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources. Accordingly the
Bank Group will, continue to support the development of the energy, transport and
telecommunications sectors to alleviate critical shortages which constrain
output in both agricultural and industrial sectors. Fourth, sunport of urban
development and other GOI basic social services programs for t -oor will also
continue in light of the growth in population which, despite successes in lower-
ing birth and death rates, still increases by about 16 million each year.



-10-
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Rank
economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.  Thanks in
part to the response of the aid community, India successfully adjusted to the
changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India continues to
require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to offset the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the relatively
higher investment and growth rates achieved during the first four years of the
Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should
aim to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively
few capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.6 billion
in FY82, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to supple-
ment IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve
growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of
payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about 15.22 in 1984185.
This ratio is projected to rise to around 20% by 1989/9o, mainly due to the
hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this level
through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service ratios are con-
siderably above historical levels, they are still manageable and will not adver-
sely affect India's creditworthiness.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12Z of
net disbursements as compared with 62%, 33% and 37%, respectively, in 1983/84.
In 1983/84, about 19.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group. On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was US$9.6 billion or 36% (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion). As
of September 30, 1984, outstanding loans and credits to India held by the Bank
totalled US$17,271 million, of which US$6,207 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$11,064 million.



-ll-
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Sectoral Overview
29.     Rail and road are the dominant modes of transport in India.
Railways provide trunk services for bulk movement, and road transport
provides long distance service for other commodities as well as most of
the feeder and distribution activities. Since it is estimated that rail
and road carry about 95 percent of total domestic passenger and freight
movement, the role of other modes is relatively insignificant.
Nonetheless, these other modes (air transport, pipelines, coastal
shipping, and inland waterways) provide important specialized services,
and each has a role to play because of the size of the country and its
geographical features.
30.     Transport responsibility in India is shared between the Central
and State Governments and the private sector. The private sector controls
the trucking industry, a small portion of the shipping industry, and about
40 percent of non-urban passenger road transport. The Government owns the
railways, public transport companies, the ports, the major shipping
companies, all the institutions involved in civil aviation, and is
responsible, at the Central or State leveL, for the construction and
maintenance of all roads.
31.     The transport sector plays a vital role in India.  Virtually all
the other sectors are dependent on efficient and reliable transport
services. Transport investment represents an important part of total
investment in India, although, over the last two decades, investments for
the development of the transport system have declined relative to develop-
ment investments elsewhere in the economy. Transport expenditures in the
country's first Five Year Plan (1951-52 - 1955/56) constituted more than
22 percent of total investment but declined to about 15 percent in the
next three plans, and to 13 percent in the Sixth Plan. This trend is
partly explained by the need in earlier years to concentrate on basic
infrastructure and by the greater emphasis on other sectors in later
years. Nonetheless, the level of investment in the sector has not been
sufficient to provide-adequate quality of service, as is evident from the
following problems: (a) inadequate railway capacity to carry coal, some
of which has had to be moved less efficiently by road transport; (b)
constraints in port capacity due to obsolete equipment and outdated
management practices, (c) overcrowding of passenger trains; (d) poor
condition of the national highway system; (e) inadequate network of rural
roads (about 35 percent of villages are not connected by all-weather
roads); and (f) insufficient maintenance funding across the sector. The



-12-
Government is aware of the massive expenditure requirements of the tran-
sport system, and real investment in the sector is expected to increase
during the Seventh Plan (1985-1990).
The Roads Sector and the National Highways System
32.     Roads in India are composed of:  (a) National highways, which are
the main highways in the country connecting major ports and adjoining
countries, and linking States' capitals, and include strategic roads
required for national security; (b) State highways, which are the main
trunk roads within the States (other than national highways) connecting
important cities and districts; (c) District roads, which traverse each
district, serve areas of production and markets, and connect each district
with highways or railways; and (d) Village roads, which connect villages
to the nearest district road, main highway, or railway.
33.     The road network has experienced an almost fourfold expansion
since 1950-51, growing from 0.4 million km in 1950-51 to 1.5 million in
1980-81 at an average annual rate of 4.5 percent. India's density of
roads, which stood at 0.46 km per sq. km in 1980-81 compares favorably
with densities in other developing countries. Nonetheless, because India
has a high population density scattered throughout the country, road
transport requirements are considerable and call for further expansion and
strengthening of the road network. Traffic in India's total road system
has been growing at about 5.4 percent per annum, with traffic in the
national highway system growing at a faster rate-census data reveal that
annual growth rates in the 1979-1984 period in this system ranged from 8
to 20 percent.
34.     The national highways constitute the primary network in the
country, with about 32,000 km of road length and an estimated 30 percent
of total road traffic. The network has expanded slowly, adding only about
10,000 km in the period 1950-1980. The system is experiencing difficulty
owing to a number of deficiencies, such as inadequate road links and
bridges, substandard pavements, overcongested sections, single-lane roads,
and weak and narrow bridges and culverts. In addition, maintenance funds
have been limited. The cost of correcting these deficiencies is estimated
to be about Rs 45 billion in 1983-84 prices. Such a large investment can
obviously be made only over a long period. Accordingly, in the prepara-
tion of the Road Development Plan for 1981-2001, the Ministry of Shipping
and Transport (MOST) has estimated that a large proportion of capital
works' expenditures during the Seventh and Eighth Plans must be allocated
for these purposes.
35.     Under the Constitution, national highways are a "Union" or Central
Government responsibility and both their development and maintenance are
the responsibility of GOI as laid down in the National Highways Act of
1956. The Roads Wing of MOST is thereby responsible for the construction



-13-
and maintenance of the national highways throughout the country. The
actual construction and maintenance work is performed by the various State
and Central Public Works Departments (PWD) and the Barder Road Development
Board on an agency basis. Most of the administrative work is also done by
the State agencies. The States are paid agency charges of about 9 percent
of the cost of the work. The engineers in the Roads Wing examine the
projects prepared by the executing agencies and, on approval, recommend
that they be sanctioned by the Government.  The Roads Wing also coor-
dinates matters pertaining to research, planning, monitoring, and evalua-
tion of the relevant standards and specifications. Local contractors
normally execute road works, although the respective PWDs execute a por-
tion by departmental force-account.
36.     Capital and maintenance expenditures for the national highways
system are financed in full by the Central Government. Annual allocations
for capital expenditures are budgeted in the relevant Five-Year Plan.
Maintenance funds are also decided on an annual basis, but, being a non-
Plan 1/ expenditure, are subject to greater overall resource constraints.
With fixed establishments of labor that must be paid, any reduction in
road maintenance allocations bears heavily on the purchase of materials,
without which labor is unable to work effectively. Thus the effect of
budget cuts may be quite disproportionate to their size. Improvements in
highway planning contemplated in the project will go a long way toward
prioritizing investments and striking a balance in the allocation of
resources between investments and maintenance of assets. GOI is aware
that past levels of expenditures in the national highways system have been
inadequate to allow appropriate expansion, correct the deficiencies, or
provide adequate maintenance and the Seventh Plan (1985-1990) is expected
to significantly increase the allocation of funds for national highways.
In real terms. maintenance expend tures increased, with respect to the
previous year, by 11 percent in 1981-82 and by 19 percent in 1982-83.
Also, new sources of revenue are being investigated; specifically, the
Government is studying the feasibility of establishing a toll system in
the country, a system that exists today, to a limited extent, only on
major bridges. This matter will also be addressed in the project.
Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
37.     The Bank's involvement in India's transport sector dates back to
1949 and has consisted of eight loans and ten credits for Indian Railways
(IR) totaling more than US$1.8 billion, five port projects and one ship-
ping project totaling US$410 million, and one rural roads project and one
highway project totaling US$95 million.
1/ "ncn-Plan" expenditures are, with some exceptions, current, opera-
tional expenditures.



-14-
38.     Whereas the Bank's involvement with IR has been almost continuous
since 1949, Lending to the ports and road subsectors was discontinued in
1962, mainly because of GOI's preference for local competitive bidding.
In 1980 the Bank undertook a rural roads project in the State of Bihar
(Cr. 1072, 1980) albeit with no ICB provisions given the size (US$29
million) and remoteness of the project area.  This situation has now
changed with the approval of the Nhava Sheva Port Project (Ln 2387, 1984),
where ICB procedures are being followed. The proposed project would be
the Bank's first operation in the national highways system since 1962; in
addition, a rural roads project in Gujarat is under preparation.
39.     The objectives underlying the Bank Group's past assistance in the
transport sector have focussed primarily on the railways subsector and
have financed the increase in assets required to handle traffic volumes,
assisted in rehabilitating and modernizing the infrastructure, and
improved operating efficiency, maintenance, administration, and planning
capabilities. Because of the Bank's continuous participation in the
railways subsector, much progress has been achieved: however, the Bank's
involvement in the other subsectors, primarily due to the 25 year absence,
has been much less. With renewed dialogue between the Bank and GOI, the
focus of attention in the ports subsector has involved the introduction of
modern technology, with respect to both design concepts and equipment, for
the efficient handling of cargo; the improvement of port operations and
management through staff training programs; and the improvement of
integration with other modes of transport through hinterland development.
Country-Bank Sectoral Objectives
40.     The Government recognizes the need for an integrated policy
framework as a basis for better planning and coordination of inter-modal
investments, appropriate cost-based pricing and better utilization of
already available transport capacity at the operational level. To deal
with the mounting problems in the sector, GOI commissioned the National
Transport Policy Committee (NTPC) to make recommendations an the main
transport problems in the country. The Committee's report, which was
presented to GOI in 1980, emphasizes greater competition, the use of the
price mechanism in resource mobilization within the sector, and improved
inter-modal coordination. The Bank, in its policy dialogue with GOI, is
strongly supporting the implementation of the NTPC's recommendations, most
of which have been accepted by the Government and to this end, we propose
to increase our involvement in the sector through our lending and sector
work programs.
41.     GOI has begun the major task of implementing the key recommenda-
tions of the above report-a task that required major shifts in thinking
on the part of GOI on such issues as resource mobilization, subsidy
elimination and foreign contractor participation in a sector that has



-15-
traditionally been reserved for local contracting organizations. It is in
this environment that the Bank foresees a continuing role in assisting GOI
in its efforts to modernize the transport sector.
42.     Within the framework of priorities recommended by the NTPC, the
Bank assistance program is designed to emphasize:
(i) expansion of overall transport capacities, primarily through
greater operational efficiency in the use of existing assets.
Investments in key areas such as the modernization of asset
management in the railways, rehabilitation of existing capacity
and streamlining of maintenance and project execution practices in
the sector will be required;
(ii) introduction of cost-based pricing principles in the sector and
reduction of subsidy levels including cross-subsidization in the
railway sub-sector, not only to encourage more efficient traffic
allocation, but also to improve the financial position of sector
agencies;
(iii) improvement of inter-modal planning and coordination; and
(iv) strengthening of the management of public transport enterprises
particularly in traffic forecasting, maintenance engineering,
safety and investment planning.
43.     Following successful implementation of the proposed project with
its specific objectives (see below), future projects in the roads subsec-
tor would extend the institution-building component begun under this
project to other States; would embody the results of the Road User Charges
and fleet modernization studies to be undertaken in the context of this
project; and focus on other institutional issues identified in the NTPC
Report such as deregulation and freedom of inter-modal choice for the
user-issues that can only be addressed once the basic "building blocks"
of pricing and planning to be introduced in this project, are in place.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.     In late 1982 the Government of India formalized its interest in
obtaining Bank Group financing for a highway project in India in recogni-
tion of the fact that *the Bank's approach would confer a range of benefits
in the roads subsector that were badly needed. The project was prepared
by the Roads Wing of MOST, with the assistance of Bank staff. It was
appraised in September-October 1984. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal
Report, Second National Highway Project" (Report No. 5435-IN) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held
in Washington, D.C., in April 1985. The Government of India and the
Ministry of Shipping and Transport were represented by a delegation coor-



-16-
dinated by Mr. Malhotra, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of
Finance. A supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
45.     The project, which is seen as the first in a series in the subsec-
tor designed to support GOI's implementation of the NTPC recommendations,
will remove traffic congestion through the construction and rehabilitation
of selected links of the national highway network and will address key
institutional constraints both in the Central Government (specifically in
MOST) and in six States: Cujarat, West Bengal, Punjab, Haryana, Tamil
Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh. The key institution-building issues are the
establishment of an intermodal planning and coordination capacity, the
strengthening of a highway planning and construction capability, the
introduction of modern highway design and economic evaluation techniques
both at the Central and S:ate Government levels, and the, albeit modest,
initial steps aimed at tLh modernization of the road transport industry.
46.     The Bank's involvitent in the project is justified on four
grounds. First, the project would make extensive use of modern highway
design, quality control, and economic evaluation techniques, areas in
which the Bank has experience and expertise. Second, the Bank's presence
will assist in the transfer of modern technology to the road subsector,
specifically the road construction industry, which is to be gained from
the procurement of civil works through international competitive bidding
and through the import of specialized equipment to monitor road
conditions, facilitate bridge inspections, and to set up vehicle testing
stations. Third, the project provides opportunity to examine the resource
mobilization mechanisms--road user charges and funding allocation
mechanisms that have constrained growth in the past. Fourth, introduction
of a highways subsector project into the Bank's lending program will mean
that the Bank will be actively involved in all the major transport
subsectors, with concomitant opportunities to develop integrated solutions
to India's transport needs and, in this project specifically, to focus
more fully on the resolution of intermodal issues that constrain transport
efficiency.
Project Description
47.     The proposed project would support the construction and/or
rehabilitation of certain sections of national highways, which were
selected because of their high priority in the national plan, and also
because each subproject embodies a solution to a particular technical or
institutional problem that is representative of conditions found on many
of India's roads. Specifically, the proposed project would finance works
on about: (a) 92 km of a new dual-carriageway expressway; (b) 65 km of a
new two-lane road; (c) 241 km of an additional two-lane carriageway and
strengthening of the existing two-lane carriageway; (d) 93 km of



-17-
strengthening the existing two-lane carriageway; and (e) 30 km of a new
two-lane bypass, including a major bridge. Specific technical issues to
be addressed in each subproject include the selection of appi:-riate
road/bridge design, the introduction of controlled access roads, traffic
segregation, road safety, and control of ribbon development.
48.     The institution-building component of the project involves adop-
tion of specialized imported equipment to assist MOST and the participat-
ing states in monitoring road condition and usage, to facilitate bridge
inspections, and to provide equipment for vehicle testing stations. Use
of this equipment will enable MOST to plan and allocate maintenance expen-
ditures on the basis of need, rather than on the basis of historical norms
as at present. GOI would agree to provide adequate maintenance funds upon
completion of each segment of the project: (a) as determined initially by
established norms, and (b) after April 1, 1990, in accordance with the
results of pavement condition analysis systems (Section 4.03, Loan
Agreement). The proposed project also provides for technical assistance
and for the training of professionals employed in central/state highway
organizations to keep them abreast of current developments in highway
administration, design, construction, supervision, and maintenance. Some
480 man-months of overseas training to an agreed agenda is provided at a
cost of about US$2.4 million. Moreover, the project would support the
improvement of intermodal coordination and the strengthening of the high-
way planning capabilities in MOST through the establishment of a Transport
Coordination Committee in the Planning Commission and a Highway Planning
Group in MOST, two of the key recommendations of the NTPC report. MOST's
planning capabilities have already been strengthened in the context of
preparation of this project-the Bank's computer modelling techniques are
used in selecting the project components and a MOST engineer is currently
on secondment to the Bank's Transportation Department for further
training.
49.     Finally, under the proposed project, consultants and GOI research
groups would undertake studies to establish:
(a) the extent and direction of modernization appropriate for India's
vehicle fleet and concomitantly, the optimum highway design and
axle-loading policies;
(b) the appropriate structure and levels of road user charges.
GOI has completed an examination of road safety and understandings have
been reached that MOST would prepare a plan of implementation of the
recommendations contained in the report for submission to the Bank by
December 31, 1985.



-18-
Project Cost and Financing
50.     The cost of the proposed project, which forms part of the national
development plan, is estimated at Rs 5,097 million (US$425 million),
including US$24.7 million in taxes and duties. The proposed loan of
US$200.0 million would provide 50 percent of the total project costs, net
of taxes and duties. It would cover 100 percent of the foreign exchange
costs plus about 25 percent of the local cost. The balance would be
financed by GOI and, to this end, GOI *'ould agree to provide all funds
necessary to complete the project (Section 3.61, Loan Agreement).
Possession of the additional land required for each project contract would
be a condition of disbursement of the funds required for each contract
(Para 3 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
51.     Almost all civil works contracts will be awarded using the Bank's
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures from among contractors
prequalified in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The only exception
is made in respect of small and widely scattered works that will, in
aggregate, not exceed US$25 million equivalent (Part D of Schedule 4 to
the Loan Agreement). Individual contracts will, as far as is practicable,
be about US$10 million equivalent, and, where applicable, packages of
three contiguous contracts will be tendered simultaneously so that both
local and foreign contractors may be encouraged to compete (Part A.3 of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement). Contractors may bid on one or more
contracts up to the limit of their prequalification. Some of the special-
ized equipment needed to monitor road conditions will be purchased
directly from the single known manufacturer/supplier (up to a maximum of
US$1.4 million), while the equipment needed for the vehicle testing sta-
tions and bridge inspections will be procured by ICB. All contracts
costing more than US$300,000 equivalent each for civil works, consultant
services, and equipment financed by the Bank would be subject to prior
review by the Bank before award. Domestic contractors would be given a
preference of 7-1/2 percent on civil works contracts. For procurement of
equipment, a domestic preference of 15 percent, or the import duty,
whichever is less, would be applied to bids of local manufacturers in bid
evaluation.



-19-
52.     The procurement arrangements for the proposed project are sum-
marized as follows:
Procurement Method (US$ Million)
Project Element                           ICB      LCB     Other      Total Cost
1.  Civil Works                          353.4    20.0                  373.4
(182.0)  (10.3)               (192.3)
Supervision of Construction                             33.5         33.5
Land Acquisition                                         9.7          9.7
2.  Equipment                              3.4               1.4          4.9
(3.3)             (1.3)       (4.6)
3.  Training                                                 2.4          2.4
(2.4)       (2.4)
4.  Consultants' Services                                    0.8          0.8
(0.7)       (0.7)
Total                            356.9   20.0       47.8       424.7
(185.3) (10.3)      (4.4)     (200.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank.
53.     The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed as follows:
-   46 percent of total expenditures (net of taxes) for civil works;
-   100 percent of foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory) for equipment; and
-   100 percent of foreign expenditures for training and consultant
services.
Disbursements under the loan are expected to be completed by June 30, 1992
and the closing date would be December 31, 1992. The pattern of disburse-
ments is expected to be consistent with the Bank's disbursement pattern
for similar projects in other countries.
Project Management
54.     MOST would have overall responsibility for project implementation,
although execution would be delegated to each State's roads organization
on an agency basis, as is normal practice in India. Each participating
state would arrange for the formation of a Supervisory Unit (SU), whose
personnel-engineers, technicians, and support staff--together with the
necessary equipment, laboratory facilities and vehicles, would be deter-



-20-
mined and agreed with the Bank in accordance with the magnitude of the
works. In addition to the supervision and quality control exercised over
construction operations by the SU, GOI, quite independently, has an ongo-
ing mechanism to check on quality of work. This is the Vigilance
Committee, which carries out spot checks on major works to ensure that
design and construction standards are being maintained.
55.     Inasmuch as this will be the first Bank-financed project in
national highways in nearly twenty-five years, and some of the subprojects
are innovative and somewhat experimental in their application, more inten-
sive supervision would be required from MOST in New Delhi. The arrange-
ments for sub-project supervision made in each state (including organiza-
tion structure and staffing levels, laboratories, facilities, and
equipment) have been discussed and agreed. In addition, understandings
have been reached that, where necessary MOST would retain the services of
specialist consultants (about sixty man-months, costing US$0.8 million)
to assist in executing the more innovative aspects of some of the sub-
projects (Section 3.02 and Schedule 4, Loan Agreement). Appropriate
training schools and facilities have been set up and competent staff are
available at both Central and State levels.
56.    The Bank is actively supporting HOST's efforts to improve its
effectiveness in maintaining the national road network. Understandings
have been reached that GOI would provide for a gradual improvement in the
allocation of resources for the national highway maintenance by ensuring
that, by December 31, 1992 maintenarce funds will be allocated in accord-
ance with a pavement condition system that underpins a rational main-
tenance funding allocation process. Further, GOI undertakes that future
investment allocations for national highways will take into account plans
prepared by the Highways Planning Group established under the Project
(Section 4.04, Loan Agreement).
Studies
57.     The Vehicle Fleet Modernization Study (VFMS) will:  (a) review
existing vehicle fleet technology and current conditions of the highway
system; (b) estimate road traffic demand; (c) propose and evaluate alter-
native future mix of commercial vehicles on the basis of vehicle perfor-
mance and the structural capability of the network; and (d) make recommen-
dations on the proposed vehicle specifications and on an action plan for
their implementation. The study will expand the scope of the work being
carried out by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), and understand-
ings have been reached that GOI would complete the study by December 31,
1986, and would furnish the same to the Bank for its comments.
58.     The Road User Charges Study (RUCS) is designed to examine, for the
first time, the adequacy of road user charges in relation to the real
costs of road use (road maintenance and congestion and investment



-21-
funding); and to propose changes, if necessary, in taxes and other road
user charges in order to align road user charges with costs and to enhance
the efficiency of the transportation system. GOI would carry out the
study by December 31, 1987, and the results would be furnished to the Bank
for its comments (Section 3.03, Loan Agreement).
Transport Planning and Coordination
59.     Highway planning in India is still in its infancy and, under the
project, GOI has established and is staffing a Highway Planning Group
(HPG) with membership, powers and functions acceptable to the Bank.
Furthermore, GOI has adopted an economic evaluation methodology, accept-
able to the Bank in order to determine its road investment programs and is
presently promulgating its use throughout all State highway agencies. GOI
has also established a Transport Coordination Committee with membership,
powers and functions acceptable to the Bank that will, inter-alia, examine
the inter-modal issues in the transport sector and review, on a continuous
basis, the implementation of the key recommendations of the NTPC Report.
Economic Justification and Risks
60.     The economic case for the proposed project rests on the expected
reduction in vehicle operating costs, passenger travel time, and in the
costs of road rehabilitation and maintenance. When the projects are
implemented, significant savings will accrue from reduced fuel
consumption, tire wear, vehicle maintenance and depreciation, and time-
and road maintenance-related costs. Also, in some cases, future road
reconstruction costs will be delayed. In addition, the proposed project
is expected to yield significant institutional benefits in terms of
improved intermodal coordination, highway pLanning, and execution
capabilities; improvements in road safety; modernization of the road and
road industry subsectors; improved road work quality; and further develop-
ment of domestic road contractor capabilities. The road transport market
in India is highly competitive and thus it is expected that the benefits
of the project, which initially accrue almost entirely to road users, will
be passed on to the economy in general.
61.     The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project as a whole is 26
percent. For the six civil works components, which amount to about 98
percent of total project cost, the individual ERRs vary from 19 percent to
37 percent. No attempt has been made to ascribe benefits to the costs of
studies, training, or equipment, although their costs are included in the
calculation of the project ERR. According to sensitivity analyses, there
is little risk that the ERR for any of the subprojects would fall below 12
percent, which is the estimated opportunity cost of capital for India. In
addition, three sensitivity cases were analyzed that involved (a) an
increase in capital costs of 20 percent, (b) a decrease in benefits of 20
percent, or (c) a combination of a 10 percent increase in costs and 10



-22-
percent decrease in benefits--all of which would have a similar effect on
the overall ERR, which would decline to about 23 percent in each case.
62.     Since most project components involve proven technology, technicaL
risks connected with the project are minimal. However, the Bank has not
had an operation in this subsector in India for almost twenty-five years,
and there is little experience concerning the capacity of the Roads Wing
of MOST to implement the six subprojects properly and on time. Experience
in other transport subsectors in India has been good, however, and, since
the same Ministry is involved, it is reasonable to assume that the
implementation risks will be acceptably small. The operation of some of
the proposed "state-of-the-art" improvements, such as expressway, bypass,
and traffic segregators, have a certain degree of risk, given the lack of
experience in India in the utilization of such systems. However, the
training element of the project and the proposed intense supervision of
civil works and studies are designed specifically to contain those risks.
The staff examined the environmental aspects and found that, as is normal
in highway construction, the project may temporarily impinge adversely on
the environment during the construction phase. However, the completed
works will have a positive impact in that smoother road surfaces and
improved capacity will result in shorter journey times; less congestion,
dust, and noise, and a general enhancement of the environment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.     The draft Loan Agreement between GOI and the Bank and the Report
of the Comittee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
64.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
April 18, 1985



ANN  I
Fag. 1 of 5
TABLE SA
INDIA                 -  SOCIAL INDICASORU DATA INERT
INDIA                              *FEUNM umurst tNOUPS   EIC     AVCRAs) p
NOST                    (NOSY siEOUl ESTIMATE) 
IIICUT            LOW INC              MIDE 
mc&0i    iw7g?o     z       LbTSMASL  ASIA 6 PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
A    (IBM=   . m)
TOTAL          .                   3287.6    3287.6      3287.6
ACRICULTUSAL                       1763.5    17S0.5      1612.3
GO PE CAPTT& (MS)                       60.0     100.0      260.0            278.6                 1291.2
(KILWORMS OF OIL EqUIVALENT)         79.0      113.0      158.0           272.0                   567.3
mOA AJ. an vtAL sTIM
POPULATION.MIDO-YEA  (ThOUSANDS)    434849.0  347569.0   716985.0
URBAU POPULATIO- C OF TOTAL)         13.0       19.8       24.1            21.7                    34.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEARt 000 (MILL)                          994.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                           1707.2
POPULATION tKOEWI                                         1-.7
POPULATION DENSIY
PU sq. it.                        132.3      166.6      213.4           166.6                   261.9
PER sq. K. AGRI. LAD              246.6      307.5      387.1           345.                  1733.1
POPULATION ACE SMUCTRru  (2)
0-14 YUs                          40.9       62.7       39.3            35.S                    39.0
15-64 YRS                          54.5       54.2       57.6            39.8                    57.6
65 AND JOVE                         4.6        3.1        3.1             *.3                     3.3
POPUUTION CROW'N RATE CZ)
TOTAL                               1.5        Z.3        2.2             1.9                     2.3
URmAN                               2.5        3.3        3.9             4.1                     4.3
CRUDE BRTH EATS (PER THOUS)          47.7       41.4       34.2            27.7                    30.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TWNS)          23.8       17.6       12.7            10.1                     9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9        L.6        2.2             1.6                     2.0
FMNILY PLNNINC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)          64.0    3762.0      6826.0
USERS (S OF MARRIED WOEN)            ..       11.7       28.0             ,,                     52.7
*XDD AND HITE1
NDEX OF FOOD POD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        98.0      102.0      101.0           112.3                   123.0
PER CPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)       96.0       91.0       86.0            97.7                   114.4
PRTEMINS (CRAIS PER DAY)           54.0       50.0       46.0            56.8                    57.0
OF WiHICN ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0      15.0       13.0 Ic         16.9                    14.1
cmlLo (ACES 1-4) DATR RA             26.2       20.7       11.0             9.8                     7.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT  TI  (YEARS)         42.5       47.5       54.6            6D.0                    60.4
INFANr MORT. RATE (PER THOtUS)      165.0      139.0       94.0            83.8                    66.3
ACCESS TO SAIE WATER CTPOP)
TOTAL                                ..       17.0       33.0 Id         32.9                    37.0
URBAN                                -        60.0       83.0 Id         70.9                    54.8
RURAL                                ..        6.0       20.0 7;         22.1                    26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(; OF POPULATEON)
TAL                                  ..       1.0        20.0 I          1B.l                    41.3
URBAN                                ..        5.0       87.0 o          7L8                     47.4
RURAL                                ..        1.0        2.0 /a          4.6                    33.3
POPULATION PER N7ICI               4850.0    4890.0      3690.0 i        3464.2                  7749.4
POP. PER NORSINC PERSON           10980.0 D    7420.0    5460.0          4793.1                  2U60.4
POP. PZE NOSPTAL BED
TOTAL                            2180.0    1650.0      1290.0 If       1066.5                  1044.2
URBAN                                ..         ..      370.0 71-       296.0                   651.2
RURAL                                *-         *-    10410.07r        5993.4                  2594.6
ADIISSIONS PER RDSFITAL BeD            ..         .          ..             ..                     27.0
AVERACE SIZE OF NOUSENOLD
TOTL                                5.2        5.6        5.2 /a
URBa                                5.2        5.6        4.8 7; T
RURAL                               5.2        5.6        5.37; T.
AVRCE NO. OF PERSONSIlOO
TOTAL                               2.6        2.8
URBAN                               2.6        2.8
RURAL                               2.6        2.8
ACCESS 0 ELECT. tS OF IBEUIS)
TOTAL                                ..         ..
RURAL                                ..         ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A S L 1 3h
INDIA                   SOCIAL INICATOS DATA _ _ _ _
INDIA                               RKKRCNC GRWJIPS (MEERIED AVERAGEI 
HOST                     (NlT RICENT ISTIMZE) b
ig.o~k    ;g7O~  RP.CKNT            LWV IIICSI           NIDDIZ rJNiD.
I 9O0/b   197Lb-  ZESTiiITECk         ASXA A PAClPIlC       ANXA & PACITIC
ADJUSTED ENROLZXEUP RATIOS
PRIMXRYI  TOTAL                     61.0       73-0        79.0            97.4                    102.0
HALR                      80.0      90.0        93.0            110.5                    103.9
rFEAL!                    40.0      56.0        64.0            33.7                     98.2
SECOUDARYI TOTAL                    20.0       26.0       30.0             35.9                     46.0
HALE                      30.0      36.0        39.0            44.6                     4. 7
FDAUL                     10.0      15.0        20.0            26.3                     43.1
VOCATIONAL (C OF SECOmAy)              2.6        1.0        0.7 1,.          2.2                     17.5
PtPIL-TEACNV RATIO
PRIMY                               46.0       U1.0        34.0            3P.5                     31.8
SECONDARY                           16.0       21.0         ..             1.7                      23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE CI)               27.8       36.1       36.2             53.4                     72.9
PASSENC  CARS/THOUSAND POP             0.6        1.1        1.4 &            0.9                     10.1
PADIO RECZIVERSYUNOUSAID POP           4.9       21.5       43.6            112.1                    113.6
TV RECEVXVS/THOUSAND PoP               0.0        0.0        1.7             15.7                     30.1
NIlSPAEt ("DAILY GENERAL
INTREST") CIRCULATION
P1X THOUSAIID POPULATION            10.6       16.2        19.4 /          16.2                     33.9
CINEA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         3.2        6.2        3.               3.6                      3.4
ADOIL PUICK
TOTAL LAOlt FORC  (TIIOUS)        185951.0  219194.0   282169.0
FEILEC (PERCENT)                    30.7       32.5       31 8             33.3                     33.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0       74.0       71.0             69.6                     32.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0       11.0       13.2             15.6                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.3       60.0       39.4             42.6                     38.7
KAM                                 57.0       52.4       52.0             54.7                     50.9
PEKALE                              27.3       26.9       25.9             29.8                     26.6
ECONORIC DEPENDEN  RATIO               1.1        1.1        1.1              1.0                      1.1
LUSIE DISmIuza
PERCENT OF PRIVATE IME
REcEIVE By
HICREST 52 Or HOUSEHOLDS            26.7       26.3 /I    22.2             2 Z2.2                   22.2
HU;IEST 202 OP HOUSEIOLDS           51.7       48.9 71    49.4 T;          48.0                     4B.0
LOWEST 20Z OP NOUSt0HLDS             4.1        6.7 71     7. 77            6.4                      6.4
LOWEST 40Z OrP ROUSDLIIS            13.6       17.2 7T    16.21i           15.5                     15.5
PUW DT TA ST CW
ESTIMATED ASSOLIUE POVET  INCROE
LEvEL (US$ PM CAPrIT)
URBAN                                 ..         ..      132.0            133.9                    IU.6
RURAL                                 ..         ..      11 I.C7          111.6                    152.0
ESTlMA    RELATIVE POVERTY INCONI
LEVEL (USS PER CAPIA
URa                                   ..         ..         ..               ..                    177.9
RURAL                                 ..         ..         ..               ..                    164.6
ESTLATED POP. rELOW ABSOLUTE
POVELTY INCME LEVEL (C)
URBAN                                 .          ..       40.3 lb          43.8                     23.4
RURAL                                 ..         ..       50.7             3 51.7                   37.7
NOT AVAnLABL
NOT APPLLE
O T E S
/a  Thu srourp aver.e  for each Indicator are populetion-uughCed aritimtic _men.. CavetW  of countrim  iO ng tlm
lodqcators dm1.88 on avellabiity of data mid is not uniform.
/b  Uales  otbhrom   noted. "Data for 1960" refer to my year betwmn 1939 and 1961; "Data fot 1970" betwaen 1969 end
1971; and data far "ost Recent letimta"u between 1980 a" 1982.
/c  1977: /d 1976; A 1975; /f 1978: ]A 1962: lh 1979; /1 1964-65.
JlUEE. 1934



ANNEX I
lees). gumM el emce's. estee. emma. OWL eteeeeeume gevIeete eje  ditffmem  haiee    fiiee.   R    nd                         mdf  r.emt~                  st
tie uelem o pim.m -s  t II)m. Mm  mestogg  iee, c  me. -mam' eShewr iSm its e MomIt. iesm etc            wooe. htie. ecees   tes thee tie setup dews o1 tie
.)mem  esemp teempte in s leton Imt 'bpieii   weeav    5tse lome Mme                h Seitge amd Madae ues  to shmie    =eee  Of emiur emeteseetmes
afit"etm1.  Cs mie hel.emee gme  de, Om iea -eemeg. eve pei.tictm  esgied ceiete   n   tee  a0 teletemm  ad n.e nas  g VD ejeutm. af tie esmeers tee
.e94dagm tee DIet Me  te tstem.m.  ite.. It. eeftpee  4C esertee.esmi em. istielee  dug-A  - alie .mtehtattm. l iee a-odd le-   eatl"ve  eat"e sNMI ie
meetejeedl me mtalt4 eeeieee  cC egr Uiritete  rn dettie.  Toem  mitogu  Mm uuipf me-de  te emm te i  -sthemem asleeler sme a   mIm sl       seu  tie  estar ad
iU lma mie. Ili1mtttta  Pelatm     d"aim  he Mobr Of pecemlme9.
TNet    , Tatdefe  m. eeeeiee  toad tree te  woutl  etear,Imt lu.                    41iiaj       FlIJTs   a    =deiee1          teceutyel
"P..ada * lieetmee IN ejimeetrevet eyemeItheiemo.mtey er pemeemgiet                 b:e"     m et fm "                   osoo   Ila    p enier "' iremmlmime
1i(eauieteea..etemaoite .getmeme e Ie  etelrel.                                        emt  sttets
tilt0 ad lii1 det..                                                                  gmecleree4pl.em    te    teerOm  - NsOWete  It."
SEjI~fi1.'f1 -mper MLt.. mmtms-mneepm   tem                                           eiat  mwht   dat    mm    .  pmtle   eplia
teM.       etmWstha    -  btate  me  fltlC.4t  etmim.                        tsOKIehltteesh eme.    wmmitlei em        l em HItt Sece  gelemeit?1 tMle
lee  mlt md  li i...                                                                balIm -             "'mcte UMeeltitemft   ivetedmee- ie11emlieKl, emedeet
-ve ev me t11t.d6. 'bum!etete  h-W.~ etdehltea
adm Ceeeetm.ttty   .htee                   te .4  etteette  it. MtlM, mitt.        -      pseimt t itetec  mmel.., go.)wobet      6 eeeem.
tile, ed teet diet,                                           'W2'I!UbPIffIfb~~~~~~~~~~ :t.I"    o"r m dl tegs tenw itefimimem
Sc ci tel It  eta, tilt, af tumie
was* tutI''. tos.                        eta lme ec.a..etatme                         Ci        11t  Celasseea etyo mew et'P tdtldml  Vk         L"" es     emu
eme meemlemi mitt. liVe, ad  Iiki imt.mtie ie.t  teelewettNIteelshooseMay
met  pev - -      So ad e. ad emrl emeuttl  ad reyatttmp                        Mete.  eettey    eie                sLa  me-etmeemee  -meeev  adr
titemstee tit. t.,.ase  i,t hnt tt..eaiee .4t  may,.. ..                      t.pmlttyqljt  i,              p ghtmtspm.eie.a   em
eepte  te    tent. eMd Cml itieC eqeeteetr etltluthe C 11.1                           atetetdtti  tl  trettyeteecese       eeee
e0ett  icwle  te itnrettie  eeieedi  me tees lestl ad    t                                                                                       P.m
uteteepei.eet  leda e-try te the .Letld -  .4 Ibtee
atemm    cC mrei'ty aM 1teetttup getde en gejeestrelne
clii  Ia    Istt.  tlmi   e.pltl  etlm                                am      e  fleeC.et I   i   fl tmt pietim .1meet
r    .,-attesLec). est     eeete NP-mm  &Mmm  mhte Ceyeueps   edmsCraeeetseh   ieti    ait.  m
a    ino t lb dab- tarn, ti  shwam tiemteo Ime.    seu Mete                             ""WeVan   etmh" " stemmeRedaiti -itemetsegd em-SM ISa  "Ise.
dyelti. tee,.-  . it. etueteIgp Cmemimtee ste as"  emetett. -  tie                  Ite- hSt imelte tee  'ieteela  eiee  lie Sittt meeat- e.
tae  C ieineced.eetlmtmlmmioi  pmltt  t te  et                                  smedesapse  -tem  emacc tem.     mi  aetslbee.s
sho. as te  e. to  i "    diet  iltttyret  Pu                 em                       t-04mtttissqtee  ml teem  em.w peer. mi t teete     ..W istolmretm
me, .ese        Co .....te   r *Mettso tur  he. reel  admy1. ti P-mm-mt tem e
eeme.M   witau  it me prtteMen   -    eeeiite                                   .eet.-ete   meh aL-c.sadeer   s Weepteet teemlelem
elmett mtttmae  eceltte- te teptPetettem  I.  Cl    . ohst.m                   t.t&eee. Itemttet. ev  Vs.me,peee  et   er
t..eri  ieeeo dut.O,.                  r.eILtt-eemmeme mete.. -f See.  mmI -_riev  - n Al sm Ieeteetd
.elte  bL,                                                                         rreemer Md eserdar   semd~dt se..m  eh,  sti
etrllit. lii  m tllt din..t; 
m    trladrttte    lt.   devr      eeee _t sd-tm.                             _Pbi~eeslegj-Pmmm  eh    eetc  ns
ie d.mits tOW, ill, adtl  .c                                                          adbi1)itiiUi                        MeetS       m tsPlve,a
remeltta  eet.Sen eseeet)    ,em~- ma  ce-I reet eect mS-           tt-ee  mate...Z     sI-h"m                                     1"1
ftee  ittemmi    t-d   ieIt.a   esLhl  bte.(e ehesetd eLIaemast - &Sit 5p.k Cl rMotmi  eere
low. IoetaTil.aod     mum) Inc. s-sein   miemmed ttd-eeg
I  a )-  Uel dette, per ttm eed  Ci et"e.L                   leeetev   Mee ev         meftatemw    - IV  eem semi   e stt
1-ttmtetA Itt. it,m   lIt? detes                                                        etet  VIRSl., pe   bmeietse    eii                 tt      Vremt
~ank~taiUdeic- teetem si     t    -. date      netib    amemle  dm peem -miaretL I 'LVs tea                                              Is citm    .
tel.                                                                            ilItteImlee'Ito    beetsC peeeimp m vederee   me   mm   te
.1 itth-pemee  derr-A si    fimcee L.J b.ttnl.V emas),eatteEaSc   .le                                          et   v erI- t            Ie  S r at 1
SOttt PiPh"s.-- tee0 (ete  ci11 gurd ee)-Fesse  e    et                                  asttl  emete.        w   -  hlstyh  o,a .so
,s  t   Ztd- eere  eM st  me.                                                                                          TVetielu   n dam heierdt Ce
temit's  rmvesgelt P."  It es-r   inu           ahot.-p"'                             t ear em ieee..          -*--g  meets,7  P etden et., veetrt
etemite  tctee   btminC  ele                      aVI-er6 ai  . met da
am,ranteetaci eerl at    at   mtea   -tm    etiee  eg                                 'dallj, i  at Icierof lr   I.   f-e  L-c. an hemas.eietlea
at -  tlce) cmeem  meoe  pt  adette  thtals. till,f meta                           dtUl dit.-C.o                                               ,O
10MM.                                                                                 te'-stetis hm. CeA-sel    eCek  ue, a   tee,-).            .- bitste  e
Fersieveto am ligrut talcest ereospo et     metectet -           Ore ieeea                          n         e      mta.ec   m   seeIit(v 
eweetee    5 me     , isam.e&i .Zlam.t meme.           im   e                   gsenStc.e).a    mi    lae5eie.  e                                ee
*                                    qesimis~~~~~~~C-A  Mo . ms- prIsmees d   m-  itM   -  0 dtimete.bse-                     m   smee    e   meter.! eseus.-wi
memssy  a s-t  anebtiem ceres-etet meeeve, hey   te..             lE'l goo  cuedis.    m-ihte).                           s..-1
a tm-aid tent1  tst-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l. eta ad mum. dame.9 frham.ros"T                                                      -
pee-i gttammjtyetIS Poor. Marss   cwdel   - mel  ems-etC.'a Per ustlC                 C.cs-e           e         C""e lat. r me -n1 ad w hid) - bateold  rns
~ LZZ  O  M.) .1esm inpt meLL Oal -me         . detta  t  ie . ep.st, rinse at pers.p.eex   eee   dpeeem  eem
-c1    edtho arm- w3it sat u.s-ti -  dey ad = CI ts c ate L. aC"     -rO                                               .-M   ahmu.sworo 
pets penile. 5 elect Itt flee ahead ie etteS" mi prieCst.,  them                                                        tw    1960  197
-                                                                               Potese- mstvsh m    ie
meayeace.mec's pie des "9mm-I), tilt ad teyt P.,eeotmus-l, eobmet diet. ha Seme.meotam-tso  virse 1                                         ate me me
dee.            i-t-isholsn iDathh,MM                                                    s
-lad ce.e 1.4d obsmh 'betk. (   tr ciealt- as-i dtas   itm  I.ea. VisO                  loaeetd'bHI  l. -  loset  s  ?ee- tent._ tis crest)   .m  a    eri
eatii-. W s    e    St ti tett6 MI    cre-   Ce ittan  eeepe                                 gdieliepeeeorsyiteeOri I eea-Ltt'. ef cerM Cs- teem.
O'"                                                 -~~~~~~~~~nete   s,lta ft- mMclt   e..  it  atCrei jb
t"x     I"" lint. wl'  --er- ' -W--pe. it0 miteteee                                  rvl-Ste  itperiei -tim.P.alo me d- s   a              , em W theme.
'eit bapetater minme C .n i ogrea  -0 emi dmt.te                    ofte ee
Sr c  pe~e teMui,inn. s         es.mi til  teeMe           -  it                                                      Cieteeseis.) aentted byc 6isisiI
eeseetseeid use  aam at Cu   peemed Wer.unie. eriW".. esd                                                                       bee tIM
Dstusi. cilia)     g  inpses-tem  et u Sir vmesini geO-sita.    m
tarts me   iit, leste   nd 7 gssepm   lame  meSI  emeet  -d lee ee.
iree le.               --emetde   a  lbt. sihi           VWmttcs  it cbsb                                    -t       1.Ca.--
A.-emceictlep- t.taeshed S
tie gillette ad diciesel. site e1-r  -Lsema  en. it a                                      mahr Cot -CLemremca
ted see-seen he eu-tan ee    cues-cC pit pauetee4s
etetie istatists.t o r    o  tf.C..CO.



ICMuC DIRvfHOw DATA
CGU PU 06        1N1 WI 16260 *1
GROSS DmIC PrOcs IN 1982/83 l/                                              AwII   "RU   01u mou   (s. CoStat Prices) ci
Uss Uno.   S                 tlgs/56-1959/60  1960/61-1j64/65  1965/6-19i/70  1970/71-1974173  197!5/7-1s9791s
CDP at markat rtrern              170.74   100.0                    3.7               3.6             3.7              2.9              4.1
Grao Domtlic lavetomn              41.99    24.6
Crog National Savin                38.12    22.3
Current Account *mlt             -  3.87   - 2.3
oTPUT. LAIGR 1roCI AMD PROOUCTIYTT KU 1981
Value aded (at fctor cout)        Labor Force         V.A. Fr Worker
U5  U                  X          HIU.       2        UCS   2 of  ational Aivream
Agrlculture                        51.7                 35.1        172.7    70.6      299        50
Industry                           35.2                 23.9         31.6    12.9    1114       1I5
Services                           60.6                 41.0         60.3    16.5    1304        249
TotaL/Average                     147.5                  10              0. r
cOVEUIODIr FIRRE
Cnral Covernnt .1                                 Central Covernt
Rn. gln.           S of CDP                   Re. Uln.           s of COP
1982/83    1982/83    197/-1198283            1823        19U/U3   1978/79-1982/83
Current Xeceipt.                    333.34      20.3           19.5                175.61      10.7          10.5
Currec ExpevUtera                   340.09      20.7           19.0               1I8.59       11.5          10.8
Curret 9Suplua/Deficit             -  6.75     - 0.6            0.5              - 12.98      - 0.8         - 0.4
CapitAl Capanditurma fl             131.28       8.0            8.1                 95.13       5.8           5.7
ExternaL Aaaidtance (net)  l         19.30       1.2            1.0
MM. CRDUIT MMD PCIS                1970/71  1975176  1977/78  1978179  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1932/83  Febuary 1983 February 1986
(Rs lilln outsnniin  at in of period)
Honey _d Quam Hoey                  109.8   226.8   329.1   601.1   472.3   555.5   624.9   723.8             711.7          85.7
lank Credit to Coveromat (not)       54.6   106.3   137.3   159.3   200.1   257.2   309.1   352.6             353.5          406.6
lank Credit to Co _nrcial Sector     66.6   156.2   212.2   255.3   310.1   363.5   430.5   506.5             487.7          576.4
(Percentae or Indr  Number)                            Apr-EFb 192183  Apr-Feb 1983/84
aney oad Qusi Homy a a Z
of CDP                             27.3    30.3    36.7    41.1    66.1    43.6    42.0    44.O
Ilholeale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0   173.0   165.8   185.8   217.6   257.3   281.4   28.6              288.1             314.8
Annual percntag  chang_ In:
Vhbolees Price lodez                  7.7    -1.1       5.2     -        17.1    18.2      9.6      2.6         2.3                9.3
lak Credit to Covernen t (net)       15.0    22.7    16.3    16.0    25.6    28.5    20.2    14.0              21.0               18.9 hb
lank Cdit to Crcial Sector           19.4    22.7    12.6    20.2    21.5    17.2    18.6    17.2              15.5/              17.9 E
ae per capita GD? estmate is at maket price. uanu World lak Atlas methodology. bas period 1979-1981.
All other conversion  to dollar. in thin oabin are at the averag  echang_ rate Prevailing durin  the period covered.
b/ Quick Iatieta. Cerral Statitl orenixtio.
c   Computed frm tred 1n. of Gcn at factor cost "re_. nluding om  observatlen befor first year and oe obsevatil  after lat yer of
lsted period.
di world lonk estimates of net dieburamut of concesamal aid md XeD.
e/ Tr sfes bet     Cetre   d Stata  have bass netted out.
1/ Al lenam ed advances to third partie have bean nsttd out.
5/ Percentage, chnge from ed-Harch 1982 to md-February 19s3.
hl Percentyae cag  frm and-Match 1983 to emi-february 19B4.
Totl Labor Farce ed percentage breakdoe  F   1981 Cunens.  Nclude. data for h.um                                                                           a



wALucc  or PgYuS                       mo/mi    1961/82  1im2at1/  jLU                NM13133 S6mT    (AVuf  1979/60-192/63) I/
(US$ RiO.)                                                                                                          nff lug,    : 
bqotet of GCed. jI                       *.30j    6.319    6,001    6,446              r ngXiasrE  Good" ti          9g0        12
luports of Coods gl                   -16.20A   -15.3e   -14.249  -1U.412             Te                              AS A5
Trade eulae                           - 7.700   - 6.NI   - 6.2A8  - 5.94               Came                           779 
ll9S (tat)                              1.363       974       940       656           ClotXmM                         373        7
Leathr _d Leather Product.   "0           6
Resource 3lauce                       - 1.333  - 6.007   - 5.306      5.090           Jute Nlasfactatem               333        A
Iron Ore                       360        S
Intorest 1c_  (net) h/                    G0        266  -  415  -  64N               Cotton Textire                  32C       4
Not Teintaers1/                         Z.771     2.318    1.U9I    1.790             Sugar                            6I
Other.                       3.849       46
Balane. on Currant Aou               -_.9"A     - 3.403  - 3.674   - 3.949
Officlal Leena A Cret.                                                                Tbtal                         *U243      IOD
Grme  Diaburmemea                       2.651     2.570     3.ec6    3.Il              UnfER1iL VW, GUAT C 31. 1963
Asortlaation                          -   700  -   674   -  701  -  73
UC5 billion
Tran ecttag with DO (net)               1.035       690     1.960     1.295           Outatandig end Dl.bur.e                   19.6
A11 Other Item !o                     -  367  - 1.561          12       531           Vmdihsbued                                11.1
Oustteoding laludlu   Unbtsr             30.7
Incr.ae in  .er"s (-                      345     2.3W    -  503  -  336
Gross Re-erves (and yr)yl               6.8       4.61      4.964    5,500            DMT smYci RIO10?  19921/3 1/ !n           10.1 per cest
Net Reserves (end yar) -;               6.332     3.497     2.010     1.449
1160/DA  UIEDIII. MAR08 31. 19614 j,
Fuel and Related Haterils
US omillion
Inports Cetraleu) j                     6.2       5.5       4.613    3.395                                                13       .13
Outstanding nd Dibuteerd           l.Q6      7,924
Undisbured                         2.0Ol    4.331
Outstanding including UfdmbUrsed   3.907    12.255
RTAE OF E08ANIC
Jun  1966 to fid-Dece_r 1971      :  USl.00 - e 7.50
Re 1.00 - 0S90.13333
Hid-Decebhr 1971 co  ued-Ju. i1n 7    0861.00 - Rs 7.27927
fa 1.00 - 9160.137376
After end-June 1972                   Floating Rat"
Spot Rate eud-farc  1963          :    S$.l00 * Re 10.0301
to 1.00 - 1SSO.0997
Spot atse end-arch 1964               US$1.OO - Re 10.7181
Re 1.00 - U050.0933
higure  given covear eL iovett           ancoe (net). Wjor payn_nta are istet on foreign loan. and eharpe p.M  to DIF. end major reipt. In
interest ered o  fteaign emaa.
1/ Figue  giv-  incd  vokr' rdttance  but exclude offidal grat e a_utance siich is included within of tialoano and grants. ed
non-raeldrt doelta ubich are Iacluded with  all. othewr item.
n/  Ewclu  nt mm of DW credit.
j Aortizt1to ed intere_t paywst on foregn  ee, as a percente of total curtet receipts.
a.  Ixclude  exchange rat  edjuitnemt to the valuation of reseve  ed flnacing of  c _lance. In rupee trade.
1   cluing gD.
Noe of crude jetraem export.
/  Including iro  and stel.



AINNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATLJS OF BANK GROUP OPERTIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF UANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30. 1984)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
NO.      Approval        Purnooe                         Dank        iD JJ       Undisbursed .J
50 Loans/                                             2,164.0          -              -
93 Credits fully disbursed                                 -       5,535.2            -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                       -          30.0           8.15
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development        -           18.0           0.03
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigatiou           145.0          -            24.94
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                    25.0          -            11.19
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport              25.0          -             1.17
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0           8.45
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development            -           20.0           1.65
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -           12.0           7.32
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0          -             2.62
720-IN    1977     Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -           23.0           1.52
728-IN    1977     Assam Agricultural Development        -            8.0           1.34
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0          52.65
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research              -            8.0          4.93
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector            25.0          -             1.72
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0          -             3.60
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6          37.38
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Pover                   -          200.0         30.11
806-IN    1978      Jaumu-Kasnbir Horticulture           -           14.0           9.91
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5           8.40
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                    -           16.0           4.86
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII              120.0          -            15.10
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                        -          150.0         43.85
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II               -          196.0         141.11
844-IN    1979     Railvay Modernization
_& Maintenance                     -          190.0         25.05
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage       -           38.0           5.28
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research       -           27.0          14.06
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -            25.0           2.94
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                        -           30.0          0.83
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0          -           50 00
874-IN    1979       amagundam Thermal Pover             -          200.0          10.71
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                     -          129.0         38.32
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply             -           48.0          6.72
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0          4.45
925-IN    1979     Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry         -           23.0           2.24
954-IN    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation rr             -          210.0         42.74
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry            -           37.0           6.51
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                     -           20.0          16.07
981-IN    1980     Population II                         -           46.0          27.63



ANNEX It
Page 2 of 4
USS million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Aporoval        Purpose                        Bank         IDA .L     Undisbursed 2.
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -          32.0          19.48
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                 -         175.0          94.88
1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                             -          22.0          16.11
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                  -         300.0         159.67
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension         -          10.0           7.56
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport              -          56.0          17.76
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                 -          54.0          30.32
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Severage   -            80.0          49.09
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                   100.0         -             5.37
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Pover                25.0         -            25.00
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Pover                 -         225.0         113.52
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0          -           20.31
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                     -          35.0          14.38
1078-IN    1981     Hahanadi Barrages                     -          83.0          42.64
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II           -          42.0          19.49
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation                -         140.0          85.73
1112-IN    1981     Telecoumunications VIII               -         314.0          89.58
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -          54.0          37.68
1125-11    1981     Hazira Fertilizer Project             -         400.0         117.86
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -          23.0          13.92
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -          28.0          17.08
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -          37.0          28.05
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -         125.0          70.25
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Pover Project II        -         400.0         273.61
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -         220.0         154.99
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0         -            18.15
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry           -          29.0          19.92
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -          25.0          15.13
2051-IN    1982     ICICI XIV                           150.0         -            57.70
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Pover II         300.0         -           269.54
2095-IN    1982     ARDC IV                             190.0         -             0.43
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -             6.0           4.69
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization          200.0         -            96.43
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III           304.5         -           274.48
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   20.3         -            20.00
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                    -          60.0          30.57
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                  -          72.0          60.11
1286-IN    1983     Jau-u/Kashmir and
Raryana Social Forestry            -          33.0          24.97
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh                -           -
Irrigation II                      -          31.0          19.65
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation               -         127.0         105.96
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5         -           140.52
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0         -           197.04



AINNAR 11
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank        IDA 3]      Undisbursed ;l
*      1299-IN    1983      Railvays Modernization &
Maintenauce II                      -         200.0         177.00
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development       139.3         -           133.71
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                  -         150.0         114.38
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubevells II               -         101.0          89.79
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power           -         170.0         148.38
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power          156.4         -           156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III        -         147.0         132.10
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization         -          32.0          26.95
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7         -            22.64
2283-IN    1983      Central Pover Transmission          250.7         -           250.07
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management      46.2          -            45.89
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban                 24.1         -            24.04
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                   -         105.0          83.20
1424-IlN   1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.          -           31.0          29.37
1426-IN    1984      Population III                        -          70.0          66.23
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry             -           27.0          25.57
2387-IN    1984      Nhava Sheva Port                    250.0                     249.38
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                      151.0                      150.62
2403-IN    1984      Cambay Basin Petroleum             242.5                      241.90
2415-IN    1984     Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer           203.6                      203.09
1483-IN    1984     Upper Ganga Irrigation                           125.0         117.38
1496-IN    1984     Gujarat Medium Irrigation                        172.0         164.14
2417-IN    1984     Railvays Electrification*           280.7                      280.70
2442-IN    1984     Farakka II Thermal Power*           300.8                      300.80
Total                                    6,526.3    12,268.:
of which has been repaid               1.350.8       173.0
TotaL now outstanding                    5,175.5    12,095.3
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -
Total nov held by Bank and IDA           5 5,175.5    12,095.3
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          2,712.69    3,494.35
3] IDA Credit asmounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
O Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDRIUS dollar
exchange rate in effect on September 30, 1984.
j/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX Ir
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                     ComPanY                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -       1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.8         -       0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -       1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -       0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4      1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4      1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3     13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3      1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1        0.1      1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8     18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                         6.6         -       6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                            4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5        1.2      8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited        15.9                15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -      38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -      15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3      3.2
1981            1,agarjuna Signode Limited              2.3         -       2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2      1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -      28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.             18.8         -      18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.5         -      15.5
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.1         -       8.1
1984            The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        3.7        -        3.7
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         210.7      12.1    222.8
Less:   Sold                          53.0        3.4     56.4
Repaid                       34.0         -       34.0
Cancelled                    33.0        1.4      34.4
Now Held                      90.7       7.3      98.0
Undisbursed                  44.1         -       44.1
=        ~==     ,C 



ANNEX III
Page 1 of I
INDIA
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:          Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project
one year
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Roads Wing of the Ministry of Shipping and Transport
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank Group
January 1982, June 1983
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 1984
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 12, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 30, 1985
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) A Road Users Charge Study will be completed by
December 31, 1987 and discussed with the Bank
(para 58).
(b) COI would adopt a maintenance funding allocation
approach based on a pavement analysis system,
rather than on a norms-based system (para 56).



IBRD 18769R
__a. _~,       HI tAL *r Tro-in
_" - _                 .  9 1 e 5   '_'30'-
W._^____                  PtlNJAle*       ANDIGARH                 CHINA
__ __                        [  tYANA        PRADESH  (          \
_ -                         |         D     !-    <.                   a,       ro Chiong-lzu
.  J  /   N*DA-Yt 5    \      .       ~~~~~~~~~NEPAL   \  _ 
YE \ a_ . Ggz BH~~~~UTANS
PAKISTAN          RAJASTHANM
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  NGLADESHES
Kanl   GUJAaA
e 8 / i ~~~~~MADHIYA 4ct
o<J I Nx / / ~~~~~PRADESH  '
bawda'  / 52  ~~~~~~~             f             /  II~~ENGAL
-   <g)   J   [  _ 8                  t               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20'L
-20           DADRA A                                                Bhbo
NAGAR HAVEUYS            *          I                  NG A                   E
BOhig   o . ai AHARhayS wi o n  Boy of Bengal
A r a b   a  n                            H ernhd 
S eI \ /                                                        N D I tDA
- \ 5< K~ARNA ANDHRA           (           ........._NATIONAL
P SEi LEE TOWNSPRADESH -                HIGHWAY PROJECT
.\  \>  1   1      -~~~PROJECr SEClIONS OF NATIONAL HIGHWAY-'
\   < i  |           1 ~~~GWARAT-NEW FREEWAY
*  mNATONAL ChoAPIA ono        \ th               3  AML NADU-FOUR-LANING AND PAVEMENT
tNumb J8own onl hf lle -\    s!  oSTRENGTHENING
highwa whh rod oin  Y.
igoes   under de pejd       -1>    S         S WEST BENGAL-NEW TWO-LANE HIGHWAY
O   SELECrED TOWNS               6\1 6{                *UTTAR pLADESH-VARANASI Sy-pASS
lil  NATIONAL CAPITAL          \  6 I    r7 HARNANA-FOUR-LANING
-10'    STATE AND UNION TERRTORY          DU               *PLNJAB-FUR-ANING
BOUNDARIES
- - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'for detail of project rod ecions see IBRD lB770.
290    490   6')9                          SRI
OILOMETERS                               LANKA
70'  _                                       810A                                       _
APRIL 1985






